no matter what your life circumstances
are
the the message is
wake up
[Music]
I'm Dave Rubin and joining me on the
Reuben report today is the
internationally best-selling author of
The Power of Now which is sold 12
million copies worldwide since it was
first published with translations into
52 languages along with his most recent
book A New Earth which has already sold
over 15 million copies worldwide and has
been translated into 50 languages
Eckhart Tolle welcome to the Reuben
report thank you I am I am truly
thrilled to have you here and I suspect
this is going to be an interview like no
other that I've done do you have a
preference for what language since
you've been translated into basically
every living language on Earth is
English going to be okay for the
purposes of this I'll be happy with
English I wrote it in English I do give
talk sometimes in German and Spanish but
before I do that I always prepare myself
in a region of German and Spanish
translations of the book yeah well all
right we'll go with English at least for
the beginning portion of this so the way
that you end up here because I think
people are going to go whoa this is this
is a little different than what's going
on in Dave's Garage usually you came
here by way of seeing an interview that
I did with my my friend my mentor and
really the guy that I think is the best
interviewer of all time Larry King I
thought that would be an interesting way
of starting because that that I think is
how you got introduced to me yes I've
also been a fan of Larry King for many
years and I happened to come across your
interview with him on YouTube and I was
very impressed not only by you as an
interviewer because you have you have
that openness
uh that many interviewers lack and that
of course Larry King also has and I was
very impressed by some of the things
that Larry actually said about how he
conducts the interviews he always comes
from a place of
curiosity from a place of not knowing
from a place of wanting to find out the
interviewee's perspective and most
interviewers of course come from a they
have a
a mental position that they seek to
protect or they are trying to
Prevail with their mental possessions
they're not really interested in what
the interviewee has to say
so after seeing that interview
um
oh I believe during the interview with
Larry King I actually mentioned
he interviewed me a few weeks after
right right I watched that interview and
that was another coincidence
and when Larry King interviewed me I
mentioned having seen
your interview with him and then
our makeup artist
connected us because she works for Larry
as well as for you yeah and here we are
and here we are all right well I guess a
good way to start for for the few people
watching that don't know you uh can you
just tell me a little bit about your
background and until you were 29 years
old uh spirituality actually wasn't
wasn't your thing people are so
associative of that with you uh but can
you just tell a little bit about growing
up
yes I grew up in Germany out to the age
of 15.
at 15 I left school I just couldn't
stand it anymore so I refused to go to
school my parents had gotten a divorce
my dad had moved to Spain
and my mom didn't know what to do with
me I was just hanging around at home
didn't want to go to school anymore so I
was saying to live with my dad in Spain
where I lived for four years to the age
of 19
without going to school my dad was
always a very unconventional person and
he asked me do you want to go to school
I said no then he said well then don't
wow so what were you doing I pursued my
own interests I read some which started
reading the literature of course
learning Spanish learning English I
loved languages I loved reading I loved
literature at 16 I started working
part-time as a translator of restaurant
menus and then I became a tour guide I
was 17 I became a tour guide for taking
people around from cruise ships around
the Spanish Town where we lived and then
at 19 I moved to England to work
in England I was immediately I
immediately felt at home I have to feel
some deep connection with England
and I worked in England for four years
full time and became more interested in
intellectual things so I took all the
necessary exams that were required to
get into University they're called well
at the time they were called all levels
in a levels and so on so I took those
exams and finally I got a a scholarship
to get into the London University where
I studied modern languages and
literature
and
so that's the external story on the
inside I experienced increasingly uh
periods of terrible anxiety and
depression
even by the while I was working and
while I was a student
um can you describe what that was to yes
it was
an inability to stop my mind my mind was
continuously racing along and creating
uh scenarios of where I failed where I
lost even the little that I had it went
a lot into the past to where I felt
ashamed about things that happened in
the past
but not only that there was a deeper
existential fear and an existential
anguish that's a hard to describe it it
is a kind of alienation from the world
uh alienated Asian is probably the best
word where everything that you come into
contact with feels strange and alien or
disconnected from everything and
everybody and that is something that
I believe many people these days suffer
from although it has also existed it has
happened to isolated individuals in the
past
if you want to read about that state I
recommend in the Old Testament there is
the Book of Ecclesiastes
which starts with a famous phrase as in
the old translation vanity of vanities
all is Vanity but what it really means
if you use the modern term I would
translate it as
everything is so effing pointless what's
the point of it all so that to be deeply
affected by the seeming meaninglessness
of life around you so I remember when I
went into a department store in London
or walked along the streets it's it
seemed so so absurd that people were
buying all these things and then going
out with their shopping bags full of
stuff everything seemed so absurd and
meaningless they're almost producing a
kind of nausea and that Norse is
actually a novel by example satra where
he describes that state
so that's exactly how it is
it's it is described in various places
in world literature too for example in
Anna Karenina at the end of the book
just before she commits suicide
uh the world the tall story describes
how she sees the world just before how
she commits suicide and everything is
just every human being she sees is
Despicable and Dreadful and it's total
disconnection from the world around her
so that is the existential language that
uh
I also experienced quite frequently did
you have a sort of Rock Bottom moment
with that was there a specific moment
that then started your turnaround yes uh
so I would often break up in the middle
of the night in the state of panic or
fear
and almost feeling Breathless
and one night I woke up again on three
in the morning and my mind was racing
along
and then a strange thought came into my
mind that said I can't live with myself
any longer I can't live with myself any
longer
and after thinking that thought
there was a kind of this little shift
occurred I was standing back from that
thought so to speak and I thought what a
strange thought you think I can't live
with myself
am I one or am I two who is that self
that I cannot live with and who am I
so a kind of inner separation occurred
and
uh I felt like of Disappearing into a
kind of void
and the next morning I woke woke up and
I felt incredibly peaceful for some
reason I didn't understand why
it took me several years
to understand why from that point onward
there was always
in sometimes in the foreground sometimes
in the background
its sense of inner peace no matter what
my outer circumstances were
but now I can actually explain what
happened that night
there was a disidentification in my
consciousness
from the stream of compulsive and
incessant thinking that most people have
absolutely no control over
people say I think but that is usually
not the case because thinking happens to
them they have no control over it so it
is actually wrong to say I think it
would be the same as you were saying I'm
beating my heart you're not beating
heart it's done for you it happens to
you yeah so there was this what I now
call The Voice in the head that I was
completely identified with so I was
completely identified with the stream of
thinking that which is quite normal for
many people are
uh and
a lot of that stream of thinking was of
a negative nature so I did not
experience the reality around me
except through the veil of negative
self-talk the veil the mental veil of
negatives of negative labeling and
interpretations and I my whole what I
consider to be my life I hadn't realized
until I disidentified what I took to be
my life was a narrative in my mind
and it consisted of certain things from
the past that I identified with things
that had happened to me it was a bundle
of thoughts that recurred continuously
that gave me my sense of self and it was
an unhappy sense of self it was a
narrative-based sense of self and that
night
I stood back from this narrative which
is fueled by continuous thinking I stood
back and I I realized for the first time
a dimension of Consciousness Within
Myself That was deeper one could also
say higher depends how you want to look
at it deeper than thinking
now this dimension of Consciousness
that's deeper than thinking I now call
it awareness or sometimes call it
presence
and that exists in every human being but
most humans are not aware of it at all
they don't know that there is a deeper
dimension of Consciousness in them
and that Dimension is transcends
thinking
it you experience it
when the Mind becomes still for a moment
this is what people want to achieve for
example when they meditate
it can also happen to you when you're
engaged in a dangerous activity like
mountain climbing then you cannot be
involved in thinking you have to kill
conceptual thinking stops but
you do not lose Consciousness so the
important thing is there is a state of
consciousness possible in humans
where you are fully conscious
without the activity of conceptual
thinking that's also the essence for
example of Zen and I would suggest that
it's actually the essence of all
spirituality is to find that State of
Consciousness in yourself where you can
be alert and aware but you there's no
conceptualization in my mind it doesn't
mean it stays like that for a long time
you then go back into thinking but if
you're able to access the dimension in
yourself you are no longer possessed by
your thinking mind you are no longer
used by your thinking mind you are
actually able to use your mind instead
of being used by your mind
as long as you're used by your mind all
your mental activity is a reflection of
the conditioning that has happened to
you so you take on the conditioning from
a personal on a personal level from
school parental background and so in
that conditions the way that you think
then you have the collective
conditioning around you you take on the
conditioning of the the culture that you
inhabit that's around you uh if you if
you watch the media every day then you
take on those viewpoints and you think
they are your thoughts they are not your
thoughts you you take these thoughts on
from the outside and they become part of
your identity
so identity is a key word because
identity everybody
is extremely interested and in finding
their identity one could say that after
after meeting the needs of food and
shelter almost immediately after that's
come to search for an identity
which already starts with a child when
the child has a toy that feels it
belongs to me it's my toy somebody takes
it away
there's great suffering in the child it
cries because the child began to
identify with something and called it
mine and that's only the beginning of
course
so please
well there's so many there's so many
things there that I want to jump into so
well I guess first we are going to get
to some of the techniques that you use
and that many other people use to to
attain this sort of level of peace and
separation from that that sort of
endless stream but do you think that
most people whether they're conscious of
it or not are just all day long just
sort of spinning like a top out of
control where they they bounce in and
out of this at all times so you might do
all sorts of things during the day uh
that are distractions and you can get
upset about politics or do drugs or
waste time with this or that but then we
all have that voice in us that that sort
of knows more of the right way to do
things or more of a peaceful way to do
things but we but we don't have any way
to really I don't know is control the
right word I don't know if control is
the right word but we don't have any way
to really ascertain what's really
happening yes uh unless uh your your
completely neurotic or or even
clinically insane you probably have some
access I'm not talking to you in
standard terms
you can diagnose me at the end
um
if you're not if you're not uh
continuously in a state of confusion or
anxiety or depression if you're not if
you occasionally you feel okay you feel
occasionally happy
you probably have some access to that
dimension in yourself without knowing it
without recognizing it so there are
actually we could describe this as
moments in your daily life
brief moments when you're actually not
thinking but they're very they tend to
be for most people very brief but they
are very significant
these are moments perhaps you are
looking at something and you're looking
you might be looking at a tree or flower
of the sky and for a moment there's
three seconds when you take this in
completely often it's something natural
that you're looking at and you're
looking at the sky and perhaps for the
first three or four seconds we are
looking at it
you feel a sense of inner expansion
almost like coming to a to a rest and
then perhaps after four five six seconds
the Mind comes in and interprets what
you have just seen I also find that
people uh find enter that state without
knowing it when they relate to pets or
to animals when you meet a dog you look
into the eyes of the dog
now the dog is a conscious being but the
dog has no conceptual thinking so when
you look into the eyes of the dog you
instinctively realize that the dog is
not judging you in any way because they
don't get no concepts by which to judge
you so you feel kind of when you look
into the eyes of the dog you feel a
moment of Liberation from your from your
conceptual self because there you have a
being who has no conceptual self so
you're able to feel what so to speak the
beingness the being of the dog and
that's and in that moment you're not
thinking a few seconds of inner
spaciousness and then you it feels good
to be with this animal I call dogs
guardians of being and and so another
one is look into the eyes of a
one-year-old baby
when this baby is looking back at you
and this baby has not yet arrived at
conceptualization but there is obviously
a luminous Consciousness there and the
eyes of the baby can be just amazing
when the baby looks at you like this
and you feel wow this touches you deeply
in that moment you are free of
conceptual thinking because the baby is
not thinking conceptually and you're
connecting with this beautiful being at
a deeper level
so there are moments when you are
naturally free of the stream of thinking
and those are the most worthwhile
moments in your life ultimately it could
happen also when you're out in nature
you're hiking or you're you're doing
some physical activity and you're not
thinking very much you're taking in or
the world that surrounds you the
essential sensory perception you're
taking everything in you're completely
present where you're in the forest or or
the mountain on the beach you're
completely present and suddenly you feel
so peaceful why do you feel so peaceful
do you feel so peaceful because you are
out in nature well the indirectly yes
but the the real reason why you feel so
peaceful is that in that moment you are
conscious and consciously perceiving but
not thinking do you think do you think
one way to describe it in in sort of
simplistic terms would be that when
you're doing sort of what you're
supposed to be doing that you can lock
into that kind of thinking because I can
give you two quick examples for myself
I've had a few moments in the hundreds
of interviews that I've done where
there's something where I can lock eyes
with someone and we are so right here
doing exactly where we're supposed to be
doing what we're supposed to be doing
that actually some of the background
almost gets a little bit blurry I can I
can feel I mean I can feel a little bit
of it right now actually there's and you
can't you can't hold it it just it comes
and goes and all those things so I've
had it in this very room and then the
other time that I think I've had it was
when I was doing stand-up and there was
one particular night where I was killing
I mean I had the room in my hand and I
remember
seeing myself from behind myself it was
actually I could actually see the back
of myself and I don't even remember what
I was saying but it almost was like slow
motion it was like yes this is what I
was supposed to be doing exactly is that
is that can happen when you are engaged
in an activity and sadly you're Guided
by an intelligence that is greater than
collected information that you have in
your minds now that intelligence that is
I call it the unconditioned
Consciousness whereas the mind is the
conditioned Consciousness that
intelligence can use your mind and then
your mind becomes a creative tool so and
then you can be spontaneous in for
example in your presentation when you're
on stage and you will come up with
things that you could never have thought
of if they they come because you're con
and connected with a deeper level of
Consciousness within yourself and that
ultimately is with the way to live as
much as nobody is connected a hundred
percent of the time with that but to be
connected with that when you're engaged
in your whatever your main activity is
that's a it's an act of Grace if you're
able to do that and then you are
empowered whatever you do is empowered
by something much greater than yourself
and what is that
it is I say you have access to
what I call it sounds perhaps a little
bit mystical Universal intelligence of
which the human mind is only one
expression they are countless
expressions of universal intelligence
and all the spirit all the ancient
spiritual teachings they actually
point
that way may I if I if you don't mind if
I may interpret some interpret something
that Jesus said because I believe is
actually exactly the same thing
uh
Jesus often talks about
the kingdom of heaven interesting
expression and there there's a line
which I opened the Bible the other day
and I saw the line that Jesus went from
Village to Village and from town to town
and said
uh repent for the Kingdom of Heaven is
at hand
and the whole thing is already contained
there repent means it's Miss it's a
mistranslation repentance the original
Greek is metanoia
which means a turnaround a shift a
complete shift
so the repentance so people think of it
as apologize or something like that yes
beat yourself up I'm such a miserable
sinner that's not that's a missing it's
a misinter interpretation of repentance
started when it was translated into
Latin into latiness penitentia which was
already wrong and now we have metanoia
as repentance no a complete reverse a
complete turnaround in other words a
shift in Consciousness repent now what
does he mean by the Kingdom of Heaven no
Christians traditionally believed it's
something that's going to come
that she believe they completely
overlooked when they asked Jesus when
when does the Kingdom of Heaven Come he
said
the Kingdom of Heaven does not come with
observation in another translation it
says the Kingdom of Heaven does not come
with signs to be perceived you cannot
say it's over here or it's over there
for the Kingdom of Heaven is within you
no what is that thing that's within you
where you can never say it's there or
it's there
I I re-translate Kingdom of Heaven into
modern terminology
for Kingdom I would substitute dimension
and Heaven what is heaven when you look
up into heaven you see the vast Sky the
spaciousness of the sky
he used that analogy to point us to an
inner reality he used because language
usually refers to external things that
you can see and touch
so the closest that Jesus could find in
the external world to point to Something
in the inner realm was to look at the
vast spaciousness of the sky which in
itself has no particular form but is
amazing
and he said the kingdom of heaven then
is heaven my translation is spaciousness
inner spaciousness which is the
uncluttered Mind Consciousness without
conceptual without thought it's inner
alert Stillness
the dimension of spaciousness find the
dimension of that's the primordial
teaching in Jesus finds that within
yourself find the Kingdom of Heaven find
the dimension of inner spaciousness
where you're able to be alert and still
completely conscious but not thinking
and that's the essence of Jesus teaching
to find that when you find that
then you write when you relate to other
human beings
you can sense the same dimension in the
other human although they have a
personality which is a conditioned self
but underneath so to speak the
personality there is a deeper being and
the deeper being is their unconditioned
Consciousness but it's not Consciousness
is not a personal thing
so when I look at you first thing I
would see is your personality and of
course the physical body and the
personality whatever makes up your
personality but if I look more deeply
and not just look but actually sense
your presence I know that beyond your
personality there is an Essence in you
that is one with the essence in me and
one good to describe it as Consciousness
itself the essence of Who You Are the
essence of who I am is consciousness
when I recognize that Consciousness the
same Consciousness that in me this
Consciousness beyond the condition
itself
recognizes the Consciousness in you that
which is beyond your conditioned self
and that recognition
is what Jesus called love
and therefore he said
love thy neighbor as thyself
but that as a separate statement it
doesn't work but when you put it
together with Kingdom of Heaven that
then it reads
find the Kingdom of Heaven within you
the dimension of spaciousness
then you will recognize your neighbor
which is anybody that you are with
that you will recognize him or her as
yourself and this recognition that in
essence you are one that you are
deeply deeply connected that you share
the con the one Consciousness when you
recognize them in the other then you
have suddenly an outflow of benevolence
and Good Will and love
not the ego love but true love towards
the which in the Old Testament in the
New Testament Agape spiritual love for
another human being you can sense their
very beings
so and that's the whole secret of the of
of all spirituality it's in Jesus in the
teaching of Jesus
um it is
so the the our purpose here beyond the
personal purposes that we have everybody
has their personal purpose the work you
do whatever it is
there's a deeper purpose that the
personal purpose must be aligned with
and that deeper purpose is to live from
that deeper place
uh the way I interpret you know in the
English language doesn't have a word
that describes both men and women it's
the German language has Mensch which is
also used in Yiddish to the
Germans means both man or woman for a
long time I regret it that the English
language doesn't have a word for human
you have to say human being but now I'm
happy that I have to say human being
because that describes exactly the two
Dimensions the human is the conditioned
self it's a personality your historical
person which comes from the past based
on past who you are as a person that
includes your physical body and your
psychological self I call that sometimes
your form identity there's a physical
form and there's a psychological form of
you that's the human
and then there's a being the being is
the Deeper Self that is consciousness
unconditioned and no human life is
fulfilled unless the human has at least
some access
to this Dimension within them that
really is the ultimate purpose to at
least
maybe not complete access but at least
you have glimpses of that which
transcends the self to have glimpses of
self-transcendence in your life if you
you no matter how successful you are in
this world
if you have never had even a glimpse of
self-transcendence then your life is
pretty purposeless and and it's very
unlikely that you will be a happy human
being
is the ultimate Paradox with all of this
that it's almost impossible to hold on
to so even someone that has spent their
life uh trying to attain that state that
you can't a you can't you to function as
a human maybe not as a human being but
just as a human uh it would be almost
impossible to constantly be in that
state in a world that doesn't exist in
that state yes not constantly but it is
possible to to to
not just have that when you are perhaps
let's say engaged in spiritual practice
or you're meditating or when you're out
in nature and it's unhappy moments out
in nature it it is our task to as much
as possible
incorporate that deeper level of
Consciousness into our daily life even
if we don't succeed all the time that's
fine that's part of the practice so one
could say then our purpose in our a
daily life beyond the personal purpose
which is also important because we need
to honor
who we are as a person to and we need to
honor our identity as a person because
no doubtedly that exists and whatever it
is that makes up your identity whether
it's mostly your personal kind whether
you identify with a certain a collective
around you it could be your religion it
could whatever it might be
or the culture that you grow up in that
has its place that there's nothing wrong
with it but if that is all you know
about yourself that's very limiting so
you honor it but there's more to you
than that and that's why the ancient
Greeks said starting from Pythagoras
500 BC
know thyself the most perhaps the most
important dictum in ancient Greek
philosophy which was carved carved on
the walls of the Temple of Apollo at
Delphi know thyself very deep saying no
who you are in your essence
so because you have the form identity
which is a personality for and you
hasn't have as I call it an Essence
identity and so to know yourself at this
Essence is it called in in Indian some
in some Indian Indian spiritual
philosophy is called self-realization so
you know and and then the practice
becomes in daily life
to as much as possible live from that
dimension
for example another countless examples
one could give
some very simple things like I recommend
for example
whenever you are waiting for something
at the elevator or you're in the
elevator or you're waiting for a phone
call or you're waiting in line somewhere
at the airport you're waiting this quite
a bit of time we spend waiting traffic
lights in waiting now these days mostly
people get out their phone when they're
waiting because this means there's a the
contingent continuously your mind is
being cluttered more and more I call it
clutter clutter is useless information
they get often they get out their phone
they don't know why they get out their
phone because somebody next to them is
getting out their phone and then they
start switching around
there's a there would be a moment
whenever you're waiting
an opportunity to in that moment to
declutter your mind and create a little
bit of inner spaciousness the Kingdom of
Heaven the dimension of spaciousness for
example this is very ancient and very
simple method
by becoming aware that you are breathing
you're becoming I call it it's a mini
meditation one conscious press
which is the embrace
and you follow the breast with your
attention you feel it the air moving
into the body you might even feel it
into your evening into your abdomen the
energy and then you breathe out
one and what does that do why is it so
important
when you're aware of your breathing you
take attention away from thinking
you cannot be completely aware of your
breathing and think at the same time you
can either think or be aware of your
breathing so that's a quick way of
having a little bit of spaciousness in
your life one conscious breath may be
too conscious breaths everybody has time
for one or two conscious prayers from
time to time during the day nobody is so
busy that this guy cannot take six seven
or eight seconds
for the Mind might tell you know I have
too much to do it's a lie don't believe
every thought that comes into your head
and then you create spaciousness the
more spaciously you create the more
effective your thinking will be when you
start thinking again because then
thinking can link into this
creative intelligence that is the
unconditioned intelligence in you and
then it can be inspired by that
I would suggest every creative person
who create something really new uh had
some access to that dimension in in the
area of their creative Endeavor probably
not in the rest of their lives they may
be quite as crazy as everybody else in
the rest of their lives right but when
they engage in their Act of Creation
they have access to their Dimension and
that's a this is once you you touch this
power within you which is not egoic
power it's not power over somebody else
it's primordial the power of life itself
when you can sense that within yourself
that becomes the basis for your sense of
who you are and no longer the story in
your mind and and that's the shift
so you become free of identity having to
completely identify with your past
derive your consensus who you are from
your historical past which is most
people's past is just a very mixed bag
and there's a lot of it that you may not
like
instead of that your sense of who you
are comes from a deeper place and that
resolves all questions of what people
are concerned with self-esteem
self-confidence people go to therapists
to build up their self-esteem because
there's no kind of but once you touch
that level of Consciousness within
yourself
self-esteem comes from there but it's
not comparative anymore then you can
sense the power that dwells within you
and you don't need to compare yourself
to somebody else and say I'm powerful
because I have more than this person you
know in essence every human has that but
most of them don't know it but it's
there as a Siege one could say in every
human being it's just it's all wonderful
this realization where does where does
past guilt which I think you're sort of
referencing I just fit into this because
we mentioned right before we started
that I've been on tour with Jordan
Peterson and during the Q and A's I see
so many people that will say to him you
know I just read your book and I'm
applying the 12 rules for life and my
life is better my relationships better
I'm not doing drug drugs whatever
whatever it may be I've mended
relationships Etc et cetera but they
have trouble getting over some sort of
past guilt yeah and I think what you're
describing here is the first step in
getting away from that but I think a lot
of people think it's something that you
can do like this right but but it's not
no you need to recognize where it comes
from how it arises in you of course
guilt is related to grievance when it
refers to another person it's a grief
you have a resentment or a grievance
towards another person when it refers to
yourself then it's called guilt but it
always refers to something
that was that either you did to somebody
that you now recognize as
bad in some way uh not ethical you did
something perhaps when you were younger
perhaps you brought up your children in
a way that you now recognize as
dysfunctional in some ways or you
injured somebody or you inflicted
suffering on somebody whether it's
emotional suffering mental suffering
even physical suffering
in extreme cases you might even have
killed somebody in a very extreme cases
and that brings about guilt now guilt is
uh
something that you did that you now
recognize as
bad
this becomes a thought form in your head
and becomes incorporated into your sense
of self
what you don't realize is
you did something because you didn't
your Consciousness your level of
Consciousness at that time
uh manifested that kind of behavior no
human being can manifest Behavior that's
beyond their level of consciousness
so if you inflicted harm on somebody the
ego tends to then make it into an
identity for yourself and that brings
about guilt when you see the my that
this is your essential self is guilty
that can be a huge ego boost there can
also be a huge ego both to declare
somebody else as guilty and somebody who
did something to me so people carry a
grievance or resentment sometimes for
many many years and then again what they
are doing is
they're transforming somebody's I call
it unconscious behavior when you inflict
suffering on another human being except
of course self-defense or whatever but
you inflict suffering on any life form
or a human being you do it it's it's
unconscious you as Jesus is supposed to
have said on the cross forgive them for
they know not what they do
translate it into modern terminology is
they are unconscious they know not what
they do so people do all kinds of things
sometimes
in states after they've taken drugs they
become even more unconscious or they've
consumed alcohol they become makes you
more unconscious even with the not more
unconscious than normal unconsciousness
by unconscious by the way and perhaps
need to explain what I mean by
unconscious which is in spiritual terms
in conventional usage unconscious means
obviously you're right of lost
Consciousness but in spiritual terms
unconscious means you are at the mercy
of the conditioning of your mind and
your emotions the ways in which your
emotions have been conditioned you are
being run by that conditioning there's
no way that this human being has any
awareness of their conditioning there's
no awareness whatsoever and the human
being who has zero awareness
perhaps not to throughout their lives in
moments when they are very unconscious
they get triggered by something as I
said they take drugs whatever they
become zero awareness and then they do
what they do
later you look back on that and and then
you erroneously incorporate that time of
your life when you you weren't even
there you were run by an automatic
program in your mind and in your
emotional field you weren't even there
but the ego will transform it into an
identity and says I I did this is no
part of who I am or it will do to
somebody else there was a long time when
I had resentment towards my father
because my father was pretty unconscious
except very late in life I had a very
strong ego and living with him as a
child was living with an unexploded bomb
that could go off at any moment without
these intense rages would suddenly come
several times a week so I lived in a
constant state of kind of a background
anxiety but is when is this bomb going
to explode again next and then for a
long time it was in my 20s I had a
resentment towards him until I went to
the shift in Consciousness and I
suddenly realized
he he did what he had to do but there
wasn't enough awareness in him to act
any different so he was at the mercy of
his own conditioning
um and once you see that you no longer
make it into an identity for him and so
you free him and really perhaps this is
the meaning of forgiveness you can
forgive yourself by not making
unconscious behavior in your past into
an identity for yourself or for somebody
else now a question may arise
this is an interesting point now does
that mean people are not really
responsible for that they do so that's
that's an interesting question
in Ultimate terms it can say it is true
they are not responsible for what they
do but
they will have to suffer the
consequences of their unconsciousness
because we humans are meant to become
more conscious here and one of the ways
or even one of the perhaps the main way
in which a very unconscious human
evolves eventually
or potentially is by suffering the
consequences of their unconsciousness
and sometimes the Consciousness might be
they have to go to prison
it doesn't so but it does even if you
meet a prisoner it's important if they
did something in the past they let's say
they killed somebody in the past of
course they have to suffer the
consequences and Consciousness but when
you meet a human being like that you can
still you may be able to to sense that
there's more to this human being than
this this unconscious person then uh so
how does that play into your perspective
on free will then
free will ultimately does not come in
until there's some awareness in you
that's where Free Will comes from
until you have some awareness
you are run by the conditioning of your
mind and so you have no choice
the element of choice comes in when you
become aware for example of your the
thoughts that go through your head and
you might realize suddenly and for some
people that's the first time they awaken
spiritually when they realize
the 20 years they've had a voice in
their head talking to them which could
be a monologue it could be a dialogue
you could have a conversation with
yourself you can you can beat yourself
up and say why why you're no good enough
aren't you and then it's Another Part of
Yourself is well well I'm doing my best
I'm just I can't I can't do it I'm not
I'm not good enough the voice in the
head for some people the spiritual
awakening comes when they become aware
that there's a voice in the head and
there's the awareness right at the
moment that's the awareness you might
even be able to choose to let go of a
certain thought a repetitive thought
that you don't need anymore that you
don't want anymore and then you you
surrender it or you breathe it out you
don't need it you reckon an emotion
sometimes people and they grip of strong
emotions but if there's a little bit of
awareness there if act let's say it's
anger
you're suddenly anger arises
but in the background you're aware that
there's emotion of anger so there's a
small element of choices come in do you
want to then attack this person if
there's awareness you can observe the
anger but may long may no longer need to
act it out
I'm not talking about suppressing but
recognizing the more awareness you have
or presence the more choices in your
life and then it's only then that you
actually become truly intelligent
because this awareness is not an IQ
thing the way you can have
I've met highly intelligent people with
one or two or three phds academics and
others who are completely unconscious
completely unaware still just completely
in their minds and and people and in
their personal lives often very
dysfunctional personal lives so it's not
to be equated with intelligence this
awareness
um it's a what do you make of that life
actually so if there's someone that
exists in that state all the time but
then becomes an uh you know a
world-changing scientist or
mathematician or or athlete or whatever
it takes they have to stay in that
whether it's consciously or not they
have to stay in that mode of thinking
what do you make of that life that maybe
doesn't
lock into hearing the the inner voice
well it can be a very extremely
unbalanced life
and no matter how intelligent they are
even people who have there are some
people who are very creative in one area
but the rest of their lives is
completely unbalanced and then some
people are almost destroyed by the by
the on the lack of balance in their
lives like famous people like even some
famous pop artists who were who are
quite quite creative in the way that
Michael Jackson for example
um as a person he's got just come he's
just
I mean he's passed away now but I
remember seeing him an interview as a
person he's just a little I just got
much to say and he said teammate and oh
no but the moment he moves he makes a
Dance Movement or just a power flows
through him and I saw that but this
um the important thing is the
this
that this that creative intelligence
needs to come into the into the rest of
your your knife needs to become a work
of art a creative work of art not just a
little area in your life
so what the world needs is actually not
more intelligence it doesn't need more
knowledge I mean we're just we're
drowning in facts and information that
we don't need more of that to use an
old-fashioned word
what the world needs is wisdom
wisdom is inseparable from awareness it
arises out of awareness without wisdom
you're torn you may be identified with
the the polarities of Life the perhaps
worth mentioning here
um you know the ancient Yin and Yang
Chinese
way of looking at the world there's the
the yin is the feminine principle and
the Yang is the masculine principle so
these the polarities are everywhere in
life this is a very the Western mind is
a very strange way of looking at things
but the the Chinese philosophy ancient
Chinese philosophy says this this
a play of the world is a manifestation
of the play between yin and yang the
feminine masculine principles you may
remember the symbol of Yin and Yang the
birth
um and here too you can be you can be in
the grip of a particular energy movement
without awareness you can get into the
grip of yang
and then you would become
uh quite destructive if you go to an
extreme a country can be in the grip of
Yang energy like Germany was Russia
China any country where this
dictatorship
is in the grip of an extreme grip of
yang
um
traditionally
Society in at least in the west has been
dominated by the young energy with
occasional interludes of Yin in between
but relatively insignificant for example
the Romantic Movement in the 19th
century in art and literature
coming in but not for too long so would
you put the enlightenment
Enlightenment there was a bit of Yin
coming in yes yes
but the first half of the 20th century
was an extreme manifestation of Yang the
world wars the genocide in in Germany in
Russia and China Cambodia and other
places observed unconsciousness
then the world the Western World
especially experienced as a reaction to
the extreme Yang ex
influx of Yin it started in the 60s
actually a very strong influx of Yen and
with that came
the the woman's women's movement and all
those things
more empathy towards other human beings
came in also an openness to to what
spirituality more instead of the rigid
patterns of institutionalized religion
there was an openness towards the influx
also of Eastern spirituality coming into
the West
there was an empathy over with this is
where the embassy with a disadvantaged
humans came from an empathy to the
suffering of people who are
physically
disabled be mentally disabled or the
so-called marginalized all those things
this is a wonderful thing you could
sense their suffering to more empathy
came up and this was a great thing it's
a necessary thing
education changed completely from being
dominated by the young energy
disciplined and young and now education
became more and more permissive you do
your own things it became so permissive
that eventually there was no structure
anymore it was all and schools became
chaotic and family in many families
became totally chaotic
and so and the wonderful empathy towards
other human beings turned into political
correctness
quickly the world was moving towards an
extreme of Yin
and to counterbalance but there was no
awareness so people first were in the
grip of the young movement and
identified with that as a collective and
now a significant portion of Western
Civilization not all but the significant
portion of the population is in the grip
of a yin movement and it's not stopping
it's going to an extreme
but something that it was initially good
and necessary yeah now trans anything
that goes to an extreme becomes
destructive and another ancient saying
in Greek philosophy is
nothing in excess
nothing in excess so now the collective
is is in the grip not all of it but they
gave them part the especially the uh the
the mass of the media universities and
so on are strongly in the group of yen
Germany is a interesting example they
like to go to extremes
they were an extreme of young
they became the most aggressive country
in Europe
and now they're going into an extreme of
Yin they are the most compassionate
country in Europe except Sweden the most
they open their borders completely so at
least we want to help you this is this
is this consists of two things there is
the compassion that arises when Yen
comes in there's another element that
needs to be mentioned yes there's also
guilt which replace its part two It's a
combination of of guilt and Yin energy
so yen is symbolized as this this is Yin
receptive open
this is Yang you can see Yang is this
masculine the thrusting principle it's
almost a sexual
Yang so
Yang says let's close the borders on
Extreme form of Yang says let's expand
our country and then close the borders
let's attack the neighboring countries
and then we'll be even bigger
the extreme of Yin says no borders at
all
in American book and this it's it it
feels so good to be able to say
how can we deny human beings who want a
better life how can we deny it feels so
wonderful to say that
SpongeBob's lacking his wisdom
compassion is there and it's wonderful
so you have
yin and yang
what's missing is they need to be
instead of two polarity so you need to
be a triangle at the apex of the
triangle you need to have awareness
if there's enough awareness then you
don't need to go to an extreme of either
Yin or yang
you know it's so interesting because I
wasn't really planning on doing anything
sort of political with you but actually
I think in the last few minutes you've
given me as good political analysis to
sort of where we are so without getting
into the the nitty-gritty of politics if
your premise is basically right
and this is why I always say the road to
hell is paid with good intentions the
people that I'm frustrated with right
now that you're describing as Yin I
don't believe they're evil people there
can be there can be bad actors within
that let's say or people that aren't
acting and they're conscious but I don't
believe that the bulk of them are but if
we're act if we're right now we're
caught between this
how how does the good decent person that
I think most people are that can check
in and out of their higher self and all
of those things but that want a decent
world
how do we how do we help these sides to
get to that place well first you have to
be careful with yourself so that you
don't do not get drawn to either one or
the other extreme because now the
reactive mode of going too fine to Yin
is would be to go too far into Yang and
so
a society it goes totally into again
would produce fascism again that's the
danger so the individual needs to be
aware that they don't go into reactivity
so that you remain aware so you don't
contribute to the polarization in the
world so what what you contribute
whether it's on the social media or in
person when you speak to somebody or you
write something
be careful that you do not confuse also
somebody's
mental emotional position which may be
mother there or there with who they are
and then regard them as an enemy the ego
field strengthened the more enemies it
can have the stronger it feels there's
always the tendency the unconscious ego
to make others into enemies so it's we
need to develop enough awareness to be
able to conduct a conversation with
another human being without regarding
the other who might hold very very
different mental positions as an enemy
I was very happy to see recently having
to see an interview
on YouTube with a guy who has come quite
a long way Russell Brand has come a long
way with it he's doing great thanks now
if anybody who hasn't seen him for a
long time should see him again he met
with
Candice Owens oh I saw it I saw it and
they it's actually pretty incredible
they had an interview he's on the left
she's on the right they were in many
ways
opposing opposite viewpoints respected
each other as human beings without
making the other into an enemy that is a
wonderful if they can do it but can
other people not do it it just requires
a little bit of awareness so that you
can then
I have a conversation and it's only by
having a conversation that uh you can
find somewhere a middle a middle way
some there's a Buddhist expression
Buddhism is called the middle way you
find the middle way somewhere I um
if we don't have conversations with
others we have different viewpoints
then the
there will be deterioration and
eventually they would it might even be
violence so it's interesting because I
know you talk a lot about the collective
conscious which obviously I mean look
you happen to see me on YouTube that
brought us here now your message can get
out to you know tons of other people and
all of that stuff which is absolutely
incredible so that's the that's the
great part of the internet that I think
has fed the collective unconsciousness
unconscious but then there's another
part of it where we seemingly are just
fighting all day long and you mentioned
before we're distracted all day long so
if we're standing on a corner we
automatically go to our phone do you
think that level of distraction and
technology and our
are adolescents relative to knowing what
is really going on by having the world
in your pocket at all times do you think
that is leading us to to a sort of
strange existential crisis that actually
could have never happened before just
because of the the speed with which yes
we can communicate and learn and and
hate and all of those things yes well
there's both what is commune what is
communicated through these devices
but the very fact that there is this
device this was many years ago there was
a book by Marshall mclue and it says the
medium is the message it was about
television but the the nature of the
device itself
um we we need to be very careful because
what it does is it contributes to the
Clutter of our minds
so no matter
potentially
it it can be a very beneficial thing to
connect with humans through these
devices but at the moment the dangers it
might be destructive are greater
I can see what he does to children who
from an early age interact with these
they're no longer able to have personal
relationships increasing number of
children have attention deficit disorder
now what is attention definitely
disorder they can't focus on anything
for very long anymore what does that do
to human consciousness what does it do
to a civilization if humans grow up now
without the ability
to to focus on tension for very long
because ending any creative act requires
you
to be present with something for a
period of time to give it attention
and if humans lose the ability to give
attention
then they lose the ability to be
creative if they lose the ability to be
creative
they lose the ability even to solve
their problems because the problems that
they have created it requires wisdom and
true creativity to solve those problems
so all kinds of scenarios are possible
the
scenario of the breakdown of
civilization within two generations is a
possibility
but these things if these things are we
need to learn how to use these devices
in the same way that we have to learn
how to use our minds because they are an
extension of our minds so if we become
more aware of what our mind is doing
then it might be easier also to to
handle these devices because they are an
extension and amplification of the mind
and the dysfunction that we see on the
internet with all these the
dysfunctional behavior and so on it's
just it's an externalization and an
amplification
of the dysfunction of the human ego you
can just see it much more clearly now
it's old for everybody to see
and that might be a good thing to see it
because then we can really aware of it
what are we doing to ourselves that's a
good question to ask what are we doing
to ourselves this is becoming insane and
the moment you see that it is insane
then there's some sanity in you
because nobody who knows their insane is
completely insane the real insane people
don't know their answer so if you see
the insanity in the way that we
collectively communicate you say okay
I'm not going to be part of that
it's necessary to see it and then your
responsibility as an individual is not
to feed it
to stay conscious to stay present so
that your input is conscious and does
not
seek to destroy other human beings and
demonize other you dehumanize and
demonize other human beings so you view
that really as the antidote let's say to
the Mob culture that we have because
there is this you can feel this you know
it's funny this morning I was scrolling
your Twitter feed and it and your
Twitter feed is is basically a breath of
fresh air it's like when I was reading
it there's like a breath and it's and
it's Pleasant and you know there's
there's some of your sayings and some of
the ways that you want to help people
think clearly all those things but
that's so the reverse of the way most of
Twitter is and and I'm part of that
other world and sometimes sometimes I
feed it and I try not to but you know
I'm not perfect either
um but I do see this thing where where
the mob is sort of moving around on
Twitter and sometimes it comes to get me
to yes and there's this there's an
innate human feeling you see something
and it has a lot of attention and it's
shiny and it's whatever and that
everyone wants to get in but basically
you're saying if you would take that
breath if you would just say I don't
want in on this
that eventually you can actually you can
almost pull other people out of it too
by your own behavior yes because this
isn't just about you yes also not to
feed uh other if other people post
negative things about you in many many
cases
non-reaction is the best thing instead
of feeding it that's a lesson I need to
learn I will try to take that one with
me that applies both offline and online
in your personal life too often it's
just well
I believe Jesus was talking about
non-reaction when he's talked about
turning the other cheek I don't think
it's to be taken literally
but it means when somebody somebody
attacks you not not physically it's an
analogy he uses a it's a parable uh turn
the other Secrets it means to just be
free of reaction
and that uh that uh
very quickly deflates even the other
person's ego it doesn't if the ego needs
the reaction it needs the reactivity
so that's a powerful thing but how do
you avoid then just becoming a pushover
within that well in some situations
something needs to be said but even then
that can come from you could say
let's especially if you're with somebody
that kind of behavior is unacceptable
you can say that
um in a conscious way rather than
you know destructive and aggressive way
you can one can actually be very firm
and conscious
or when you say no to somebody
it doesn't have to be
aggressive uh it's just really a clear
is I call it a high quality no
uh somebody says can you lend me again
I've
the two thousand dollars I need I know I
still owe you 20 000 but I need some
more and then and then not to make the
other engine enemy just no I'm sorry I
can't do it anymore it's a high quality
no that's uh you're present while you
say it and then you can set boundaries
if necessary so in some cases
something needs to be said I need to do
something but in many other cases
complete non-reactivity can be very very
powerful
what gives you the most amount of joy in
your life now
the little things in life the little
things walking around in nature
sometimes sitting quietly in a room just
being I love being uh
nature
I still enjoy traveling and the greatest
joy is
um
teaching giving talks because that's my
life purpose
and so once every every time I engaged
in my life purpose then I'm really in a
state of joy and heightened aliveness
and that's why I'm still doing it yeah
would you say you're are you an optimist
inherently
as far as human Destiny is concerned you
mean or Humanity or in general yeah I
don't mean it personally actually I mean
it just in in the in the wider world are
you hopeful oh yes I'm I'm well I
sometimes call it I'm a long-term
Optimist I always say World weary
Optimist short term I don't know it's
possible who knows where humanity is
going right now nobody could predict
where it's going
all the individual all the individual
can only take responsibility for their
own State of Consciousness but that
matters very much
the because your state of conscience
determine determines the way in which
you experience reality and that is many
repercussions you affect many other
humans through your State of
Consciousness so that's don't
underestimate the importance
of your State of Consciousness in the
present moment in
there's so much more we could do here
but I want to be respectful of your time
so I'll ask you one more and then when
we end this I'm going to beg you to come
back
um but if someone's watching this right
now and is really in what Jordan
Peterson would describe as the state of
chaos or the state that you were in in
your late 20s before you had your
Awakening and they hear you and they say
well just you know taking that first
breath isn't going to do it if they're
really just out of sorts right now what
would be some some way that you think
you could help shake them out of it give
them something concrete that would help
them click you know stop on this thing
and and fix themselves or begin the
process let's say yeah yeah
well
the best starting point is the present
moment uh now whatever I say
any advice I give
it's quite possible if not likely that
their conditioned mind will deny what I
say and it'll say that's not going to
work so don't believe what I say now if
your mind says this is not going to work
don't believe what your mind says just
try what I've got what I'm saying now so
we become more fully conscious of the
present moment right now because that's
that's all there ever is
your entire life is experienced and
unfolds in the present moment
most humans don't seem to even realize
that because they always live as if some
other moment were more important than
this one you need to honor this moment
it's a basis
for the soul for the future how that
unfolds which never comes because when
it comes it's a now
and the past never happened except when
you remember it it's always a new member
now so to come into the present moment
be aware of your breathing
and another one I recommend anybody this
were actually very powerful if it sounds
almost too simple but it's very powerful
feel the aliveness inside your body and
if you don't know what I mean usually I
advise people to close their eyes hold
their hand like this and ask themselves
without looking at my hand or moving my
hand how can I know whether my hand is
still there
that question requires you to direct
attention into your hand and then after
a few seconds you'll probably feel a
little bit of a tingling or liveness in
your hand that is the beginning of being
able to feel what I call the inner body
this is the the energy field that the
that pervades every cell in the body if
you can start with the hands
then you feel your legs your feet your
hands simultaneously and then you
incorporate the totality of your body
and so your attention is moved from your
mind
you're taking Consciousness into the
body so one could say you're now
inhabiting your body consciously and
when you it's a very lovely feeling and
you'll notice that you're no longer
thinking very much you can't
and all the
the problems that you have to a large
extent were created by dysfunctional
thinking and the emotions that accompany
this functional thinking
most of the problems reside in your mind
so
if you are able to become more present
then you access
a higher or deeper dimension of
Consciousness and to become more present
you have to be able to step out of your
mind without losing Consciousness so the
Consciousness the
goes into the body and the body becomes
an anchor you can hold it for several
minutes at a time becomes an anchor for
being present become as present as you
can also present of sense perceptions
it's very important science perceptions
can also bring you into the present
moment an expression you could use is
come to your senses in both meanings of
the word expression come to your senses
look around be consciously take
everything in without the label it is
needing to label it mentally
and then you suddenly you're aware of
your surroundings you're aware of your
inner energy field you're in the present
moment
and in the present moment there's no
problem
it can't be there's not an emergency
sometimes yes then you have to act but
it's not an emergency he has no problem
then your ability to deal with your
so-called problems
becomes uh much greater
if you're able to access the power of
your presence
then when you choose to deal with your
problems say okay now apply focused
thought what can I do when you return to
presence it's always going you're
thinking
back into learn what presence is
it's there it's the the Kingdom of
Heaven is at hand said it's right here
it's right here don't look for it
elsewhere
and then you realize the
um
a lot of the unhappiness in one's life
the Buddha called it duka suffering he
says every human suffers unless they
have awakened and a lot of the suffering
is
not due to your life circumstances
although most people think it is
the larger part of your suffering is due
to your mental commentary about your
life circumstances
your mind is telling you something that
creates the unhappiness
even you can test it out in a simple
situation you're in line somewhere you
get irritated it's taking too long
you're waiting you get very angry and
irritated then experiment how would I
experience this situation without adding
any thought to it if I didn't add any
thoughts to this moment just and then
suddenly
well it's actually fine it's not before
you were unhappy but we are not unhappy
because you had to wait you're unhappy
because of the narrative in your mind so
there are millions of people who carry
very toxic narratives in their mind and
they call it my life
that's not it's a it's a terrible bird
and they carry around it doesn't have to
be like that and the essence of all
spirituality
is to be able to step out of that
realize if only a little bit of
self-transcendence which is inner
spaciousness and then that grows and
then you can begin to sense there is a
power in you
that transcends the person and that is
also the place where you can
transcend the uh the feelings of
um happiness and unhappiness which
fluctuate continuously I'm not saying
you've it's not happiness that you
ultimately find happiness is a little
bit superficial uh yeah I made it and
the next day on the opposite it's
something that transcends happiness and
unhappiness it's a deep sense of
rootedness in being of a deep sense of
inner peace that really have as nothing
much to do with your personal
circumstances I've had letters from
people in prison who have written to me
said I feel free now because I've read
your book and I've practiced it and my
life is transformed and now I'm teaching
others
from many letters from prison prisoners
so it's it's real no matter what your
life circumstances are
the the message is
wake up wake up out of complete
identification with your mind
and so that's your the ultimate purpose
in life is to awaken
this has been an absolute pleasure I
think that I I'm not I think I know that
I had a few of those brief leading
moments while we were here and I thank
you for that and I think if my audience
gets even one percent of that through
the internet waves that go out there I
think this will will be something that I
will always remember I hope we can do
this again because we think you just
started here I normally tell the Twitter
handle of my guest but in this case I'm
going to look at the camera and tell you
guys just to take a breath
foreign
