[Music]
America with their majestic mountains
and amber waves of grain this Thursday
on our last livestream before our summer
hiatus we tackle a culture worth
appropriating with our salute to the
United States of America join us for
beer and barbecue as we mercilessly
critique and Mock the people who most
want to see America destroyed are a part
of the Avengers we're live-streaming the
first Democrat 2020 primary debate Biden
they're gonna put y'all back in cage
Bernie the American journalist spoke
about how bad the country is these
people are lining up food cut cake I
like to drink a cold brewski I'm just
like you and a bunch of other people we
all have to pretend that we've heard of
complete with a costume party guests
giveaways a likely banning in our
trademark ladder with credit drinking
game with rules to follow let's head
into our summer break with a bang
kicking off this Thursday June 27th at
8:30 p.m. Eastern
