president Trump signs off on a massive
budget deal Democrats make grand
promises and Robert Muller prepares to
testify I'm Ben Shapiro this is the Ben
Shapiro show
a man I have a lot to get to today
including the craziest story of the day
which continues to spin out of control
courtesy of Canada where apparently the
courts are set to decide whether a woman
can be forced to wax a man's junk yes
this is the West the civilization that
built human rights that built the idea
of natural rights that built you know
the notre-dame Cathedral that built the
great libraries and universities of the
West now we have been relegated to
deciding whether to use he or she for a
biological male or female and also
whether people should be forced to wax
one another's balls so I am this is this
is where how far we've come great job
everyone the founders would be proud
well guess that in a second
unfortunately but first good blinds are
to a home what a good tie is to a suit
it brings it all together but shopping
for blinds is not one of the things I'm
good at I'm good at many many many
things shopping for blinds not on my
skill set blinds calm though makes it
really fast and really easy that's why I
like them and that is why we at my home
have used them with 15 million windows
covered over 30,000 five-star customer
views blinds calm is America's number
one online retailer for affordable
quality custom window coverings every
order gets free samples free shipping a
free online design consultation just
send them pictures of your home they'll
send back custom recommendations from a
professional fro it will work with your
color scheme furniture even these
specific rooms they'll even send you
free samples to make sure everything
looks as great in person as it doesn't
line and it will by the way all their
stuff is fantastic they've really made
it easy for you
there's no excuse to leave up the
mangled blind source have no blinds at
all because well that would be
horrifying so for a limited time my
listeners get $20 off at blinds.com when
you use promo code bed that is
blinds.com
promo code Ben for $20 off faux wood
blinds cellular shades roller shades it
more blinds.com
promo code bed rules and restrictions
apply I'm just telling you blinds a con
is the best way to get window coverings
there are no competitors who are
similarly good blinds calm promo code
band check them out right now rules and
restrictions to apply the reason that I
was laughing a little bit during that at
is is because listen I'm a professional
but even I have trouble transitioning
between the waxing of genitalia and and
our advertisers in any case we begin
today not with Canada deciding whether
or not women must be forced to wax the
balls of men who claim they are women we
will get to that a little bit later
in the show because everyone's crazy and
everything's crazy and said we begin
with a little bit more of a serious
topic and that is the inability to come
up with solutions so under ginn with a
quote tweeted from my friend Adam grant
so Adam is an organizational
psychologist he teaches over at Wharton
and yesterday he tweeted out agendas
aren't driven by problems they're driven
by solutions calling out what's wrong
without proposing ways to make it right
is complaining suggesting potential
fixes is constructive testing them is
proactive now I know all that sounds
tautology cool but unfortunately we live
in a world where this is not true we
live in a world where our politicians
are constantly lecturing us on the
problems and they're like yeah that guy
he at least knows the problem he knows
the problem and then when it comes time
to implement solutions then everybody
scatters for the hills
then everybody runs away so we'll take a
couple of examples today so let's begin
with the example of global warming so
global warming a fellow named Steve
Silberman tweeted out a who is a
training member what exactly he does
he's the author of neuro tribe's
and he has written a bunch of books for
the new that have been on the best
seller list over the New York Times he
tweeted out a picture of a plaque from
Iceland from the Atlantic hiking society
and it's called a letter to the future
and it says okay is the first Icelandic
glacier to lose its status as a glacier
in the next 200 years all our glaciers
are expected to follow the same path
this monument is to acknowledge that we
know what is happening and what needs to
be done only you know if we did it so
it's a letter from the future only you
know if we actually stopped the global
warming that is threatening the planet
if we did what needs to be done this is
virtuous signaling of the highest order
because of course the entire question
when it comes to climate change is what
do you do about it even accepting the
IPCC report the interne
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change even if you accept those
statistics which by the way I do even if
you accept the risk modeling much of
which has been wrong but some of which
has been wrong in the milder direction
some people say climate change has been
more extreme than that even if you
accept all that there are no good
solutions on the table there just aren't
people who talk about all certain
alternative energy solutions that are
ready to go our line to you the only
alternative energy solution that
actually would lower
carbon emissions is nuclear power which
the West opposes and when people talk
about a carbon cap and trade deal that
would not cure the problem it would not
take the carbon that's already up there
down out of the air it would not
actually apply presumably in places like
India and China and it would dam a bunch
of people living in the third world to
live in absolute penury if they can't
use carbon-based sources of fuel so
there are no good solutions so when
people talk about climate change
typically what you hear from them over
and over and over again is well at least
we agree on the problem at least we know
the problem this is why folks on the
Left tend to spends an inordinate amount
of time calling people on the right
climate change deniers why because then
they don't have to talk about solutions
then it turns into a moral battle about
here are those people who won't even
acknowledge the problem
they won't even accept that there's a
problem and then the folks who are
promoting the problem don't actually
have to offer a solution this is what
the left has done in the United States
with the green new deal for example
Democrats signing on to a resolution
talking about the necessity for a green
new deal that is non-binding that has no
practical means of execution that is
insane in its actual proposals if you
actually took it seriously and that got
zero votes in the Senate so this has
become a point where everybody sort of
signs off on the problem and then if you
don't sign off on the problem you're the
bad guy but there are no solutions so
nobody actually ends up coming to
anything remotely approaching a
practical solution a politician is a
perfect example if somebody who does
this all the time is Cory Booker so Cory
Booker the former mayor of Newark mr.
Potatohead who always brings his angry
eyes Cory Booker tweeted out this
morning it's not enough to tell us what
you're going to do for our communities
show us what you've done for the last 40
years you created this system will
dismantle it ah a sufficiently vague
noting that there are problems in the
United States and he did not create the
problems you created the problems now
who is this you
Gouri you were the mayor of Newark which
still has a murder rate in the top 30 in
the United States so far as I am aware
you're the mayor of Newark which still
has an unemployment rate of solid 1.5
percent higher than the average
unemployment rate across the United
States and if we're talking about the
problems created over the last 40 years
and Cory Booker says that he wants to
dismantle the system I'm glad to hear
that he wants to dismantle welfare the
federally controlled public education
system Medicare Medicaid and broadly
applied social security all of which
have arisen in the last 50 years in the
United States
in other words Cory Booker is doing what
politicians very often do he's pointing
at a problem and then he refuses to
solve the problem instead the virtue is
in simply noting the problem this does
not move the ball at all because we can
all talk about problems all day long
well problems in our life but unless you
have a solution it's not helpful and
politics is not the place for sympathy
it really isn't politics is not a place
you go where people just grant you
sympathy politics is supposed to be for
problem solving so my wife and I I've
talked about this on the show before my
wife and I have a rule it was developed
very early on in our marriage when I
discovered one of the major differences
between men and women is sometimes what
women would like from a conversation so
my wife would come home and she'd be
complaining about work and my first
instinct being a man because this is a
very male approach to issues was not to
offer a sympathetic ear but to
immediately jump to okay how do we solve
that problem so shoots him having a
problem at work and I'd say well you
should do XY and Z I think well I don't
want to talk about what I should do all
I want you to do is know that I have a
problem I want you to hear me I want you
to sympathize and this happened so often
and became such a contentious point that
we instituted a rule the rule was I was
allowed to ask at the beginning of a
conversation whether this was a sympathy
conversation or a solutions conversation
was this conversation oriented toward
finding an answer or was this a
conversation oriented toward me
demonstrating that I love my wife by
offering sympathy well politics should
be about finding solutions it should not
be about offering sympathy but politics
has become nearly entirely about
offering sympathy and so whichever
candidate is most likely to offer you
and people like you sympathy is the
candidate that you like the most even if
they offer no solutions even if they
leave you bereft of solutions even if
the solutions they implement suck okay
this is all backdrop to our politics
left and right so let's take an example
from the right president Trump is
prepared to back a budget deal that is
garbage okay he's about to announce
support for a two-year bipartisan budget
deal that boosts spending and suspends
the debt limit for a full two years now
I'm old enough to remember when
President Trump railed against debt
spending he talked about how debt debt
spending was a really bad thing he
talked about how deficits were a really
bad thing this is before he became
president then he talked about correctly
the fact that this is intergenerational
stealing if you don't like tax increases
on you too
hey why would you assume that your
children will love tax increases on them
when the bills come due your rate you
you are doing something that is actually
illegal in the United States if a
credit-card company did it you are doing
this when you sign off on these budget
deals if you took out a credit card and
the credit card had a provision that
your children have to pay off the credit
card if you do not pay off the credit
card that would be illegal it would be
illegal you're going to took out the
debt you're the one who has to pay the
debt if you have to declare bankruptcy
you declare bankruptcy but it's on you
when it comes to the national debt you
are actually allowed to foist off you're
allowed to pass off the debt on to your
children so if you raise the debt if you
spend in huge deficit numbers and never
pay for it you're not the one who pays
for it your kids and your grandkids pay
for it it is intergenerational stealing
my generation I'm millennial we have
been the victim of baby boomer
intergenerational stealing if you look
at how Social Security operates it used
to be that every person on Social
Security was supported by 14 or 15
American taxpayers we are now down to
the point where every person on Social
Security is supported by between two and
three tax payers so I basically have an
additional member of my family I don't
even know and who I get to pay every
month it's very exciting and that was
because people decided to put money in
their own pocket at the expense of
future generations which is a problem
and President Trump even acknowledged
this problem last year he signed a bad
budget deal last year and he said at the
time I'm not gonna do this again because
he I acknowledge the problem of the debt
well acknowledging the problem is not
solving the problem mr. president here
was the president last year my highest
duty is to keep America safe
nothing more important therefore as a
matter of national security I've signed
this omnibus budget bill there are a lot
of things that we shouldn't have had in
this bill but we were in a sense forced
if we want to build our military we were
forced to have there are some things
that we should have in the bill but I
say to Congress I will never sign
another bill like this again I'm not
gonna do it again well fast forward a
year getting here in Time Machine the
white house in House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi reached a tentative two-year
budget deal Monday they had raised
spending limits by 320 billion dollars
and suspend the federal debt ceiling
until after the 2020 presidential watch
the agreement which still must be passed
by Congress probably would prevent a
debt ceiling crisis later this year but
also would continue Washington's
borrowing binge for at least two years
president Trump tweeted on Monday I am
pleased to announce that a deal has been
struck with Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell Senate Minority Leader Charles
Schumer Speaker of the House Nancy
Pelosi and House Minority Leader Kevin
McCarthy on a two-year budget and debt
ceiling with no poison pills this was a
real compromise to give another big
victory to our great military and vets
listen I understand the problem of not
funding our military but we did have a
unified Republican Congress until about
seven months ago
why didn't we lower spending then the
deal was met with fierce resistance from
some prominent Republicans who said it
would add too much to the debt a
backlash that will force congressional
leaders to work hard this week to ensure
they have enough votes for passage by
the way they should not they should not
have enough votes for passage because
again we are raising debt on future
generations and Republicans are
complicit in this as much as Democrats
Barack Obama blew out the national debt
gave george w bush contribute to the
national debt barack obama then
proceeded to blow out the national debt
almost doubling it in his time in office
he's ranked raking up a trillion dollar
deficit pretty much every year four
trillion dollar budgets Donald Trump
enters office and now that's the new
normal and so he just keeps spending at
that rate the agreement could spark
concerns from House liberals because of
concessions made to the Trump
administration the agreement marks a
significant retreat for the White House
which insisted just a few months ago it
would force Congress to cut spending on
a variety of programs to enact fiscal
discipline instead the White House
agreed to raise spending for most
agencies particularly depends agon so I
say you're not allowed to propose
problems without solutions here's the
solution do not sign a budget that
raises spending at the very least I'm
not even saying you gotta cut spending
do not sign a budget that raises
spending start from that premise if you
got a cut in particular areas you cut in
particular areas and if that includes
some defense cuts then you cut there too
because guess what we're still spending
an enormous enormous amount of money on
our military because here's the reality
we shouldn't have a deal like
sequestration where 50% of the cuts came
from the military that was Barack
Obama's deal Donald Trump is the
president now he doesn't have to do that
but if we don't cut our spending we are
in a world of hurt
we are in serious serious trouble if we
refuse to acknowledge what exactly is
going to happen here and here's the
reality
to the discretionary spending which rose
about 4% this year is not the real
problem it is the systemic spending that
is the real problem I'll explain in just
a second everybody knows the solution
for that nobody will take that solution
the letter from the future to the
American people look something like
we're now in a debt crisis because you
selfish bastards wouldn't actually cut
back your Social Security Medicare or
Medicaid or restructure them so they're
workable that's what the letter from the
future looks like and that's exactly
what's going to happen we'll get to that
in a second first if you've ever gone
shopping for shaving products you know
it's hard to tell which ones are
actually worth the money some of them
cost a fortune some of them don't
there's just too many options which is
what Dollar Shave Club helps make your
life easier they take out the guesswork
and they guarantee quality shaving
products I love all of my dollar shave
club products they've got the best
shaving cream they got the best razors
they've got the best soap they've got
the best shampoo it's all fantastic
I really like their amber lavender body
cleanser it smells delightful Dollar
Shave Club has you covered head to toe
they have everything you need to shower
shave style your hair brush your teeth
stay fully stocked get what you want
whenever you need it whether that's once
a month or a few times a year as the
Dollar Shave Club member I know what I'm
getting is the highest quality no more
walking through the aisle at the store
wondering what the heck I want right now
you can put the quality of Dollar Shave
club's products to the test their
ultimate starter sets have basically
everything you need for an amazing
shower close shave or clean teeth the
best part is you can try each one for
just five bucks after that the gray
stock box chips regular sized products
at regular prices get your ultimate
starter set for just five bucks at
dollarshaveclub.com slash Ben that's
dollarshaveclub.com slash man check them
out now at dollarshaveclub.com slash Ben
so again we have a bunch of politicians
and they are all fibbing about what
exactly things are going to cost and
this is a serious problem because we all
know in reality what the solution is
sixty-six percent of the federal budget
every year is Medicare Medicaid Social
Security these all need to be
restructured particularly Social
Security which is effectively bankrupt
we are now taking money directly out of
not the funds for Social Security but
from other places it's basically a giant
pyramid scheme and then we are passing
those debts along to future generations
or we are racking up debts by selling
bonds whatever it is the debt is going
to come due noah rothman has a piece
over a commentary magazine dated in
april talking about what an american
debt crisis would look like he says in
2035 just 16
from now Social Security's funds will be
insufficient to meet its obligations
Social Security trustees announced that
the program's ballooning costs are
expected to exceed the revenue it takes
in by next year Medicare is just as bad
that programs Hospital Insurance Fund
will run the ground as early as 2026 and
unlike the situation with Social
Security Medicare trustees found that
increased tax revenue has not altered
it's doomed trajectory according to last
year's estimate from the CBO the federal
debt which is currently equivalent to
78% of US gross domestic product will
reach 100% of GDP in 2028 that means you
confiscated every dollar made in the
United States by 2028 it still would not
be sufficient to pay off the u.s.
national debt that projection rests on
several assumptions all of which are
false no new federal spending
initiatives Democrats are pledging many
new federal spending initiatives no new
wars no recessions a projected decline
in defense spending and none of that is
true which means that we will be at a
hundred percent debt to GDP ratio
probably by 2024 2025 at the latest
Rothman says Americans know a debt
crisis is coming they don't care in 2005
George W Bush outlined a major
initiative to reform Social Security
that would introduce secured individual
investments into the system stabilizing
the program rendering it financially
sustainable the effort failed in 2012
Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan recommended to
gradually raising the retirement age for
younger workers and slowing the growth
in benefits for Americans with higher
incomes they were defeated in 2016
Trump ran explicitly against
conservative efforts to rein in
entitlement spending and he won this is
the new normal in America everybody
 about the problem and nobody has
any solutions and if you do provide a
solution then you're immediately ruled
out of order because your solutions as
it turns out very often stink as we will
see from the Democrats so the national
debt crisis is not going to stop and it
didn't stop just because the the name on
the Oval Office changed from Obama to
Trump I was carping about the national
that I'm old enough to remember when
there was a thing called the Tea Party
and the Tea Party complained that we
were spending out-of-control that we
couldn't afford things like Obamacare
that we couldn't afford tarp that we
couldn't afford all of Obama's spending
initiatives cash for clunkers and all
the rest
where'd everybody go where'd everybody
go I understand we're all in talks
kated by the brew of having Donald Trump
in the White House but guess what that
didn't change the underlying fact so if
you were complaining about the problem
then but you're not now check yourself
before you wreck yourself more
importantly check yourself before you
wreck the American economy and if you're
president Trump or a Republican voting
in Congress get your head on straight
it's time for you to put your money
where your mouth is or rather stop
taking money from the mouths of kids who
have not yet been born because that's
what's going on here and again here's
here's one of big problems when you
label problems incorrectly and then come
up with solutions here's the second
problem so we have a couple of problems
one is people who want to carp about the
problem but not solve it and then there
are people who want to carp about the
wrong problem and then solve it in the
wrong fashion so this would bring us to
the problem that we have seen of
criminal justice reform now I'm very
much in favor of some of the provisions
of criminal justice reform the so-called
first step ACTA bipartisan bill passed
by President Trump okay the first step
back did a couple of things that are
good it moved
prisoners closer to their hometowns that
so presumably family could visit them
made family reunification easier in the
aftermath of prison but it also did some
stuff I don't like a lowered sentencing
capacity it made it easier for people to
let other people out of prison well
naturally this means that some criminals
are getting out of prison we should note
here that the recidivism rate for
American prisoners is extraordinarily
high somewhere between 60 and 80 percent
now Fox News is reporting that more than
a hundred violent criminals have been
released under the first-step Act the
data were first obtained exclusively by
Tucker Carlson tonight they seemingly
contradicted lawmakers promises the
legislation would affect only prisoners
sentenced for minor drug related
offenses of the 2243 inmates released
under the first step Act
only 960 were incarcerated for
drug-related offenses 496 were in prison
for weapons and explosives related
crimes so people who had guns when they
weren't supposed to or explosives 239
for sex offenses these people being
released early 178 for fraud bribery and
extortion
118 for burglary and larceny and 106 for
robbery another 59 were imprisoned over
homicide or aggravated assault and now
released onto the streets 46 for
immigration related offenses 9 for
counterfeiting embezzlement embezzlement
and 2 for national
security reasons in all 2023 of the
inmates were male only 211 were female
and about half of the inmates were black
well about half were white so about a
thousand of the inmates were black that
1,100 were white which reflects the the
general sort of breakdown of America's
federal prison population which which is
heavily minority and this of course was
the driving force for people complaining
that America's quote-unquote mass
incarceration system was targeting
blacks and Hispanics and that this was
all about drug crime but as it turns out
it wasn't all about drug crime a lot of
these people are being released from
prison after committing non drug-related
offenses and we're starting to see the
effects of liberal governments when it
comes to crime I would not be surprised
over the past few years we've seen a
right in 2014-2015 particularly we saw
the so-called Ferguson effect rising
murder rates in cities around the
country that seems to have leveled off
in 2017-2018 would not be surprised to
see crime rate starts to go up again as
America takes a more liberal position
when it comes to fighting crime an
anecdotal example comes courtesy of
Seattle
Jason Rance my friend over at at
mynorthwest.com and he's hosted for me
before he says a prolific Seattle
offender with over 70 criminal
convictions allegedly attacked another
victim this time a toddler in a stroller
it's the same offender Seattle City
Attorney Pete Holmes has fought to keep
out of jail the latest incident happened
in downtown Seattle on July 20th
Francisco Calderon a homeless man
entered multiple businesses along the
500 block of Pine Street causing
disturbances in trying to start fights
he's done this before according to
witness accounts outlined in a police
report
Calderon grabbed a cup of coffee from a
random passerby and threw it in the face
of random toddler the child's father
struck called Tyrone roughly six times
knocked me into the ground when police
arrived he was arrested for assault
three of a child the child is rushed
inside the nearby gap by his mom where
he was cleaned and treated in the stores
bathroom the officer on scene said the
temperature of the coffee was unclear it
was unknown if there was any biohazard
component the kid was not physically
injured or appeared not to be but was
not communicative and appeared to be
staring off into space possibly in shock
when questioned by police
Calderon said he tripped spilling the
coffee but apparently multiple witnesses
say this was not true this is close to
calls runs one
hundreth run-in with law enforcement as
rant says he is a criminal who shouldn't
be on our streets but in Seattle we
don't punish criminals because social
justice the same thing by the way
happens in Los Angeles where crime rates
are undoubtedly rising despite the
attempts of the mayor's office to try
and hi to all of that when you mislabel
the problem as a problem of
discrimination rather than a problem of
crime you end up with bad policy and
some of that bad policy involves
reversing good policy namely punishment
of criminals in just a second we are
going to get to people making new
promises new promises that are
completely unfulfilled well we'll get to
that in just one second first getting in
shape it's about more than just exercise
I know this because listen I've been
working out pretty much every day for
five years I'm still waiting for the
six-pack to appear it just has not
happened despite all my talk about
having the body of a Greek god I don't
look like Michelangelo's David
I mean I'm massive like admittedly but
let me just tell you I still need to
work on myself and this is where Newman
comes in Noom is awesome so Noom is this
fantastic app that allows you to reach
your personal goals some of the things
that they work on are changing your
habits so instead of just kind of
checking in every so often and telling
you to exercise or something instead
they hope you count calories for example
they help they have people who actually
reach out to you and check in to see how
you're doing so you can talk with kind
of a partner they give you examples of
things that you should eat they help you
figure out what kind of exercise they
should do and mostly it's about changing
your habits it's about you thinking
about this more often
so they it's forefront of mind as
opposed to at receding tobacco mine Noom
is a habit changing solution that helps
users learn to develop a new
relationship with food through
personalized courses it's based in
psychology and neun teaches you why you
do the things you do yeah and then arms
you with the tools to break the bad
habits and replace them with better ones
it's not a diet it's a healthy easy to
stick to way of life I know because I'm
using it every single day we're all
strapped for time
NUMA asks you to commit about 10 minutes
a day for yourself you can chat with a
goal specialist and numa community
specialists to get to get and give help
to people going through the same thing
so they create partnerships and make it
becomes a social thing it's really
awesome you don't have to change it all
in one day in fact you won't be able to
small steps make big progress sign up
for your trial today at noon it's N oom
comm slash apparel I'm a member you
should be too what do you have to lose
visit noon comm slash up here to start
your trial today that's Noom comm slash
reports the last weight loss program
you will ever need and it helps you
reach your goals that's really what it's
forenoon comm slash capiro check them
out okay so meanwhile while we are
labeling problems in miss solving them
or labeling problems not solving them at
all Democrats are setting a new agenda
and the new agenda is making radical
promises that no one is ever going to
keep and that agenda is being sent by
the most radical members of the
Democratic Party unfortunately it's
funny when you talk to Democratic
legislators when they're off the record
they will acknowledge that there is room
for compromise they'll acknowledge there
are solutions that might be able to be
reached but when they go out in public
the first thing that they do I mean I
know Democratic legislators who do this
I've talked with them but unfortunately
this happens on the right - it's not
unique to the left unfortunately when
you get out in public then it becomes
more about posturing than it is about
anything else
and so you see Democrats throwing out
radical agenda items that make no sense
at all like really no sense at all and
starting civil wars inside the
Democratic Party it's bad for the
Democratic Party for them to be
impractical New York Times as Thomas
Friedman who's wrong about pretty much
everything is right about this he says
if the Democrats fight amongst
themselves because the radicals are
fighting the moderates nothing gets done
and you're not going to have a unified
agenda if you're facing up against Trump
I think there's just a lot of people out
there who I really want someone to keep
it I think basically simple and to me
the simple the simplest democratic
message is I think national unity I
think there are a lot of people around
the country
Anderssen yearning for someone who's
gonna pull the country together I think
there's a lot of people feel like we're
like heading for civil war kind of
political civil war so I think there's a
there's a huge journey for that okay so
I think that he is actually right here
but the Democrats are not gonna go for
it because for the Democrats they don't
actually have a unifying national agenda
so it becomes about what kind of
promises you can make what kind of
problems you can identify no solutions
allowed none and the Democratic Party
knows that if you're gonna go to a place
where the problems are misidentified and
no solutions are available you go to the
squad those are the people you go to
when it's time to come up with solutions
that are completely unworkable and
stupid when it comes to labeling
problems that don't exist when it comes
to exacerbating problems that do exist
who are you gonna go - you're gonna call
female Ghostbusters you're gonna call
the squad so here you have a democratic
representative Underwood admitting that
the squad is now setting the agenda for
the Democratic Party
it's been really disturbing to see the
president escalate this exchange of
words between sitting Democratic
congresswoman and you know mr. president
like it or not sir we are here we are
serving in the United States Congress
there is a cohort of smart prepared
dynamic young women serving in the
Congress and yes they are bold and are
setting the agenda but quite frankly
Andrea women are setting the agenda in
this hundred and sixteen Congress and
that's something that we haven't seen
before so it's all about identity
politics and it's not at all about what
are the actual ideas you know why
they're doing that you know why they're
focusing it on the faces rather than the
ideas because the idea is absolutely
blow the ideas are terrible the ideas
are absolutely awful so let's take some
examples of the supposed problems and
solutions being offered by the
Democratic Left okay so illa and Omar
the new insane thought leader of the
Democratic Party my goodness I mean last
last week she's such a thought leader
that she proposed an openly anti-semitic
Pro BDS resolution label dances medic by
Nancy Pelosi a month earlier at AIPAC
now the Democrats had a word because
this is how things work now so here is
Johanna Omar creating what can only be
described as a mad lib of democratic
policies so when I say a mad lib I mean
that you can I'll read you the sentence
that she writes and then I will put it
in Madlib form and you'll realize that
this is basically how Democrats are now
doing policy she says no one should fear
receiving medical care because they are
undocumented we must ensure that all
people in our country have access to
reproductive health care she's hidden a
lot in there what is she talking about
there she is saying that we should have
taxpayer-funded abortion for illegal
immigrants that is what she's saying
right there she is saying that who knew
illegal immigrant comes across the
border and wants you to pay for their
abortion we should pay for it so this is
the new democratic Madlib formulation
taxpayer-funded noun for a group may you
just have to pick what fits into that
noun and group my favorite
taxpayer-funded dolphins for lesbian
single moms right you just pick any noun
and any group and it totally works
taxpayer-funded avocado toast for
Millennials right and this just becomes
part of the Democratic agenda and this
is this is their whole thing again these
are promises that will never come true
the American people are
up for spending taxpayer-funded money on
abortion let alone abortions for illegal
immigrants come here to have your baby
killed welcome to America
no one's up for that but this is what
the Democrats are proposing because they
don't have any solutions to actual
problems what are some of the other
solutions how about Rasheeda to leave so
Rasheeda to leave another member of the
squad presenting ideas for your
consumption yesterday she comes out and
she's cheering the $15 minimum wage the
Democrats just passed in the house
minimum wage has always been bad
economic policy it creates it kills jobs
artificially boosting wages means that
you're artificially boosting prices it
also means they artificially lowering
the number of hours that people can work
minimum wage is a bad idea but it is a
particularly bad idea when you randomly
pick a number out of out of the air and
then decide that this is what the
minimum wage should be so why $15 why
not 20 where she did sleep says good
question let's make it 20 for no reason
because she says so
[Music]
thousands an hour
it's a little bit hard to hear her she's
saying it should be $20 an hour and then
it basically turns into a bidding
session for cattle
well that's wonder what do I hear 21 I
got 22 do I hear 22 do I hear 50 do I
hear $1,000 if you really think the
minimum wage is gonna solve this problem
solve income inequality I have a
proposal I proposed it long ago to Shama
Sawant who is a socialist city council
woman in the City of Seattle we had a
long debate on this topic you can find
it on YouTube it's pretty amusing I
asked her straight off why not $1,000 an
hour will solve income inequality in one
day it'll be unbelievable and she could
not explain why not $1,000 an hour
people who are sitting next to her they
well that would just be unrealistic
really now you explain to me what's
unrealistic because apparently you know
how to run businesses better than all
the people who have built run businesses
and hired everyone you don't hire anyone
Rashidah Talib is not hiring anyone the
folks in Congress who are calling for
$15 minimum wage have no employees paid
for by them all of their employees are
paid for by the American taxpayer which
means future taxpayers really and yet
they're gonna stand on their high horse
and tell people sit on their high horse
and tell people what exactly minimum
wage should be again identifying a
problem that people aren't making enough
money and providing no solution other
than something that is completely
unworkable and stupid this is the new
Democratic Party of you're making and
this is why Donald Trump despite all of
his foibles despite all the things that
he tweets despite the fact that he
pursues policy sometimes that I don't
like is in a strong position going into
2020 it is because for whatever his
problems at least he's provided some
solutions the Democrats are out there
providing pretty much no solutions at
this point their agenda is supposedly to
make the country better by just not
being Trump I'm not sure that that's
enough get some more of this in just one
second first make sure you tune in this
Thursday July 25th at 7 p.m. Eastern 4
p.m. Pacific for our latest episode of
the conversation host Andrew Clavin will
be answering your questions live on air
so make them good questions the episode
will be free for everyone to watch on
Facebook and YouTube only subscribers
can ask the questions subscribe to daily
wire get your questions answered by
Andrew Clayton this Thursday 7 p.m.
Eastern 4 p.m. Pacific joined the
conversation also a reminder next month
we are taking our backstage show on the
road for a special one night only a
August 21st at the beautiful Terrace
Theatre in Long Beach California if
you've been dying to meet me I don't
know why what but if you are then you
can meet me live we'll be live at that
terrorist theater in Long Beach
California me daily where God king
Jeremy boring Andrew Clavin and the
execrable Michael Knowles will be there
alive we'll be talking politics pop
culture answering questions from the
audience will get to hear I am sure
Michael moles give a disquisition on
Catholic doctrine so make all of this
good tickets are on sale right now at
Daley wire.com slash backstage including
our limited VIP packages that guarantee
premium seating photos and meet and
greets with each of us a gift from me
I'm shopping for it right after the show
I'm gonna go out to the store you never
know what it's gonna be I mean is it a
breakup gift is it is it a meeting it
what is it who knows you check it out
right now head on over to Daley wire.com
slash backstage and get your tickets
today it is going to be terrific at
least it will be for you I'm not I don't
I can't say I desperately want to be
there but I mean I guess if we have to
be there let's at least hang out guys
also gang if you don't just want to like
meet us if you want to work here I mean
just fair warning it's rough but if you
want to work here our business is
growing rapidly and that means that we
are excited to be offering more
opportunities to become part of our
in-house team head on over to Daley
wired.com slash careers see if any of
our job openings would be right for you
or someone you know again that is Daley
wired.com slash careers it go check us
out over their daily wire.com slash
squares also as always please subscribe
it helps protect us from the nastiness
of the media matters left which seeks to
go after our advertisers seeks to go
after the platforms upon which we appear
they're really gross and the way that
you protect the content you love is by
subscribing so please join the team over
at daily wire.com $99 a year gets you
everything that you want all of this
including this the greatest and all
beverage vessels the leftist here's hot
or cold tumblr go check that out right
now when you subscribe by the way I made
a rare mistake I can't say it was my
mistake it may have been a mistake by my
producers but our conversation is not
happening on Thursday it is actually
happening on Wednesday I have been
informed in my ear so go check out the
conversation on Wednesday not Thursday
we're the largest fastest-growing
conservative podcast and radio show in
the nation
[Music]
you
okay so the Democratic solutions are
apparently according to the squad who
are now the ideological thought leaders
taxpayer-funded abortion for illegal
immigrants $20 minimum wage and
according to Alexandra Ocasio Cortez the
illustrious the brilliant the thought
leader everyone here in the United
States illegally should be allowed to
stay and everyone around the planet who
wants to cross into our country should
be allowed to come so apparently the
United States first of all I don't know
why this isn't imperialist I really
she's worried about colonialism and
imperialism how about making everyone on
earth an American citizen basically this
is what she suggests anyone who makes it
into the United States should stay so
here's what we've got
taxpayer-funded abortions for you Eagle
immigrants who can stay no matter how
they got here so for billions of illegal
immigrants who cross our borders and
also they get paid a $20 minimum wage
how could it ever go wrong here's aoc I
think migration to me is liberation it's
the ability to move and B it's the
freedom to be really is what we're
talking about and I think that all
people should be free to be here and in
our communities because I think that
when you start viewing human beings as
intrinsically valuable you feel blessed
that they have come to you with their
presence okay then she should open her
front door and feel increasingly blessed
that random people walk in and see her
cookies this is this is ridiculous it's
ridiculous she's marianne williamson if
marianne williamson were birthed by karl
marx it's insane
hey by the way it's not just it's not
just the AOC squad it's also the the
Democratic leading lights it's Elizabeth
Warren who by the way is beloved by all
of the intelligence 'ya in the
Democratic Party because of course she's
a smart lady because she taught at
Harvard Law but that's not stopping her
from proposing radical solutions that
are not going to be implemented she says
we're all going to transition to
government-run health care depriving 155
million Americans of their private
health insurance this is being openly
proposed she did this at an AARP
presidential candidate forum it is
amazing by the way how left the AARP is
we have sponsors here on the program who
are providing
turn it to AARP there is a reason the
fact that the AARP is doing a forum
where everybody nods and laughs when she
talked about government-run health care
for everyone you know who benefits a lot
from private health insurance older
folks who are buying supplemental
insurance even if they have Medicare and
older folks who have private insurance
who by the way represents an enormous
health care burden on the United States
Medicare system here she is saying we'll
put everybody on Medicare but don't
worry it won't hurt the old people
somehow here's here's Elizabeth Warren
saying nonsense eliminate private
insurance correct is that right what it
does is it transitions people's and
people to more complete insurance
coverage more complete health care
coverage at a lower cost which i think
is what we all want
everyone gets covered but we do it at
the lowest possible cost it's about
health care from our babies to our
seniors so that no one has to go
bankrupt over a medical problem okay so
this is the Democrats have nothing and
they're radical agendas alienating
Americans and here is how you know that
this is gonna be a very competitive
election in 2020 because the Democrats
by ignoring all the issues by bringing
up problems that don't exist in order to
address in order to avoid problems that
do exist by providing no solutions if
Donald Trump could just control himself
you'd witness thing in a walk here's a
new Gallup poll out just now and it is a
question as to what is the most
important problem facing the country
today what's the most important question
facing the country today number one
immigration 27% say immigration number
one the vast majority of those people I
would assume our people who are not in
favor of open borders and the Democrats
preaching open borders and
taxpayer-funded abortions for illegal
immigrants that is not going to help
them number two is the government and
poor leadership and this is where if
President Trump would shut his piehole
he would be in pretty good position
come 2020 because that's a lot of
Democrats who again don't have real
policy solutions but are angry at
President Trump only 7% say race
relations and racism so the media's key
focus race relations and racism only 7%
of Americans say that is their their top
problem in the United States which by
the way is a lot less than minority
population
the United States right I mean 10% of
the American population is black another
13% is Latino only 7% of Americans
saying that race relations are the
number one problem in America which is
correct they are not the number one
problem in America only 7% name health
care only four percent say climate
change the media's top priorities which
are racism health care and climate
change right those those represent a
collective 18 percent of people who say
it's their top priority as opposed to
immigration which is 27 percent and then
you get to unifying the country at four
percent the economy in general at three
percent poverty hunger and homelessness
at three percent the Democrats are
blowing this thing because innately I
think most people understand what I've
been talking about this entire hour I
think most people innately understand
that if you are not providing solutions
and you're part of the problem and right
now Democrats are part of the problem
and that's why President Trump their
polls that show that more than half of
Americans approve of President Trump on
the economy and more than half also say
that they will not vote for him I really
wonder whether the latter number is true
because in the end people feel the
impact of politics on their lives that's
what from past to hope for and again
it's why the best thing Trump could do
is make his personality secondary to the
actual policy he is pursuing even if I
don't like some of the policy that he is
pursuing okay meanwhile across the pond
in Britain the big story is that Boris
Johnson has become the next prime
minister of Britain according to the
Washington Post Boris Johnson handily
won the race to lead the Conservative
Party on Tuesday and will be Britain's
next prime minister within a day now
Johnson has been perceived as sort of
the Trump of Britain this is not the
case okay
he has pretty sterling intellectual
credentials as Boris Johnson he tends to
act like a buffoon for fun because it's
good for His image and he understands
that being straight-laced and uptight
when Theresa May that that is not
actually going to help you when it comes
to British politics so he's the sort of
cartoonish character who happens to be a
pretty solid night fighter when it comes
to British politics I spoke with Daniel
Hannan who is the the UK representative
to the European Parliament we did a
Sunday special a couple of weeks ago we
talked about Boris Johnson he said that
Boris is one of the smartest people he
knows according to the Washington Post
Johnson a bombastic Latin quoting Oxford
classicist that not quite Trumpy with a
mouth intentionally
yellow hair made his name as an
over-the-top journalist in Brussels and
then as London Mayor and galvanized the
successful brexit campaign in 2016 he
will walk through the black enamel doors
of 10 Downing Street on Wednesday
fulfilling what his biographers
described as his relentless blond
ambition to follow his hero Winston
Churchill into the top spot
Johnson captured about 92 thousand votes
inside the Conservative Party to Jeremy
Hunt the current form your secretary
foreign secretary who's at 47,000 a
dominant victory showing Tories who
wants a leader who promises above all
else to deliver brexit President Trump
of course was rooting for Johnson he
tweeted congratulations to Boris Johnson
on becoming the new prime minister of
the UK he will be great
iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad
Zarif also congratulated Johnson he
tweeted Iran does not seek confrontation
we have 1500 miles a person goes
Coughlin a Persian Gulf coastline these
are our waters and we'll protect them so
there's an ongoing standoff right now
between the Iranian government and the
government in London the handoff will be
very quick and then the question will be
exactly how Johnson gets brexit done
because brexit was voted for two years
ago the clock is ticking basically
according to current law by October 31st
if there is no deal on brexit then No
Deal brexit happens which means that
Britain just leaves the EU without any
negotiated deal with the EU the problem
for Theresa May is she didn't want any
of that to happen she wanted a deal with
the EU the EU holds a lot of leverage
over Britain in terms of trade they've
been threatening Britain not to leave
the EU they've been trying to overrule
the will of the people
which of course explains exactly why
Brits voted for brexit in the first
place they voted for brexit because they
said the EU is trying to control our
lives with their onerous regulations and
we don't trust the EU to handle things
like immigration we don't trust the EU
to handle things like trade agreements
as a bloc with other countries we've
created internal freedom to trade but
then you've got the EU that is actually
setting barriers to our trade with for
example the United States and we
shouldn't have that
and so we're voting to leave and the EU
says you say that we're too controlling
well if you leave we're gonna hurt you
the EU is pretty abusive obviously
toward member states that do not wish to
accede to all of their demands so Boris
Johnson has on the table
No Deal brexit which would go forward
October 31st he's vowed if there is no
deal by October 31st that is exactly
what will happen the markets dropped
slightly
on this news but basically this is
already all priced in would it be the
end of the world that No Deal brexit no
wouldn't because the fact is that the UK
is still an economic powerhouse with
regard to the EU and people inside the
EU are still gonna want British products
and vice-versa
so there will be agreements between the
UK and the EU the UK is not gonna be
frozen out by the EU one of the lies
that has been told by the media is that
the folks who are in favor of brexit are
in favor of high tariffs against the EU
of course that is untrue they're seeking
lower tariffs with the rest of the world
and Trump has already found that he will
negotiate quickly an agreement with the
UK separate from the EU so how does this
move forward we'll find out writing in
Monday's Telegraph Johnson said it's
time the country recovered some of its
candy spirit he said that if the
Americans could land men on the moon 50
years ago using hand-knit bits of
computer code then 21st century Britain
could imagine a way to provide for
frictionless trade across the Northern
Irish border which has been one of the
stumbling blocks of the brexit deal the
reason that's part of the stumbling
block is because the nation of Ireland
is divided the island of Ireland is
divided and part of the part of the
country it's actually two separate
countries technically speaking thanks to
the Irish peace deal part of the country
is still part of the UK powers
independent and the there are no
barriers in terms of crossing that
border that could change if brexit goes
forward because then you would need
barriers to monitor one country that is
part of the EU and one that is part of
the UK Tony Blair is telling the BBC
that these things are technically
different when it comes to how to how to
do all of this the Europeans top brexit
negotiator Michel Barney Ayer said that
his side looked forward to working
constructively with Johnson Barney er
said the EU was prepared for some
compromise ready to rework the
Declaration on future relations in all
likelihood whenever people kick a deal
down the road it worse does usually come
to worse I'm predicting that there will
be a no deal brexit and if that happens
then that happens and I don't think that
the fallout is gonna be nearly as bad as
folks think that the fallout is going to
be the Washington Post of course
predicting that Boris Johnson becoming
Prime Minister is then going to fall
apart on him as no deal brexit goes
forward
he's Shaun through er writing at The
Washington Post he says after his widely
anticipated
information in leadership vote by
members of the Conservative Party on
Tuesday
Johnson is expected to carry out the
ritual visiting of Buckingham Palace on
Washington on Wednesday before assuming
his role as Britain's newest prime
minister Johnson's rise to power has
long been telegraphed a scion of wealth
and privilege Johnson went to Eton and
Oxford before embarking on a
controversial career in journalism that
would catapult him into politics now
Johnson gets the chance to prove that
the manure in Britain smells different
he has vowed to push forward brexit
break free of the tyranny of the EU and
lead a liberated Britain to its former
global greatness his supporters are
willing to look beyond a cringe-worthy
record of gaffes sordid peccadilloes and
soft bigotry so they're already trying
to portray him as bigoted that's always
how this goes most analysts reckon he is
in for a rude awakening because if he
goes forward with brexit then that will
be deeply unpopular but again I think
that is unlikely and I think that the
British public is willing to grant him
at least a window of opportunity to do
all the things that he says that he is
going to do so Boris Johnson in the UK
congratulations on his accession to the
prime ministership and I think that a
lot of folks across the pond are rooting
for Boris Johnson to be successful in
negotiating a brexit deal and providing
for more independence from Brussels
already time for some things I like and
then some things that I hate so I
stumbled on this singer named yahwah and
she is just first-rate she really is
terrific so as you know when I recommend
music typically at his classical music
or old school jazz is very rare that I
recommend a modern artist there's an
artist her name is Lola she is from
Britain and she does this sort of
country rhythm and blues deal that is
really unique her voice is just terrific
and her personal story she issues a
victim in a bit of an abusive home she
her newest album is is something called
walk through fire and it's literally
based on her house catching on fire and
her catching on fire and she says that
she was laughing while her house was on
fire why because when she was on fire
she thought to herself okay to distract
from the pain I need to think of the
worst thing that's happened to me and
she thought of her abusive childhood and
she started to laugh because she
realized that literally being on fire
was not as bad your abusive childhood in
any case she is immensely talented
here's a little bit of one of her songs
[Music]
the thing to do she don't care about me
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
that's a girl
she'sshe's horrific I mean she really is
talented she has been on CBS this
morning I guess back in March she was
before this I mean it's really only this
year that she started to break out
before this she was a backup singer for
massive attack The Chemical Brothers and
Iggy Azalea so that is going wildly
unappreciated because she is just
tremendous so check out her album she's
really good okay time for some things I
hate and now we reach the other side of
the ledger so when we talk about
artistic failings I don't know if you
have been I don't know if you've been
what's the opposite of privileged damned
to see the the trailer for cats so cats
is one of the worst musicals of all time
I'm a musical theater aficionado I grew
up with the musical theater my father
wrote musicals in fact my father and I
are writing a musical together right now
cats is an abomination it's it awful it
is just a pastiche of cats singing to
you it's by Andrew Lloyd Webber who is a
talented guy or it fans him the Opera is
is a well crafted piece of musical
theater this cats is just it was always
garbage and the only people who are in
the audience for a very long time or
blue haired old lady who like cats now
they've decided that they're going to
make a movie of cats and this is some of
the creepiest bleep you will ever see in
your entire life I mean this is creepy I
couldn't even make it all the way
through the trailer because I was afraid
that I would have nightmares the rest of
my natural life
it is so frightening it is a bunch of
people who are dressed up as cats but
they're not dressed up kind of as cats
in the kind of furry way the beta work
would dress up as a cat no they're
dressed up as cats that are sort of
CGI'd a little bit as though humans were
merged with cats it falls directly into
the uncanny valley right the uncanny
valley is something they say an
animation where the closer you get to
portraying a human on screen the worse
it is because we because human beings
are programmed to be able to see what
looks human and what doesn't until it
just kind of creeps you out well this is
like Dex they're not captain or not
human it looks as though dr. murrow's
lab were real and it is creepy as all
hell here's a little bit of the trailer
if you subscribe then you too can share
my nightmares here's a little bit of one
of the worst trailers in the history of
humanity
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
so could I wait could I interest you in
a movie about humanoid cats singing to
you directed by the guy who did the
Danish girl could I interest you in a
movie by the director of limas about a
movie or Idris Elba one of the most
awesome actors on planet earth right now
plays a cat where Jason's reuleaux shows
up playing a cat can I interest you in
something like this now I don't know how
they got a cast this large except that I
hope this thing bombs I hope it bombs
terrifically let me read you the cast of
this movie because people are insane are
you crazy
they've got interest Elba playing
Macavity cat got Taylor Swift as BOM
ballerina rebel Wilson shows up Judi
Dench
shows up Ian McKellen shows up Jennifer
Hudson shows up James Corden shows up
Jason Derulo shows up Ray Winstone shows
up so like half of Hollywood shows up
before this thing and all I can think of
burna is burn it with fire burn it with
fire the best tweet on this I was
informed by one of my producers Mike is
is that the is that this trailer makes
you want to take an actual cat which no
one don't abuse animals folks enough
animal abuse took place in the making of
this film
they you don't need to this it was human
abuse it wasn't even cat abuse what a
horror show okay speaking of horror
shows over in Canada things have gotten
wild there is a case that has that has
made a lot of headlines at the BC Human
Rights Tribunal according to the
National Post ABC Human Rights tribunal
hearings evolved into repeated outbursts
and name-calling this week as it
considered a transgender woman's
complaint that a home base salon
discriminated against her by denying her
a Brazilian wax now so far you might
think well this
bad I mean here's a transgender woman
who presumably has had all the surgeries
and doesn't have the male genitalia and
and once just her surgically altered
female parts to be waxed wrong you are
this is a case about a person named
Jessica Yaniv a man who believes he is a
woman but still has very very female
penis and testicles Jessica you need the
complainant told the hearing she was
entitled to receive the advertised wax
service and that if the tribunal ruled
against her it could lead to a dangerous
precedent you cannot choose your
clientele is going to be she said that
she is coming courtesy of the National
Post this would be a he how do I know
it's a he because genetically it's a he
physically it's a he even non surgically
it's a he because buried in paragraph
six of this article is the actual news
business owner Marcia DaSilva said she
was not comfortable carrying out a
Brazilian wax on a person with male
genitalia nor did she have the training
for it so we went real quick from bake
the cake bigot to wax my balls bigot
Jake had no other way to put this guy's
Jay Cameron desilva's lawyer and
litigation manager with the Alberta
based justice center for constitutional
freedoms told the hearing that a ruling
against his client would be tantamount
to ordering intimate services against
someone's will of course this is true of
course this is true so we live in a
world where we are willing to
acknowledge that women are very often
threatened by males and women for too
long their experiences have been
overlooked at the hands of quote-unquote
toxic masculinity and some of that is
true for too long women have been
mistreated by males and there is a
reason why women might be afraid of a
random male coming to their house where
they perform a service on their intimate
areas and it might be a reason for that
but I guess the BC Court now has to rule
on whether a women does not have a right
to be nervous about any of this she has
to serve this person because this person
says they are woman so in other words
you should be more afraid of a man who
says straight-out I want you to wax my
testicles and then a man who says he is
a woman who says that he wants to have
his testicles wax by you so somehow it
is it is more dangerous for a person who
does not believe they are a member of
the opposite sex and suffer from suffer
from the mental disorder known as gender
identity disorder it is
we're dangerous to serve a male who does
not suffer from that disorder than to
serve a male who suffers from that
disorder and still has all of his parts
and is demanding that you service him in
your home by waxing his genitals that's
what this case is all about
so Jessica Yaniv was asked about all of
this in an interview and it didn't go
all that great for Jessica you Nev but
it doesn't have to because the social
justice warriors will always come out in
defense of the stupidest possible
solution you do what you want to do
Jessica and you live your life whatever
way you want to live your life but the
concern we have is those women also be
allowed to live their lives the way they
want to live their lives but not but not
when they discriminate against the
rights of others they'll argue that
they're not discriminating that you're
saying I'm sorry we don't supply a
service of a bikini wax or a Brazilian
or whatever it happens to be or the
removal of hair from a genitalia from a
man as far as they're concerned because
it's male genitalia and that's what
they're saying they're saying we
shouldn't be forced to do that well we
lost his line there hello
either we'll try and get it back a
segment seems lost alight have we lost
her line okay okay there's 10 seconds of
silence because this person hung up
because of course by any objective
measure I know we have moved from the
objective to the subjective I know that
we are now all supposed to we are now
all supposed to comply with the
subjective demands of people so in the
real world when we interact with one
another we have to use objective
measurements of what things are so to
take an example before me sits a
computer if I thought that this computer
were an elephant that'd be because I'm
wrong and the way you can tell I'm wrong
is because you can look at the computer
yourself and you can tell that this
right here would be a computer right
well I'm fairly certain that if a woman
looks at a set of twig and berries and
says you know what that is right there
that would be a penis and testicles and
the other person says no no no I say I
feel that these are female genitalia
these are a female penis and testicles
that would be just as wrong as me saying
right here that this is an elephant this
is not an elephant this is a computer
and a penis and testicles that would be
male appendages and you are a male
Jessica you need is a male and if you
Jessica and Eve went to the doctor for
services the doctor would treat that
they would do a prostate exam for
example they would not do
exam for the uterus and if they did they
would be a they'll be wasting time
and they would be wasting money but we
now live in a world where doctors are
expected to do a uterine exam on a
biological male I told you about a story
in nature where they suggested that
there was a real problem with doctors
classifying people by their biological
sex you know doctors are taught biology
you know we are all taught here in the
real world objective reality we are
taught in the real world that there are
objective indicators you don't have to
you know it's not a giant mystery all of
this isn't a giant mystery you don't
have to sit around wondering whether a
person is a male or a female generally
you can look at them there are a few
outlying cases where people are so
androgynous looking that you don't know
there are a few outlying cases where
people have had surgeries to appear as a
member of the opposite sex and when it
comes to some of those cases when we
talk about for example bathrooms then
it's less of a problem if a person who
looks like a female goes into a female
bathroom it's a lot more of a problem
because women in that bathroom will not
think to to be frightened or upset about
all of that if a male walks into a
female bathroom and females get upset I
think they have every right to do so why
cuz they're using their eyes and they're
using their head we're supposed to
disable our prefrontal cortex in all of
us well one person who is unwilling to
disable her prefrontal cortex was
Lindsey Shepherd so Lindsey Shepherd is
an activist in Canada she's a
free-speech activist graduate of Wilfrid
Laurier University and she was
permanently banned from Twitter earlier
this week why she a woman got into an
exchange with a man Jessica uni in which
the activists mocked Shepherd from
supper suffering from a uterine
condition known as septate uterus in in
a tweet she replied to this person at
least I have a uterus you ugly fat man
harsh harsh fact-check okay but not
something that is kind but is that ban
able because you called a man a man
the suspension came after a jousting
match with the notorious trans woman
named jy who's been accused of predatory
behavior toward children and making
frivolous human rights complaints the
post-millennial reached out to Shepard
who said I got suspended for two tweets
although they didn't tell me exactly
which tweets were the problem so I'm
giving my best guess she said she was
concerned about her inability to respond
to mistruths now that she is banned from
the platform well she deleted that tweet
right so
very often on Twitter people are
suspended they delete the tweets and
then they're allowed back in not Twitter
not Shepard they decided to ban her
outright Shepard first came to
international prominence in late 2017
when she released a recording of being
interrogated by staff at Wilfrid Laurier
University following a class in which
she presented a Jordan Peterson clip in
contrast with a pro transgender video as
part of a class exercise for this she
was threatened without with having
violated Canadian human rights law for
having presented the video of professor
Peterson Jordan I'm friends with him
this is ridiculous the staff compared
Jordan Peterson to being as bad as
Hitler or Milo gianopolous so a couple
of things there on the gradation of
Hitler - Jordan Peterson it doesn't go
like within this tiny circumscribed
circle here it is Hitler Milo
Jordan Peterson that's not how this
works i I don't like my well I think
Milo stinks I think Matt was a bad
person but Milo is also not Hitler it
turns out Hitler is Hitler and comparing
people to Hitler then go that well but
Lindsey Shepard ended up filing a 3.6
million dollar defamation lawsuit Laura
a lawsuit against Wolford lawyer and
then professor Peterson filed a
subsequent defamation lawsuit Shepard is
not a controversial voice in a free
speech debate
she's a left-leaning centrist who
supports a vegetarianism but she's been
banned from Twitter here's Lindsey
Shepard talking about her ban from
Twitter for the great crime of
suggesting that a male is a male I was
banned from Twitter for responding to a
couple of tweets that an individual that
I will only refer to as jy made about me
jy on Twitter starts tweeting about how
I'm dumb and how I have a loose vagina
from pushing out a 10-pound baby so I
tweeted back and basically said if you
want to sound like a woman this is not
really the way to do it because this is
more of a male way of speaking
then jy starts mocking how I have a
reproductive abnormality called a
septate uterus and then I reply and I
say at least I have a uterus you ugly
fat man okay so myth by the way J way
not suspended for any of this for any of
this so this is in exchange for people
were being mean to each other and
Lindsay Shepard was responding to a
person who is criticizing her uterus and
her vagina and she was suspended from
Twitter because this is the world we now
occupy in which if you are a member of a
protected class you can be offensive and
terrible as you want to be and everyone
is supposed to respect that whereas if
you are not then if you respond in kind
in any way then you will be thrown out
of polite society or considered cruel
and mean and terrible wax my balls you
baguette right that's the this is this
is where we are and now this is being
encoded in law in places like Berkeley
how stupid is Berkeley so Berkeley has a
few problems one a massive homeless
problem poop on the streets effect in
antiva runs half the city I mean there's
some serious problems in Berkeley
California when I visited Berkeley a
couple of years ago it required six
hundred police officers in the staties
in order so that I could give a speech
there I mean they got some problems over
in Berkeley but Berkeley is taking on
the issues that matter according to the
Associated Press Berkeley California has
adopted an ordinance to replace some
terms with gender-neutral words in the
city codes the San Francisco Chronicle
reports that she and he will be replaced
by they which is going to make things
very awkward when it comes to for
example I don't know separate funding of
sports for example title mine
specifically says that you have to have
female sports and male sports I guess
now you will just have a sports which
means no female will ever compete in a
sport again if you have the government
sponsored sporting leagues for example
the words manpower and manhole will
become work force and maintenance hole
maintenance hole by the way sounds awful
there's got to tell you you're not
helping yourself maybe it should be
percentage hole the City Council on that
Susan what is the what in the world the
City Council on Tuesday unanimously
passed the measures to replace more than
two dozen commonly used terms there will
be no more craftsmen in city code only
craftspeople or artisans Berkeley says
the AP has a long history of leading on
politically and socially liberal issues
you might say that they have a long
history of being idiots the sponsor of
the ordinance is councilman Rygel
Robinson a 23 year old recent grad of
Berkeley of course he says his time in
college expanded his awareness of gender
issues super duper important glad that
you're cleaning up the trash and making
sure crime doesn't take place but
everything is called now a maintenance
hole that is
that is entertaining stuff also also it
is important to note here that this
whole routine where folks are being
silenced in their views that men are men
and women are women has carried over
into the field of science it is so
wildly controversial to publish anything
that talks about scientific rigor an
examination of gender dysphoria or
gender identity disorder that scientists
are just not doing it anymore we talked
about the case last year I mean there is
a danger to political correctness
shutting down science one danger is that
it kills science another danger is we
don't actually know the consequences of
what in the world we are doing the
politically correct declared that
something is healthy thus it becomes
healthy and if you study it then you're
a bigot we had this last year with Brown
University where a professor wrote a
paper on what was called rapid onset
gender dysphoria the fact that it was
becoming trendy to become transgender in
high school and there was data to back
it up and brown basically pulled back
the paper temporarily and apologized for
running an abstract now there's a report
from BBC Newsnight
called transgender treatment puberty
blockers study under investigation
England's only NHS National Health
Service youth gender clinic lowered the
age at which it offered children puberty
blockers partly based on a study now
being investing it in other words a
study came out it was a bad study it
suggested that puberty blockers didn't
do anything bad to kids it turns out it
does do bad stuff to kids but everyone
went along with the myth because it was
more important to go along with the myth
than to tell the truth and protected
children which would be evil right if
you have a study that is flawed and you
push it out there because you have an
agenda that is broader than that then
that would be and it affects children
pretty sure this is almost the essence
of evil the study's full findings have
not been published early data showed
some taking the drugs reported an
increase in thoughts of suicide and
self-harm I can't imagine why that would
be that if you take a child who has not
hormonal II developed and you start
giving them puberty blockers to prevent
them from growing in the way that they
normally would grow naturally that this
might harm their cell their mental
awareness them in their mental health I
can't imagine that's the case absolutely
ridiculous in the United States you
can't get an antibiotic prescription at
school without parental permission but
you can get an abortion in many cases
without parental permission in Britain
now they're saying we should be able to
shoot you up with hormones that prevent
you from growing and if you're a girl
will prevent your breasts from growing
if you're a boy will prevent you
from maturing and body hair growing and
your testicles dropping we can give you
all of that and don't worry it'll be
fine don't worry it'll be totally fine
well as it turns out it's not totally
fine children as young as 11 are now
being offered these hormone blocking
drugs the clinic said data was from a
small sample and so no meaningful
conclusion could be drawn from it of
course of course experts on clinical
trials have criticised the design of the
study which they say makes it hard to
tell if the reported effects were due to
puberty blockers or something else but
experts said they warranted further
investigation yes I'm sure that
additional depression has more to do
with this is the the all-purpose blame
machine it has to do with societal
intolerance I'm sure more than it has to
do with physically taking hormones and
shooting them into children I'm sure the
Health Research authorial and
transparence is now investigating claims
brought to them by BBC's Newsnight
programme about the early findings from
the study and the information that is
understood to have been shared with
patients and parents about the possible
effects of puberty blocking drugs so in
other words the BBC is now trying to
stop people from disseminating study
information that might dissuade them
from hormone treating their kids when a
child in the UK is questioning their
gender they can be referred to the
gender identity development service at
Tavistock in Portman NHS Foundation
Trust in London and Leeds one treatment
on offer is puberty blockers they work
on the brain to stop the eventual
release of estrogen or testosterone I'm
sure that's the only effect on the brain
guys I'm sure it's fine before 2011 kids
would give puberty blockers to children
only once they'd turn 16 but now they
are now doing this for kids who are 11
acknowledging the weak evidence for the
drugs
the research team made up of kids and
University College Hospital staff set
out to evaluate the psychological social
and physical effects of the blockers on
a carefully suggested group of young
people details about the risks such as
potential adverse effects on bone
strength the development of sexual
organs body shape or final adult height
were provided in a peri a patient's
information seat sheet but Newsnight
found certain information was not
included previous research research had
suggested all young people who took the
blockers went on to take cross-sex
hormones the next age toward fully
transitioning but patients and parents
were not told this in the information
sheet Michael Biggs associate professor
of sociology at Oxford said I don't see
that the parents and their children
really have given informed consent given
the lack of information that was
provided professor Biggs who's attracted
criticism from some in the transgender
community said they were not given the
information they needed in order to take
this momentous life-changing step and
this is the way this is going to work
from here on out is that you are you're
going to end up with science being
silenced in the name of subjectivism
you're going to end up with people's
rights being violated in the name of the
supposed rights of people to have other
services directed at them in the name of
their subjective self-identification if
we don't even share language anymore if
we don't even share a common definitions
of male and female anymore still none of
this makes any sense I'm just gonna
point out that folks who aren't who are
pushing the idea that a woman must be
forced to wax the genitalia of a man and
these people still have not provided any
definition by which Jessica lien Eve is
an actual woman not one self
identification is not identification as
a woman because you still have not to
find woman my colleague Matt Walsh makes
this point all the time
if you can't find woman how do identify
as one because a woman is not a
biological woman and a woman is not a
set of stereotypes so what exactly is
woman a woman isn't a social role
fulfilled by a woman because these same
advocates will say the gender is a
social construct so how are you
identifying his woman you're identifying
as what a set of stereotypes or as a
biological woman if it's a set of
stereotypes why can't you be a male and
fulfill those set of stereotypes and if
it's biological you're not it all of
this suffers from lack of definitional
awareness again there's a problem that
is being labeled which is that anyone
who disagrees is a bigot
there's no solutions being provided and
the world gets worse alrighty we'll be
back here later today with two
additional hours otherwise we'll see you
here tomorrow I'm Ben Shapiro this is
the Ben Shapiro show
the Ben Shapiro show is produced by
Robert Sterling directed by Mike joiner
executive producer Jeremy boring senior
producer Jonathan hey our supervising
producer is Mathis Glover and our
technical producer is Austin Stevens
edited by Adam Savitz audio is mixed by
Mike Cora Mena hair and makeup is by
Jesuit alvera production assistant Nick
Sheehan the Ben Shapiro show is a daily
wire production copyright daily wire 20
19
if you want to delve the depths of
leftist madness head on over to the
Michael Noel's show where we examine
what's really going on beneath the
surface of our politics and bask in the
simple joys of being right
