hey everyone we just got back from
probably our most efficient trip as a
show upstate to Ithaca New York usually
when we go on tour tensions run high
we're all irritated by something we all
miss the creature comforts of home but
something just clicked this time there
was something we all felt wash over us
among the gorges of upstate New York a
shared emotion or an aura I'm talking
about good vibes past Wars we've had a
surfeit of bad vibes not this time this
time our vibes were perfectly aligned
when you're walking downhill to am drunk
at high past unfamiliar houses in an
unfamiliar town that's good vibes when
you're walking beside a rushing stream
at the bottom of a gorge just hugging
bottle caps and spent jewel pods into
the water
that's good vibes and it made me realize
that we've carried on neglecting our
vibes for far too long we talk about
some aspects of political praxis on the
show listening to podcasts posting about
comic book movies you know doing
politics but there's an entire political
dimension that we've yet to address now
I'm a supporter of Bernie Sanders I want
him to win the nomination in the White
House that course of events aligns with
my political goals but I recognize there
is a vital debate going on for the
future of not just the Democratic Party
but of the emerging left majority
against austerity I can see liberalism
against the ravages of the climate
crisis there's been much discussion
lately about the likes of Sanders and
war and expanding the Overton Window
where socialized medicine that
forgiveness a green New Deal ice
abolition and so on become mainstream
positions and we're not for the spoiler
Factor of the dozen plus other
candidates in the race I could see how a
good faith debate between these two
politicians would be salutary for the
left and in that spirit I think it's
time for the Overton Window to expand
even further I think it's time to lift
the curtains of that window and peer
through it to pierce the veil of reality
and observe the realm beyond full of
shimmering orbs Matt imagine imagine if
you will the classic two-dimensional
political alignment chart the axes our
economy is social
shoes now matching a imagine adding a
third axis expanding it into a
three-dimensional political cube now
imagine adding a fourth axis turning
into what scientists call a time cube
there is one candidate who will
accomplish this if you listen to last
week's premium episode you heard our
introduction to Democratic presidential
candidate Marianne Williamson
she's a spiritual guru a fellow
best-selling author a fellow friend of
Oprah and she is the first true meta
physician to be a major Party
presidential candidate as Nate Silver
has recently declared like Sanders
Williamson is following a truly
revolutionary path in politics most
politicians will talk about the
Department of Energy but not our organ
energy they talk about our political
linemen but not our chakra alignments
they talk about Third Way politics but
not third-eye politics Williamson is
different her discourse is the perfect
antidote to neoliberal HR speak and
centrist obfuscation her her positions
include lifting the vibrational
frequency of the universe creating a
unified field of energy on invisible
planes dispersing the thought forms of
insanity that are tearing us apart and
enjoying good vibes with your friends as
we all know God is then as people of my
generation approach middle-age the late
30s we are increasingly concerned with
existential questions Who am I can I
trust my senses our dreams real without
religion we suffer from a deficiency of
mysticism the sort that has existed in
every society certainly we must focus on
material forces but we cannot deny this
primal need this pull current political
factor for most of us we filled this
void with politics anyway Trump
supporters have the Trump prophecy
everyone else is just eating the lotus
flowers of online perhaps your faith
lies in the book of Robert Muller
perhaps you think your salvation will
come from posting Twitter threads that
are like um okay buckle the [ __ ] up
y'all because today we're talking about
how the lego movie is just [ __ ] gross
the survivors of imposter sin
if we are to find a way out of the
subsuming of politics by spectacle to
return to a politics of materialism who
better lead us there than a spiritualist
with aggressive social democratic views
conversant in the language of political
mysticism now Williamson isn't perfect
her position on BDS is terrible and I'm
not sold on her stance on the mind-body
problem but good anti-capitalist make
similar criticisms of Sanders AOC like
them Williamson expands the political
time queue paving the way for more
sophisticated transcendental politics
did you know in 2016
Williamson endorsed Bernie Sanders
here's a quote from her open letter to
Hillary Clinton I want a woman president
really I do a lot of us do and yes
you're so qualified and yes we've known
you forever and yes you know what to do
from day one we all get that but none of
that is good enough to get my vote or
the vote of a lot of people I know we
only want to vote for you if you run
like hell away from that corporate box
you've landed in I'm telling you Hillary
the American people have become hip to
what's happening we know now that Wall
Street runs the country and we don't
like it and for many of us we don't want
to vote for you if Wall Street runs you
too now you might be worrying what if
she takes votes from Bernie that's a
serious concern here's the thing
Bernie's target demographics and Mary
Ann's are very different Bernie is
pursuing young voters working-class
voters african-american Latino voters
Mary Ann appeals to a different demo
entirely one that we categorized in our
best-selling book I'm talking about the
wine mom you might have someone in your
life a wine mom in osteons who nominally
nominally agrees with Medicare for all
with breaking up the banks with a
guaranteed jobs program but [ __ ]
hates Bernie Sanders who's going to
reach that person it's not gonna be you
she's already reported you to the FBI
for being alright because you said that
Chelsea Clinton's never had a real job
you know who can Oprah's spiritual
advisor
imagine Mary Ann sitting down with your
wine mom knees two knees her face full
of page
confidence asking her how can you hate
Bernie Sanders when you and he are
connected by a vibrating strand of
energy like an umbilical cord imagine if
you will a political movement that could
make Matt Crispin finally relax with
divine energy before last week's premium
episode marianne williamson needed over
10,000 unique donors to qualify for the
first primary debate as of now she needs
fewer than eight thousand there's a hell
of a lot more than eight thousand people
listening to this show so if you can I
hope you will join me in donating just
one dollar to marianne williamson to get
her in that debate i know you love to
give feedback you can even write in the
comments of that donation from a Chapo
Trap House listener
I want the orbs show me the orbs Sanders
Williamson 2020 you know me
[Music]
