[Music]
oh okay chapo let's go we're back
it's your chapo for you can run from one
day tomorrow and you're probably
listening to this oh let's just dive
right into it obviously we're here now
and probably like the thing the big
thing this week that we have to talk
about we're hopefully gonna spend most
of the show talking about is the tetanus
tax bill that's winding its way through
the halls of government headed to the
President's desk and is surely gonna
basically I don't know just perform the
final coup de Gras whatever's left of I
don't know mercy or America or civil
society I wish I had something funny to
say or or something more uplifting but
like this is just this is all bad and
the thing that I said earlier this week
when it looked like it was going to pass
is it's just to me like just a hallmark
of just like a defeated culture in
society they're like we just seem like
pretty much worn out by this and like
the class war is over and I feel like
the bad guys won and this tax bill is
the culmination of probably 30 to 40
years of the right wing movement in this
country to steadily chip away at the
welfare state and just transfer more and
more of society's wealth as if you were
in fewer hands and they've pretty much
done it yeah I mean like look this thing
was always gonna pass it was always
gonna pass because you know the you know
five respected resistance Republicans
they suck out of the same teat as you
know senator [ __ ] you so many Sam
from Texas so those donors told them
they had to pass this because what is
even the point of a Republican President
or Congress if you can't pass this piece
of [ __ ] it's their last-ditch effort and
wealth transfer it's their last-ditch
effort in beating down people so much
they can't even stand up people said
like oh you know what right rightfully
so they said the Democrats could have
done more they could have always done
more but the thing is the only person
that could have stopped this [ __ ]
thing is if
stevan paddock had a season-ticket pass
to the congressional softball league I'm
serious that's the only way because no
Matt no Matt no level of Congeniality or
phone calls or anything means as much to
Susan Collins as donor money nothing
means as much as a post retirement
speaking gig or [ __ ] no work book or
whatever the [ __ ] Jeff Flake is gonna do
it does to him yeah and that's so
sobering to see because the thought
always was the conventional wisdom was
well yeah you know they want to work for
their donors obviously because they need
to be able to fund their campaigns but
at the same time there are certain
things they can't do at the risk of
inciting popular opposition that would
overcome even a well-funded campaign but
these dudes just [ __ ] took a fire
hose piss on the third rail of politics
here cutting Medicare Medicaid going
going whole hog just saying yes we're
transferring wealth from poor the
poorest people in the [ __ ] country to
the richest people on earth and in the
history of ours that we're gonna give
them even more than they've ever had and
you would think well wouldn't they be
afraid of the reaction of that but
clearly they have made the calculation
that having their donors at their back
and and giving them money it's more
important to securing and maintaining
power than actual voters because they've
clearly done the work and are continuing
to do the work of gerrymandering and
voter suppression and d'amore just
demoralizing people that that the
competitive elections are sort of going
away and as such the only thing that's
gonna matter is whether you have the
money to sort of outgun whatever Yahoo
honda dealer with a [ __ ] confederate
flag tattoo on his forehead who runs
against you in the primary because
that's the only thing you have to worry
about I mean we'll see I feel like when
Trump was coming in I kind of looked at
the world around me during 2016 and I
yeah I take a very unscientific method
and I look at you know how much money
BuzzFeed is spending on this or how much
how much money Netflix is going in debt
and you look around and you see this
bubble of fake cheap credit rolling
around
same thing that we saw from 2003 to 2008
and you know that's the kind of economy
we had we had a jobless recovery for the
2008 recession and we we solved the
bleeding by just shooting a 30 wrote nut
of fake money on everything where
there's nothing actually created value
is just declared and things are willed
into existence by ten figures of debt
that mean nothing to private enterprise
and it's totally unsustainable and I
thought that maybe one of the silver
linings with Trump was that the crash
was always going to come and if it came
under Hillary we would get like a wave
of competent horrible blood and soil
fascists very quickly two years and but
now with the taxable I feel like they've
sort of took an EpiPen or a testosterone
or an adrenaline shot and just jammed it
into this zombie economy so we'll see
maybe the crash comes a year later than
it does maybe it comes in 2020 I don't
know what happens when that does but you
know well we're on borrowed they've
structured the the tax hikes for you
know people making under like 100th
grand a year or whatever are gonna kick
in in two or three years so if the
Democrats do get in the way so I was
2020 all the Trump had supporters like
raise my taxes yeah soon as they got in
there they just raised my taxes where I
always do and it's like these other like
and then the people who love this and
they're like up to like if you like
given the government some money so much
why don't you just give them more than
what you pay in taxes or whatever like
I've more money in my pocket they're
talking about like four hundred dollars
right anything like like four hundred
dollars on one side weighed against like
the entire infrastructure of like
American civil society that's just being
looted and just trashed also what the
[ __ ] you think the government is gonna
spend that on they'll instantly buy a
new punish or D call for a helicopter
they're not gonna give $400 to the
poorest person you [ __ ] [ __ ] and
here's here's the thing like I the the
you know I'm gonna use it to airbrush
Rex Tillerson [ __ ] [ __ ] that lives
in his neck they're gonna get Jared a
new high chair it's not going to
anything that's actually good with these
[ __ ] in charge
was Obama they would have it would have
been like a new gift machine for the
White House way no matter a lot of
people have asked jeez this is crazy how
no there's never really been any
meaningful congressional action on
climate change even though the evidence
for its yes is serious impending threat
is pretty clear and I got to think that
this bill is really the biggest piece of
climate change legislation we're gonna
see in that this is the way for the
wealthiest among us to get enough
[ __ ] money that they can create the
private infrastructures to survive
whatever catastrophes coming the [ __ ]
biodomes with lazer dogs guarding the
doorways and [ __ ] moon bases for
we're [ __ ] Elon Musk can like jack
off into outer space and watch the nut
get into a gravitational [ __ ] field
around the moon or whatever and that's
what the money is gonna go towards it's
gonna go to their nice private armies
and [ __ ] helicopters because they're
not gonna be roads anymore it's gonna be
like [ __ ] Rio de Janeiro that's and
they need as much money as they can
before it all the [ __ ] wheels come
off and this is where how they can get
it but the newspaper that Jeff Bezos
will publish inside Elysium it's gonna
be really good they're doing some scoops
on the Baron Trump administration
Chrissie dies within the Earth's
atmosphere on musk and Rick and Morty
are gonna shoot brainwaves at each other
it's gonna be [ __ ] epic well here's
the thing like you know it's it's not
like it's caught it's like this is a tax
bill but it's so much more than that
like this is the like I said as I said
like a 30 to 40 year culmination of what
the right-wing and and the their their
donors and the billionaires in this
country like the the cokes or the
Mercer's or whatever I've been working
for which is a fundamentally like
restructuring of American society that
just leaves the vast majority of people
just almost completely naked and
vulnerable and and like I said this is
why it feels like we're living in like a
like we lost a war or something that
like this is just like well we did yeah
and they did it in like two weeks which
is frankly impressive that's impressive
haensi but they got Mike Flynn for
making a phone call too early we
well dumbest man in America is gonna be
mildly inconvenience for three months we
did it I mean the example that someone
brought up that I think is a good one is
what like this is now like the country
writ large what sam brownback did to
Kansas when he became governor a couple
years ago well you know Arthur Laffer
advised him on how to like you know this
is the old trickle-down like just tax
cuts will create revenue and pay for
themselves and what he did was just blow
a [ __ ] hole in the state budget and
it was a disaster and their thing Rana
is doing in Illinois yeah they're gonna
and now they're blowing a hole through
our entire country's budget and like but
the thing is like that's it's intended
to do that yeah and it's intended to do
that because like as matt said right
after they're gonna pass this tax bill
next on the chopping block Social
Security and Medicaid they're gonna
privatize both of those are gonna cut
them to the bone why cuz there's no
money we don't have any money we just
put a trillion dollars and money just a
literal transfer a trillion dollars to
the wealthiest people in this country
and there's all of a sudden where'd the
money go we can't do anything oh my god
there's also many many provisions in
this tax bill that are directly attack
education both public and higher I mean
this isn't there's the Orrin Hatch Orrin
Hatch put in a tax credit for if you
send your kid to a religious school so
if you're looking to start a new Taliban
don't worry the government is looking
out for you now
I believe exactly but I believe like
this bill it cut deductions for like all
higher education except for Hillsdale
College in Michigan which is like that
got to school that literally lets Kevin
D Williamson be an honorary professor
well they're the only one that invited
him in colleges should be exact got
taken out but it was so funny it's like
okay I'm the equivalent of that is in
Hyde Park the neighborhood I grew up in
and Barack Obama studied Sufism and
there is a hotel food store called bonne
santé and it's a terrific store and it
has all types of great juices and amino
acids and there's like a painting of
Jesus Christ within a half row with the
background as the Milky Way and it uses
the cosmos 'us
a that this theme in this bill was just
like we're raising the marginal tax rate
on all income above half a million
dollars to seventy five percent and
we're giving tax credit to bonne santé
on 53rd Street in Hyde Park
that's how brazen it is but they don't
give a [ __ ] and what's great is you know
let's say Kamala Harris does win or
[ __ ] kirsten gillibrand or hey you
know Al Franken John Conyers super
ticket wins in 2020 they will
immediately work with these [ __ ] on
fixing the budget deficit because they
will take them at their word about being
deficit hawks again like a grand bargain
what was so amazing is that I honestly
don't think that the Republicans even
understood how much things have changed
in terms of accountability being totally
destroyed but by the fracturing of the
electorate by people tuning out or
becoming hyper partisan and not caring
about details because remember at the
beginning of the year it was Paul Ryan
who convinced Trump we got to repeal
Obamacare before we do the tax cut
because we're gonna need to have a
justification for get by we're gonna be
able to say that we're paying for the
tax cut with the savings from getting
rid of Obamacare that was his argument
and then they tried it and they couldn't
they couldn't get it to go and then
there they were just like oh we could
just do it anyway and no one actually
gives a [ __ ] about the trillion dollars
that we're adding to the debt holy [ __ ]
like he they didn't even [ __ ] realize
how far things had gone and now they do
they're [ __ ] kick him through the
door and they're realizing the wood is
completely rot I mean like yeah look the
other thing that bears you know
underlining about all of this it's like
I feel like right after the election
like when we recorded our right you know
right after the election year zero show
it was like in the pit of my stomach
like you knew this was coming because
like whether if the right has power in
this country this is what they're gonna
do because they understand power and
power is about maintaining power and
taking away the power of your enemies
the Democrats do not do that when
they're in charge and I think it bears
contrasting what the Republicans are
doing with their House and Senate and
white house versus what the Democrats
did in 2008 and 2009
these [ __ ] [ __ ] had a provision in
Obamacare that people could sign up to
vote when they went to changes and they
[ __ ] took it out because they're
afraid it would look too [ __ ]
partisan
he met with the [ __ ] head of all the
big five banks and What did he say was
something like you know I'm not I'm not
looking to uh take away your free lunch
I'm not looking to take away this dog
gyro it's I mean amazing but it's like
it's not that they're naive it's that
they don't give it you know they don't
want the things that they say they want
they don't want the things that their
voters want and their job is basically
managing the expectations of people who
they have no interest in actually seeing
having their lives made better and that
was what the Obama years proved yes they
do have a congenital sorkin ass fetish
for comedy and and procedure and that is
built into the liberal worldview in a
way that it isn't to conservatives and
that does stop them because they are do
genuinely believe this they've
internalize a lot of that ideology but
part of the reason they've internalized
it is because that is part of the
mechanism that keeps them from ever
actually [ __ ] accomplishing it's
reconcilable with actual actual ideology
that you believe in to the extent that
you're going to do whatever it takes to
pass legislation that fulfills that no
talking about like when people want to
talk about the the limited successes of
the first two years of the Obama
presidency people will say well hey they
had 60 votes but you know two of those
were guys like Max Baucus or Lieberman
they were basically they were being held
hostage by these conservative Democrats
but that's because they had they had
they all agreed that they were gonna go
by the rules where they were gonna need
60 for everything but if you have 51
people in the Senate and this is never
talked about and certainly never talked
about when Democrats in power if you
have 51 people in the Senate you can
basically do anything you want Reid did
that at one point in McConnell famously
did it in order to get gore suck on the
supreme court right yeah but they but
about they won't with Georgia's they'll
do it not with legislation yeah though
they won't do it with legislation even
though they could yeah they could have
passed with 51 votes they had the votes
for a public option they had the votes
for card check which would have doubled
union membership in the private sector
in the country and they had the votes
for the dream you think they do you
think mm
and would have happened how it did you
think that 2016 would have happened if
card check went through no but they you
know what they don't want to hold on the
house really but who I really want that
oh god no the responsibility of actually
holding power is so [ __ ] bad because
it threatens all of the members of
leadership because then the expectations
are made that they can't they have no
interest in actually [ __ ] following
through on and that is that's a tension
that has to be resolved some way and the
best way is to lose one of the houses
and who we don't have to worry about it
anymore but you know what I'd have to
say though yes if they'd done that if
they'd Rand everything through they
would have been called crazy radicals
who didn't care about democracy and
rammed things through in an undemocratic
fashion and as we know because they were
so careful with the Obamacare stuff they
didn't get called that by Republicans
for eight years really gained a lot of
goodwill and good faith from their
opponents by being that responsible the
party elected a guy who got into
politics by saying that he was born in
Kenya they don't give a [ __ ]
they don't these [ __ ] [ __ ]
even after they passed the test this
insane bill a bill on par with like the
two mayor government any authoritarian
fo democratic government this is sane
wealth transfer to beat down everyone
they were like yeah but Obamacare was
passed kind of late at night they don't
give a [ __ ] yeah because they know what
even the [ __ ] National Review [ __ ]
they know what politics is about well I
think I just want to read hear from a
leader of the Senate Democrats Chuck
Schumer he's his reply to this is the
most anti-semitic president world are
generally speaking yet when he goes up
there and he's like IGI the biggest
tragedy of this bill is that I no longer
friends with Donald Trump it's like just
reading here from Chuck Schumer this
this is what he said about about the tax
bill he says he tweeted tonight I feel
mostly regret at what could have been
tax RockYou tax reform is an issue that
is ripe for bipartisan compromise there
is a sincere desire on this side of the
aisle to work with the GOP particularly
on tax reform but we have been rebuffed
time and time
and well he's right about that because
this is their door class what's this
[ __ ] pill - yep their donors want
less taxes on their ill-gotten gain as
much as Republican donors do so there is
bipartisan support for it it's just they
want to they want to couch it and make
it make it more middle-class friendly
but at the end it they both have a
vested interest in is seeing a massive
wealth transfer to the to the
percentages but the Republicans have the
numbers and I'm like why bother with
these [ __ ] when we can just get
everything and then get all the [ __ ]
donor money because we can actually get
things done
okay also in the Democrats response to
the tax bill and this is not kidding the
Senate Democrats social media arm their
social oh yeah I know
put out themes and videos of Ronald
Reagan passing tax reform to
bipartisanship and it's like
partisanship is why the Republicans
control all three branches ago there is
no more bipartisanship they're going to
elect a [ __ ] pedophile you dumbass no
no will what what were the memes I mean
it was just like Ronald Reagan here
comes that boy and he's spilling arms
all over all over a bunch of Nicaraguan
Contras forget the fact that Reagan's
fat tax cuts that they're lauding
because they were bipartisan set the
stage for 30 years of wealth
redistribution upward and [ __ ] de
stagnation of wages for actual working
people that's where it all started baby
[ __ ] chart that was the first starving
of the beast that's where the Kansas
blueprint came from you [ __ ] [ __ ]
where do you think Arthur Laffer made
his bones
one more thing uh House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi queen described the tax
plan with a crying emoji face to appeal
you were born in the middle of World War
one shut the [ __ ] up
you were friends with the Lindbergh baby
so tell us how this tax bill makes you
feel 3 of oh jeez or less
I had the Carl bear had a blog post I
thought was very important where he
pointed out that this whole incident
proves conclusively that incremental the
case for incremental reform that we keep
hearing over and over again from
establishment Democrats is completely
bogus and meaningless because the virtue
of incremental reform that we're told
over and over again is well yeah it's
not flashy and it's not what you want
but you make things slowly better for
everybody as opposed to if you're too
radical then you don't get anything
accomplished but look what happened
everything that all those little slow
[ __ ] incremental things that they did
in those first two years of Obama
Obamacare which by the way repeal of the
Obamacare magnet is in this bill yes and
and slightly higher taxes on on higher
earners and all that stuff that stuff is
all gone now
it's gone it might as well have never
happened if they had shot for the moon
in 2009 and not gotten anywhere we would
be in the same position but you know it
might be different people might have
seen them standing up for big bold
progressive changes and maybe the Ray
Bolger isn't President it said that you
know Republicans were losing 2018 and
when Democrats take the White House
don't worry they're gonna repeal this
bill but you know how people say once
you once you make an entitlement it's
it's pretty damn near impossible to get
rid of that entitlement the same goes
for tax cuts in 2012 Obama and the
Democratic Senate they made permanent
most of the Bush tax cuts same and the
same we're gonna get into this on the
democratic donor class soon we're gonna
get into haim saban and do the permits
so he gave Jared but I you know talk
about entitlements ok entitlements are
tough to take away from people but like
normal people who have entitlements that
they actually need that are human rights
you can take it away from them because
you just beat them down over generations
and then just yank it from their
weakened hands but rich people they have
a pathology where there's a little bug
in their brain that tells them they're
gonna be happier with sixty million
dollars and fifty
even though they're just there they live
in a complete moral rot and their lives
are hell and they're [ __ ] monsters
because that is a legitimate addiction
to want to hoard money like that you
think they're gonna give it up they've
already gotten to this point actually a
[ __ ] money to make sure that whatever
happens in the future is not going to
elect them they want more if they want
at all they want it all and the rest of
us will have to bow and scrape for them
for had the privilege of working for
them unless we get oh here's the thing
the other thing I want to talk about
like in with regards like the Democrats
utterly weak responses because here's
the thing they couldn't have stopped
this from happen no I like the the
problem is like they could have done
things like years ago they could have
just chosen to be like a party that
represents the interests of their voters
they made that choice a long time ago so
that we're here now at the very the very
present term they could they probably
couldn't stop this bill their response
to it is just so weak and telling
because it's just like I want you to kit
like think about contrasting the
Democrats response to this abomination
of a tax bill that like I said is just
indescribably bad for everyone in so
many ways contrast their response of the
chants of Chuck Schumer or Nancy Pelosi
just like I'm very disappointed we tried
to be polite and we were rebuffed at
every turn
compare that to that video and know a
lot of you who saw online this week of
Jeremy Corbyn doing the video for labor
where he said the bankers at Morgan
Stanley have described labor under like
under us as a threat guess what they're
right and we are a threat to you and
guess what they're a threat to your
lives so you're goddamn right magic
imagine like who who is the Democrats
enemy from and rudeness Valley III know
Chuck Schumer could make that video but
it's about valets who make niteowl
blunts in his car when he's going to
fundraisers he makes a big video where
he's like I saw Blount rapping at the at
the bottom of that that that madam my
car was a gift for my daughter's wedding
who are they identifying as the enemies
in our society and until we have a
politics so where there's a political
movement in this country that says we
can either have a democracy and the
richest nation in the world that
provides a decent quality of life for
everyone or we can have billionaires but
we can't have both that is I like good
millionaires
battle games good billionaires up at MIT
the Democrats I please and all the
liberal institutions that underwrite
them alex Perrine made this point I
think it's exactly right until they
realize that they will be the target of
a relentless rat [ __ ] campaign by
these people who have no regard for the
decorum and decency that they so believe
in so lovingly until they realize that
they're gonna be the targets of this
kind of [ __ ] until they just take away
the money from the [ __ ] Robert
mercer's of the world take away their
[ __ ] money this [ __ ] is gonna keep
happening yeah I mean look the other
party is I cannot reiterate this enough
they're voting for a guy this month and
they're gonna go all of them are gonna
say he did that pedophilia in the 70s
it's okay yeah that's they're all making
that conscious choice you can't be
they've made up their mind because they
hate you and they like the people that
hate you
yeah and they will and they will and as
long as this as well says as long as
they have the money they're gonna pay
James O'Keefe to dress up like Pepe
LePew and try to seduce your house cat
for some [ __ ] weird video it doesn't
matter how [ __ ] dumb and ham-fisted
and obviously stupid and fake all this
[ __ ] is it will work they got the
Democrats to [ __ ] defund a cord
because of that cut that [ __ ] [ __ ]
yeah so an organization that actually
helped register it out register to vote
and was one of the leading lights who
understood that the housing crisis was
coming and they got got they got you got
a ludicrously edited video and surely
share on another on another edited video
because as soon as it happened they
panicked they shot a bunch of squid eke
out of their [ __ ] and they [ __ ]
realized oh is it gonna look bad oh man
people they're gonna be mad at us no
[ __ ] they're gonna be mad at you they're
gonna be mad at you no matter what you
[ __ ] do you morons
whereas what they have that they have
the pedophile senator gumming up and
remember there remember Mitch McConnell
when the first accusations came out and
the first poll said that he was looking
like he might not win they were like
well if he gets elected we're gonna look
into kicking him out of the Senate now
now that he's in lead now in polls
McConnell says a lot of people of
Alabama decide yeah no [ __ ] like that
was ever not on the agenda it's because
these people like the Liberals exist on
this continuum where they think that
like the other side will be embarrassed
when they see them at cocktail parties
and they're not
yeah they don't give a [ __ ] they're not
you like I think it's instructive to
contrast the resistance to this bill to
the mobilization against the Obamacare
repeal which was successful with a
margin of one vote and the messaging
against the Obamacare repeal which was
I'll call your senators called these
senators and that sort of thing it was
straightforward it was this is going to
increase the number of uninsured in the
country it's going to take away this
entitlement and this time around the
messaging I saw the mobilization against
the tax bill it was not as potent and
the messaging was it was scattershot
right I saw
Planned Parenthood talk about fetal
personhood language in the bill I saw a
lot of people talk about the drilling
and Anwar provision and it occurred to
me that the Democrats no longer have a
language that is useful to describe what
is literally class warfare they don't
have a political discourse that like you
say identifies actual enemies whom you
should hate at whom you should fight to
defeat excuse me but they very clearly
pointed out that it would actually
increase the deficit that's it that's
all they cuz they have fundamentally
bought that conservative right-wing
frame they are still so scared of Reagan
and all of this [ __ ] in the Laffer curve
that that's all they can talk about the
deficit I'll let let us read the bill
please before we you know for passage
anyway
part of that is like okay one reason the
Obamacare repeal mobilization was
successful was because there was a
precedent there was at least for a few
years there was a precedent of this
thing tangible thing that they were
gonna take away because they actually as
lacking as it was and how easily it's
gonna die soon Obamacare was something
they gave people when was the last time
Democrats gave people like a sheer just
unambiguous they had an unambiguous
economic program an unambiguous piece of
fiscal policy that normal people could
look at in their lives and say oh that
time was better for me they can't
because the stimulus was this massive
public-private partnerships and loans
for small businesses and [ __ ] just
you can't figure it out it was designed
to hide the government's role it was
written the language of that of the
stimulus was set it was supposed to be
invisible right because they especially
30 years they've spent thirty years
hiding their role because they're afraid
Reagan's gonna come back from the dead
and they're afraid that people will
notice that that maybe one sometimes
they want to spend more than the other
party so when the time actually common
came and it's like lay your dicks on the
table this is our vision world what's
your vision the world their vision of
the world is Sir this is like did you
see that article about Tom Perez is
[ __ ] fundraiser we're the [ __ ]
Tom Perez by the way is he had a sore
throat his whole life what the [ __ ] is
there a provision in the Democratic
Party leadership that they all have to
be dying and happened for 50 years he
just got up there and talked about
procedure what the [ __ ] so you know when
you and it's not even working even like
even their Hollywood donor base of like
Brian singer isn't even donating to them
now well he has he has health problems
at the book when you hear these call it
too much be sure civility listening to
both sides being friends across the
aisle you've implicitly accepted a
right-wing reactionary frame that says
that politics is just about these petty
grievances because the conservative
frame who are the Conservatives enemies
its liberals pointy-headed college
professors
bucks cups it's trivial [ __ ] so of
course they could be lecture to reach
across the aisle they could even do it
because their grievances are asinine it
has absolutely nothing to do with their
day-to-day lives but who are the
Democrats enemies is it Wall Street
which hedges its bets between both
parties is it energy CEOs every Democrat
elected in West Virginia owns a rickety
coal mine is it Big Pharma like joe
Manchin's daughter is it recipients of
big unearned inheritances like all of
their kids and all of their donors kids
you can't have this Frankenstein
Democratic Party where we say okay we're
gonna have a huge like a powerful donor
base but also left-wing politics it's
impossible it's not going to exist it's
just basically powered through chicanery
and this is why honestly the like
there's good reason for despair because
it's just like well who the [ __ ] else is
there yeah that guy I mean basically at
a point where we're striving like we're
trying to do something here like to get
our way out of this but like you know
like I said this sinking feeling that
was in my stomach right after the
election it's like you knew something
like this tax bill is gonna come like I
said that is the the culmination I said
over and over again of a long drive to
basically do away with whatever let
little threadbare you know pieces of the
New Deal and civil society or public
sector is left over in this country and
just to make America more the lives of
people more more precarious more stupid
more cruel and the lives of the
greediest nastiest people even more
greedy and ness you know Dave Weigel and
several others pointed out you know okay
you know why are people attacking the
Democrats because none of them voted for
this bill I mean I'm sorry that's just
the baseline behavior I expect is not
showing up and signing on to it but you
have within the caucus Bernie Sanders
proposed an amendment that would prevent
any automatic cuts that will be caused
by this bill and thus deficit spending
to Social Security Medicare and Medicaid
and two Democrats Mark Warner and I
believe Tom Carper showed up and voted
no on it and Mark Warner said afterwards
you know listen I've all I was a member
of the Gang of Six or gang of eight or
whatever you know I'm big on entitlement
for Mark Warner was almost Obama's vice
president yeah mate may and Pete
Peterson we're mating with Kendra lust
and Reilly greed and we're telling them
to not do any more hardcore scenes until
we take care of the deficit we don't
want our kids paying this off by the way
I love you
where the [ __ ] was [ __ ] Pete Peterson
and his [ __ ] deficit-reduction rap
squad he was sucking the stem cells out
of an infant [ __ ] Akon and his
effects of this [ __ ] tax bill by the
way capital steps did is sing in during
the voting and you saw every yes turn to
a no I just like we are all acceleration
aside I don't know what else to say like
I like III I hate that idea of like you
want it you want to despair you want to
get even realer than this like I said
after this tax bill what's next uh
Social Security Medicare by yeah we say
goodbye to those oh what's that on the
horizon let's say that there is some
like big political backlash at how
horribly unpopular and nasty all this
[ __ ] is Oh who's that it's Mike Pompeo
and Tom cotton running our foreign
policy who will do everything in their
power over the next couple of years to
start have another massive I just say if
there was one guy I could will into just
spontaneously combusting to save the
world we're going dead zone it's Tom
cotton it's gotta be that's the CIA head
a guy who basically like I read yeah I
read maybe you saw this I saw a piece
about him interview with him of The
Times this week when they asked him like
what is your guilty pleasure and Tom
cotton said I run every morning and I
run every morning I get up early and go
jogging every morning so I can reward
myself by eating birthday cake every day
is he running from a crawl space I'm
gonna be really good it's gonna be lit
when the CIA director Tom cotton ascends
Ted Nugent to kill the Ayatollah with a
[ __ ] bow and arrow that's you know
that person isn't human I mean though
the kinds of
adds that that you should be running
they should be specific personal attacks
on this individual and his family and
say this is not a normal human being who
me whom you might see he is a lost color
soft red eyed psychopath whose only
thing that really gets him out of bed in
the morning other than [ __ ] birthday
cake is the thought of starting another
massive us war in the Middle East this
time against Iran and and boy oh boy if
you think [ __ ] 2017 was a dumpster
fire just wait till 2018 and 2019 until
we lose and wait till Iran starts
hitting targets in America that [ __ ]
make make 9/11 look like like a jade
home rehearsal drill it's gonna be bad I
mean like look if you are Tom cotton
sexual partner if you like jackoff with
him on cam if you just anything I don't
know what can even take anyone down in
America anymore if Tom cotton like he
plays console games but he hooks it up
with to that mixer that allows you to
use a mouse and keyboard to cheat that
might work how just anything please Tom
cotton he live streams MMA on Twitch and
pretends that he's using his copyright
attorneys oh yeah you know yeah just um
we're all acceleration us yeah at this
point you don't have to worry about the
morality of oh should I root for the
worse to happen in the hope that it will
accelerate the mobilization needed to
just to stop it you don't have to worry
about that we're on that we're in that
timeline in 2018 we will see you when we
are now hosting the show in Iran the new
Tokyo saying that Felix we were all with
that okay well you're gonna be talking
about being an acceleration as well that
goes to show why you can't resist this
this this right wing class warfare
without in an ineffective and monolithic
working class party because the
Democratic Party the members of the
Democratic Party elected officials who
are just the same running birthday cake
eating creeps as Tom Khan are just
always going to be widely reviled and
Matt as you pointed out of course these
poor schlubs who won't benefit from this
bill whatsoever they're just gonna get
[ __ ] by it of course they should vote
Republican because Republicans will
still give them something they want
they're gonna trigger the libs looking
at the polling in this bill the
messaging against it was totally
ineffective you had a massive number of
people undecided they don't know
anything about this bill there was just
no coherent opposition message so people
just who had an opinion about it just
relied on their pre-existing
affiliations and grievances and as we
saw online the chud's
are all hooting and winking for this
bill because it will trigger the libs I
mean you should have seen it if you had
like a tweet that if you're a social
media big dick player and you had a
tweet that did Mad Decent 5 figis like I
did very easily it's no big deal for me
I do one every day but all the replies
to it from normal Republicans are like
it looks like you got a dose of vitamin
too stupid and it's like do you realize
you your life is gonna get worse and
like I eat like not even that much time
like you just [ __ ] yourself to give Bill
Clinton two tax credit to buy his own
pedophile airplane you [ __ ] but I
can't really hate the chud's that much
any more than I could hate a raccoon for
scurrying around my trash yeah but those
really I do I hate the most are the the
sensible conservatives who wrote all of
these op eds saying that oh we're you
know this is bad for the deficit where
it seems like the Republican Party
doesn't actually care about fiscal
prudence anymore and then the people who
came out and said well you need to be
nice to John McCain he's a hero we
talked about John McCain and his rotten
family arguably the McCain family is
taken more from the world than the Trump
family we should just over time it's one
of the wars families in the [ __ ]
world we should do one segment every
episode for every single senator in the
run we should we should do the wall tear
we should do like Stephen Colbert a
segment where he like profiles any
better districts but we should do it for
a cancer cell on McCain's bomb
one of the worst living Americans
he wasn't even 30 years old he already
had a [ __ ] he already had a [ __ ]
basement full of little Vietnamese
skeletons absolute [ __ ] monster
through and through and then in his
entire public life all he did because DC
journalists liked him personally I don't
know why because he reminded them of
their grandfather who would pull them
aside and tell them a racist joke I
don't know why
ya know protect Megan though protect
Megan Megan Megan by the way sorry shout
out to Ashley Feinberg who gotten a
little bit of a row this week when um
she treated like responding to John
McCain's support for this awful tax bill
wrote congratulations to John McCain's
wife and children on their upcoming
tax-free inheritance and people got mad
because they're like John McCain's dying
how dare you and Megan McCain like
demanded that she apologized there her
mother and [ __ ] but Ashley deleted it
she did respond but she responded in a
way that I thought was very funny and
clever and was like still basically
twisting the knife so not a summation
Megan McCain came out with her [ __ ]
crocodile tears saying you owe my mom
and she can try your tears with the
giant wads of cash she's gonna get her
there's nothing more awful husband who I
guarantee you she hates because we know
that he's a complete piece of [ __ ] to
her there's all these stories about him
screaming at her in public and
humiliating her she'd his honor she's
probably cheated on her every day of his
[ __ ] life she hates him she's waiting
from to [ __ ] die and then she gets
two hundred [ __ ] million dollars to
swim around it like Scrooge McDuck when
it's over she's gonna be fine hang on in
Cindi McCain's defense she's also a
failed daughter heiress no it is a
comprehensive that is the fail kid
family because yawns dad and grandfather
were admirals and John couldn't even fly
a plane for ten minutes on the tutorial
mode without [ __ ] crashing [ __ ]
Cindy fell daughter Megan one of the
biggest fail daughters who's just
constantly shoved in her face when her
dad [ __ ] keels over we were talking
about this before the show she's gonna
start hot soup 2.0 but it's gonna be
called like the steam after the steam on
a latte
megan mccain just got engaged to that
[ __ ] pentomino been Domino from the
federalists and like people found after
their engagement all these articles that
been Domino wrote about megan mccain
[ __ ] just insulting her yeah this is
a bleak attempt she yeah no that is
alpha game right in the federal i wonder
what kind of relationship she might have
had with her father where a guy who is
just being a mean creep tour all the
time it's interesting well you know what
if there is I don't think actually owes
Cindy or Megan an apology but she owes
me an apology for deleting that tweet
frankly can we talk about another
political fail daughter which one I'm
talking about
Chelsea Clinton and I want to talk about
a piece courtesy of Bill sure bill sure
is the brain worm King Bill sure it's
like we've never talked about in the
show before but you know how like will
make fun of articles that are like you
know is the original Rosa Parks Hillary
Clinton were like oh that's stupid but
Bill sure is like he's operating he's
living in 30:17 like all these articles
are like you know it actually Bill
Clinton is a black woman and you're like
why not you know bill sure rules he's
galactic brain yeah bill sure will tell
will tell you straight to your face that
[ __ ] Bob Rubin should run for
president so as we were talking about
Tom cotton is gonna go to CIA
he's a currently a senator from Arkansas
and Bill sure writes an article for
Politico titled Clinton should run for
Senate caught in the Senate seat and
it's like Clinton which one and he goes
through and he's like well you know
Hillary Clinton she says would have to
overcome a lot of impediments to become
only like stairs bill no he's got too
much baggage too in today's sort of like
post heart you know the thing would be
nothing rape is bad so he says that
leaves us with would Clinton Chelsea
because the people of Arkansas still
love the Clinton family she has she has
the because she Hillary won Arkansas as
we remember I remember what she won
Arkansas 2016 Boyd's like people at
Arkansas have fonder memories of the bin
Laden family because she has the Clinton
name but little of the Clinton baggage
on anything she wouldn't hurt for name
recognition campaign cash she's a vice
chair of the controversy magnet known as
the Clinton Foundation but emails
released during the presidential
campaign by WikiLeaks the State
Department so Chelsea caught getting
doing good seeking to root out
corruption by Foundation officials and
warning of problems with the Haiti
earthquake relief she's an Arkansas
native even though she hasn't lived
there since she was 12
sure she was have been happen now it
lacks a southern accent but her mob
bought her first house in New York two
months before she launched her said it
bit we were talking about this earlier
the example of New York is like [ __ ]
a total ready right yeah New York State
people don't give a [ __ ] at all if you
lived there New York State Truths
politicians like the Yankees treat
baseball tennety exactly we just wanted
that said we just want to think big
names they're like we feel gratified
they come to us to represent us do you
think they feel that way at all in
[ __ ] the Ozarks so Chelsea Clinton is
gonna be campaigning Jordan with the the
campaigning to the women who showed
Jennifer Lawrence where her father's
body is and winters bones gonna be
wearing a camo jacket and one of those
hats with a broken brim I want to see a
tri cha that would rule
Chelsea Clinton's campaign announcement
it's gonna be her and her [ __ ] [ __ ]
hedge fund manager fail husband
yeah she is a vodka truck she literally
married jared has her own Sharon married
a less attraction
she married Jared without the powerhouse
Jewish summer camp counselor social
charisma but their campaign ad is gonna
be them wearing overalls and playing a
banjo and washboard but then she goes
let's talk better
let's talk better pay-as-you-go measures
for Medicare she goes and I'm sorry I
just gotta read one more paragraph here
ability are you [ __ ] do I love you
bill can you do Bill Pratt skis ill
sheer he says we all know she's gearing
up to run for something some day she
sharpened her political presence on
Twitter
what is he she's released two books this
year the popular children's history
books she persisted and the less notice
but weightier governing global health
who runs the world and why in which she
had a global public health professor
explore how effective international
organizations have been at combative
infectious diseases by Chelsea Clinton
featuring professor Frank that book is
uh this health professor just describing
all the new diseases that were
discovered on her mother we start you're
the biggest pimp we'll get you back you
back and there's a lot of despair in the
first half but guys let's just have fun
now let's have fun to talk about it
before we do can we can we just talk
about that Chuck Grassley tweet okay
Chuck Grassley the only person older
than Nancy Pelosi well the thing the
thing to mention about that is because
it's about this [ __ ] tweet is about
the the estate tax which was repealed
completely I believe in the House bill
yes and will probably make it in the
committee because they really want to
get rid of it it's so it's not
controversial
that's what's insane about it ha that's
the easy for me the fact that you [ __ ]
up messaging on something like you know
yeah sex is that biggest indictment
possible cuz everyone hates rich kids
yes thank you thank you
[ __ ] who never lifted a finger and
then you get a bunch of money when your
parent dies it's it is repulsive it
doesn't even it doesn't like even the
libertarians who fixate on desert theory
of wealth and things like that
well you know people those CEOs work
hard well they're shitty [ __ ] kids
sure as [ __ ] don't and we all hate them
who's the bad guy in all the John wick
movies it's not a mafia boss
if the mafia bosses shitty [ __ ] yeah
that's true of every mafia movie every
gay movie the bad guy is always the
shitty [ __ ] kid who had everything
handed it to him never lifted a finger
for himself and that is every rich
[ __ ] kid in America there's they
would be so easy to point them out and
say these people do not deserve this
money and yet we are fundamentally
capable of talking about it that way
part of that reason by the way is you
have people like Bill Scheer and an
entire journalism class of people
gormless Lee and and and and totally
taking in the idea that these these
dynasties are to be you just expect of
course these people's idiot kids that
are gonna be brought into the journalism
let's bring in Megan McCain
let's bring in [ __ ] Ronan Farrow oh
is that Abby Huntsman at the door come
on in it's a party you're a bunch of
[ __ ] witless dip shits who spent your
entire lives like doing coke and your
[ __ ] private school and then
instagramming it and now you're gonna
talk to us on the [ __ ] national media
of course there's no [ __ ] vocabulary
to point out that these [ __ ] did
nothing to deserve their status and and
that the money that they're gonna get
would be vastly better spent actually
making people's lives better except
they're in defend Barron yeah yep defend
Barron but like if David if like there
was a house fire at David Geffen's
compound and like you know a [ __ ] you
know a plane crash or on Wall Street a
more ambitious one and the entire donor
class of the Democratic Party got wiped
out and it became like a Corbyn party
you would win every seat in the house if
you did something like you found every
descendent of like the johnson and
johnson fortune and went to Bushwick and
went to their like performance art shows
and said this is what this is what we're
gonna get it we don't care why that's
exactly why I don't give a [ __ ] children
are not off-limits to these ruling class
sickos we should be attacking Megan
McCain we should be running ads showing
that the [ __ ] psychopath
Trump sons not barren may angel Megan
McCain Chelsea Clinton the cast of HBO's
girls people who are widely reviled no
matter who you are and where you stand
in society unless they're just an
extreme partisan [ __ ] and just say
these this is these are the people who
benefit at your expense in society
they're getting hundreds of millions of
dollars but they never [ __ ] work for
whatever but we basically have decided
to pretend that that you're taxing the
that's why they call I mean that was the
Franklin sax
you're being taxed at death but you're
dead the money is you're no longer yours
it is going to a new person and that new
person is a spoiled piece of [ __ ] who's
gonna use the money to buy a [ __ ]
loft in [ __ ] Dumbo and just have a
bathtub full of cocaine in it and
another bath tub with the acid to
dissolve the people the dose on the
cocaine accidentally and that's the
problem is Democrats will never ever
have the the moral grounding to be able
to make that argument when you have
people like Joe Manchin in your caucus
yep yeah pimpon pimpon Joe Joe Manchin
pimp that pimping let me just spits um
let me just spit some truth right here
Pittman the chuck Grassley this is what
he said this wasn't a tweet but this is
a comment he made about the estate tax
he says this was suggested a he goes I
think not having the estate tax
recognizes the people that are investing
as opposed to those that are just
spending every darn penny they have
whether it's on booze or women or movies
[Laughter]
too much money on phosphates watch too
many of mr. Graham's crackers excuse me
I have to wait you know what actually
he's right movies are super expensive
now and another thing brain tonic is
back in the form of nootropics were in
the super Gilded Age
this rocks dude my dad is john d
rockefeller I'm gonna write my little
[ __ ] little [ __ ] diary that I
tried smoking cigarettes and wasn't for
me and my wife joined the temperance
movement I don't give a [ __ ] anymore so
let's have some more fun yeah yeah let's
have some more fun talk about let's talk
about Jared again King Jeff finally a
man haim saban did the ceremony Jared
stuttered the Torah died annoying
Jared spoke again this is finally having
sex this is perfect because it gets back
exactly what we were saying about like
it if only there is something that
Democrats could do it's just like well
they had all these choices and the one
they made was to have [ __ ] Haim Saban
be Hillary Clinton's probably biggest
booster I'm an owner of that's been this
is a [ __ ] who just hosted Jared at
the Saban summit now and literally
thanked him for what is maybe a
violation of the Logan act which was
reaching out to Russia to intervene at a
UN vote about Israeli hold on
I you know what to quote Ricky from
Trailer Park Boys I'm not the sort of
person says a toda so but a [ __ ] a
toda so remember when we were talking
about Russia gay and we're like Israel
does this [ __ ] all the time
he has to Israel it shows look Trump
wasn't actually president when he when
he made this overture to Russia which is
funny but I it doesn't matter who cares
I don't give a [ __ ] but like uh I would
just again I would love to see Jared go
to jail
obviously yeah that's the only that's
the only enjoyment we can even vaguely
hope this is the Saban
the Saban forum brought to you by the
[Laughter]
Jerry talked about because you know he's
our our special Middle East envoy
special his official title is special
little perfect boy family's Chapel
Middle East course
friend afield solve the israel-palestine
issue and he said it's like a
real-estate issue that's right dude Co
is just a bad zoning thing you just got
to pay a fat Italian like that this is
one of your favorite things Felix it's a
real estate issue because jared is gonna
just go to China and beg some
billionaire to buy the West Bank that's
the best thing so yeah Saban like starts
out by going this is an endlessly
impressive 36 year-old boy who gave up
his interest in real estate to help us
all and it's like the only thing Jared
has actually done is like he's like I'm
gonna go to China to work on a deal and
he just spends his entire their time
there per deem $5,000 lunches with like
the sons of Chinese party officials and
going please please buy it please by
offering green cards in exchange for
[ __ ] buying and his shitty building
which is just breathtaking and something
that is kind of astounding that we just
kind of forgot how Trump leads deliver
quote the ultimate deal of solving the
israel-palestine dispute yeah Kushner
said our goal is to go beyond signing a
piece of paper into creating an
environment that builds jobs and
opportunities like never before
so Jared's gonna bring her to Palestine
he's the real hero of Palestine Jarrod's
gonna get a pflp pen a vintage one I
love Jared I mean how do you not send
him to fix the Middle East the guy whose
two jobs were borrowing two billion
dollars to buy a shitty building and
turning the New York Observer into a
coloring book I know that you said it as
a joke --will but uh China buying the
occupied territories actually makes the
most sense it seems like the most
feasible thing it's probably what's
gonna have the path about China should
just take this whole thing over I don't
care anymore president gee he seems like
a fine man he's got some room for a
podcast family man president gee my
co-hosts aren't really hot I'm moving to
Iran but I will accept China one belt
one Road one podcast yeah
president gee I respect you I love you
you're a pimp you're a gangster your big
dick Playa your big
all right you guys you guys ready for
some more pimping yes here we go we're
having fun now okay
the Washington Post just came out with a
hilarious account of Corey lindros keys
Lewandowski when Dow ski it [ __ ] it's
okay I grew up in Chicago which is just
the most polish people you've ever seen
in your life this is Corey here are some
words that rhyme Corey okay so they have
like a highlight reel of his
soon-to-be-released campaign tell-all
book and man oh man there's some funny
[ __ ] in here I'm just gonna begin here
it says the article starts Elton John
blares so loudly on Donald Trump's
campaign playing that the staffers can't
hear themselves think that's good press
secretary Hope Hicks uses a steamer to
press Trump's pants while he's still
wearing them awesome
Trump screams at his top aides who are
subjected to expletive filled tirades in
which they get their face ripped off
collar and Trump's appetite seems to
know no bounds when it comes to
McDonald's with a dinner order
consisting of two Big Macs Jesus two
filet-o-fish
and a chocolate malted Jesus eating crow
or McDonald's sandwiches for dinner
every all right this is meant for a
cubic by the day this whole world how is
he still alive rich Piana
is dead and Donald Trump is how is he
still a lot how is this entire
intestinal tract just not like anal
beads but their tumors how is that not
this everything inside of his body he is
a piece of like a single item of non
processed food out in probably 60 years
he does not eat fruit he does not eat
vegetables the only reason he doesn't
have scurvy is because about the [ __ ]
ketchup that he eats all right all right
this is episode nine nine hundred of
more presidential buy the [ __ ] day so
we're up bright and early at 6 a.m.
right now we're watching Fox and Friends
I'm going to walk over to the TV and
thank them for a great TV episode
[ __ ] awesome great work I love you
guys they don't know how you get in the
[ __ ] TV all right
right now I'm about to I'm about to eat
my Q McDonald Bowls these are morning
mixed doubles they don't have keys on
them cheese's for later in the day after
Jared tells you about a phone call with
the Chinese guy he had you don't pay
attention to right now I'm gonna summon
gem sessions to the office and make him
stand under a ruler we have to have him
admit that he's five foot six every day
of his life he can only keep doing
racism if I humiliate him again like I
if you can't if you can't laugh at this
and what the [ __ ] else to do Trump took
his first flight on Air Force One and
there was this press kaggle around I
mean just grinning like an idiot and
there's a loud TV like New York won or
something I just daytime news ads and
you just hear 1-800 Empire so [ __ ]
loud song from Bad Santa
cuts himself with an advent calendar cut
himself trying to to whittle a wooden
pickle if it's not edible why would make
wood out of some detail about flaring
Elton John it's like [ __ ] almost
famous there also a tiny dancer on the
plane together but this is the night
this is the next really funny bit about
about manna fort where it says in a
section of the book written by
Lewandowski Trump is described as flying
on his helicopter when he learns that
metaphor it has said Trump shouldn't be
on television anymore
that's the cardinal sin that he
shouldn't be on the sunday shows and
that metaphor should appear instead
Trump was angrier than Lewandowski had
ever seen him ordering the pilot to
lower the altitude so he could make a
cell phone call this is him now did you
say I shouldn't be on TV Sunday I'll go
on TV any goddamn [ __ ] time I want
and you will
another [ __ ] word about me Trump
yelled in metaphor it tone it down
I want to turn it up you're a political
Pro let me tell you something I'm a pro
at life I've been I've been around at a
time or two I know guys like you with
your hair and skin well guys like you
with your hair and skin you know those
weird things guys like you have weird
sort of a [ __ ] with your epidermal
layer of protection to keep you from
being damaged by whether you weird [ __ ]
I just have a thin pink layer of slime
from fifty years of eating the chicken
[Music]
fired I'm hiring the [ __ ] choir of
dancing skeletons from a 1930s cartoon
when he said I know guys like it with
your hair and skin or he said I'm a pro
at life Lewandowski called it quote one
of the greatest takedowns in the history
of the world video of like a feral hog
screaming and another over an apple he
would be like destroyed what is the
opposite so like there's always a joke
somebody was cursed like you know they
ran over a rope or you know aroma are
they [ __ ] like kicked a leopard you
know yeah what is the opposite of that
like if you accidentally give a
leprechaun an orgasm or something
because he is the most charmed oath in
the history of the world he eats nothing
but but charred gristle and great F meat
for 70 years
he has no cancers he is nothing but
fails and [ __ ] up and loses billions of
dollars and he just keeps getting it
back winning not just that Lewandowski
thing is perfect because he's not even
like just on his surface he's not like a
clever or charming person in any way but
just any of the insane stupid things he
says like 30% of the country including
Corey lewandowski's like he is she's a
wizard with words he's so cool he gets
up there and he's like you know what I'm
just
say right now Geraldo we've had a
turbulent relationship and people are
like odd [ __ ] died for you you're so
cool what's so amazing though is that
American Americans awful atavistic
capitalism is propped up by this
ideology of deserved wealth and and and
the self-made man is a is this fantasy
figure that basically justifies all
manner of grotesque inequality even if
he doesn't exist the idea of the
self-made man exists and because we
don't want to stop that from happening
that glorious miracle of someone rising
from nothing and through their own guile
and grit becoming rewarded with massive
success because we want to make that
possible we're willing to overlook
devastating horrifying inequality and
injustice and that the our president is
the anti Horatio Alger he is the guy who
just [ __ ] up repeatedly isn't
manifestly incompetent and corrupt and
never pays for it his entire existence
repudiates the entire fantasy behind
American capitalism and yet people just
can't process it I guess so they just
turn it around me like no he's he he
wouldn't have the money if he wasn't
smart good at his job this is country
it's it's transparently a sham but you
know fortunate I think more and more
people are realizing what a sham
meritocracy is and what you need is an
actual political movement or structure
that takes advantage of that and you
know I don't have we had a lot of
despair today but we I think we need to
have a little bit of [ __ ] sunshine
and a little bit of optimism walking on
sunshine and it is the fact that we've
clearly are seeing a change in the way
people think about this yeah we're
clearly seeing like we were talking
about after the off year elections how
you're seeing the beginning of sort of a
bush era post 2006 souring on national
Republicans and a willingness of people
to come out to vote against them but
this time there are so many people who
are getting brought in on that wave who
are out socialists who are genuinely
supporting fourth that class first
vision that we said has been missing so
it's coming back Jessa
we need you come over here okay yeah
that's very true Matt and you know
obviously a lot of people are gonna be
slept in this wave and it's also going
to be a lot of you know DNC d-trip
favored candidates like just stuttering
veterans who talked about means-testing
Medicare and things like that
so if you think that and I and I hear
people talking about this a lot if you
if you maintain this fantasy that that
this rift in the Democratic Party is is
anytime soon going to be bridged not in
time for 2018 or beyond that's just not
going to happen one side has to win and
that's it this country is a insanely
stupid and probably do but let's just
dive back into this article cuz it's
really [ __ ] funny okay guys uh this
is um in another episode
Lewandowski describes how staffer Sam
Nunn Berg was purposely left behind at a
McDonald's because nunberg special order
burger was taking too long
leave him Trump said let's go oh my guys
Trump's fast-food diet is a theme on
Trump Force One there were four major
food groups
McDonald's Kentucky Fried Chicken Pizza
and Diet Coke the planes cupboards were
stacked with Vienna fingers potato chips
pretzels and many packages of Oreos
because Trump are renowned germaphobe
would not eat from a previously open
package the book notes that
orchestrating the orchestrating and
timing of mr. Trump's meals was as
important to any as any other aspect of
his march to the presidency and it
describes the elaborate of efforts that
Lewandowski and other top aides went
through to carefully time their delivery
of hot fast food to Trump's plane as he
was departing his rallies wet boy loves
hot the best God father's food must be
hot oh my god you know that's what's how
to thank your father what's gonna take
him down is probably a salmonella
outbreak meat after people it's the
[ __ ] Krusty the Klown in charge of
the FTA yeah ya know felled by the USDA
you know it's amazing is that the other
campaign was the most it was the
greatest collection of hyper ambitious
psychos and they had over a billion
dollars and
we're just a bunch of guys who were
taking Chinese off-brand cialis and
giving Big Macs to a infant the infant
team 112 years old were thinking about
their entrance essays to Harvard versus
just all these dumbasses and the Big Ben
there see the looks on their the only
regret I have about our election night
show is that we wasn't at the Javits
Center yeah seeing just this ice chewing
psychopath you thought he was gonna be
like a State Department undersecretary
when there like the McDonald's guy one
was the team of guys who can't go into
Pep Boys because they said a Rachel's
the wrong racial slur to a cashier they
beat you but you know what fair and
square
they did but they were helped along the
way because the gops oh nice chewing
Psychopaths had made had plowed the
field for them by doing voter
suppression in many states that's right
and and and a decreasing turnout by by
increasing voter ID laws and making it
harder to vote shutting voting's voting
places and they were doing that with
that clear they were doing that with
that clear eyed psycho intensity of any
of these professional political
operatives and then it all went to the
benefit of the fat orange idiot rolling
down a hill in a giant barrel
[Laughter]
obstruction of justice
[Laughter]
this man is this criminal genius like
Walter White today where he tweeted what
many lawyers have basically said it is
an admission of
destruction justice and then what are
Trump's flunky lawyers just came out and
said I tweeted that which is the dumbest
most selfish man who [ __ ] over everyone
who believes in him yes a lawyer named
Ty Cobb you know that dude is batting
400 but it's like they didn't even fire
that guy which if oh yeah I tweeted
something under my clients name that is
an admission of obstructive justice you
should probably be fired but he's still
there we don't need to be thinking is
just like oh i said it i wrote i wrote i
did the iggy most amazing thing about
trump trump [ __ ] over everyone who's
closest to him like he [ __ ] over
christie [ __ ] over Giuliani now this
lawyer guy and it's like there's no
reason to like ride with him unless
you're need to sell a shitty building
but he just keeps people are still like
no I want to be with this guy this
untrustworthy petulant fat infant it'll
be cool when that that lawyer says that
under oath and just gets immediately
disbarred bill wins the case drops like
I told you he was a [ __ ] loser
forgets that they made that deal he
doesn't hold up his end of the bargain I
what's gonna happen so we're uh we're
almost over here I mean as a show into
society but um I actually I do want to
close like one-one just serious thought
that like we've been hitting out like
obviously if you're feeling a lot of
despair like I I share it with you
because I'm like it's getting harder
it's hard to imagine a way out of this
in the near future however I I do
believe that the the majority of people
in this country if someone were to
articulate a vision like you know if we
had a figure like Corbin who said you
know rise like lions we are many they're
fewer could articulate a vision that is
contra to this like nightmare that we're
living in I think people like I think
there are more people than ever in this
country like that that is like the broad
base of support for that it just it
doesn't exactly infrastructure for that
doesn't exist better there are people
that are not
try to create it from scratch or just
you so there are people I'm optimistic
about like specifically Carlos Rosa in
Chicago running for Illinois sport
district vote for Carlos when the time
comes but yeah you know like I can come
out of nowhere people really can and
yeah and in the end the absence of a
leader you need a movement you need a
mass movement like as I was putting out
like the the people the all the [ __ ]
know this and that's why they're trying
as hard as possible to take you know
make people's lives more precarious
through their awful judges that are
gonna just infest our entire federal
judiciary for probably as long as I'm
[ __ ] alive are gonna make it just put
our democracy even more of a sham than
it already is they're gonna they're
gonna empower the gamefaqs message board
moderators and disbarred mute magicians
that Trump is nominated the judiciary
john mccain rubber-stamped every side
cannot wait for the viral videos about
the trump justices yes street magician
destroys pro-choice activist looks i
don't know what you're talking about i
think that logan and jake paul are gonna
break great federal judges we like we
described all this horrible [ __ ] that
they're doing and that they're getting
away with but like they're doing it
because they know how [ __ ] like that
that in a functioning democracy they
couldn't do this yeah right and they're
doing it to hold on to just clamp down
even more of the [ __ ] power and money
that they have because they know it can
get taken away from them yeah and we
have to besties that's the only thing to
do when they're gonna use the law and
government and money to make it harder
and harder to do that but like again
just there are more of us than there are
them i don't know what else to say
yeah what start at least it's a start
so i want to leave you guys now with
something that i think like I said just
really sums up just America and though
and our our culture honestly like if you
ever did if you if there was somebody if
there was somebody who is in a two-year
coma who will
up and looked at what was around us and
you know spent a good four or five hours
in sputtering incoherent rage and terror
and confusion and and they then said
what the [ __ ] happened I think you could
sit them down and show them this
commercial and it would really tell them
everything they needed to know so that's
it for us this week we'll talk to you
soon
but until then I give you Trumpy bear
the wind whispered through the forest a
storm is coming
you cannot defeat the storm from the
trees rose a resounding voice I fear
nothing
I come when the trumpet sounds I am the
story also come when the trumpet sounds
American grizzly introducing the
original Trumpy bear though is he gonna
be the tackiest grizzly Trumpy bear was
born June American grizzly bear magazine
and pull out the flag blanket then wrap
yourself in the red white and blue for
comfort and warm show your patriotism
and proudly display like how they tell
people how to use a blender in any
American holiday Trumpy god Bless
America and God bless Trumpy bear Trumpy
bear suits primal run at the motorcycle
for all the world to see and local you
know I always said neoliberalism makes
everyone a golfer since it's also
national I was there right by my side
once a marine always a Marine
everyone knows trouble was to go to the
golf course when I ride with Trumpy bear
he makes my golf game great again Thank
You Chuckie bear simply style his
trademark hair and place him in his
favorite chair even the toughest guys
will love Trumpy bear when America's
great business
great when business is great I Hollow am
I turn into a sniper there I'm telling
my plush animal to kill Colin Kaepernick
and I will always have sex with it to be
an American
order the super plush Trumpy bear for
only two payments of a grown man has a
simple animals area route that is
triggered live miss out on only a piece
of American history order now for only
to pay a little less he made my pinky
Trumpy order now
[Music]
I'm sorry the bear is $40 I know what
I'm getting you guys for Christmas two
payments of 1995 yeah yeah my bear got
taken out by a blacklivesmatter $28 one
payment left don't like some guys order
your trophy bears now bye
[Music]
