here's another started you know keep
being really cheery now that I'm back in
America but the other major thing that's
happening you know in the White House
and in the world right now that I've
been paying close attention to is the
absolutely absurd and lunatic effort to
start another [ __ ] war with Iran it's
happening right now in front of all of
our eyes in the most [ __ ] Keystone
Cops way imaginable like I said we
talked about this with Hassan and since
then there's been another one of these
oil tanker attacks where they're
literally trying to tell you that a
Norwegian and Japanese boat getting
[ __ ] mind or whatever is worthy going
to war over yeah their own record
basically saying that we just need
another Maine to happen so you know yeah
well that's the thing is that they
something happened maybe it was a false
flag I wouldn't rule out Saudis honestly
or even the US intelligence or maybe it
was like a rogue element within the IRGC
that wanted to undermine the moderates
and charge Iran who knows either way
you're not gonna get it with with
Norwegian and Japanese boats but now
they're talking about sending the US
military as a sort of protective convoy
for oil wait wait a second that reminds
me of something yeah that reminds me
there's sort of an incident wasn't it
was a Gulf in the southern Gulf was a
different Gulf but mm yeah here okay
here's this really frightening
okay sorry this coming from Andrew
Feinberg who's a white out breakfast
media White House reporter breakfast
media Jesus Christ he said Crist media
yeah I never heard of that organization
but the breakfast media said I asked
Donald Trump why Americans should trust
his administration's pronouncements on
Iran he had absolutely nothing to say
and it was unclear if he understood what
I was asking I just want to read this
why should Americans trust your
administration to tell the truth about
what's going on with Iran if we go to
war why should we believe you if you say
what say why Trump well we have Iran and
we've been talking to various people on
lots of different sides and we'll see
what happens with Iran we're very well
set we're very well configured you have
lots of things going on with Iran
I spoke with president G this morning of
China will be meeting at the g20 and I
think that it is working out pretty much
as I anticipated it would China very
much wants to discuss the future and so
do we
there so the relationship with President
Xi is
very good one we had a long talk this
morning is it just dementia like it's
genuinely shocking he has totally
checked out of this and not only that
just the other day he completely
undermined the Hawks in his
administration by saying what happened
in right off the coast of Oman was quote
a very minor incident yeah
here's his honestly the only thing
honestly standing in the way of it here
is what's really terrifying though
here's this really terrifying
he is completely checked out and Bolton
and Pompeyo are running this [ __ ] war
agenda completely outer loop of not just
the president but probably the Joint
Chiefs of Staff two definite they're the
Acting Secretary of Defense just
basically resigned because his [ __ ]
son hit his wife with a baseball bat
yeah there's nobody I mean anything in
in normal circumstances I would say the
fact that there's nobody in charge and
no one knows in charge of America's
imperial death machine I think would
normally be like an okay thing but
here's the thing
it's Bolton and Pompeyo have their hands
at the wheels right now and they are
driving us straight into a military
confrontation with Iran the president
Trump has no [ __ ] clue what's going
on he doesn't give a [ __ ] and as I'm
sorry as we said again when this is
happening back a couple of weeks ago
when we talked of this on here's what's
really terrifying to me about this is on
the one hand if you compare the rollout
of this war to the Iraq war it is
laughable there the Iran Hawks are truly
not sending their best nobody is buying
this [ __ ] oil tanker [ __ ]
not even our allies maybe so the British
Tories are but they're the most Cox
people in the universe yeah I mean
friendly they'll bail so they'll say and
do anything for [ __ ] if America says
it especially with the brags that
ongoing yeah
but Germany has been like hold up a
minute like there there are no serious
allies buying this the [ __ ] the owner
of the Japanese company that owns these
oil tankers as issued a statement saying
it is not what completely declaiming
everything the president and the
administration has been saying about
this nobody buys even the media again
there's the sense of they're going
through the motions they're repeating
what the Pentagon has to say but again
there is a very surreal and
lackadaisical when you compare it to
what the rollout to the Iraq war was
like which is again one of the most
terrifying
monolithic and just a Leviathan of from
every sector of government media our
allies etc it was terrifying this is
laughable and it is a sign of how deeply
exhausted the US Empire is at this point
yes but that is why it's so terrifying
well exactly because you think well
there's so much less effort there's so
much less of an effective propaganda
front being put out and that is good to
see I guess but also it makes you think
well maybe they know that we don't need
to bother that much but nobody really is
inventing there there's no public
anymore you know there's nobody to
convince there's no consent to
manufacture everything's sort of on we
on Rails so you don't even really need
to do more than just gesture towards
public opinion and then you just do what
you're gonna do anyway with your
volunteer military that isn't gonna
affect most people's lives no matter
what happens and then you just let the
chips fall where they may
I mean and and if you're one of these
guys who's like a [ __ ] deep deep
state a scumbag like Bolton it's like
you're not gonna get me fired or you're
not gonna lose an election over it you
know you're gonna still be scouring
around the house of power for the rest
of your life with your [ __ ] mustache
so go for it so and I don't know yet
what whether that's true or not I mean
honestly at Trump and his his laziness
and disconnection from the nuts and
bolts of his administration is scary but
also it means that like a project like
invading Iran that's a lot of work but
it could also just happen and they'll
just [ __ ] find like here's what
they're arguing that like oh I ran is
about to enrich uranium again they're
gonna violate the terms of the treaty
that we unilaterally pulled out of and
destroy they're trying to hold Iran
accountable for not adhering to the
terms of a treaty that we you know
unilaterally abrogated against the you
know wishes of every other signatory to
that deal yeah Felix tried to say it on
POD save I'll say it again now if I
could give Iran a full suite of first
and second strike nuclear missiles I
would [ __ ] do it in a second just
unveil it tomorrow and be like sorry
guys sorry wars off ya know what happen
oh that thing are you worried about
what's not happening to happen it
happened guys don't it's done it'll
shield no more yeah and it's just if I
have to hear from anymore
[ __ ] people [ __ ] EU I wake or
these noah rothman or any of these other
these [ __ ] worms talk about Iran's
destabilizing the Middle East who the
[ __ ] are you what the [ __ ] were you
doing the last 20 years no don't you
understand Iran has tampering with Iraqi
politics
oh right thousand three which is just an
arbitrary date that is an issue two of
efficiency I would pedal back here a
little bit I don't think that there's
like mass complacency about America's
indefensible never ending Foreign Wars
but if you look at say like Vietnam you
had a huge number of actual people in
the service objecting to it and being
like this is disgusting and they'll ton
of people were court-martialed now
everything is just don't with [ __ ]
video games yeah so it's not even like
we would have a foot in the door I don't
think people that feel generally
positively about the fact that we're
bombing those eight countries it's just
like what are you going to do it's done
with everything is done now with so few
people that it requires literally no
public approval whatsoever
III would say no I agree do you ever I
think like the public opinion on going
to war with Iran is probably dog [ __ ]
low I mean at least as compared to
public opinion in favor of going to war
with Iraq I think most people [ __ ]
don't nineteen I think most Trump voters
don't even [ __ ] well the side of the
ran or interventionists now after
[ __ ] pouring French wine down the
toilet and running over Dixie Chicks
albums the [ __ ] steamroller now
they're all [ __ ] peaceniks you know
but they do honestly think that but the
thing about it is is that what's gonna
be what is that because of that because
of that made it less sort of in that
sort of generalized post Iraq weariness
right about another war or at least
another ground invasion bombing is
different we'll do that anywhere but I
can and and Trump embody that in the
debates remember when [ __ ] pundits
said that he was doomed after he yelled
at Jeb before george w bush's invasion
of iraq and then he was just cruised
showing that people kind of were even if
they weren't ever gonna admit they were
wrong because we don't do that in this
country they knew it would have been a
mistake so I think that that sent it
that
mindset is there in Trump he has like a
just sort of a vague knowledge that this
is probably a bad idea but I'm telling
you the real issue will be one yeah they
force their hand with some sort of
staged incident that he just it's like
they can't I can't look weak or whatever
or or honestly a year from now he's
running for election his numbers look
bad because I think so yeah because the
thing is is that I I think that's very
possible
because the thing is is that it's been a
show and I think pretty conclusively
that that whole wag the dog idea that
people do Wars for politically for the
most part it doesn't actually work that
way but guys like Trump think it they
think it works that way he's president
oh my god well okay Matt's your question
of like you know let's say even without
any like plan a course but they like
they get what they want
like what's gonna happen well here's
maybe just you know an indication of
things to come
I was tweeting about this earlier this
week but I'd like to share with you guys
now are you familiar with something
called the Millennium Challenge 2002 yes
we talked about this yeah I'd like to
just dip back into this because again
this should be you know that machine
from Kafka's in the penal colony this
Wikipedia article should be tattooed
onto the flesh of every one of these
[ __ ] doughy worms who were slithering
around [ __ ] trying to gin up [ __ ]
another war with Iran and they want us
to confront Iran or put pressure on them
or you know Bret Stevens in the pages of
the New York Times called it if everyone
the pirate nation we should sink their
Navy okay Blair ah okay Bret let's see
how that'll go I mean you know oh yeah
will sink their Navy of America is we
have the biggest military in the world
listen to this the Millennium Challenge
2002 was a major war game exercise
conducted by the United States Armed
Forces in mid-2002 the exercise which
ran from July 24th to August 15th and
cost 250 million dollars involved both
live exercises and computer simulation M
co 2 is meant to test the of was meant
to be a test of future military
transformation a transformation to our
new technologies that enable
network-centric warfare and provide more
effective command and control of current
and future weaponry in Texas
six the simulated combatants were the
United States referred to as blue and an
unknown Middle Eastern adversary Called
red with many lines of evidence pointing
at Iran being the red side mister brah
red commanded by retired Marine Corps
Lieutenant General Paul K van Ripper I
swear to God I am adapted an asymmetric
strategy in particular using old methods
to evade blues sophisticated electronic
surveillance network van Ripper used
motorcycle messengers to transmit orders
to frontline troops and world war ii
style light signals to launch airplanes
without radio communications Jesus red
received an ultimatum from blue
essentially a surrender document
demanding a response within 24 hours
thus warned of blues approach red used a
fleet of small boats to determine the
position of blues fleet by the second
day of the exercise in a pre-emptive
strike
red launched a massive salvo of cruise
missiles that overwhelmed the blues
forces electronic sensors and destroyed
16 warships this included one aircraft
carrier 10 cruisers and 5 of 6
amphibious ships an equivalent success
in a real conflict would have resulted
in the deaths of over 20,000 service
personnel soon after the cruise missile
offensive another significant portion of
Blue's Navy was sunk by an armada of
small red boats which carried out both
conventional and suicide attacks that
capitalized on blues inability to detect
them as well as expected at this point
the exercise was suspended blue ships
were refloated and the rules of
engagement were changed this was later
justified by General Peter pace as
follows you kill me in the first day and
I said here the next 13 days doing
nothing or you put me back to life and
you get 13 days more worth worth more of
experiment out of me I like just a
better way to do it like that's like
volleyball where there's like a mercy
rule yes just like okay well we're gonna
end this and then we're gonna come check
this out after the reset both sides were
ordered to follow predetermined plans of
action after the war game was restarted
its participants were forced to follow a
script drafted to ensure a blue force
victory among other rules imposed by the
script red forest was ordered to turn
their anti-aircraft radar on in order
for them to be destroyed and
was not allowed to shoot down any of the
aircraft bringing blue forest troops
ashore van Ripper also claimed that
exercise officials denied him the
opportunity use his own tactics and
ideas against blue force and that they
also ordered red forest not to use
certain weapon systems against blue
force and even ordered the location of
red force units to be revealed there you
have it folks
America's war game are getting rinsed
Iran we got so mad we through the
controller across the room and demanded
that we restart from the save point look
it'll be fine as long as we can
establish cool the war on Iran will go
fine now I've heard people say that the
Millennium Challenge gets overrated
because the gut van Ripper did a lot of
like creative [ __ ] that would not
actually be realistic even for clearly
big ya know the Iranians wouldn't have
wouldn't do some of the stuff that he
did anyway like even if they could for
other reasons but it is still true that
the United States has not would not has
not faced a a military the size of
Iran's sense I guess maybe maybe Korean
War maybe Korea and since then every war
they fought against a lesser enemy for
the most part they [ __ ] lost except
for the first war in Iraq and like the
invasion of Panama and Grenada they've
gotten their asses kicked in Afghanistan
and in Iraq after they took it over
here's another rub to it again if you
want to poo poo and just say oh like you
can't read too much as the Millennium
Challenge Iran has now you know for
leaving Millennium Challenge aside or
how they would handle the US Navy in the
Persian Gulf they have now had 15 plus
years experience basically beta-testing
an [ __ ] counterinsurgency warfare
against the US military and there are
armored vehicles in any kind of urban
environment yeah a little petri dish
over there all right
test it out all the [ __ ] they know what
works they know what doesn't and you
think the [ __ ] that they gave they're
like the Shia militias over there to
just have some fun with yeah I think
that was probably not the best that I've
heard that was the schwag yeah they got
that loud - back there wait you know
they were just waiting for the United
States to do something as and I'm being
100% serious here as catastrophic ly
suicidal
as starting a war with Iran and you know
what amber you mentioned during the
Vietnam War how many again and this is
like almost totally forgotten but how
many US troops turned against it in
uniform and either a court-martial went
to jail and bragged their officers
deserted you know did not return for
future tours of duty went to Canada
became part of the anti-war movement
here in America I'm not someone who
thinks that like if you were a uniform
of any country you're automatically a
right-wing psycho or you are an enemy of
you know by very nature an enemy of the
left however if you are the US military
and something like this happens I'm you
like you hat you must desert you must be
court-martialed
you must not you can't go to Iran - you
must not ignore this
don't do it so what do you think and I'm
sorry and now you know because at the
end of the day in any military conflict
between Iran on one side and the United
States Israel and Saudi Arabia on the
other it's Iran all the way and I'm
going to be openly rooting for our Swift
defeat yeah that's the best-case
scenario yes and I have to be a hundred
percent clear here I would vastly vastly
prefer that nothing of the sort even
come close or half because it would be a
nightmare for yeah for millions and
millions of people in Iran but again if
you think it'll be a [ __ ] happy
ending for this country
just look what Iraq did yeah okay and
again to be clear the Americans are
mostly not going to be the people
suffering in this however I don't think
we should expect our enemies to be any
more or less merciful to us than we have
been to them or any any more indifferent
to our stuff or more or less indifferent
to our suffering then we have been to
millions of people across the Middle
East so want to end it there folks yeah
yeah I love being back here I love my
country I love to be Yankee scum oh well
okay actually you know what listen I
don't have a democracy blue jeans today
is Juneteenth yes well we should mark
mark that as a genuine holiday that
marks one of the greatest moments of
liberation in human history yeah yeah we
did that [ __ ] we could do that [ __ ]
again Yeah right I think
so it was it yeah it's a moment of
emancipation and liberation that is
nearly unparalleled in human history and
it should be recorded and you know there
are good things that have happened in
the past and can happen again absolutely
so and again you know Europe if you want
to give us a visa like Ireland you could
probably get a yeah passport I'm going
and I'm gonna marry some camara so you
got you got some wires inside well no
student visa something like that oh yeah
grad school this or an entertainment you
can be the only like Civil War scholar
at the University of Glasgow or
something apparently Germans really love
the Civil War they love reenacting it
but mostly do your August thing but
mostly it's a confederacy uh reasons
that we probably don't want to get it
we're not gonna look at you can do your
research I mean is there something in
the Irish Constitution that says if you
sell out Liberty Hall you can become
another citizen it seems like it should
be in there I mean I will be looking
into it
so until next time I will be off next
week I'll be visiting the battleground
state of Wisconsin hopes to do some
reporting on Waukesha County if I can I
will be calling into the debate to
extremes and if necessary I will call in
and keep you guys in full content but if
not you know the gang will hold it down
in my absence but all I gotta say is
live in an America oh wow
bye everybody bye
