ring ring ring ring ring hello this is
chapo traphouse will speaking this is a
shopper Trap House this is will speaking
how may I help you calling us back again
Oh
Corky Corky old chap how you been sir
Gorka were we're honored to have you
calling again what what brings a a night
of the Vuitton's order is that what's
been on your mind this week well yeah I
mean people are essentially saying that
you have deep ties to the far-right
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
today after all today after all we said
farewell to our dear colleague mr.
bannon yeah no yeah he's out at the NSC
how do you feel about that
my public statement is that well things
shall continue the grand plan continues
the enemies of the kingdom for the sake
of your listeners but people who've
retracted you on Twitter that they've
accused me of hating Jews I promise you
I do not hate Jews I have never hated
Jews and I believe that Jews can be
integrated I mean you do work with Jared
Kushner elements think of mr. Chappel
might play two chess moves or three
chess moves ahead do you have anything
else you'd like to get on the record or
set straight this week you have any play
[Laughter]
with your loyalty will be tested and I
trust mr. Shepard that you will
understand who's been good to you what
Flynn is going to is the Lisa Frank
Trapper Keeper what's on the cover of
this Trapper Keeper
son guys I mean that is Hungarian
national
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
