moving on from Venezuela to the the
other major target of the u.s. state at
the moment and it's the the considerably
larger and more dangerous you know
situation that we find ourselves bearing
down upon and that is Iran and again
it's very hard to figure out just how
seriously to take all of this I mean I
take it very seriously but it does seem
like right now the biggest impediment to
us starting a war with Iran is Donald
Trump and his genuine lack of interest
or lack of patience and just I think for
he genuinely actually doesn't want
America to fight a war he wants to look
tough he doesn't want to be humiliated I
could see him like you know caught doing
airstrikes or whatever but at the same
time he put Mike Pompeo his Secretary of
State and put John Bolton in charge of
everything else you have this very weird
thing where like the people the the
people who are like we're too crazy
almost even for the Bush administration
now have their fingers on the trigger
but their boss is a guy who doesn't have
any of the drive or ideological fervor
or commitment to regime change in Iran
which as we've talked about on the last
episode we did with you we've returned
to this many times before is like the
Holy Grail for these neoconservative
psychos I think as part of it is because
because Trump is so disengaged because
he's he is kind of apolitical in a sense
he has instincts and he has sadism that
he likes to see sated and he has these
hooting crowds of psychos that he loves
to be happy to see him and to cheer him
but he doesn't have any kind of
programmatic ideas so that means that he
doesn't have people on his side in any
broad sense he doesn't have a stable of
wants to carry out his will because he
doesn't have a well so instead he's got
the DC establishment which just is this
conveyor belt of people that's like oh
you have an opening here's a guy you
know and if you hang around long enough
and you're a creep like Bolton or camp a
oh you get to pop up and then be they
have their own agendas that are tied to
more broad you know neoconservative
ideas Trump has no interest in that but
he also has no interest in my
managing anything in preventing them
from doing it they want to do and also
hilariously even though he got famous on
TV for saying you're fired he hates
firing people because he doesn't like
personal confrontation because he has no
personal virtues that's the thing about
Trump is that he has no virtues like
even even the virtues of an [ __ ] you
know like I like I'll look a man in the
eye and fire him it's like well that
makes you a prick but at least you have
the virtue of not feeling like you're
too much of a coward to confront that
moment like he has nothing no yes no
brought positive virtues so that means
that these guys just do the things and
they do them out of his purview and then
it comes to us and he's like wait a
minute what were you doing like the the
bombing in Iran where they they brought
it to him on a platter let's do a
limited strike on Iran fingers crossed
that it was gonna escalate something and
at the last minute he's like oh this is
actually this is committing me to
something that I do not have anything
like the stamina or or will to do so he
pulled back and so but the thing is he
won't fire them he won't get rid of them
so they're gonna keep doing it they're
gonna keep poking the [ __ ] bear until
something happens that forces Trump's
hand which is why this situation is you
know both surreal and terrifying and
like I could easily imagine something
unimaginable happening but again like I
just have to use this as an example of
people really now we're now obsessed
with Trump and there is like there is
much that is evil an abominable about
his administration but I'm sorry they're
not even in the same galaxy as the first
George W Bush administration do you
think that they would have let a chance
to bomb Iran after some sort of
ludicrous provocation like that [ __ ]
oil tanker thing do you think that they
would let that go to pot at all or I'm
sorry even a Hillary Clinton
administration Oh Hillary would have
been in there with both feet yeah I mean
I think everybody knows that and yeah in
a way the good thing about as you were
saying the good thing about Trump being
a total sleaze is that he has half an
ear to the pulse of the sleaze normal
and what the sleeves normal values above
all I don't I don't know if people fully
realized this but I do because I spent a
lot of time on common threats why what
they want is noise
what they want is not necessarily a
bunch of body bags coming home they want
noise and Trump supplies the noise and
so far without the body bags and that
makes a lot of people happy Obama in his
quite creepy way was an ideal
counterinsurgency leader too if there
can be such a thing because there are
doubts about the whole theory of
counterinsurgency and whether it will
ever really work short of genocide but
Obama was another word for
counterinsurgency actually yeah but
Obama was about as close as you can get
a smiling Brown face with experience of
many different cultures who was at home
in many different cultures and killed
quietly no noise when it was required
and when he thought he was in private
would boast about what a good killer he
was Trump doesn't have that kind of
finesse and part of the reason the the
hidden wacko norm hated there are a lot
of reasons they hate Obama one of them
was he didn't bark enough he didn't make
enough noise for them and the fact that
he actually killed those the security
state thought needed killing was by no
means enough recompense for them because
they literally wanted the noise and
Trump so far has figured out a way to
supply some of the noise without some of
the killing the question is how long he
can do that because as you said this
creates a very unstable situation and
you don't really want an unstable
situation with Iran but then I don't
know how to talk to people in America
about this the headlines say Iran just
broke the agreement you mean the one
that we purposely reneged on again you
can't break an agreement that you loudly
and publicly reneged on no John I mean
like I've been reading a lot of the you
know the the angry American commentariat
where they were like Iran was in
violation of this deal even before they
signed the deal and it's like a very
philip k dick thing going on here it's
like now wait until last year or
something like that like but it does
seem like you know whether you're
the American Enterprise Institute or
Brookings you know that that's not a
hobby that's our range of options here
they just they for them Iran is will
always be the bad guy because as we
talked about the last episode you were
on Iran's a bad guy because they won
their revolution and that they still
have their country and they've bloodied
our nose terribly many times since then
perhaps most recently in the war in Iraq
which they won yeah Iran is a clear
winner like the war in Iraq in the 2006
invasion of Lebanon yeah yeah yeah their
their so-called proxies are on a big big
winning streak it isn't a winning streak
that directly affects the United States
except to the extent that the u.s.
insists on identified with to losing
causes Israel and Saudi Arabia but that
the u.s. doesn't insist on identifying
with those losing causes to an insane
extent so yeah they're they have to be
punished in some way except of all the
countries in the world Iran is one of
the hardest to punish I mean what are
you going to what are you gonna do to
them I mean they're they're like you
know DeNiro at the end of that fight
with the three guys in Cape Fear at the
Raging Bull yeah yeah well ray didn't
knock them down yeah
the US was supplying I'm sure most
people know the basics of the iran-iraq
war of the 1980s but lasted you'd be
surprised
yeah lasted from 1980 when Iran was at
its lowest point in many decades when
the Shah had been deposed when half the
officer corps had been executed and the
other half was languishing in prison
when everyone assumed the Islamist
regime that is now the IRI
would be a short term
a bunch of Hick's who would be replaced
by the the Cosmopolitan's instead the
Cosmopolitan's went to prison or the
firing squads even the Iranian Communist
Party the to death saw in their rather
excessively linear way they saw home a
knee as a step to an end to the
inevitable proletarian revolution well
that didn't happen and the u.s. took its
revenge via Saddam who was sort of a
friend at the time and shared satellite
information with the Iraqi command
shared weapons with the Iraqi command
and gave it every encouragement to go
invade this paralyzed helpless Iraq we
could go through a long history of the
war but cut to eight years later Saddam
is begging for peace the Iranian army is
now on Iraqi soil in some places the
Iraqi invading army with all that
American satellite help with all that
Soviet training and all that Armour
heavy advancing forces penetrated a few
miles into Iraq the expected minority
ethnic uprisings did not occur and the
attack never got anywhere near the
northeastern plateau where the majority
of the ethnic Iranian population resides
it was a complete disaster and left the
Iraqis terrified I talked to it Annie
and veteran of the war about what it was
like on the frontlines and he just
laughed and said they were terrified of
us and when you have a side that is
willing to do human wave attacks to
clear minefields and then has troops in
reserve to cross the minefields once
they've been cleared you have reason to
be terrified so Iran is basically not
invade about the idea of an invasion of
Iraq is [ __ ] the idea of a war
between Iran and Saudi Arabia is even
bigger nonsense
Saudi Arabia is as fragile as a moon
colony and so are the Gulf states on the
eastern side of what Iranians called the
Persian Gulf what Arabs prefer to call
the Arab Gulf this is called the Gulf
those countries are
destroyable with surface-to-surface
missiles and those happen to be the
weapons in which the Iranian military
excels most of all and they also happen
to be the weapons which the US military
which has invested heavily in
human-piloted fighters aircraft carriers
and other gold-plated weapons does not
want to think about the US Navy has no
plan for a swarm of surface-to-surface
anti-ship missiles except one of these
days we will have lasers that work they
have been saying that since I was a
hardware nerd and and that means what
about what about the railgun
hey I killed that giant transformer it
used to be a bad guy when Saddam was
gonna get it and and and then most
thought killed everybody who was
involved in that project and and now
it's now it's gonna get us out of
trouble but even a railgun REE needs
reloading and surface-to-surface
missiles are cheap and easy to make and
when you're dealing with the gigantic
targets that Iran has to face you don't
need to aim that perfectly what you need
is numbers because the US has designed
weapons which can't be dismissed as bad
but are meant for an imaginary cold war
between the US and the Soviet Union in
which manned or sorry human piloted
planes would be the main aerial weapon
that means that the Patriot missile is a
good weapon if you want to use its
fragmentation warhead to bring down an
incredibly fragile Soviet fighter bomber
jet because those things are
unbelievably easy to kill a Scud is not
easy to kill it's not even guided it's
your eighth grade geometry problem it
you fire it at an arc with X amount of
fuel and you can predict within a very
broad range where it's gonna land and if
you're aiming say at a saudi port on the
gulf which contains some of the most
fragile technology in the world
oil refineries basically tubes full
of explosive liquids desalination plants
tubes full of the water that keeps the
hugely overpopulated Arabian Peninsula
alive and which would soon die of thirst
without them you don't need a super
accurate Scud and if the US has a total
inventory of 10,000 Patriot missile if
everyone hit its target in an ass
surface-to-surface attack on the east
coast of Saudi Arabia which by the way
is Shia and not too thrilled about being
under Saudi Arabia in the first place
they might hit their targets some of
them because some have been designed
comically enough with a revised warhead
which is now just and I kid you not
a gigantic cylinder of lead because the
idea is these little fragmentation
warheads
just don't do anything to us god it's
like the Scud comes up in its little
parabola fragmentation warhead goes off
oh oh just hit me so it's like a fish
that'll just punch it out of the air
yeah and or at least deflect its course
I mean yeah think how hard a physics
problem that is yeah and how easy a
physics problem it is to design a new
model Scud and and Iran has been
designing bigger and better and longer
range some guided some unguided
surface-to-surface missiles for decades
getting some of the technology through
North Korea some through God knows
Ukraine there was a time when you could
buy anything in Ukraine and the Soviet
Union the CIA bought most of it but I
really doubt they bought all of it and
all you have to do is create a
sufficient number that you can overwhelm
these Patriot batteries because it takes
a while to reload a patriot it usually
carries groups of four missiles to
reload and you cannot say wait hold on
we're reloading this you know this is
not a war that has to be fought fair so
the idea of even fighting a proxy war on
behalf of Saudi Arabia against Iran is a
lie that's being a lot it's a lie that's
being peddled to a lot of people yeah do
you have an invasion of Iran
is more than a lie it's a joke they
should get some of those s for hundreds
I hear those are much better than me
yeah yeah they're there they're bigger I
think I I think you what you need in a
coming war is quantity because the
coming war a quantity and variety
because the coming war and this is
something the US has been as slow to
realize as the Spanish Terios were to
realize before the Battle of wah
disillusioned them in a hurry when you
have a successful technology and since
1945 we've had a what seems to be a
sufficient successful technological mix
there's a huge interest in not
disturbing it but what do you do about
drones for example drones are already in
use by people with very low technical
level who these got a bunch of drones
right yeah the Houthis have drones
Islamic state had drones all you need is
a little drone together Yi over the
target and you wave down to them and
flip a switch which releases a catch
which releases a grenade and you have
the world's cheapest air force we are
not used to that way or you used to have
incomplete air superiority so to shoot
down drones you need a mass of tiny
little you know Hornet size genitive
butterfly yeah yeah yeah Oh a net might
work too but you need a whole bunch of
new technology to shoot down giant
parabolic regional missiles you need
much bigger weapons so John I mean like
obviously the people whose job it is no
this [ __ ] at like the Pentagon or think
tanks or whatever they're certainly they
can't be unaware of this there must be
people who realize like you said that
the idea of the United States going to
war with Iran is a joke it would destroy
our military and like this is a war we
would lose and lose badly despite how
powerful you know the despite all the
money and the technology that we have
like again the average American soldier
think about that
what invading Iran so what's he can get
as Felix likes to say get a
communications degree back in America
like what like they really want to die
for this I mean or like it was bad
enough in Iraq when they just became
like the cops of Baghdad basically
getting picked off by IEDs and taking it
out on the local population I mean Iran
is like a hundred times worse than that
probably designed as a fortress
I mean mountain ranges surrounding a
central plateau where the most important
population lives how do you even get to
Tehran I mean remember the US has tried
to get to Tehran that was way back
during the Carter years when they were
the US military had a slight infatuation
with other militaries Soviet and Israeli
at once so they wanted to do a an
Israeli style and tab a raid to free the
hostages in Tehran they didn't get
anywhere near Tehran and these were the
best of the best it's it's ridiculous so
they must know that but at the same time
like I said at the you know highest
echelon of like you know America the
American foreign policy wonks and think
tanks this is like I said the holy grail
for them they still have this idea that
we're gonna do regime change in Iran and
it's just like is it insanity or is it a
bluff like what what accounts for this
because these people keep talking about
how you know look I I've actually
noticed now that like even they are kind
of aware of the idea that they are not
going to sell the American people on
another wholesale land invasion of a
country like Iran after they blew it all
in Iraq so they but they keep saying
things like we need to get tough with
Iran or there needs to be in a response
we have to show toughness because if you
know we're you know if we don't respond
then you know weakness will invite more
aggression from the Iranians or whatever
it's just like is it is it just insanity
or is it just bluster or or like what
like what are these people after I mean
that's a really good question
and on our show on radio Warner I
frequently get hung up on questions of
consciousness as in what are they
actually thinking and I don't know what
they're actually thinking because there
aren't a lot of rational thoughts and
range here the the point is you could do
a lot of damage to Iran there's no doubt
about that the u.s. can do a lot of harm
the US if it wanted to could annihilate
a
in cities if it was willing to break the
nuclear taboo and there were suggestions
during the hostage crisis in 1979 that
it do so so far the taboo has held so
it's unlikely that the US would nuke an
Iranian city but if it did it could
certainly do that kind of harm it could
destroy the Iranian petroleum industry
with cruise missile or air strikes if it
used air strikes it would lose airplanes
there would be prisoners of war it would
look really ugly but that's as far as I
can go it could do a lot of harm but
what people who think about that don't
factor in very well is Iran with its
allies especially Hezbollah is the best
in the world at doing counter harm by
means that you do not expect and in
places you do not expect for example
Hezbollah has shown an ability to strike
throughout Europe throughout the Middle
East Hezbollah is extremely good at
assassination I don't want to end up i
over idealizing these groups Hezbollah
kills people it does a very good job of
killing people it tends to kill the
right people which is harder than most
people realize assassination is not as
easy as the movie movies make it look
but if the u.s. hurt Iran Iran would
hurt the u.s. back and not necessarily
in the Persian Gulf I've seen a defense
research study which says what's our
first move in a war with Iran and
basically when you get out of the
euphemisms it says evacuate everybody
from the Persian Gulf so Iran seems to
be thinking yeah the u.s. is going to
have sense enough maybe to do that so
where have we seen these tanker attacks
and this is where I differ from the
majority of say left analysts on this
who would say these are gulf of tonkin
provocations all over again they may
well be that the u.s. is certainly
capable of staging something that dumb
but when you look at the locations
remember they're all outside the Persian
Gulf
there's a little enclave of the UAE
called Fujairah which is on the Indian
Ocean the open Indian Ocean and the UAE
cleverly thinking Iran can cut off the
Strait of Hormuz due north of this
Enclave and thereby close the Gulf built
a pipeline between its territory and
this enclave of fujairah on the Indian
Ocean and the thinking was obvious this
way the Iranians can't get us we
bypassed their choke point at the Strait
of Hormuz so a few weeks ago somebody
very carefully without sinking a ship
without hurting a single human being
disabled three of those tankers in Port
in Fujairah the US of course refused to
get the message or get any message a bit
later somebody disabled two tankers on
the open ocean in the Indian Ocean far
outside of Fujairah
at first they said those tankers were
torpedoed and everybody laughed because
a torpedo impact can be noticed
instantly it's meant to break the ship
in half and sink it this on the contrary
hit the ship from the top and set it on
fire and the captain of one of the ships
said we were hit from the sky by
something that dropped an explosive like
say a drone hmm so that seems to me to
be okay maybe it was gulf of tonkin
I don't know but it could just as easily
be a smart and extremely restrained way
of saying you guys are not thinking
clearly you're not thinking what we
could do and I'm one of the you know
suppose it Iranian provocations as they
shot down a US drone yeah and that was
one of my favorite things it was like
they shot down our drone that drone was
two weeks or retirement carry power cord
millions of circuits died they were
dreaming there Danny Glover lives
showing Mel Gibson the pictures of their
boats when they retired and all of a
sudden they died yeah I mean the other
amazing thing about that throne 222
million dollar larious
yes I always thought the drones would
have a trouble come competing with a
piece of crap like the f-35 because you
get four f-35s for the billion dollars
if you're lucky and it's probably going
to go higher and I thought the problem
with drones is that they're cheap well
they fix that one Contracting ya know
again um why can't we have universal
health care in this country it's just
too much money who's gonna pay for it be
realistic people we could have had
[ __ ] universal health care and college
debt forgiveness for like the f-35
program basically oh god yeah or
something approaching that the flying
guillotine yeah and some of those kids
might actually have been effective
workers unlike the f30 all right um well
newsflash to Annie Chapman listen or war
or any kind of war or provocation with
around extremely bad extremely bad do
not want just or the idea that I mean
did you see the great this clip of
Bernie Sanders on Face the Nation where
the woman was like talking about well
Trump you know he he decided not to do a
strike and he was like oh well you know
he set the we set it on fire in the
first place then he puts it out and then
she was like well you know it was a
limited strike and he just goes oh well
excuse me I just didn't know you could
drop bombs on a nation of people and
that's an active warfare so this idea
that there's any way that like you said
like it will be you know we're talking
to them and and any in any response that
we make the idea that we'll do some
limited air strike to them and it'll
it'll end there or that'll bring them to
the negotiating table or something is
insanity it's insanity all of this is
predicated I'd say among the media class
people like that and even in with some
of these people in government is the
idea that the US it's these the
relationship is is that we act upon
these country rights we act upon them
they cannot act in response there's
nothing that they can do they don't have
internal politics they don't have their
own agenda and strategies and there's
nothing that they can do in response to
what we do exactly and I think in a row
it's important to know a little history
here for intelligence gathering and
irregular warfare purposes you can
consider Iran and Hezbollah as very
closely linked Iran and Hezbollah as an
Iranian said there's real love there
there's there's real affection there and
then as this Iranian woman said that's
what the US doesn't understand this is
not bought Allegiance this is an
allegiance that goes way back to when
Iran helped us when the Shia of southern
Lebanon were the poorest and the most
despised of every group in the country
so when you think about what they can do
it's worth remembering the attempt to
put two hundred forty well two hundred
three hundred Marines in a high-rise
outside Beirut 242 of them were dead
within seconds of a truck bomb attack
the next encounter between American
intelligence and Iran / Hezbollah was
the kidnapping torture extraction of all
possible information and eventual murder
of the c.i.a station chief in Beirut and
then the VBIED that is car bomb attack
on the CIA headquarters in Beirut at the
time it was having its overall Middle
East meeting where anybody who was
anybody in the CIA was in the room and
died I mean this this is not just a
mixed result this is annihilation and
there's no reason to suppose it would go
any better now because Iran is the
winner of the Iraq war Qasem Soleimani
is going to be remembered as the hero
and the victor of the iran-iraq war the
United States spent billions and
trillions probably three trillion
dollars and 5,000 lives of its own let
alone how many godness hundreds of
thousands of Iraqi lives imposing a
shield that government on Iraq which is
by no means an Iranian puppet but is
largely friendly to Iran so the
situation is infinitely
worse as far as the us-iran
confrontation is now than it was back in
the 1980s and in the 1980s just to
remind everybody quickly they kicked our
ass there you go I mean you let Lake are
you listening he's not composing more
battle raps yeah he's gonna diss I
