uh the other thing that happened this
week we did get a chest talked about was
um ben shapiro destroyed by BBC why
don't you just say that you're on the
left is so hard for you why can't just
be honest this is a it's a serious
question mr. shapiro if you only knew
how ridiculous that statement is you
wouldn't have said it I just leave you a
question yeah he got us back walls blown
out there who is that Ben Shapiro no I
know Ben Shapiro who's that one BBC guys
it was Andrew Neil thousand year old
Tory
yeah he's the turtle from Neverland
Jerry that's like you can't get though
he's like yeah he's like one of these uh
you know British TV interviewing fossils
that um ya know he he he destroyed ben
shapiro just basically by asking him
questions but the thing is everyone
assumed that it was like ben shapiro
pawed by reality but like Andrew Neil is
like thinks that being gay is a disease
and that like global warming is made up
along with vaccines it's like he's just
like a weird ancient yeah Tori Luna it
just goes to show how sure how much of a
precious little boy Ben is well the
thing is like it just the conventions of
like British TV news interviews are
completely different than American which
is like in America they always want to
get you booked back and they never ask a
follow-up question where it was like in
the BBC like they take pride and you
know but you know making you
uncomfortable or just sticking the knife
in I've got nothing but time to open up
this textually printed copy of your
tweets yeah the best thing is like
Andrew Neil like in the UK is just like
psychotic far-right lunatic but like
people do who people who watch it with
no context we're like oh this epic
liberal just poem in America is just an
exceptionally right-wing country that's
that's the thing that's been started
that because his when he started getting
pushback his only move was I you're
actually a liberal and this is actually
a biased interview because that is the
strategy is that you prevent getting any
kind of critical
push back in an interview by working the
refs by establishing a thing where you
say any kind of hostility is proof of
your bias and since every American
journalist is terrified of being called
biased in any way that keeps them from
doing anything that'll make that'll make
it hard for him to respond what's so
funny about that is that like this Ben
Shapiro is like mr. to damn debate and
like isn't the entire like convention of
a debate is that your opponent is biased
against your point of view yeah or that
his argument will argue against that he
only wants to debate as we've discussed
many times
weeping college students those are the
only people wants to make no one else
who has ever offered to debate him has
ever been taken up on it other than like
see like dog and pony shows that like
politican where it's like just a bunch
of media hacks otherwise it's like if
you don't have purple hair and you're
not already crying when you're talking
to him he doesn't want a debate you you
Benjy barrel will get thrown off if
somebody isn't actively shivering around
yeah the way to defeat ben shapiro is to
slow down his voice track to normal
one-time speed
he's usually played at 1.5 x and if you
just dial him down if you chop a clip if
you chop and screw shapiro its these
points become instantly assailable it's
like the G he's like the chipmunks if
you slow it down and hear how they
accomplished ben shapiro ya know he
should cut a Christmas album Alvin Simon
chef P no actually your argument is
false it's absolutely insane
to keep my wouldn't wear pants or coat
he's gonna wear a turtleneck I'm using
bulky and told me he's gonna wear to bed
he's gonna wear to bed like a night
shirt okay
well that's an entire separate article
of clothing that could stand alone yeah
doesn't even have an underwear around
anymore basketball shorts are you gonna
tell me because his legs are short or
plenty of people short legs were pants
family can hardly stay on the wait
please Christmas don't be late you look
for anything that came out of that um
was you know as you do you know you make
fun of Ben Shapiro's stupid squeaky
voice and his height
but like the backlash to the backlash
are people saying that like you know
please let's make fun of ben shapiro
because you do it based on something
other than his height stupid voice or
general physical appearance and it's
just like if you can't make fun of
someone based on how they look and sound
really can you do i don't know what are
we doing here doing here people let's
just pack it in it's like you know being
short it's like you know it's like he
was born with Dorf ism or something that
being that's not a disability or
anything it's just a we guy yeah I mean
it wouldn't the shortness wouldn't
really matter if he if he didn't have
just such a hall monitor energy well he
has short guy energy yeah that's the
thing there are short guys that they
pull it off you know yeah like Tom
Cruise exactly star pimp is the energy
of an intergalactic dictator yeah he's
got big zine soon who had a big Xenu
energy um you please make fun of Ben
Shapiro all you want but can you please
do it in dry academic language in a
peer-reviewed journal
[Laughter]
