the Potomac vol room you have to walk
past the main entrance and then you have
to walk past Radio row which is where
every one of the the accredited media
organizations is doing interviews with
all the other attendees and so you're
walking in this very narrow corridor
with all of these people who are all
talking they're all part of this media
hive and everything was too loud and the
faces were like coming right at me and
they would just be crystal and clear for
a second and they honest swear to God
they all looked like they were gonna
start biting me like that III had 100
Thompson called the fear I actually had
it like I said I remember when we went
to the when I went to the RNC I said
that everybody looked like they were
from a Ralph Steadman painting but I
actually felt in that moment like I was
inside a Ralph Steadman drawing I was
getting the fear and I was like man let
me get you some water
like it'll be okay like here here have
some water dude it'll be fine so he was
like it's no good be it feels bad then
it was going like straight down into the
valley then whisked right back on a
gondola I earned it after feeling like
and I sort of God I felt like I was in
the Amazon and they were piranhas and
they were gonna just strip my [ __ ]
bones in a second I was genuinely
terrified but then a beautiful golden
boy saved me I'm talking about the
unofficial off the cuff punk rock Jacob
Wall Jack Burkman in lower Loomer press
conference
Wow that was the Virgil by this one hit
fire had joined us so the whole team was
assembled for this like um ad-hoc press
conference because I guess Jacob and
Jack weren't given credentials to CPAC
Laura was but we'll get through the
funny funny turn on that a little bit
again and we were - we were like just
put a point on this everybody emailed
earlier to get credentials I never got
an email back from CPAC giving me my
credentials and I just walked into the
media room at the day and was like can I
please have credentials I'm with these
guys and they were like yeah here you go
so that's how easy it is to get so
remember how I told you how like in the
Gaylord Convention Center is like this
gigantic like glass atrium that's like
eight stories high and we were on with
like the Sun just pouring in
and a Jacob led us to basically like the
edge of a cliff yeah looking over like
this verily we were all yes we were the
Avery everybody who wanted to see the
Jacob thing was sort of milling around
in this area no one knew exactly where
it was gonna be because there's a
million places it could be technically
called the lobby so we didn't want to
miss it and I figured he's gonna he's
only doing this for the press he's not
gonna start doing it if nobody's there
he's gonna find us and sure enough
eventually he came into the lobby and he
just Pied Piper of Hamelin style just
leaves us all on to this this
outcropping area with where the atrium
of the SS all the Sun pouring in
it was dappled as [ __ ] we were dabbled
we had dappled up so Jacob Jack Burkman
Laurel Umar there to give in their words
the events of CPAC the most bombshell
like this is like the bombshell this is
what's gonna make headlines this is
what's gonna make news he delivered it
to us and literally sixes of other
people um all of whom were hostile press
there - laughing yeah every single this
is just this was a comedy performance
yes every every other like actual
earnest attendee was like you know
[ __ ] they were watching like Rick
Perry talked about the future of coal
yes something they were not watching
this [ __ ] so we get there he immediately
hands out when what he is calling a
confidential report I'm holding it in my
hand right now it is literally like five
pages stapled together just Times New
Roman 12-point font looks like something
you would give in to like a class you
were trying to get a C in your freshman
year of college they're just not really
putting in much effort yeah those
pictures in it yeah it says confidential
report investigation of representative
ill on Omar February 2019 and then he's
like does everyone have a copy of this
and at the bottom of each page it says
privileged and strictly confidential
so this is the first thing we see we
remember you remember like last week
they like them and that Ali guy all went
to Dinkytown
Ali's there by the way they well went to
dinky town and got dinky burgers in
Minneapolis but like the Somali warlords
who
taken over there stop so this is um this
is their investigation and we knew like
I was like this is gonna be an epic
married her brother right yeah and lo
and behold that's exactly what it was
about yeah and put the entire so he's
like yeah he was giving the presentation
from this dossier which is in front of
the moon door private right he was at
the moon door and he's giving the
presentation like it his verbal
presentation had like nothing to do with
the document though it was just like you
would momentarily look up and be able to
make like hear him because of course he
wasn't miked and people are yelling but
when you did hear me but and you know as
you know Somalis have an Islamic style
warlock in their community that helps
them change faces and then you'd look
back at the document it would just be
like poorly translated Instagram
screenshots okay I want to read this is
from the document provided under bold
underlined findings the following
findings are based on an extensive
investigation including forensic
analysis cyber intelligence and
in-person interviews with well-placed
human sources and the cyber intelligence
is literally just following on Instagram
and doing screenshots and then
mistranslating from whatever Lane Somali
is just like again like the whole thing
was that she married her brother to get
citizenship in America I can't say that
you know there any anything to bullet
proof was presented it could be hard for
them and that Sam to [ __ ] ignore this
one but I gotta say if it is true I
think that owns and is awesome like if
that if that's the [ __ ] hustle she
pulled to go from being in a refugee
camp to in Congress in America doing
that were sure [ __ ] cool
you dumbass ya lazy [ __ ] okay
can we talk about Jack Burkman though
Jack Burkman was wearing the most
dishonest he was wearing a pinstripe
suit with a black turtleneck like
literally the outfit you wear when
you're about to get beaten up for
gambling debt
he's got the hair he's stepped out of a
1996 vivid porno video yes sex it is
with saxophones in the background white
pumps she's got pearl necklace odd she's
got crispy bangs Felix that's the only
way it happens Felix usually a Jack
Burton was there and he'd be like by the
way if you're here for my press
conference against my lawsuit against
Domino's pizza delivery that'll be a
later in the afternoon yeah Berkman
looks like yeah he just like it looks
like he's just like the catenary damn is
he of lawsuits he just rolls around the
world and he's like Domino's Pizza
Tracker dishonest yeah I'm getting on
that illa no more married her brother
getting on that robert muller raesha
woman getting black comm whatever
getting on that he's he's a lawsuit
against black.com for discriminating
against hiring him as an apport
and then next to them was laura Loomer
who had a boy on that had her picture
like a drawing of her with tape over her
mouth but the problem is that was like
for looks and nose jobs ago didn't think
about that's the thing about Loomer that
it's already a sign that you're unwell
if you're wearing a t-shirt with your
face on yeah bad I'm very not very many
people can pull that off and convey
sanity or competence but her problem is
of course that she seems to change her
look once a week dude she's a faceless
woman just that heightens that's like a
new level of looking unwell that you're
wearing a shirt with your face on it
that looks nothing like that anything
like cuz she's blond of the picture on
her shirt and she now has black hair
it's very confusing and I so in this
scrum you know at the in the Eyrie
overlooking the moon door there's like I
said sixes of people there virtually all
of them laughing and I can't overstate
how funny I was live and here's the
thing I was a little bit like off to the
side I I sort of separated from Felix
mad and virginal and during this whole
press conference were like yeah
like Jacob wall is presenting it just
totally straight face completely
straight face I look over and you can
hear it like while he's going on and
there's video clips to this where you
can hear felix talking about Game of
Thrones and Matt is just red-faced
pouring sweat crying from laughing just
get like gales of laughter are coming
out of him and like look and we were
like three feet away from them so they
could see and hear all of this
but again just knowing no
acknowledgement I'm just like so self
contoured like at my computer I'm like
no I don't even have like a cam on I'm
not a disc or I'm like my hair looks
like [ __ ] I'm such a [ __ ] [ __ ] I
hope I'm killed by a sniper across my
balcony and Jacob all like literally
hears like people like basically
screaming and a man out of his mind on
acid crying laughing at him he hears me
calling him young Griff and his scumbag
he calling him Jon connington he's like
all going to plan yes going the perfect
poker face no reaction no really
impressive actually
basically rope went when when when
Laurel uber said that because they
described half of it as complaining that
Omar wouldn't talk with them and I can't
imagine why but at what point she says
and I went representative Hobart I Lou
murdered her and she used when she said
she Lou murdered her I [ __ ] I was
dead I was outside of my body for a man
oh yeah I I wasn't on any dry feel like
I depersonalized in a good way
I feel like I spent the entire week in
third person mode I kind of fell back
his world they're just laughing and
riffing and heckling them and I thought
and we're surrounded by you know like a
dozen or so journalists and I thought
are these guys magan's we're brewing
their video they're artists I know
they're also laughing and just heckling
them and just asking and making question
and that's what I realized what you know
this this trio this visit what the three
musketeers do by going from town to town
and putting on these press conferences
they're basically medieval Jean blues
they are they are circus actors there
because you know uh all sorts of
entertainment is entertainments or band
yeah they're tumbling bear dives
these people and then yeah they just go
around from village to village to enter
to entertain the local the small folk
except in this case the small folk the
only people who pay attention to them
are journalists because all they're like
online fans are housebound no that's the
thing is that it was a totally
self-contained experience it was just it
was entirely for the benefit of these
journalists it was not going to change
anyone's mind it's not going to
penetrate the MC MSM nobody but
housebound boomers are even gonna hear
about it on Twitter it's just for our
benefit and that's when I was I started
to think that Jacob wall must be some
sort of transcendent comic genius and
that this is actually the only good bit
going on right now of all the people
trying to do bits because we're all kind
of like late capitalism is just a giant
improv class and we're all just doing
bits for each other most of them suck
because most improv is bad they're
decent some of more of them are okay and
a few were very good I feel like he's
the only one who's the best he's the
John [ __ ] Belushi of late capitalism
because he doesn't care how anybody sees
him all of us we're bound by the fact
that we have an audience that we want to
reflect well on us they want we have an
audience of people we want to think that
we're smart or funny or good people same
thing for all the would-be carnival
barkers on the right they have an
audience that they want to think that
that they're good in some way Jacob Walt
does not care and so it's just pure
performance and like at the end of it
we'll summarize some hey what about that
thing where you said robert muller raped
that lady goes yeah we're done with that
that was my old set what are you by
artist my honest-to-god recommendation
you is that if Bowl and luma are coming
to your town do not miss that show if
it's the funniest thing is like it's
like when the Sex Pistols plane in
Manchester for the first time you know
everyone not many people saw it but
everyone who did went on to form a band
or The Velvet Underground we played a
clip I did get the chance to ask the
first question at the press conference
we play a clip of my Mike Mike you
well potential is there okay if I read
it all right
is it confidentially this is hereby
released you can post it and and
populate we're answering questions about
the report so is it okay for other
people readers no we haven't talked to
anybody so and then in between there we
leave the wall press conference we're
going back to the Potomac main hall then
we get the main event no Thursday and I
gotta say like again the contrast could
not be more vivid Dimond and silk died
even in Sukkot this is what we were
really looking forward to diamond and
silk get out there and I gotta stay
[ __ ] blew the doors off that they
killed it absolute crime they deserve
every penny they got double well and
certainly diamond deserves mostly that's
okay I'd never seen that I've only seen
them like on cable news or like brief
clips that I've never actually seen them
do like like a set yeah and I had no
idea
silk literally does nothing well she
dated black lady because she asked like
what they have to do black lady stuff
that's why they like diamond does all
the jokes and like all the like the
zingers and then all silk does is just
go uh-huh
no well silks like the head writer but
it was that was so sick that was so
[ __ ] sick like I was so mad I was
there after the two speeches I'd seen
previous is just I once you're like to
jewel pause I was so [ __ ] I was
watching TiVo on Twitch on my phone at
full volume and I was just so [ __ ]
irritated and then just you know I I I
honestly thought so we were in the back
media pit right and you can't really see
the front of the room and judging by the
reaction to the two speeches we had seen
I was like there's gonna be like no one
here they got to just be saving it till
he can see like trump or like Mark Levin
but when diamond and silk came out it
was like this place is packed
yeah like I thought they were gonna form
a pit dude yeah I counted it there was
no fewer than a half-dozen
standing ovations for diamond and silk
and the thing is you guys have never
seen him before I've seen them in person
longtime listeners will know that when I
went to the RNC in Cleveland in 2016
with Bryan Quimby from street fight we
went to the Alex Jones rally that was
held totally separate from the
convention on a little little park next
to the river
I was 95 degrees out Milo was there Alex
Jones was there Roger stone was there it
was a cavalcade of googoo forum goofy
mops and di-didn't silk had a speech and
they it was probably maybe a hundred
maybe 200 rough-looking Infowars fans
and they didn't do that well bombed they
kind of bombed I mean nobody I mean only
Alex Jones really got a big crowd and
got them engaged supersonic because
that's what people were there for but
they they did okay the big problem was
is that they would have like these setup
punchline situations and the goofus is
the [ __ ] Hicks in the audience would
yell into the into the pauses and ruin
their rhythm and you can see them
getting mad at them so it was like it
was okay you know a couple hundred
Infowars fans and now boom two and a
half years later at the same stage the
president will be on two days after them
packed roomful of like millionaire
Saiyans and and fail Suns going crazy
for like yeah like you said like you
said to me and it was actually like it
really hit me like nothing sums up the
last two years more than you seeing them
bomb 90 degrees in front of Cleveland
shitty River yeah um
two years later head lying and lastly
the marquee event of American
conservatism on the same stage that
Donald Trump himself and killing it
killing it just like Troy like just I
cannot like they were impromptu cheers
Oh Felix loved this at one point
diamonds going off and she says just in
the middle of her patter goes socialism
and then someone randomly in the middle
of the crowd just yells out socks yeah
this guy like he gave his death yell
until he died after all week and I was
like it was his death rabble and then
like this diamond was like that's right
honey and then he died and just his soul
drifted off to heaven
playing a [ __ ] harp he went to
conservative the hall like he's gonna
live in a ben shapiro savage moment
compilation so I'm trying to remember
even like what the content of their cell
is it's just like it was just like just
like all that all the wall hold the wall
they're gonna take your cows this is
what the one that I wrote down was she
said always talk about a green new deal
we need a new deal for babies what I
don't understand what don't you
understand when an illegal alien come
through that border illegally the left
advocates to help and support them
uh-huh but when an American baby comes
through the birth canal legally uh-huh
leftist advocating to kill them I have a
problem with that
plus my problem with that problem is a
problem
yeah yeah I have a problem with that
uh-huh and I'm sorry we don't need a
green new deal
we need a new deal for our American baby
that's right
we need a new deal for American babies
which just made me imagine a bunch of
little infants and Civilian Conservation
Corps has building a dam yeah oh my god
then the business plot is done by the
boss baby we need we need to we need to
electrify the Tennessee Valley birth
canal dude I mean just yeah like I get
like look at this impromptu chance
standing ovations of course grotesque
but I will say now I would accept a
writing job on Diamond and silks season
three yeah if anyone's out there I will
take the head writing job for Diamond in
silk season three mm see singin on the
same day within a few hours Jacob all in
them it really did make me feel like I
was enjoying like in the 80s during the
the height of stand-up comedy as an art
form and seeing the two greatest
exemplars of the opposing schools it
felt like wall was vintage anti comedy
Andy Kaufman uncle just totally a
principled you know committed to the pit
anti comedy and then Diamond Seok were
raw era leather suit Eddie Murphy
theatrical release stand-up special just
crushing it destroy diem people yeah
okay so that about brings us to the end
of the first day mm-hmm
