yeah I did want to address this on the
show as well again this is completely
from left field it's another one of
these just mind viruses that you've
continually infect me with but yet are
strangely also incredibly correct and
never wrong I was speaking of course
about your latest thing the hot couch
and DVD menu imagery that you've been
conjuring recently it's a bit of like
found poetry but when I first saw it I
didn't quite get it but then is it
dawned on me became one of those things
that was both very vague and hard to
define but at the same time incredibly
real and I relate about instantly can
you explain the hot couch DVD menu
phenomenon all of you have experienced
this I believe will has this is not just
oh this is like I don't why this is a
Midwest thing but I think there's a year
or so I will have slum dit in his day
I'm intrigued I just imagine his young
young adult years is like Bret Easton
Ellis West than zero type of situation
come on it was much more like a Wes
Anderson movie there was plenty of hot
couches and DVD menus in my lifetime
that I figure dress like child Monty
burns all right so let me paint the
picture for you yeah 19 years old you
wake up you have that little little sort
of like weird granular feeling in the
back of your neck from not eating you
have a pounding headache you're not just
your your mouth that's like every corner
of your mouth is dry mm-hmm from the tip
of your tongue to the back or on your
molars you just feel like this baseline
of pain and the sunlight is just
marinating you but right you're you're
rays or sunlight you know like something
true you see all of this stuff floating
through Shady's line every
speck of dust and okay yes you find
yourself on this couch you roll around
to find the colder spot there is none
it's boiling hot it's black it's a fake
leather yes
you peel yourself off of it you try to
peel yourself out of it but you think if
you move everything will hurt more there
is some awful sound playing you realize
that you've been hearing it for the past
hour
it is DVD menu music to the movie
running scared comparable to Monet who
actually painted that way because he had
cataracts Oh Felix doesn't necessarily
see the detail of everything but he
creates an image from a kind of color
based composite of blurs that is somehow
more accurate than photorealist it's
incredibly vivid yes the light what he
does so the hot couch thing started when
I was talking with Andrew from episode
one and he had this post it was like hey
man you want to come over to our
friend's house we always go do for some
reason where he just has one shitty
overhead as the sole source of life he
Smokey's constantly smoking cigarettes
inside this is the same shitty rap song
and I have a towel in case you want to
sleep here yeah oh my god the towel is
blanket that's bad yeah and so you go to
hot couch guy's place and yet he's just
your drinking rum inside alone and just
you and maybe two other people out of a
big-ass plastic cup big plastic mixing
with Tropicana because in his frigerator
he only has like a few condiments like
leftover takeout from a week ago
hello relish in there yeah like the
relish is fairly big hint if you drink
is if you drink his orange juice he'll
be like what the [ __ ] dog you drink my
mixture and the entire night you're
drinking with him he's like yeah dude I
want to get my life together
I was watching his [ __ ] Nat Geo
documentary I think I'm gonna try to go
in Special Forces
he's once they get his life together in
Afghanistan
and of course I know that guy that guy's
name that guy's girlfriend's name is
amber playing like you know back and
forth just share it watching videos of
that Marines commercial where he fights
the lava drill oh yeah that [ __ ] was
that got me I still kind of want to join
the Marines everybody look at that I'm
like yeah no no [ __ ] the atrocities dude
I'm about to [ __ ] this lava monster
Jordan come on
he often will have a dog and it's a dog
he thinks he's training for some
unspecific purpose it's the worst thing
ever but just training it in German even
though he doesn't speak German cuz he
read an article that dogs listen to
German commands more than English but
he's also constantly trying to get the
dog hi yeah yeah that's the big yet
though they're trying to get the dog hi
and they're also like honestly the
strong strong is [ __ ] it would kill any
dog in a dark fight like if we got her
pissed off also believes that he can hit
a home run if he could hit a home run
and up a major league ballpark he's like
you know I don't do sports but like I
could do it I would take some training
but as soon as my I caught up that's the
biggest issue not his physical strength
it's his eye catching up to the speed of
the ball but once that's it [ __ ] Knox
and he's got power yeah and he's like
yeah he he's like yeah if they let me
fight in the UFC while I was drunk I
would win every fight right like beat up
a lot of these guys I can tell they so I
would give them a run for their money
that's what they say they need not he's
gonna win but he would he would be in
the fight this is the best thing a hot
couch guy ever said to me in my life
we were watching a fight and he's like
yeah I could tell that guy was good cuz
he was doing everything I would do the
[ __ ]
yeah what made that so intensely vivid
for me was like the idea that like it's
just like that one house that everyone
that you can go to hang out at yes and
it's just it's the one house it's
sometimes not even a house is just a
room mm-hmm
but it's intensely shitty and it's like
four guys on one couch yes it's
incredibly hot and be on the floor yeah
yeah but like but the fact that like the
TV's always on yeah no matter what the
TV has never turned off and when things
taper down it's just it that DVD menu is
just always there glaring at mm-hmm oh
yeah and if you turn off the TV because
you're trying to sleep the guy will get
mad at you
a slight variation on that I don't know
if you've encountered this I don't know
how quite it fits into the hot couch DVD
menu meet those but a lot of times I'll
have you again incredibly shitty couch
couches that are like just bleeding and
trails all the time it's metaphysical
though the fact that the couch is so hot
like it has nothing to do with outside
temperature even the temperature of the
room it's like it's only hot when
observed it's very the zone the owner of
the hot couch in the hot couch room in
my students will often have like a sort
of bootleg sort of swivel office chair
or chair that is his chair and he will
not let one person out a spot when he
ever says you cannot sit in the
captain's chair since he's in the
captain's chair four other guys are on
the hot couch smoking cigarettes indoors
with no windows open um it's negative
three degrees outside but in the room
it's 98 degrees Fahrenheit yeah and yeah
the light coming through and again like
every particulate can be seen it's like
being scuba diving basically yes
everything is floating through the air
oh yeah overhead light like like you
know halogen light you know you like
everyone's skin looks awful right it's
like being in a bathroom so the air
quality is like Beijing summer if you
want to say if you win a little mad
like in high school my hot couch guy's
name was Travis and I [ __ ] you not
we literally called him t-bone respect
and in college it was this guy Elfman
was his last daemon and because there
were too many guys named Josh or Dan or
whatever everyone got called by their
last name and he had the chair and once
he got out of it so drunk and he pissed
in the fan another slight variation on
hot couch guy there were those that have
a dog that they're you know that they
think is like Lassie but badass yeah
there there's also a slight variation on
the hot couch guy is the one who has
some sort of horrible exotic pet like a
away from the snake guys like at a giant
iguana that just sits in a terrarium and
does not move ever does not love you
it's just like I love you like it wishes
for death constantly and the real treat
is feeding it flies that's what he's
really wants to impress use like come
over here man and and they have just
some like complete like harebrained
assumption about the lizard or the snake
just a total birdbrain [ __ ] like nah
dude he's actually smart as foggy you
know what I'm in a bad mood I was in a
bad mood and he coil did the center
decay in the corner of his little of his
terrarium and looked at me detail from
that thread that you guys were all
trading those things where because I
obviously everything is very vivid and
memorable and I related to especially
the DVD menu is like the key to the gate
but someone mentioned vertical blinds
yes oh that like triggered everything's
like [ __ ] vertical blinds
there's just something just abject about
those it's like the saddest way to cover
your [ __ ] cracked oh yes well you you
I mean Matt you you grew up in Wisconsin
you lives in a hut like the the governor
of both those states like sleeps on a
hug
there's a gubernatorial hot couch it's
workin you get sworn in on a copy of too
fast too furious that's like well yeah
that's like I feel like you know prison
prison prison it's like a hot-button
issue but like maybe the compromise is
like there's technically no prisons but
it's just like criminals who like have
victims they have to just live in a hot
couch room yes absolutely not
technically in prison yeah on the
original Xbox mmm album after he got
clean humanitarian groups intervening to
give them gold 9 just like Amnesty
International's like they haven't had
the chicken tenders they've had from the
microwave microwaving me like nah dude
it's better try and do it in the oven
they won't let you do it that's yet they
think that's the best thing about the
hot couch guy is like they they're like
everything you do is like hasty and
there's no real attention to detail but
they're like yeah dude I'm actually a
great chef yeah well I mean the
captain's chair thank you but like like
they won't let you turn on the oven for
any reason these guys all like their
place is a [ __ ] wreck like he said
pissing into a like a box fan 100% but
yet they still have rigorously enforced
rules about what you can and can't do
the only thing they're ashamed cave yeah
of course his life completely owns them
24 hours a day outside of the hot couch
room they are just just a whipping boy
of life like no one respects them they
their dumbest [ __ ] they're failing they
don't [ __ ] like you know what I mean
it's like nothing is going right all
they can control is like you oh no you
can't you can't like the kinds of salsa
you're allowed to eat this is a Tostitos
chunky house
they're bringing [ __ ] rather [ __ ]
uh mild [ __ ] into here you know what I
mean like or like uh you know horrible
coffee table just covered in garbage it
has one of those like Sherlock Holmes
style bubblers in it where the water
hasn't been changed in probably two
years oh yeah you can't even use it
because it's like no longer water slide
but then if you knock it over they're
like dude what the [ __ ] a Museum of
filthy glass pieces yeah yeah oh I got
them I'm nostalgic for college now all
go on a hot couch retreat that's the do
like you know Silicon Valley guys like I
just went to a cabin in the woods we
should arrange it so that we stay in
house couches every city we're in
there's the owner
I just remembered another hot couch guy
sort of Aksum which is like broad F's
week we should go on a [ __ ] camping
trip that never happened it's very
cannery row Steinbeck all kinds of plans
that get derailed by their own
shittiness oh yeah I went on one of
those had died in what they have went on
the mythical hot couch guy [ __ ]
camping trip so I got caught smoking
weed in college I was all my friends
were high I didn't know this at the
times we were in dorms but they were hot
couch guy it's like when they like
because we're in and I had first of all
I had a system all right I had a towel I
was I'm in and out I'm in the [ __ ]
bathroom I'm smoking weed I got a spoof
remember Spa Drive that's how all these
guys these guys don't use boost but they
take pride in being able to make the
best booth you're gonna be like they
have a [ __ ] way they have you they
tell you the like steps anyway I got
kicked out smoking weed with these
[ __ ] idiots but like I felt like I
needed to stay like because they were
just you know ripping a bong in a dorm
room whatever they were like dude it was
kind of like a retreat it was like we're
all gonna [ __ ] feel better man we're
low right now but we're gonna [ __ ]
we're gonna hit the [ __ ] mother
nature and we're just gonna [ __ ]
chill out on
[ __ ] nice camping trip literal and
they're like one guy was like do not and
again they think they're chefs right so
there's six people going on this [ __ ]
thing and one guy's like dude I'm gonna
make the best [ __ ] for Hughes making
fajitas for some reason like in a
camping trip it's like outside the
[ __ ] brought the [ __ ]
brought a like um I guess like a cast
iron and and he cooked it over the flame
but he only brought enough for like
three people and there was no other food
and then literally we never set up a
tent
we all got high and we're listening to
Iron Maiden in my car until and then we
just woke up and the [ __ ] car had the
we had left the car on all night oh just
listening to Iron Maiden and we just no
one slept in a tent we all slept in my
SUV and we have to lay and we just woke
up at 6:00 a.m. in a hot-ass car that's
that's we brought the hot couch into we
turned my chevy blazer into a hot town
and so we and now we just have to walk
through this forest and find campers to
give me a jump because that like that
was the only car we had and that was
that is the hot car that the hot couch
camping trip I've been on a mythical on
is the DVD menu you know what it means
is that the real hot couch yeah it's
like no matter where they go they end up
at odd cut like if you send them to the
bottom of the ocean oh yeah oh just find
some like they'll find there's like some
weird naturally-occurring coral reef
that creates it's like an air pocket
yeah
there's a sulfurous jet that gives
everything real [ __ ] toasted oh yeah
just like wow these deep-sea divers
found this bizarre sonar you know it
sounds exactly like the DVD menu music
how I
[Laughter]
another good one yes once in a while
they would find something that was okay
or nice like a not nice but like okay
broken in two weeks
oh yeah two weeks like a coffee table
anything anything even passable for an
adult human being broken immediately
just contagious destruction that is the
forgotten man and woman they just never
like do you think they're gonna get it
together to vote like ever no come on
you lie about having voted they'll be
like this is some [ __ ] weird lie like
yeah I was actually the first person to
vote for Obama yeah second one got his
[ __ ] together and now he's a lawyer with
children yeah no he got out also we went
to see Obama speak in Elkhart Indiana
and I think part of the the impetus for
his getting his [ __ ] together was one he
pissed in that fan and it really - he
was like oh maybe like there could be
some like structure to the world and
everyone could have health care and he
went to [ __ ] law school now he's a
lawyer specializing in fighting a
backhoe child support he's a father's
rights lawyer see you guys are saying
they were like voted for Obama whatever
all my hot couch guys are the kind of
guys that lie about writing and gary
johnson me like they're all like that
was my first one they lie about voting
and still lie to be problematic like
they like people like be like they like
being wrong and being like a scoundrel
yeah they're being like their thing is
like your Trump is a savage Nelson nuke
the whales poster like I'm smart enough
to actually troll but like they're
obnoxious and loud and stupid
oh yeah 100% I love part of my of my
teach years we all we all carry a little
bit of the hot couch inside and oh my
god I just like like an are you oh man
yeah whether we're you know in that
state or not it's just like we can slide
back into it at anymore
yeah yeah yeah I'll be there again yeah
do you think that like maybe our
listeners are like the people who are
wrapped up in the hot couch world before
going on to be like you know some
[ __ ] job like creative director and
their friends who own the hot couch or a
stuck in the hot couch circle or the
calm town listeners yeah yeah for sure
we're still we're we're the number one
we're sponsored by hot couch I said
[ __ ] Ashley's furniture I don't know
if you guys have yeah we rent a center
every time a leather black couch is
rented to own at a treinta Center it
comes with a iPod mini pre-loaded with
every come true because I was living
with NIC when I made this decision to
buy these couches hmm and I bought
leather casual stuff on him right right
that is still hot couch mentality for
sure I don't go fabric I have Yuuki cats
hey what are the hot couch guy like
posters in their room like obviously
obviously the Godfather my first one was
insane clown posse
he loved his same clown posse and like I
think a lot of hot couch guys he was
into a sport that no one was else too
into he's into hockey which does not
exhibit Indiana so he had a hatchet man
hockey jersey Oh respect that rules do
you know a lot posters that are like
centerfolds but just a weed yeah well
also a hottest bud of the month girls
with big tits playing beer pong that was
a big one for me that was a big one and
then also jakka shmore III don't know
what they were just see to me that was a
big part of hot couch guys was like this
like performative masculinity of like
I'll do not and like just their super
sense of guys that like you know again
don't have any control of anything in
the world like no one is interested in
them they don't have self-esteem that's
what that's why they're so controlling
so it was all this like dude I just love
chicks I love like you know just like
they talk about
sports even though they're bad at them
like all that kind of [ __ ] so it was a
cry when their childhood cat dies yeah
yeah yeah for sure
for the dog yeah yeah hundred one of the
guy one of the couch guys I remember in
college but it was just Facebook like
when Facebook was still the like social
media that everyone [ __ ] with he
created one for his dog just clowned him
until and he stopped it in a day but it
was like that's the kind of guy if he
was left unchecked that's he's just a
sensitive guy that loves his dog yeah
here's another one this is just like
coming back to me now what they're the
hot couch guy he's convinced that like
or one of the people in in the friend
group convinces him that he's like a
really good artist and he's like you
know I want you to do like a big ass
mural on my wall Oh someone draw on
their walls like a child like yes did
you like a dragon or like a graffiti
mural or supportive they so believed in
their friend and it looks terrible
there's some friend who draws just like
asinine [ __ ] and he'll be like yo
Mike is a [ __ ] dope on this is uki
logo how did you come up with that media
in literature if you will not Ricky and
Julian but Trevor and Corey
yes that's beautiful that's beautifully
put okay all right everyone understand
if you don't understand it you've missed
a is not for you if you have no [ __ ]
clue what we're talking about you were
posting on the neoliberal subreddit you
are on our neoliberal in like a
conciliatory mood towards the world
today I feel like there should be like a
hot like every candidate instead of
going to I think they should go to Iowa
actually no stay there no seeing like
the University of Iowa like corn
laboratory or whatever like sleep on a
hot couch like understand like mmhmm
yeah that should be the nearest place
well so we got we got we got savvy baby
here baby in the trap 100
and uh I was wondering since you're now
on our show is there any topic or
anything that you'd like to discuss that
Nick doesn't let you do on come town I
mean I know you guys you love torturing
Adam by not letting him tell stories
other people's jokes you like winding up
Adam but is there anything that you want
to get off your chest here in this in
this safe space Oh interesting
if I want to get any issue you'd like to
address or any questions that you just
you may have yes well at the world of
politics and culture yeah you know I do
want to say this is like you know I do
want to say that I want to defend how
stupid I am and I want to defend how
like my appearance on this show
basically because I've been thinking
about this and it's like why do why like
people on the left are really losing
elections is because like I feel like
you have to be smart to let like
problems get to just be dumb as [ __ ]
like believe in the stuff they do but
guess what baby I'm dumb as [ __ ] I want
people understand you could be stupid as
[ __ ] and just be like you know what I
just don't want homeless people to die
and that's like what your politics are
is like yeah let's just have like
[ __ ] and you could just be stupid and
look you're gonna say problematics
there's idiots like me out there so you
know if you're dumb as [ __ ] but you have
like a heart of gold you don't have you
know couch guys you don't have to write
in gary johnson
you mean just [ __ ] do whatever listen
to smarter people and just you know go
base your politics of that you don't
have to make decisions
you don't mean you don't have to read
I'm never reading a book you don't I
mean like I want that on there needs to
be we don't read but we're socialists
caucus yeah that's and that's me I think
I think that's I would like to lead that
I so I mean a lot of socialists were
literally illiterate yeah that's right
I'm a traditionalist more than
