[Music]
[Music]
hello hello friends it's your shop Oh
it's me will and sitting in is amber
Felix and Virgil but joining us on the
phone is Glenn Greenwald Glenn what's
going on not too much just hanging out
trying to stay out of a Brazilian jail
but otherwise things are pretty good
just a lazy Saturday down playing for an
election interference well Glenn we're
gonna get into what's going on in Brazil
and not just with you know the country
in general but also you know you
specifically but first things first
Wow how about that Muller testimony I
mean I know if you're like me you
watched every second of that on the edge
of your seat and I just like I could not
believe the drama and just like the
moments that created like when he was
asked a question and said no or yes
Glenn how red is your face right now I
mean you know first of all as somebody
who's been a skeptic of this whole saga
for a long time I was obviously pretty
ashamed given how dynamic and compelling
his presentation and also it really it
also made me more excited about Joe
Biden's candidacy because it made Joe
Biden seem extremely robust and
cognitively functional for the first
time so I thought that that was also an
interesting aspect to it yeah if Mahler
wanted to you know retain some that
Biden charm he would have like made a
weird clicking sound with his mouth and
turned to like Barbara Mikulski is in an
office anymore but like you know someone
and gone honey beauty pageants down the
hall no I enjoyed the molar test
monie from an artistic perspective
because it was very it was like a more
higher clap more high-powered version of
about Schmidt bringing in this [ __ ]
old man who for every two months for
last two years has been like yeah I like
can't arrest the president and there
every two months they're like when are
you going to arrest the president and
he's like I I can't and he just keeps
getting older and older and older as it
happens it's very very tragic it was to
me it was really like there was what The
Wizard of Oz like exactly you know just
for three years it was like this
gigantic superhero who was coming to
save the nation and they opened up the
curtain and there was this like
doddering stuttering old weak fragile
man who could barely complete a sentence
and had absolutely nothing of interest
to say I actually thought it was more
like the Nintendo product vehicle the
wizard he's you know you know maybe we
didn't win but we went on a great
journey and we sort of came of age well
yeah I mean like four years now it's
just like we've been hearing wait for
the Muller report then that came out and
it's just like wait till he testifies
and now it's gonna be like wait till he
testified and then said he can't do
anything and but like wait for us to do
something we're not sure what but like
just keep waiting it's gonna happen
again the very Abramovitch it's
anti-climactic and people stare into his
face and start crying
the prosecutor is present all right well
I don't want to waste too much time
talking again about that just absolutely
firecracker performance I mean like
probably the most compelling thing on
television since the moon landing and
it's appropriate because it was the 50th
anniversary of that happening so but
let's talk about Brazil because this is
a story that we haven't really paid
attention to probably should have
because it is legitimately astonishing
and you know you were right at the
center of all of this so I was hoping
like you know you could help explain to
us and our listeners like broadly what's
going on there so let's start with what
was the carwash scandal and who is
Sergio Moro
right so just before I answer that
specifically let me just say that you
know one of the interesting things about
Brazil Portuguese how she is
strategically important it is in almost
every aspect I mean to the size of it
alone it's the fifth most populous
country in the world
it has gigantic oil reserves and then it
has the single most important
environmental asset to protect against
catastrophic climate scenarios which is
the Amazon all of which are endangered
so there's good reason to care about
this country and you know it's the
second biggest country in the hemisphere
beyond just like this standard reasons
to care about what's happening to you
know a country of 220 million people so
the car wash investigation is actually
something that is pretty interesting
because for a long time Brazil has been
driven by systemic corruption so like if
you talk about corruption in the US you
usually mean one of two things you
either mean like the illegal isolated
kind where like some Congress person
gets caught accepting a bribe like an
actual illegal bribe not a legal bribe
but an illegal bribe or you mean the
kind of legalized corruption like
lobbyists donate PACs and donate to
campaigns and then the members of
Congress write the laws that benefit
them in Brazil corruption means like the
illegal systemic kind so just like every
company that wants a contract from the
government a construction contract an
oil contract knows that they have to
factor in eight percent or six percent
into whatever they're paying because
that's the amount that they send in cash
to a Swiss bank account that the
politician in charge of that committee
of the Senate or Congress has and it's
operated this way for decades and
everybody knows it no one ever did
anything about it and what's interesting
about Brazil is you know it's a young
democracy it's now 35 years old so it's
not so young so there's like a new
generation of people who grew up
actually being taught that things aren't
supposed to work that way that you're
supposed to have like a constitution and
a rule of law and there's this group of
you know people in their 30s and early
40s you
started taking that seriously and
started investigating as prosecutors the
kind of corruption that I just described
that everybody knew and always accepted
and they decided it's not acceptable and
they started investigating and
prosecuting and putting into prison like
billionaires you know things that you
would never even see in the US and
really powerful politicians from
multiple parties and so for a long time
almost everybody including me and people
on the left and everybody in Brazil
thought it was a really positive
encouraging thing they became kind of
folk heroes and then after a couple of
years people started noticing that they
seemed much more interested in
prosecuting left-wing politicians than
right-wing politicians and the judge who
was overseeing all of these cases so you
had a kind of team of prosecutors called
the carwash prosecutors lavash Otto and
Portuguese there's this judge Sergio
Moro and he was the one who was just
convicting one after the next and giving
them really harsh sentences so they
would like send billionaires to prison
for 10 years or 12 years or a lot of
times they would imprison them without
charges and kind of pressure and force
them to accuse other people of crimes
that were even more powerful or richer
and so people started raising questions
like wait a minute is this really this
kind of a political anti non-ideological
anti-corruption crusade or is this a
political operation by the kinds of
people in Brazil who tend to be
right-wing people people who are highly
educated educated outside of the US who
are on the right to destroy Lula and the
Workers Party which is dominated
Brazilian politics for 20 years using
the pretext of law in order to destroy
the right and put the right the left and
put the right into power and so you know
the big event culminated last year in
2018 when there was a presidential
election and all polls showed that Lula
who was the Brazilian president from
2002 until 2010 and left office with an
87 percent approval rate
so there's almost no figure as gigantic
on the world stage as Lua and he was he
got term-limited out of office in 2010
he was planning on running in 2018 all
polls showed that he was easily gonna
win he was leading by twenty to twenty
five points against everyone including
Boston ro suddenly they charged him with
a crime that even his critics thought
was very dubious it was a very simple
case so it allowed them to bring the
charges and prosecute him very quickly
and then judge Moro found him guilty
very fast with very little evidence and
an appellate court who is very allied
with judge Moro quickly within a matter
of weeks affirmed the appeal which meant
that under Brazilian law once you're
convicted of a crime and then you have
that conviction affirmed you're
automatically barred from running for
office so that removed him from the
presidential race and then once he was
removed balsan ro became the pole leader
ended up winning the 2018 election this
very very far-right figure way beyond
like Trump or Nigel Farage a marine
lepen even marine lepen has said you
know like he's he's offensive and
xenophobic and you know that gives you a
sense of like how far off the spectrum
he is so once he won he turned around
and the first thing that he did was he
created a new position that's called the
super justice minister and offered that
position to Sergio Moro the same person
who removed his primary adversary Lula
from the race and so Sergio Moro who was
the judge overseeing this corruption
investigation has now been rewarded by
becoming really the most powerful person
in Brazil you could call him the second
most powerful person if you want after
Boston ro but all of these powers of
surveillance and law enforcement and
investigation have all been consolidated
under his control and he is now Paulson
arrows minister of justice and Public
Safety and obviously the most important
person after both scenario in Brazil and
the fact that he got that position after
removing both scenarios main obstacle
to the presidency raised a lot of
questions even among people who had long
supported this investigation and Sergio
Moro liked also like my way of just a
little background here you mentioned
that Brazil is a fairly new democracy
only 35 years old prior to that it was
under a military dictatorship for
something like 25 years right yeah so I
think that context is crucial so you
know unlike Otto a lot of times people
compare Bal scenario to like some of
these new right leaders like Trump or
marine lepen or what's happening in
Italy in Spain the big difference is
that those countries have been
democracies for decades or centuries
Brazil in 1964 had a kind of center-left
left-wing government which was
overthrown by a military coup backed by
the CIA kind of like the classic you
know CIA coup that they did during the
Cold War all the time and installed the
military regime that ruled Brazil
brutally from 1964 until 1985 murder
journalists murdered dissidents balsa
Naro was part of that military regime I
mean he was a young you know corporal
and then a major but he has spent the
last thirty years saying that he
believes Brazil was much better off
under military rule than under democracy
he's an explicit proponent of returning
to military dictatorship so I think that
is crucial to notice that half the
population in Brazil has lived under
military rule before and it's easy to
persuade them that you know what things
weren't actually that bad back then with
a lot of time people forget the abuses
and he's somebody who affirmatively
advocates military rule and therefore
the institutions in Brazil that protect
democracy unlike say in the US and
they've developed over 250 years the
population inculcated with a lot of
values about democracy things are much
more fragile in that regard when it
comes to Brazil than almost any other
major country that is now governed by a
far-right leader so then Glenn who is
bolsa narrows base well so he mean I it
is interesting in this regard I actually
do think there's an interesting
comparison between him and Trump so
part of all sonars base is just outright
you know irredeemable fascists like
deplorable is I guess for one of a
better term you know just people who are
devoid of any kind of ethical or moral
sense their absolute racists they tend
to be like the upper middle-class
bourgeoisie like the professional class
white for sure that's his base like the
hardcore ideologues you think that like
the problems in Brazil stem from black
criminals who live in the favelas who
should just be indiscriminately murdered
who think that you know homosexuals are
pedophiles like the anti LGBT animus is
a big big part of the ball Sonora
movement unlike the other new right
movements so that gets him to maybe like
15 or 20 percent you know Brazil was a
white minority country the majority of
people in Brazil are non-white also
Brazil has huge wealth inequality so
even if you want to use like a really
broad definition of rich maybe six or
seven or eight percent of the country
could fall under that so if all you were
attracting were like the fascist and the
racist and like the rich white [ __ ]
you would get to like eight to ten to 12
maybe 15% which is where everybody
thought while sonora was gonna end up
instead he ended up in the first round
of voting with 42% of the vote and then
in the second round against the Workers
Party with 55% of the vote so a lot of
the people who voted for him didn't vote
for him because of his fascism or his
admiration for repression or his
homophobia racism misogyny they voted
for him despite that they voted for him
because the political class in Brazil
has been neoliberal for the last twenty
years even though the Workers Party was
supposed to be a left-wing party it was
very much like the Democratic Party it
caused huge amounts of suffering a big
epidemic of violence income inequality
got worse and people were just desperate
like we know a lot of people in our
lives friends who are gay or who are
black or her working-class who voted for
balsan are oh because they hate the
political establishment so much that the
more the political establishment warned
them about how dangerous ball Cynara was
the more attracted they became to him
exactly like 20 to 25 or 30% of Trump
supporters are irredeemable racists and
then a lot of them are just people who
are desperate and decided that they
wanted the person who was gonna promise
to burn down the system that has been so
so brutal to them just like you know
what one other threat to pick up here
before we get into like what you and the
intercept and uncovered about the
carwash investigation is the the person
who came after Lula Dilma Rouseff also
in the Workers Party correct yes she was
impeached in 2016 as part of this
investigation as well right yeah I mean
more or less I mean and that's really
when I started getting heavily involved
in doing journalism in Brazil I mean
I've lived here you know since 2005 and
except during the Snowden reporting when
I did a lot of reporting in Brazil
because Brazil was a big NSA target I
kind of stayed out of Brazilian politics
until the impeachment debate because
that was really the first time when it
became clear to me that these forces
that have tried forever to beat the
Workers Party at the polls and have
failed made a decision that they were
gonna abandon democracy and just to take
the worker party workers party out of
power and put in a right-wing party that
they've always wanted to do really harsh
austerity measures to privatize the oil
industry and to sell off the Amazon and
that was the impeachment of Dilma I mean
she was definitely not a successful
president she made a lot of mistakes she
was incredibly unpopular but they found
this like very technical kind of law
breaking that she did where she
basically like borrowed money for a
longer than the law permits and you had
this band of like total criminals you
know people with like 50 million dollars
in Swiss bank accounts leading the
impeachment against her saying we can't
tolerate that kind of waabri it would be
like if you had Charles Manson
that a president be impeached because of
jaywalking or like I don't know like or
we or recording a bad record with the
Beach Boys
yeah or like demanding Donald Trump be
impeached because he made a joke about
the Russians finding Hillary Clinton's
emails in front of cameras in the scheme
of all the crimes that he committed it
was just such an obvious pretext to get
rid of her in an anti-democratic way and
there was almost no dissent allowed in
the Brazilian media that was when I
first started writing about Brazilian
politics created the intercept Brazil
basically to oppose impeachment the
impeachment of DOMA because I knew that
was the start of the unraveling of
Brazilian democracy in the name of
fighting corruption and that's what
actually did lead us to the point that
we're at I mean I didn't anticipate how
extreme it would all be but I could see
that that was really the decision on the
part of the establishment that they
couldn't manipulate democracy the way
they do in the US and so they decided
they were just going to abandon
democratic pretext and just start
working outside of the framework of
democracy and I mean just like one other
two other quick things interesting about
Dilma Rousseff is that she was actually
tortured by the military dictatorship in
Brazil and I believe both Sandero has
made comments to the effect of they
didn't go far enough with her basically
and but also like just like broadly like
how would you describe Lula recept like
how would you describe the Workers Party
like to an American audience like like
how would you describe their base and
their like their politics yeah so I mean
Lula is just a fascinating political
figure he was born into like the most
extreme poverty imaginable he was one of
eleven children he was illiterate until
the age of 10 he went to work in a
factory and joined a union and he lost a
finger in in the factory that he worked
in and he became a labor leader like a
really radical labor leader and formed
the Workers Party as you know a sort of
left-wing political movement against the
oligarchy that has always run Brazil and
oppressed the Brazilian poor
the problem was that he was so left
weighing that he ran for president three
times and just was so destroyed
reputationally by the media that's
extremely dominant in Brazil that he
came to the conclusion that he would
never win the presidency unless he
started a swaging and appeasing the
banking class the financial class the
family that owns the Globo TV networks
and so in 2002 when he ran for president
for the fourth time he wrote a famous
letter called letter to the Brazilian
people in which here announced his
radical past he promised that he was
going to work with instead of go to war
with international finance and
international markets he chose as his
vice president is kind of like banker
figure this I don't know maybe like Jeb
Bush sort of figure to you know
basically a swage the forces that had
prevented him from winning to at least
not wage war against him and that's what
ultimately allowed him to finally win in
2002 and become president and it's a
really interesting story because for the
next eight years the rich in Brazil got
much much richer the market soared so
there was this kind of always this
narrative that Lula loved of the Workers
Party against the elite but the reality
was the elite came to love Woola at the
same time using these kind of corrupt
compromising politic political tactics
he was able to Institute social programs
that did actually take millions and
millions of people out of poverty so it
wasn't any kind of revolutionary war
against income inequality but it
actually tangibly improved people's
lives in very meaningful ways you know
like really innovative programs like
this program called bolsa família which
means that like if you have children and
you prove that they're going to school
every day that they've gotten their
vaccines that they're getting medical
care you get you know a certain amount
of money each month that lets you live a
decent life to like have ownership of a
and like to get free college so on the
one hand the the actual dogmatic laughed
in in in Brazil including for example my
husband's party my husband's a member of
Congress and a political party that used
to be part of PT and left PT in protest
of its neoliberalism that that left
thinks that PT reinforced income
inequality entrench the power structure
in while that's true it's also true that
Lula was so popular because he did
actually help so many people
nonetheless by preserving extreme levels
of inequality Dilma who was his chosen
successor was even more badass and
radical than he was she was an actual
Marxist armed guerrilla like she took up
arms against the military dictatorship
she you know used weapons and and
terrorism against the military
dictatorship she was imprisoned and
tortured as he said and when Bal
scenario voted in this in the and on the
floor of the Congress in favor of her
impeachment he specifically did so in
the name of the colonel who actually
tortured her like not the colonel who
oversaw the torture program but the
specific colonel who like put the
electrical procced in the name of the
Honorable Colonel you know whatever I
vote to impeach her that's the kind of
mentality that is now running this
country so yeah like so we have a
situation where like Lula and Rousseff
and the Workers Party has essentially
started out as a Workers Party but in
order to achieve power essentially made
their peace with neoliberalism and but
like to do as much as they could do as
far as like social welfare programs or
whatever and even though like you said
the markets and inequality soared for
the peak you know brazil's right-wing
and its oligarchy and you know let's say
certain elements to the US State
Department or intelligence community
that is of course you know that's never
gonna be enough right like they're not
going to be happy with just that so
let's let's now let's now get into what
you and the intercept uncovered about
this carwash investigation and this
maura the judge who was the Justice
Minister who was presiding over it right
so Sergio Mauro over the last five years
has more or less been treated as like a
deity in Brazilian politics you know you
like walk anywhere in Brazil and you'll
see murals of his face on the side of
buildings had he run for president he
almost certainly would have won even if
Lula had won that's how popular he
became he was always on the cover of
magazines they had like turned him into
this almost like high priest of probity
and ethics in a country that you know in
fairness to Brazilians who did that were
really desperate for just somebody that
they could trust and believe in and as a
result the media just never questioned
anything that he did they were
completely supportive of it in part
because they really used the media so
they would like get you know some person
that they had put into prison for 12
months with no trial who was a multi
millionaire or a billionaire in a
Brazilian prison who it was basically
torture a willing to say anything and
they would say yeah I gave Lula $500,000
in cash in a suitcase and then they
would leak it to Globo and then Globo
would you know spend a week with massive
ratings doing no journalism just getting
these leaks so the media and everybody
loved Sergio Moro and this carwash
investigation at first for ideological
reasons and then for kind of
self-interested reasons so there's been
no transparency no investigation at all
of anything that they've done no one
could even question him they were
petrified of him because he was by far
the most popular and beloved and revered
figure in the country there were things
that he did that Supreme Court justices
knew were illegal but nonetheless
approved because they were afraid of
what the population would do if they
impeded him in any way
I mean Glen I mean he does like the way
he you're describing him and like as
he's been received by the media and
popular culture I mean he really does
kind of sound like a Robert
her figure except someone who actually
like got results so when who got [ __ ]
done yeah I mean like the difference
between him and Muller is that like
unlike Muller who I think you know as we
just saw is just kind of like old and
you know just tired and didn't really
care about all the benefits like Sergio
Morrow's 41 and so he saw the
opportunity and he knew that like
bringing down Lula would be the huge
cherry on his massive cake and he was
he's very ambitious and took full
advantage you know he flew around the
world he was part of like the time 100
list he went to the gala with his wife
and a tuxedo and this like really
expensive gallon that that I think I
forget which designer lent her he really
reveled in this kind of like you know
reverence and power in a way that you
know Muller never really did and because
of that he was really motivated to do
what was demanded of him which was to
put Woola and the rest of the Workers
Party in prison and he did that so
everything they did was never questioned
by anyone no one had the capability or
the courage or the political capital to
even scrutinize anything they were doing
there was starting to be a lot of
questions raised especially on the left
about what seemed started what did start
to seem like a pretty corrupt operation
but no one could prove anything no one
had any evidence for it until three
months ago on Mother's Day when I was
minding my own business on a Sunday and
was contacted by a not not calling your
mother Glen Wow
I had just spent six hours on the phone
with my mother your story's changing the
gratitude I had for everything she had
done for me and telling her about my
life well you only call on Mother's Day
spending that day with my mother on the
telephone I got contacted by a source
who said that he had in his possession
all of the private communications
documents emails chats audios videos
photos of Sergio Moro the head
prosecutor of the carwash task force
whose name is Delton Daniel who also
became a kind of mini celebrity somebody
who was really revered as well as every
member of the carwash task force and he
told me that he's only gone through a
small part of the archive because the
archive is years of their communications
internally as well as all their
documents and has found immense amounts
of corruption and said I want to give
this to you so that you can reveal just
how corrupt Sergio Moro and this carwash
investigation actually is and I said
yeah okay that sounds good I'm happy to
take that I I have some practice
receiving things of that nature and he
began sending me the archive and it took
about six full days and after six full
days of sending it maybe 10% of it was
delivered we then sent set up a more
sophisticated means of delivery that
allowed him to deliver it all at once
and then with the team of young
journalists that we've built here in
Brazil like all in their 20s and 30s we
began looking through the archive and
what we found was you know genuinely
shocking like I even I as a skeptic of
Sergio Moro was shocked by the stuff I
found it reminded me of how I always
thought the NSA was spying on everybody
but was shocked by the extent to which
they were doing it when I began reading
the Snowden archive we started seeing
the two things that we saw right away
that you know became kind of the two
most important beginning parts of the
story was number one the entire time
that Sergio Moro was pretending to be
the neutral judge presiding over these
criminal charges just like in the US a
judge is required to maintain neutrality
between the two sides he was secretly
plotting with the prosecutors every day
telling them how
construct the case yelling at them about
evidence that they should be getting and
using telling them that certain
witnesses were weak and shouldn't be
used he was really commanding the exact
prosecutorial case that he was then
walking into court wearing his robe
pompously pretending to judge neutrally
and he did that particularly in the case
of Lula like he was the chief prosecutor
to the point where he would even direct
them tomorrow you need to issue a press
release rebutting what the defense said
so that was one part of it was just how
unethically
really criminally he crossed the line of
participating in the prosecution that he
was pretending to judge and then the
second part of it was we just found not
dozens but hundreds of examples where
they would openly talk about the fact
that the things that they were doing
were explicitly designed to make sure
that the Workers Party lost the election
in 2018 so of course all along people
would say to them hey it seems like
you're more interested in prosecuting
the Workers Party than people on the
right they would always say that's
outrageous where prosecutors we don't
have political ideologies we don't have
party preferences but amongst themselves
in secret they were constantly saying oh
my god we can't let this happen if we
let this happen
PT is gonna win the election so that was
just the beginning part of what we were
able to reveal but even that just those
initial set of stories in the first week
caused almost every major media outlet
in Brazil that had spent five years
applauding and revering him to
editorialize that this showed grave
corruption and required him to be fired
or be removed from his position as
justice minister
so I mean essentially what you have here
is this yeah Eliot Ness figure who's you
know supposedly about just the facts and
you know following where they you know
following them wherever they go
is behind the scenes basically working
for the prosecution in this case telling
them hey why don't you bring this up why
don't you say this you know like
scripting
how this court investigation should go
and the net effect of that is I don't
think it's too strong to say as you
described that Lula would have
absolutely beaten bowls and arrow in
that election what amounts to basically
a coup by the far-right in Brazil
exactly and I mean Sergio Mario's wife
and you know you can decide to what
extent you think this is relevant who's
a lawyer was an explicit ball scenario
supporter so she was you know on
Instagram and Facebook every day openly
supporting ball scenario in the private
chats there were all kinds of things we
found where ball Senora where Sergio
Moro was saying all sorts of things
about the urgency of convicting Lula in
time for the effect on the election to
be valid and then of course soon is even
before ball Cynara one there was already
conversations that Sergio Mora was
having about which position he thought
he was going to get or wanted in the new
bolson ro government he was choosing
between being appointed at the Supreme
Court or becoming justice minister so
yeah I mean you can absolutely describe
it as a judicial coup in fact I don't
see how you could describe it as
anything other than that okay Glenn so
like as this goes on like you know you
were obviously like famously associated
with the the Snowden NSA leaks which
became you know one of the biggest
stories you know certainly in my
lifetime in America and you know as a
journalist it's like you never want to
become part of the story but I remember
at the height of the the Snowden NSA
leaks you sort of became like the the
face of that story in a lot of ways and
you know you know were sort of a I don't
know like it was about refuting Glenn
Greenwald rather than Edward Snowden but
you know like let's be honest that was
just basically some [ __ ] who wrote
for the Guardian or Atlantic coming
after you this story I would say is as
big to Brazil if not the world as the
NSA leaks were but what's happened with
you now being sort of associated with
the story
quite a bit more serious than like I
said an angry Jamie Couric miss ha ha ha
yeah I mean yeah exactly I mean think
it's a much more dangerous story for a
lot of reasons I mean you know like
during the Snowden story stuff happened
like you guys probably remember like the
UK detained my husband under terrorism
ah and threatened to imprison him but
then they released him after 12 hours
they invaded the Guardians newsroom and
stupidly forced them to like destroy the
archive even knowing that it was saved
in multiple other places including in
Brazil and the US government
occasionally threatened me that like if
I came back to the US I would be
arrested but and then there was that
famous David Gregory you know question
when I went on the Meet the Press about
why shouldn't I be in prison but pretty
much the entire US media he was like hey
mr. Greenwald just wondering like why
shouldn't you also be in prison I'm like
you know because I'm like a journalist
the two big differences between what I'm
doing now and what what happened then
one is that the I was doing that
reporting from Brazil and the Brazilian
government at the time viewed the
reporting I was doing is very favorable
very valuable because I was exposing in
part how the NSA was spying on their
population and other institutions and
the bombs that were dropping and falling
and the politicians who were angry about
what we were doing were thousands of
miles away as opposed to right now the
bombs are falling very very very close
to where I'm sitting and the people who
are the angriest about it are the people
who are actually the ones in power in
the country where I'm currently existing
so that's one thing that makes it a lot
more dangerous and and the people who
are in power are people who rode to
power based on more or less a promise to
rid the country of these democratic
protections and these basic liberties
and to restore order even if it means
shutting down newspapers and things like
that so they're very dangerous people
who are in close proximity the other
part of it that makes it very different
that you perceptively observed is that I
have become the face of the story in a
way that wasn't even that the true in
the snowed in the Snowden story in part
because of two things one was one
is that until two days ago when the
police claimed that they arrested our
source for the last eight weeks there
was no source so the source is just
invisible so unlike in the Snowden story
where a lot of the hatred got directed
towards Snowden like the people who
wanted to say there was a criminal
involved usually a Q Snowden of being in
the criminal and I just got to be like
oh I'm just the reporter who like got
the information in him doing my job as a
journalist and reporting it in this case
I became the only face of the of the
hack of the leak so I pretty much got
depicted as not just the reporter but
almost like I was the hacker like the
person who had stolen the information
but even more so it became the strategy
of the Boston art of the Boston area
movement deliberately to personalize the
story to me even though we like we're
working and we decided to work in
partnership with the biggest newspaper
in in Brazil which is folia with a
right-wing magazine that turned against
Sergio Moro Vasia even when they would
publish stories that bowls Nor'easters
on purpose would always say glenn
greenwald leaked more documents because
I'm such a good villain for them because
I'm number one a foreigner
even though I've lived here for 15 years
number 2 I'm gay in a country where
anti-gay animus is skyrocketed through
the roof and number 3 I'm married to a
congressman who's a member of a
left-wing socialist party so I check off
every good box for them in terms of
being a villain not just for like the
hardcore right but even for that like
reasonable centre so they really did
purposely make me the face of the story
for strategic reasons um in a way that
wasn't even quite true in the Snowden
story to give people an idea of just how
scary and serious this actually is you
mentioned your partner David Miranda is
now in other Brazilian Congress as
member of a socialist party but the
person I mean correctly the person he
whose seat he filled I think was someone
named Marielle Franco could you talk
about her you you hit on too
separate things that that were conflated
so but both are important so Mariela
Franco is this woman who was black she
came from one of rio de janeiro as the
most dangerous favelas and is also was
also a lesbian married to a woman so
exactly the kind of person who never
wield political power in brazil she was
a single mother at 19 she ended up like
going to college getting a master's
degree she was just an extraordinary
person and in 2016 she ran for Rio the
Rio de Janeiro City Council and got this
overwhelming vote it was like all the
black women in the favela in the favelas
like people who just don't vote all came
out and voted for her and she shocked
the political establishment by because
it was 51 people are elected she was the
fifth most voted for candidate you know
usually it's done by corruption they
just buy votes and the corrupt parties
got the most votes her vote was totally
organic no one had heard of her she came
out of nowhere and at the same time my
husband ran for Rio de Janeiro City
Council was part of the same party and
he also won and he also was black and
gay and comes from was raised in one of
Rio de Janeiro's worse Avella so the two
of them sat next to each other in the
City Council became best friends and in
March of 2018
she went to an event that was publicly
advertised called black women changing
political structures and on the way out
of leaving the event she was in her car
drive being driven home by her driver
and a very professional team of
assassins pulled up next to her car and
pumped four bullets into her head and
killed her instantly and also three
bullets into the back of her driver who
also was murdered so that was a that was
only 500 days ago March of March 14th of
2018 it was incredibly traumatizing for
us she was one of our best friends her
wife is our best friend so that already
created a climate that was pretty
terrorizing that they could just murder
someone like her who had such a high
profile who was
so important to so many people they did
finally arrest after a year the two
people who actually pulled the triggers
both of whom unsurprisingly were members
of the police force and the military but
they still haven't found the people who
paid them to kill her who wanted her
murdered the other ish incident that you
were talking about is that my husband
after being elected the City Council ran
in 2018 for Congress and the way it's
done is each party gets a certain number
of seats his party got four seats and he
came in fifth so he we thought they were
gonna get five seats but because of the
right-wing wave they only got four so he
became the first alternate the member of
Congress who was in his party who for
who was the only openly gay member of
Congress ever in Brazilian history
his name's Ian Willis and he was
actually bullied in Congress like they
would have generals in Congress and like
right-wing members of the Congress who
had passed by him in the hallway and
like bump into him with their shoulder
and then call him a [ __ ]
he couldn't even use the bathrooms in
the Congress because of how physically
intimidated and bullied he was he was
getting so many death threats in the
climate of Boston ro especially because
of how important anti LGBT animus was
they were sending in pictures of the
front of his house pictures of the
license plate of his mother really
severe death threats so even though he
won was reelected he decided he couldn't
safely stay in Brazil fled Brazil went
into exile in Europe and so my husband
automatically took his place as the next
person in line on the party ticket and
so now my husband is the only openly gay
man in Congress so you know obviously a
lot of the hatred and threats that were
was previously directed toward mari le
who they murdered and Gian who fled is
now being directed toward my husband and
as you can imagine that his only
severely escalated ever since we began
doing this reporting and you know I mean
it can't be stressed enough that bolson
arrow and the people around him have
long time
Brazil's former military dictatorship
and now many of the you know
paramilitary and just military death
squads that you know are in Brazil and
like I said assassinating politicians
and others are you know people in the
favelas whose names you know will never
[ __ ] know pretty much with impunity
yeah I mean exactly like before we
started doing our reporting the big
scandal was that it was discovered that
bolson Aras son who's now a senator
while he was a state representative had
in his cabinet the wife and the mother
of the militia leader who the police
have said was responsible for Mary
Ellie's murder so he's now a fugitive
but he his wife and mother spent ten
years working in Bolton ro son's cabinet
obviously not working but receiving a
salary they have all kinds of
connections to these paramilitary gangs
that have terrorized in ruel Brazil
through violence to assassinate people
with great regularity and it's ironic
that we're actually talking today
because I've spent the last I don't know
six weeks being threatened by multiple
high officials including Sergio Mora
with prison today bolsa Naru himself
gave a speech in Rio de Janeiro and
afterwards he was asked about this weird
thing that Sergio Moro did which was two
days ago just like randomly and out of
the blue he posted on to the website of
the Justice Ministry this decree that
said that he has the power to summarily
deport or expel from Brazil any foreign
citizen who is posing a threat to
Brazil's national security it was like
this really passive-aggressive and
obvious threat toward me like hey I'm
just randomly gonna like remind you of
this power that I have to expel
foreigners from Brazil but as it turned
out under this law you can't actually be
expelled or deported as a foreigner
under any law if either you're married
to a Brazilian citizen or you have
Brazilian children both of which is true
for me I'm married to a Brazilian and we
adopted two Brazilian children in 2017
so they asked paulsen ro today
what is that thing that Sergio Moro did
like wasn't that an obvious threat
toward Glenn Greenwald
and bal scenario said no Glenn Greenwald
and his and his and his husband are
frauds they decided to marry another man
in order to avoid the ability to be for
us to deport them and then adopted two
boys well that is event that would be
very deep cover not only would it be
deep cover but it would be incredibly
prescient of me because I married David
in 2005 when I was still a lawyer and
not even a journalist so that would be
incredible powers of being able to see
the future that one day would be a
journalist reporting on high-level
corruption on the part of a fascist
regime and needing cover and protection
from being deported and you know as much
as I love my children has anyone with
children knows you don't [ __ ] adopt
two children because you want a little
bit of an advantage under a law because
it's [ __ ] miserable half the time so
yes so he said you don't need to worry
he said in his speech Glenn Greenwald
doesn't need to worry and none of you
worried about him need to worry we're
not going to deport him and we're not
gonna expel him he's not going to be in
jail in any other country but there's a
good chance he's gonna be spending some
time behind bars here in Brazil Glenn oh
that was the speech that he gave today
Glenn receiving all these threats and
insults from the president is it fair to
say you were the Bruce and Nelly or
Brazil I can accept that can we like I
know that this is a heated discussion
but can we not talk about the despicable
awful Nellie or all right well Glenn we
got to let you go but I would say you
know again please everyone check out
your reporting on what's going on right
now in Brazil that you've done for the
intercept like I said it is a story of
you know it is of equal importance at
leaks in my opinion when you consider as
you said that Brazil is the world's
fifth largest country one of the largest
democracies in the world that now you
know like basically has undergone now a
transition into a right wing
dictatorship where is is quickly quickly
sliding down that road and as well and
you mentioned the beginning the
rainforest like again the people who the
Brazilian oligarchs and the people who
backed bowls and arrow are you know part
of a lot of them are from like the sort
of ranching class in Brazil which is
stripping the rainforest bare at the
moment I mean much of it is already gone
but just for some perspective the Amazon
rainforest provides approximately one
quarter of all of the oxygen that you
breathe on earth so if you'd like to
continue breathing air on this planet
its of I would say huge importance
what's going on in Brazil right now the
Amazon also provides 80 percent of our
natural cures yeah exactly well and I'm
super grateful that you guys took the
time to talk about this and I'm also
glad I I'm pretty confident that we
didn't repeat Virgil's mistake from the
last time of my not recording my end
because he acted to tell me that I was
supposed to I'm pretty sure so yeah
hopefully Virgil's mistake is not but
that wasn't my mistake so is going to be
deported from the trap house but um no
Glenn seriously to to you and David and
your children and friends and family and
also your many dogs
sincerely please stay safe and please
keep doing what you're doing more lies
from the flames you really appreciate
that thank you everybody really great
talking to you as always thanks a lot
thanks take care a lot of griefing and
general ass header e in this Garry's Mod
server I will not hesitate to call law
enforcement I do not I do not think that
the webmaster would like to be disturbed
from his special time with his wife a to
deal with the utter gobshite re in this
server right now if I see people
griefing other people's creations gmod I
peas will be recorded and they will sit
in a notepad in my very special folder
on my desktop do you understand me
Felix's new character the angry
webmaster he's not even the webmaster he
just brags about knowing the webmaster
[Laughter]
Phil we're efforts failed the webmaster
will be quite tickled to you about this
all right well um thanks again to you a
Glen Greenwald that was some heavy [ __ ]
so uh let's have some fun
I got a to two items here for you guys
for the the rest of the show and what do
you donut mats in the house we got a
full deck here we're all trying to step
through the same doorway at the same
time a wealthy Dowager has hired all of
us to renovate her apartment and things
are not going quite as planned fellas
don't you hate it when you see just a
perfect ten out of ten flapper and you
drop it safe on your friends foot
alright so the first the first item that
I want to bring up is another one of
these stories that I basically think we
have willed into being through our lathe
of heaven like abilities that have been
granted to us by this podcast this is a
story that I swear to god we would have
done as a joke maybe three or four
months ago but wouldn't you know it it's
all real I'm talking of course about
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
his plan to build Jurassic Park in the
middle of the Arabian desert you heard
that correctly he is going to build
Jurassic Park in the most barren part of
the most barren country in the world
I'm talked about a fantastic futuristic
city called Neum yes the name of that
city again neum when you borrow a space
Balian it's like neon but with an M at
the end okay that is a brand of yoga
pants you know you know how like sort of
deranged Victorian rich people would
like reenact just get obsessed with the
fall of the Roman Empire the Saudis are
great they want to make dinosaurs to
make them go extinct in a clear as the
beard I mean like tart like everyone
everyone's always you know we always
talk about like Texas in Southern
California just being like you know in
the in the immediate just being in the
crosshairs of climate catastrophe but
there are a few places that are more
[ __ ] than Saudi Arabia in the next 30
40 years well that's why they're
building me on it all right
a musical city of neon is like in
SimCity 2000 when you built the city of
just arcologies well that's what they're
going for I mean everyone's always
talking about but with no water well I
mean okay let me let's think about this
everyone's always talking about like
banning straws really cutting a mission
[ __ ] like that no one's ever thought
about fighting climate change by having
a pterodactyl you know no one's ever no
one's ever done the math here I'm
assuming this is just gonna be a Game
Preserve for them they hunt the
deadliest game yeah I mean dinosaurs I
mean it's gonna be hilarious when like a
t-rex somehow shoots down a saudi f-22
won't even be a t-rex it'll be a [ __ ]
Apatosaurus it will be like a
non-violent herbivore just [ __ ] next
f-22 flings it into a volcano
alright so this year according to a
report this week by The Wall Street
Journal consultants hired to work on the
niyama project built a list of
ridiculous recommendations including a
hologram facility in schools cloud
seeding induced artificial rain a
Jurassic Park style Island of robot
reptiles robot maids Robo cage fight
entertainment and flying taxis this is
of course comes from The Wall Street
Journal obtained 220 300 pages of
documents prepped by Boston Consulting
Group McKinsey & Company they are no but
it shout out to all the scammers getting
their bag that is so I love going to
[ __ ] Princeton Harvard and Yale so I
could charge millions of dollars to tell
just one of the dumbest [ __ ] people
alive like yeah what you need is
expensive BattleBots it would be really
difficult to like come up with something
dumber than Westworld Saudis this is
fully automated luxury oil theocracy is
that anything I mean first of all I love
that McKenzie is involved in this
they're just like gonna fleece this
[ __ ] for all that he's worse I mean
they should be telling him to lay off
like I don't know 80% of the royal
family like they do to other American
firms but I mean they like they should
be telling them like you should just
like go to a place
that's going to not be uninhabitable in
20 years but like I mean if you were
really doing the full evil deed of
advising just a family with possibly
trillions of dollars of wealth and you
know they're it's just gonna be no human
life can be sustained there that's what
you do but you know they're about their
bag they're like rules they're like the
engineers around Homer when he was
designing that car that sounds good yes
it says according to the journal a
source said NBS came up with the idea
for neon four years ago when he was
mowing how to overhaul the economy and
pulled up a map of his country on Google
Earth and saw its northwest quadrant was
a blank slate the rest of the piece is
just as unflattering in addition to
plans for a giant artificial moon
developed in partnership with NASA the
affirmation robot maids and dinosaurs
and a project to modify the human genome
to make people stronger the journal
wrote that the Prince wants a beach that
glows in the dark like the face of a
watch the moon might be made of fleets
of drones but engineers have no idea how
to create the glow-in-the-dark Beach I'd
uranium dumbass yeah yeah I could figure
that out
give me unlimited resources I'll give
you a glowing beach
I like how just in the middle of there
it's alter the human genome to make
people stronger why do they need to be
strong the robots are doing everything
they should become weak little like they
should just be playing some jars have
you Ryder they need bodies at all well
have you ever tried to take a robot
maids passport they're pretty strong MBS
also reportedly became frustrated when
advised to develop a road plan for the
city the journal wrote a person who
reviewed the minutes of the meeting
between the prince and a deputy for
former our conic incorporated CEO Klaus
Kleinfeld who was brought in to plan a
met to plan a mega bridge between Nia
and Egypt across the Red Sea has since
left the project amid ballooning costs
estimates of a hundred and twenty five
billion said the Prince responded by
saying I don't want any roads or
pavements we are going
to have flying cars in 2030 hey [ __ ] it
man where we supposed to have flying
cars now I don't think we're getting the
flying cars man I think we got to give
to go up the ghost on that one I think
it's just one of those things that
sounds good in theory but once you have
a third dimension there would have to be
roads still there would be the same
basic structure not cool if you if
you've ever read like John Dolan talking
about any time he spent in Saudi Arabia
I think they like we've still got to
figure out the road thing before they
get to the flying car thing imagine
imagine the the terror of getting in a
car accident but added to that
immediately dropping 10,000 feet
plummeting to the earth after a mile
defender but I hate I hate it when I'm
you know I hate it when I'm going for a
cruise in the Saudi Arabia sky highway
and I accidentally hit a family's pet
Falcon it would be very funny though if
they had literal flying cars and women
still weren't allowed to drive in fact
he just says we're going we don't need
roads oh by the way the flying cars will
still run on gasoline that's the most
important this works if we get off the
gas I know I said a bunch of them
already but I sort like go through the
list here of things of the Wall Street
Journal that were like the details about
what's going to be and you know Blade
Runner 2049 okay flying taxis awesome
driving is just for fun no longer for
transportation eg a Ferrari next to the
coast of the nice view the planning
documents show number two cloud seeding
the desert always was that a real thing
well this is hearing about that this
hear that yeah that's real yeah cloud
seeding you do it though you jack off in
the cloud what is this your fighter
we're better at preventing rain that
Chinese did that during the Olympics
yeah how do you make it rain did you do
the opposite what they do is they suck
up the clouds behind weather
modification is theoretically possible
but my understanding is that we're quite
bad at it we don't know really how to do
it like to make it it's very difficult
to make it rain yeah you just you're at
the club I mean it
you detonate a very small tactical
nuclear warhead in the upper atmosphere
well the test for this is going to be
the [ __ ] World Cup in Qatar where
they said because it's a hundred and
forty degrees and they're trying to have
them play outdoor soccer that they were
gonna have some sort of giant floating
clouds to block the Sun that was their
pitch anyway while they were just
handing giant suitcases of money to FIFA
but I thought they were building domes I
don't think that's the only way you can
do it I know they were not saying domes
I mean they're killing like thousands of
people building these things but I don't
think they can be they're not good
they're not going to be dumped so cloud
seeding the desert Oh won't always feel
like the desert cloud seeding could make
it rain so again this is I think the
fact that they're gonna deal with
building yet like a giant futuristic
archeology in the middle of the most
uninhabitable corner of the planet earth
I mean even if this was successful
though like the desert is the desert
because it's the desert when the desert
pours there are like mud slit has this
person never seen david at birth and
also it's gonna be a hundred and forty
degrees there soon what about that is it
under a dome
what's the plan it's gonna have a dome
no there's no doubt there is no dome in
this [ __ ] just like I get
air-conditioning she's just pneumatic
tubes between the buildings and you
never actually go outside okay she's a
giant mall we've I agree I mention this
before but a robot maids don't worry
about household chores while scientists
are at work their homes would be cleaned
by robot maids but then who do I get who
can I abuse this is pointless this sucks
also like I think we've kind of like
made what are the huge advancements for
women husband that like just housing is
more clean now like it's it the entire
house doesn't fill up with like soot
from the fireplace and things are made
of cleanable surfaces and things don't
really get that dirty unless your will
come on felix is sitting right here
amber why are you looking at this oh no
way Felix this place is worse than yours
at this point well I'm moving come on
just gonna leave it will has like 17
boxes of Korean ill mass
they're not Katherine's either so
basically yeah they want to do the
Jetsons and the Flintstones at the same
time because if they make robotic
dinosaurs they're going to be using them
for construction purposes
yes it is a living state-of-the-art
medical facilities scientists would work
on a project to modify the human genome
to make people stronger okay I feel like
I did I feel like I did a monkey's paw
thing where like Metal Gear Solid is
becoming real but the Saudis are doing
it like genome alteration they're gonna
make max they're probably gonna make a
super soldier but it's just these
[ __ ] this sucks man but also
world-class restaurants there would be
fine dining galore in a city with the
highest rate of michelin-starred
restaurants per inhabitant so it's like
gonna be one to one Michelin star
through everybody gets us a Michelin
chef they should do one less than the
people there so it's like musical chairs
and someone always gets left out of yeah
rahmanir is this a theme park or a place
people live know the idea I've read
about this it's the ideas it's supposed
to bring all the world's brilliant most
brilliant scientists there to work is
the idea it would attract all of the
most genius people all the Nobel Prize
people would all move here oh so it's
like one of those one of those
libertarian reddit projects where we're
gonna buy an island and all the
enlightened Intel yes like you types
will move its Galt's Gulch for serious
no this is goons at goon Island with
unlimited resources 30 billion dollars
applying the zip line across the Red Sea
smash into the pyramid they let like one
of the guys how did they hold in prison
I'll make the website and the people
would visit so that would be the thing
it would generate it would it would
generate its own economy through
knowledge [ __ ] like the knowledge
economy and then it would also be a
tourist attraction that is a great it's
great because it's like if you're just
like you know you're you're some stem
professional you have a PhD you can
really like you'd go anywhere you live
in like you know [ __ ] would say like
America or somewhere and you're like you
know I my wife kind of wants to move to
the Bay
you know for the schools for the kids I
kind of want to you know I kind of want
to stay like on the East Coast but
there's also this place that's 140
degrees run by a theocracy but they have
robotic dinosaurs and they'll inject our
kids with an enhanced genome so they'll
have 12 packs one day I can't wait to
get my ass kicked by my eight-year-old
kid got like Chris purse Wallace he's
just off that crisper
I mean honestly like at this point like
Saudi royals don't understand what is
attractive to normal yeah no idea if you
wanted to a city where you attract all
the intelligent people you have to do is
say we're gonna remake the new Star Wars
movies and that would cost you like a
few hundred million tops yeah I mean
like if they if they really wanted you
know the top intellects in the world
they would make a giant like five
hundred foot tall pickle Rick Saudi
Arabia you can't have depictions of
pickled dinosaur robots residents could
visit a Jurassic Park style island of
robot reptiles now you say that this
Saudi Arabia is like out of touch with
what you know normal people want or even
just a nerves what they're out of touch
with your average super genius I would
visit neon if it had an island have
actually genetically engineered I know
there's just [ __ ] it's just that's
just Epcot Center [ __ ] but if they made
real dinosaurs they wouldn't run on
gasoline they would eventually become
gasoline though they should really plan
for the future
my Chaka Soros is rolling cold sores
would be like a Prius owner it's like
that he'd that there would be Saudi
conservative comedians would be like oh
nice coexist sticker on the back of your
herbivore Chucky bin cheese
glow-in-the-dark sand we said they
haven't mastered that yet the the super
super soldiers and robot dinosaurs no
problem but glow-in-the-dark sand
apparently that's stitching them up that
algae that glows over just like just be
fine
or out like a zillion sticks yeah I
figure out that technology at a rave oh
my god that's it this is the world's
biggest sober rave well Phyllis you say
that but number eight on the list
is alcohol alcohol is banned in the rest
of Saudi Arabia but it likely won't be
here ooh well you can't be on your
Michelin star hotel yeah well that's
true I can't have Michelin star
restaurants without pairings without
wine pairings robot martial arts robots
wait wait so are you fighting the robots
is it like battle pods or are they like
mechs are you there more
anthropomorphize than battle bots okay
is it a Rock'em Sock'em robots you
humans control them are automated I
might be into that which were to it like
the Rock'em Sock'em like if you are
unreal psyche arena and I was on the
other and and we had to art we had
robots we control that would kill each
like that sounds extremely fun did you
see Real Steel with Hugh Jackman because
that's basically the premise of that
moving it wouldn't be martial arts
because a robot couldn't create art
they're going to pay Ohioans like
thousands of dollars to the sequence
like their thought patterns and their
genomes so they can create the perfect a
eye for an MMA fighter robot
it says robots would do more than just
clean your house they could also spar
head-to-head in a Robo cage fight one of
the many sports on offer are they owned
by a robot Leonardo DiCaprio are the
dinosaurs gonna fight because why would
you know I mean I'd rather see dinosaurs
fight that stupid human looking robot I
mean Matt if the city of neon ever does
come into existence my guess is that
there would be like all kinds of every
imaginable blood sport possible would be
on offer and display good ok security
cameras drones and facial recognition
technology are planned to track everyone
at all times and last but not least the
moon a giant artificial moon would light
up each night one proposal suggests it
could livestream images from outer space
acting as an iconic landmark ok but this
is
they already have the moon and Saudi
Arabia like like the one do they just
want one they don't have to share yeah
that's gonna screw up the tides well
amber this is like you know the [ __ ]
world we live in where everyone's like
looking at their phones or just taking
photos instead of just being in the
moment you know why live-streaming the
moon when you can just look up at the
night sky
no Mike what are they going to have a
second moon yes will it be in orbit
around Earth giving us that moon for
free well it's gonna happen it's gonna
have time out yeah because if you're
always up there because use the same
technology to levitate the false moon
just if this just got a giant exhaust
pipe bellowing out it's like a [ __ ]
got a kind of smokestacks
it's just belching smoke Jesus Christ
you just hear the engine going
lawnmower just hovering above you you
like we were slightly [ __ ] like you
by is like already halfway did me um and
like originally that's a good question
we brought this up originally oh yeah
why the [ __ ] you people go to Dubai like
well no that wasn't my question
my question was okay so they built this
like giant city that you know has all of
this space like all these skyscrapers
and shed so are people in there or
people live or work there because you
look at pictures and like 15 years ago
that was just desert there was nothing
there I don't think it's I think it's a
luxury potemkin I think is yeah that's
why that's why thinking of it like maybe
there's some porous and that's it there
are tourists it's full of Falcons if
there's tourists there's a lot of expats
who work in money laundering basically
also you know people who are being
trafficked for sex slavery of things
like that and then also they have a very
there now an airport hub for traveling
but mostly those huge skyscrapers are
empty I don't know I they gotta be I
don't know I think they largely are I
think it's for show I think also like
the luxury value of the place which is
somewhat in the fact that it's so elite
that you have none of the actual
attributes of
City yes the rabble walking around right
right I mean it's like more it just
looking at pictures of it it looks like
more actual residential and commercial
capacity than the entirety of lower
Manhattan but if you walk down the
street it would be eerily empty yeah I
think it's a Potemkin luxury city yeah
they're not gonna do it because they
always these girls say it's always say
oh we're gonna we're gonna build this
this great thing and whole world's gonna
see it and then you get some [ __ ] like
Dubai and it's like you know here are
some islands that look like the world
which you would like look at once and be
like alright whatever those islands are
so [ __ ] you can play golf inside okay
[ __ ] no one can possibly like go to that
right that can't be theirs I mean like
the only way you could appreciate it is
from height right if you're on the
island it's like you know what you're
just like this is an island shaped like
Africa you know what it's like it's
literally not even as cool as one of
those roadside stops where you can all
stand in four different states at once
yeah cuz it's just they just bulldozed a
bunch of [ __ ] stand up and like
murdered a million manatees so they have
a giant like indoor ski mouth at that is
there's 0% chance that is superior to
any existing outdoor ski mountain yeah
but soon it's gonna be the only ski
mountains they'll be able to get a lot
more action
remember what we saw remember the place
we went to see back in yeah National
Harbor Maryland babe that awful mall
City yeah it's just gonna be that that's
really good that's sure like very grim I
mean I'm just thinking who's impressed
by any of the [ __ ] and Dubai it's like
really stupid it's what it is it's like
when we went to the Mall of America we
weren't like oh my god there's an indoor
roller coaster there's a roller coaster
okay where else in the [ __ ] world do
you think you can go to a Teavana and
then get on a roller coaster in [ __ ]
minutes do not compare it to this
[ __ ] monstrosity Mall of America is
great it's one of the last communal
spaces Balthasar to buy absolutely
respect american military base their
Camp Snoopy all right well you know
that's another sovereign state that
America is invading we need to get them
out of there
CK America out of Mall of America all
right so yeah that is the city of neon
you know an ecological disaster good ol
dude
I mean it's also sort of disturbing that
like they're like how do we revamp our
economy like what selling oil to the
entire planet isn't good enough anymore
I guess they're running out they are you
know oil barons and then they're like
okay but what if we were businessmen
came up with a business idea that sounds
like a third-grader came up it's an
entire [ __ ] it's a 900 member ruling
family of just Wyatt cokes yeah it's
just rich [ __ ] kids and like what do
America's rich [ __ ] kids do for work
you know there's a sort of fashion brand
yeah exactly it's all horseshit it's all
like brain damage to idiocy just like
neon it's like if a coke dealer got
really into micro managing his money
laundering business yeah well you know
to put a cap on this it's interesting
how oil barons can become oil baron damn
Jesus Christ what's up okay so moving on
from Saudi Arabia to another country
talking about Great Britain which just
has a new prime minister we talked about
this while we were over there it was
going on come on there was never any
doubt the big beefy yell behind it it's
the albino ape Boris Johnson is now the
Prime Minister of the UK kind of sexy
with it and I just like to say like
there's a way of preface in this if
there is a general election and Jeremy
Corbyn doesn't win basically anything
could happen to Great Britain and I
wouldn't care I'm already having gone
there I mean it's long as they carve out
the north and it gets to be like a
different place like I don't care what
you got I got a People's Republic of
Manchester I don't know why but ever
since he got them got the the big brass
ring I've been just thinking about his
ass what it looks like and the thing I
can keep thinking of is that it's like
an aquarium filled with vanilla ice
cream
and I don't know why I keep thinking
about it but I can't stop I would I
think it was because quill at said that
he has he's an uber mensch okay you you
already know where I'm going with this
well I would love that swaggering
Superman to take his ass which is like a
garbage bag filled with very heavy wet
sponges and just use my tongue like a
[ __ ] car walk so that anticipated
where I'm going with this while we were
on the UK stretch of our tour we
probably run more material out of Toby
Young than any of the other [ __ ]
absolute freaks in that awful island
nation Toby Young is back with a piece
in quill out that I mean I'm not gonna
read all of it because it's [ __ ]
interminable but it has some really
choice nuggets writing and quill at Toby
Young cometh the hour cometh the man
April um write a profile of Boris
Johnson and this does not disappoint so
let's just dive in here I first set eyes
on Boris Johnson in the autumn of 1983
when we went up to Oxford at the same
time I knew who he was since my uncle
Christopher was an ex-boyfriend of his
mother's and he had told me to keep an
eye out for him but I sure what is this
a riddle keep an eye out for this guy I
[ __ ] his mom but I still wasn't
prepared for the sight and sound of him
at the despatch-box of the Oxford Union
this was the world famous debating
society where ambitious undergraduates
honed their public speaking skills
before embarking on careers in politics
or journalism and Boris was proposing
the motion with his huge mop of blond
hair his tie askew and his shirt
escaping from his trousers he looked
like an overgrown schoolboy yet with his
imposing physical build his thick neck
and his broad Germanic forehead there
was also something of Nietzsche's
ubermensch about him isn't he like five
easily have you met a person over six
feet tall not in England I want to meet
Toby Young so they just worships me like
[ __ ] Kurtz of the jungle
that guy for Christ's sake
I want to imagine taking Toby young to
Lake Ohio versus Michigan football game
yeah he'll just be like oh my god this
is Valhalla guys and windbreakers and
aviators you should kill me sir I'm
starting to think that like we don't
actually have a fan base for the podcast
in the UK people just showed up to look
at us were the hottest people they've
ever seen oh my god they had they had
nutrition when they would see the bones
are not hollow I mean I mean you know if
you've ever seen a photo of Boris
Johnson I know you must have thought
Nicci's Superman absolutely definitely
but that's not listen to this he goes
that's a chomo parody parody um so he
goes describe his broad Germanic
forehead and that he's like Nietzsche's
ubermensch he he goes on with further
imaginings about Boris Johnson you could
have mad you could imagine him in later
hosen walking through the Black Forest
if Boris Johnson wore anything
approaching shorts the sound that his
thighs would make as they hit each other
they could be like you know how like
when cheese curds are really fresh and
they squeak oh yeah you just have timey
bulging out of the leather pants you
could imagine you know coming down to
get a glass of water 3 a.m. and Boris
Johnson just a snake had his big baddie
booty just waving and then the glow of
the refrigerator what wi d DJ run that
back you could imagine him in later
hosen wandering through the black forest
with an axe over his shoulder lookin for
ogres to kill I don't think there were
historically ogres I mean this guy was a
charge of Education pretty [ __ ]
stupid I mean I mean in the UK there are
grotesque hunchbacks who do eat the
bones of children but they're just you
know it we're in Margaret Thatcher's
cabinet this
combination a state of advanced
dishevelment and a sense of coiled
strength of an almost tangible will to
power was even more pronounced in his
way of speaking folks we got some coil
pump not be surprised if his dick were
coiled like a pig's tail these guys just
love looking at guys whose skin is the
texture of a Lay's chip like oh this
guy's preserving his strength Oh sir you
look to death the more they like oh he's
hiding it was just an avalanche a
volcano of power within that frame he
began to advance an argument and what
sounded like a parody of the high style
in British politics theatrical dramatics
self-serious
when a few seconds in he appeared to
completely forget what he was about to
say he looked up startled where am I
and asked the packed chamber which side
he was supposed to be on what's the
motion anyway before anyone could answer
a light bulb appeared over his head and
he was off this time in an even more or
a tun florid matter manner yet within a
few seconds
he'd wrong-footed himself again this
time because it had suddenly occurred to
him that there was an equally compelling
argument for the opposite point of view
this endless flipping and flopping in
which he seemed to constantly surprise
himself went on for the next 15 minutes
the impression he gave was as someone
who someone who'd been plucked from his
bed in the middle of the night and then
plunked down in the dispatch box of the
Oxford Union without the faintest idea
of what he was supposed to be talking
about this is what Nietzsche talked
about yeah this is actually like the
delirium of an advanced state of diaper
rash people don't know it can get that
bad this is like if you saw just like
any fell Sun won't wake up at 5 p.m. and
wander down to family dinner really did
I miss breakfast you'd be like oh my god
no this is the next stage in evolution
like agent Toby Young would be similarly
enamored by AJ soprano I mean this what
he's describing that is very Nietzsche
in it like when Lee nici's brain was
dissolved by syphilis he was talking to
a horse so uh you got curved by a horse
I mean this does go on for about 10,000
words
one last thing here he says to say I was
impressed would be an understatement so
he just described about how he like just
daughter Don not knowing where he was or
what he was talking about and then like
argued against his own point to like the
jeers of an entire room and they topi
almost like this man will be Prime
Minister and you know what in the UK
that's probably a good [ __ ] bet
because he is dummy thick at the end of
the day that's what matters if you're
look the odds are if you're listening in
the show you are also like a confused
husky boy you have a bright future in
the UK the world the world is your
oyster
there's a bunch of fail lords in going
to the East Coast to rebuild the
Mayflower to go back to the United
Kingdom that's why that's why webmaster
guys like adopt British slang yeah like
gobshite because like over there they
would be good stop going to Japan teach
English they're sick of you they've seen
a ton of schlubby Americans not
impressive
that's a people that has their [ __ ]
together too yeah they go to a place
where they have no standards yeah if
you're a [ __ ] nerd like go to the UK
like you're probably over five ten
you're towering over these people just
go over there and teach under the
[ __ ] Java or whatever I don't know
you will be a god there you will be
elected you'll be and you'll be given a
life peerage so you guys here a few
years before arriving at Oxford I had
watched the television adaptation of
Brideshead Revisited
Evelyn woz Oxford novel you notice he
said he didn't read the movie it had
been expecting to meet the modern-day
equivalents of Sebastian Flyte and
Anthony Blanche larger-than-life
devil-may-care aristocrats delivering
bamos in between sips of champagne and
spoonfuls of caviar but the reality was
very different warm beer
stale sandwiches and second-hand
opinions lots of spotty students all as
Ghosh's me last like an Oscar Wilde play
than a Mike Lee film he's comparing it
to a Mike Lee film because of all the
rapes that happen so there you go that's
Toby Young's flights of fancy he's
convinced me about now doddering off is
he's gonna definitely pull off that
whole hard brexit thing way to go buddy
well we great what's gonna happen is
they're gonna have a bad deal on the
table and he'll because he thinks like
he's settling a lawsuit with Tesco or so
a defamation lawsuit with
go he'll sign it and then like his cuff
link will latch on to the desk and
slowly unravel until he's completely
naked by EU bylaws invalidating the deal
see ya that's the mr. bean loophole yeah
so there you go
now British Prime Minister Boris Johnson
full of coiled strength and potency even
as a young lad future's looking bright
folks but that's not just the Sun
flashing off of his pale [ __ ] good
the only artificial moon that's been
created there are only a few people who
could stand up to Boris Johnson's just
you know looming strength and imposing
Superman physique and charisma
Vito Spatafore is golf Sun is one it's
Fred Flintstone Peter Griffin oh my god
what if that guy who cosplay says Peter
Griffith what they would just overthrow
the Windsors and make him King that guy
well that guy's like against racism so
that's a huge he did a PSA against
racism so like that's you know that's a
huge liability for him yeah neck I have
a falling out with the real life Lois
Grif the real life Lois Griffin [ __ ]
by the way has no Kurosawa's Lois is
nothing like his that guy is unfuck
engaging rules he stole his YouTube
channel it's such [ __ ] [ __ ]
there's a guy named real-life Peter
Griffin who looks and sounds exactly
like Peter Griffin and he rocks he's a
good-natured fellow okay but he was
exploited by his sort of cosplay
real-life Lois Griffin wife we took over
his YouTube page after falling out yeah
this is [ __ ] horrifying she looks
nothing such [ __ ] is anyone doing
anything about this President Trump
Trump sir we are we are honored to fight
on your side of this war against our
this fake Lois fraudulent loans
Griffiths how am I supposed to beat off
to this real real life Lois Griffin
couldn't even play make it's really
pathetic
it's
you see real life Peter Griffin is
everyone loves him so big oh my god yeah
he loves big guys yes a giant real-life
Peter Griffin is a [ __ ] tank yeah
all right guys we should we should wrap
it up for this today
we should put a link to real life Peter
Griffin to the description
no context for any of the Glenn
interview or British politics but give
them a link to real life Peter Griffin
so they have some contacts important
stuff all about education all right we
do have a few plugs look away okay
coming up this upcoming week Traverse
City Michigan we will be doing a live
live uh what it'll be a couple of events
will be a new you and Brendan actually
the trader Brendan JJ print the trader
Brenner's his head again this is it diet
worms type setup for him yes on I
believe July 30th for the second of the
second Democratic debates will be on
stage live uh you know doing doing some
goofs that one is free and then later
that week on Friday oh we are doing a
live show so come out for those ticket
links are in the description and then
next month on a day that I remember in
one third of August 23rd of caucus in
Providence Rhode Island at Necronomicon
we will be doing live call of cthulhu
and if you like reading which you
probably don't because you're listening
to this I recently and published again
in Columbia Journalism Review
interviewing editor of Financial Times
Lionel Barbour till next time guys bye
bye next on tears bye bye guys real life
Peter Griffin here you know really
grinds my gears racism I mean the only
things that I am intolerant of are giant
chickens and meant I think there's two
things that we can all agree on number
one we all need oxygen to breathe and
number two ninety percent of Sean Paul's
lyrics are indecipherable
you can be the mom and then of no
circumstances should you ever say any
words like
