no yeah Irish people are amazing at
fights just don't touch their legs or
they'll immediately fall over you talk
about those are the strongest parts from
all the dancing know that how come
they're in no Irish person has ever even
come close to qualifying for the
Olympics that wrestling there's what
about Conor McGregor he kicks people all
the time he got [ __ ] brutally
demolished by a daghestani who knew how
to wrestle and he has a stick double leg
and yeah in that castle she's got some
[ __ ] like rune strength and she went
to a draw with Jordan burrows it was
actually sick I don't know how he a 45
year old Irish woman wrestled like a you
know college junior in America but she
did a fairy ring you get the power I
feel like people have been gaslighting
me recently by insisting that they like
Enya and you say I like on the heart
it's last ocarina flow just existence in
[ __ ] torment me alive you have to
tell us what music you like it's fine I
don't I just that all this don't lose
all those pure moods from the early
nineties ah you got here's the playlist
you got some Enya awful you've got the
Vangelis theme from Chariots of Fire and
1492 conquest of paradise go in dummy
hard getting you in that mood that's
what that were to kill yourself in the
mood to open up the Marianne mindset to
see the orbs oh yeah yeah you know if I
have to listen to em you to see the orbs
that I guess I've not seen the orbs it's
not happen you're just afraid of your
third eye I might be but okay what music
do you like though I've always wondered
this you know camptown races Stephen
Foster rips problematic though Matt he's
a problematic a matt is literally the
and retreat where he's telling a girl
like yeah began to older stuff like
Jerry jock
[Music]
so fellas let's real talk now um me five
of the sex strike I have committed to
this I've not crossed the picket line
you know I'm holding strong I hope all
of you guys are what are the five
regulation of medicine okay we've
committed to it but here's the problem
the modern-day Pinkerton agency that is
snapchat in the middle of the sex strike
they broke out the filter that makes
your homie look like a beautiful lady
and they're really they're really
pushing me yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna have
this cab it's scared of real hard out
here looking at there's sometimes
looking at all your favorite Twitter
Twitter homies is just like it's like
when Bugs Bunny dressed up as a lady
yeah
I entered stage today with gorged over
large phallus dragging on on the on the
boards of the stage like Aristophanes
character from lice Estrada and a bit
and a mask that was like comically horny
but being a gay I was like bring it on
sex strikes automatic scab if anyone is
getting too sprung off their hot homies
just if you want to cool off look at a
picture of me gender swap because I look
like grown up honey boo boo I've done it
several times with different apps I
never looked good I always look terrible
I just look awful I look like Megan
McCain if she wasn't rich I like mine
looks like a sexy ghazan oh yeah sure oh
you know Felix Felix has some of the
best gender swap pictures why would I
would have been such a hot woman uh my
[ __ ] would have [ __ ] stank but other
than a hobby would have been like like
in a cartoon when a poor person opens
his wallet that's what my [ __ ] would be
like popping my [ __ ] you know just
basic hygiene and his inability or
unwillingness to carry that no I like
good hygiene as a man but it's like
there's a lot of [ __ ] you have to do
with
vagina from what I understand yes my
[ __ ] would be like when in the cartoon
the smell of a pie and pull you Donald
Duck usually by the nose towards the
window so I think I think if I was a
woman I would be one of the women from
the barstool podcast where they're like
we like to get drunk like the the one
the guy posted the clips of you'd be
like a bourbon [ __ ] yeah I would be a
bourbon [ __ ] and cool Jeff and I get
like tons of horny replies but then the
rumor mill would start yeah you got
fives my cooter is a man as a man if
plies come out of your urethra of your
dick like you know it's just like rugged
it's like Brad Pitt rolling out of bed
yeah I got bedbugs in my pubes take life
chill take myself too seriously I'm not
one of those metrosexuals who doesn't
have lice in his taint well I mean I
want to talk about the sex strike but
you know and we're helping you out on
the sex strike by Felix talking about
his genitals felix has been taking the
sex trade really hard but you know it's
unfortunately it's landed in the part of
the year in his like hibernation cycle
he's not in pon farr yet so he's holding
strong probably I feel like most out of
all of us feel like this credit my
breeding practices or like criticized a
lot let me explain something to you if
you buy more than four gaming mouses
like a two-month period you can't have
sex with anyone you can't even [ __ ]
come close why cuz the experience that
you're having with the gaming mouses
makes it no people could smell it on you
they're like oh this guy has gone
through four different logitech gaming
mouses and has compared has compared the
weight of it when he tries to hit and
aren't like a you know arm aim flick
only there was aimed trainer for the
human heart which through his aim
trainer for sex I'm always missing that
I think I am landing in the belly button
all the time it is in the air
chat is going crazy you're calling me a
bot it's X it's so you need um you need
like tracer bullets do I'm going back to
[ __ ] on console he said a missus okay
so I'm always just like I'm always just
hitting you know like the sort of armpit
of the knee I don't even know how I got
down there so uh Alyssa Milano sex
strike continues we will update you as
it goes you know again please stay
strong don't scab don't strike break
yeah
especially if you're a beautiful lady or
one of my Twitter homies who's also a
beautiful lady with the aid of snapchat
innocent Virgil Virgil is like pretty
hot actually
yeah hot looks like a fake gamer girl
though followers yeah Virgil is like I
would give him like $100 don't know him
be like you don't have a husband right
just walking by out of frame a lady
Virgil would would would stream like
duck hunt or something - half a million
horny losers the Lady Bird girl Branson
is like that's just a catastrophe well
um let's let's kick off the show after
the sex track update I'm very pleased to
say that we've got James Adomian but
sitting in for the first time in a while
we this is the first time we've seen you
in the flesh usually you know you're
you're coming to us via you know a phone
line on tour in my steampunk dirigibles
around North America North America is
what you say it is sound cool like you
also go to it means you just go to
Toronto so James is you're in the city
for a little bit and you're kind enough
to drop by the trap great to see you
what day is this I'm curious mother some
Mother's Day oh we're on this is
Mother's Day yeah I don't know if you
didn't know if you bent time well we'll
try back timers that's a some science
fiction movie back timers
they're the creatures that move
backwards through our time around the
Langille ears yeah they just go through
history - spoiling movies
you get a phone call in like 2012 and
it's like Ironman ties the movie back
timer spoils itself
no [ __ ] Matt you showed me this do
we saw like there was some huge comment
on our reddit complaining about spoiling
games and game yeah they said it was
fascist to spoil end game they said it
was like doing this just putting
spoilers out there like you're just
revelant you know you're doing it don't
say it's cruelty for it'll be an ice
agent rounding undocumented people and
they said that yes movie spoilers are
fash and you know it's easy to scoff at
that but you may not know that you know
in the 1930s one of the things that the
brown shirts did was go around telling
people how em ended I mean I I can't
think of any worse thing you can do to a
person and tell them you know Fanny oh
s--- like ya eat somebody into the
optimum optimum gauntlet or whatever
that would [ __ ] suck I'd probably kill
myself alright so um spoilers are fash
but uh here's no spoiler Optimus Prime
dies where Donald Trump just scored an
excellent dunk on Pete Budaj by
comparing him to classic Mad Magazine
figurehead Alfred Newman and then
Buddha's eggs responded by being like I
guess that's a generational thing I had
to google that and I gotta say Buddha
says just not that much older than I got
a subscription to Mad Magazine without
those Mad Magazine shut the [ __ ] up you
[ __ ] nerd I was not a snappy answer
to a stupid question I can't wait for
the general between those two it's gonna
be explosive it's gonna be so my god
they're just gonna be going off on each
other
it's like spy versus spy yeah Donald
Trump is gonna be like mayor peach
should be in hee haw and mayor Pete will
just be like the only thing I'm he
hauling hat is your disregard for the
Constitution each other why why isn't it
here during this trying to I really
could use hee ha yeah he always the
first MADtv
that's true like kind of I know who L
Freddie Newman is obviously even though
I did not have a subscription about I
had a subscription to crash alt
scenester
I was always more of a Sylvester P Smith
a guy every Newman guy I loved the idea
of the guy was like yeah I'm really into
punk scenes bad crash something I think
cracked I don't know just feel mad felt
a little too establishment for me when I
wasn't I wanted and that's like cracked
it's like it felt more Ponk cracked
would make fun of ren and stimpy they
would go there didn't know who Alfred E
Newman was I also think it's funny that
Donald Trump at that in his role again
yeah that's true because that would
require reading attention to comedy
magazines
well no no he obviously he doesn't read
mag magazine but you'd be no Trump is
always been very in you know in tune
with the media he has a lot of PR people
working from over time like he'd have PR
people contact page six and do like this
just in our wags say that Donald Trump's
penis is large and he's very good at sex
and he must have as I say he recalls to
manage PR people like contacting Mad
Magazine just be like your parody of a
Donald e blump blump Caen you must
retract there yet that's true because
there are records of them making fun of
him back in the 90s and 80s and stuff so
I'm sure that he was very aware he liked
circled it with his big magic marker
that's unfair the white spies a loser
he's a dirty cop the white spies friends
is Bruce or everybody knows everybody
knows the white spy he's terribly and
dead the failing Mad Magazine I mean the
one thing that we don't have talked
about is that and I wish someone would
ask him it said he 1 million percent
thinks that Alfred E Newman is a real
person he is the publisher of Mathieson
he's like the great and Carter of mad
Numan hugging and kissing outside
Waverly in I really knew is not Oscar
party not hot anymore
pack it in I've heard that every
Newman's cream pie restaurants not
longer funny giorious all falter Eve
I've talked about Bernie Newman got into
it with Christopher Hitchens I've talked
to some of the people who ask him some
of the supposedly stupid questions those
are completely fabricated they're false
they made them up to make themselves
look good efforts a really nasty
insecure guy who has to make up
conversations to make himself look good
because no one wants to come to his
awful party the stupid bowl it's called
the super bowl Alfred learn how to spell
his adult teeth haven't come in he's
he's older than I am and his teeth
haven't come in I think I'm about a
month away from retweeting all the
Graydon Carter tweets again they're so
good I did like though I liked the the
the Buddha jej brigade did have some
choice reactions that Donald Trump
calling him Alfred E Newman and they
were like um some people read Mad
Magazine as a kid others learn six
languages and read Finnegan's Wake and
it's like once again like has anyone
learned how to how to get over on Trump
well no obviously not so Buddha jeggi
yeah what if Trump was like that
Finnegan's Wake was the only book you
ever read but he was just like the world
greatest expert at it he's just like the
only guy who knows it yeah James what do
you make of the the Buddha judge Magnus
to see is he going is he going anywhere
um he's he's got some pull in the gaze
he's got some pull in the gay in the gay
scene and yeah yeah in the juicy yeah if
you want it look if you want to get laid
in today's America
you better have a neutral to positive I
mean I mean there's an incentive people
want to see and be the third gay
President James Buchanan and probably
Lincoln but definitely back to back yeah
whoa no mid-1800s re fourth gay
president I think you're forgetting rock
Obama Barack Obama
I actually don't believe we've ever had
a straight president
so like on Grindr you have to have like
you know booty shows neutral but he has
neutral to kick chaotic good that
actually yeah in addition to top bottom
versatile the next thing is gonna be
yeah I'm a booty judge switch judge
bottom boy yeah great Buddha is
fantastic
I mean it's I'm like I'm like
technically happy that you can be a
gayer for president but I had had like
you know I you have like a hypothetical
that you're ready for an argument that
you never use in your head and I had one
for years that was like well if a gay
ran for president I wouldn't
automatically support him because he was
gay and now it's happening you proving
yourself right never had to use it
because that argument never happened but
didn't now this is happening and I'm
like okay well I'm not supporting this
gauge is because he's gay it's happening
thanks for bringing it there I'm glad
that the back timers have engineered the
other thing this week we did get a
chance to talk about was ben shapiro
destroyed by BBC why don't you just say
that you're on the left is so hard for
you why can't you just be honest this is
it's a serious question
mr. Shapiro if you only knew how
ridiculous that statement is you
wouldn't have said it I just leave you a
question yeah he got his back walls
blown out there who is that Ben Shapiro
no I know Ben Shapiro who's that one BBC
guys it was Andrew Neil well that's
3,000 year old Tory
yeah he's the turtle from never an
exaggerated it's like you can know he's
like yeah he's like one of these uh you
know British TV interviewing fossils
that um ya know he he he destroyed ben
shapiro just basically by asking him
questions but the thing is everyone
assumed that it was like ben shapiro
pawed by reality but like Andrew Neil is
like thinks that being gay is a disease
and that like global warming is made up
along with vaccines it's like he's just
like a weird ancient yeah Tory
it just goes to show how share how much
of a precious little boy Ben is well the
thing is like it's just the conventions
of like British TV news interviews are
completely different than American which
is like in America they always want to
get you booked back and they never ask a
follow-up question where it was like in
the BBC like they take pride in you know
you know making you uncomfortable or
just sticking the knife in I've got
nothing but time to open up this
textually printed copy of your tweets
yeah the best thing is like Andrew Neil
like in the UK is just like psychotic
far-right lunatic but like people jiuhu
people who watch it with no context
we're like oh this epic liberal just
poem in America is just an exceptionally
right-wing gondry but that's that's the
thing that's been started that because
his when he started getting pushback his
only move was I you're actually a
liberal and this is actually a biased
interview because that is the strategy
is that you prevent getting any kind of
critical pushback in an interview by
working the refs by establishing a thing
where you say any kind of hostility is
proof of your bias and since every
American journalist is terrified of
being called biased in any way that
keeps them from doing anything that'll
make that'll make it hard for him to
respond what's so funny about that is it
like this Ben Shapiro is like mister to
damn debate and like isn't the entire
like convention of a debate is that your
opponent is biased against your point of
view yeah or that his argument will
argue against but he only wants to
debate as we've discussed many times
weeping college students those are the
only people who wants to me no one else
has ever offered to debate him has ever
been taken up on it other than like like
dog and pony shows that like politican
where it's like just a bunch of media
hacks otherwise it's like if you don't
have purple hair and you're not already
crying when you're talking to him he
doesn't want it to be you Benji bear
will get thrown off if somebody isn't
actively shivering around yeah
the way to defeat ben shapiro is to slow
down his voice track to normal one time
speed
he's usually played at 1.5 X and if you
just dial him down if you chop a clip if
you chop and screw Shapiro's it's these
points become instantly a saleable it's
like the G he's like the chipmunks if
you slow it down you can slow it down
and hear how they accomplished ben
shapiro ya know he should cut a
Christmas album Alvin Simon chef Pino
actually your argument is false and it's
absolutely insane to keep mine wouldn't
wear pants or coat he's gonna wear a
turtleneck I mean even told me he's
gonna wear to Bend he's gonna wear it to
bed like a night shirt okay well that's
an entire separate article of clothing
that could stand alone yet doesn't even
have underwear on can even wear
basketball shorts are you gonna tell me
because his legs are short or plenty of
people short legs wear pants the family
can hardly stand the wait please
Christmas don't be late the other for
anything that came out of that um was
you know as you do you know you make fun
of Ben Shapiro's stupid squeaky voice
and his height but like the backlash to
the backlash are people saying that like
you know please let's make fun of ben
shapiro because you do it based on
something other than his height stupid
voice or general physical appearance and
it's just like if you can't make fun of
someone based on how they look and sound
really can you do i don't know what are
we doing here doing here people let's
just pack it in it's like you know being
short it's like you know it's like he
was born with dwarfism or something
that's not a disability or anything it's
just a we guy yeah i mean it wouldn't
the shortness wouldn't really matter if
he didn't have just such a hall monitor
energy well he's a short guy energy yes
there are short guys that pull it off
you know yeah like Tom Cruise exactly is
the energy of an intergalactic dictator
yeah he's got big zum-zum who had a big
Z no energy I mean as a you know look I
think obviously can't speak for everyone
but you know I'm only 6 1 you know
obviously people under 6 3 should be
murdered Wow like kind of sub entered
into pole
yeah a significantly below average
height myself this six one I think it's
okay I mean I'm just like a hair under
six feet and 26 years old as well and
yeah as all of us is men below average
height for a man is six four and if
you're below that it's probably okay if
someone kills you by accident not on
purpose by accident and we say it's okay
so there you go um you please make fun
of Ben Shapiro all you want but can you
please do it in dry academic language in
a peer-reviewed journal
it's probably vetted by academic sources
no I mean the only good way to make fun
of somebody is like a compound swear
that would have like just been even
unfunny and like [ __ ] reddit or
gamefaqs at 2005 but sort of make it
woke so you're not making fun of
anyone's appearance or anything else but
yeah call him a [ __ ] button that will
own him this everyone loves that are so
cool oh my god they're [ __ ] sick it's
like wait all right he's gonna call him
oh [ __ ] oh wait no there's a waffle in
there where is this guy going whoa oh my
god I'm glad I brought my seat belts to
this rift riff [ __ ] yeah cut that
seatbelt to a rift fight just like a
seat belt to a rift if you're gonna fall
into it or something what the [ __ ] did
he say to me a little [ __ ] you go
through the rift and then that's when
you encounter any ax yeah that's um
that's what lays beyond um speaking
another another another b-boy was in the
news let's talk about about Joe Biden
again because I gotta say you would be
talking about him for a while now you
know he's in the race and it's hard to
know what to make of this because you
lookin at the polls now and it looks
like Biden is just romping he's killing
it like he's just like he's up by like
45 to 15 against Bernie in South
Carolina he's up by like 15 or 20 in New
Hampshire and it's you know what are we
to make of this because you know on the
one level it's a long way to go before
you know any votes are cast you could
point to like similarly mount you were
saying like Jeb yeah just was leaving at
this point is leading and similar like
big big lead
but at the same time it's just it's very
easy for me to imagine just Joe Biden
just less sailing to the Democratic
nominee you look at the Democratic
primary voter base of people who are
just always if if they have an incumbent
Republican in a you know five-alarm
terror and they're like oh my god what
can we do what can we do what can we do
and they and all they think is well now
it's not what I want it's what does the
dumbest person I know want cuz then they
figure well probably Joe Biden if you
don't read the news you're about 50
I'm the guy that you'll fall in line for
second place I like I mean I've from the
get-go even before you know and said I
think he's gonna win the nomination but
to be fair here like the polls that
they're doing her [ __ ] up like they're
literally just people who are like
registered Democrats or on their
deathbed like the last thing I ever hear
is like a resin guy being like who are
you gonna vote for so I mean one of them
literally didn't ask someone what was
the age like below like yeah there is no
one under 50 yeah landline calls to
different polls had no one under 50 yeah
that's not a real poll we got to uncut
these polls again and like yeah gotta
uncook the polls you know don't want to
psych you out you know like Bernie's
still got a good shot at it but again a
Biden is probably gonna he's gonna have
to be dealt with at some point and do
not take that [ __ ] you buy [ __ ] I'll do
it I'll Hunter Kelly look I tell you I
tell you well if you have that feminine
Face Swap thing on give you a good sniff
and say
whisper in my ear student being you
interested in donating a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars illegal I tell
you what if then you come into my office
and say Joe I need a favor from you
it's human nature I'm gonna go for your
shoulders you know whisper something
right in your ear I've sort of keep the
show fresh in the coming months I've
decided that I will be supporting Joe
Biden and that's good I have several
contrarian takes in support of them do
you guys want to go yeah break Lois the
creature in corner pro-job alright so
the touching stuff huh alright that's
indigenous IRA
healing practices that's literally like
he's a [ __ ] Irish tea oh that's harsh
people infection I can come up and lick
lick exactly and I lick like I'm looking
an ice cream it's got a pupil oh you
officer yeah and it's like oh you're
supporting like [ __ ] you know Tulsi
you're like Mike Revell or Bernie
because you want it like a less
interventionist foreign policy Joe
Biden's like scumbag son is literally
doing millions of dollars of deals with
China so we will never confront them and
so it's actually the most anti
interventionist candidate whoa he's the
most of each candidate because if his
shunting deals yeah contrary in corners
winning me over on this yeah we just
need a hundred to diversify he needs to
get a company in Iran yeah exactly
this Venezuela you need to you need we
need to have him have vested it just
have a diversified portfolio countries
that are currently on the State
Department hit list yeah exactly
yeah um job name hunter hunter Biden
yeah it sounds like a scary lawyer
because he's a deal hunter the greatest
ely made was swooping on his dead
brother's widow and he left his own wife
for her did such a pimp
wait what he was already married yeah
he's a god divorced his wife to marry
his brother's widow yeah
does he take the Bible that married
there's a there's a relationship and I
think they broke up now just but I
speculate us just to keep it out of the
spotlight that he that he's with his
brother's widow like it's a [ __ ]
middle aged everyone likes the best
prestige TV show of all time the Borgias
well now it's real now it's real the
fictional characters of the Borgias are
now real and they're the Biden's soon
the White House I'll be posing for a
giant painting every two weeks couple of
shoulder robes I don't your shoulder
robes just to let you know I'm coming
for those shoulders coming on
but like you know we're talking about a
Biden's you know perceived popularity
whether it's a you know not as strong as
it would uh the the cocked poles would
make it make it appear you sort of get
into this this this commentary that's
like not entirely wrong
it states that like you know Twitter
either unlike the liberal side or like
the left socialist side is basically
kind of like an argument among a very
small group of like politically engaged
elites yeah and that like well the
actual Democratic voters like don't know
or care about any of this [ __ ] and they
you know they love Joe Biden or whatever
which I'm me I'm sure is sure to a
certain extent but like people the the
next step that people take is like oh
well actually like people don't really
want a more left-wing turn in the
Democratic Party or they or they're
really I said on our last show there's
no such thing as the center and American
politics and the thing is like it's true
they do like Biden and they're not like
all the things that you and I would
regard as like you know huge red flags
or like would torpedo him because of all
of his noxious political beliefs the
thing is if Joe Biden were running on
Bernie Sanders agenda he would be exact
same as pot you be exactly as popular
with the Democratic base and voters like
the policies coming oh yeah that's the
night that's the twist that's the double
side of that argument that oh they don't
actually want you know the they're not
that engaged with this stuff it also
means that they don't have some sort of
inherent bias against it they are a Pete
they are but they like a guy who reminds
them of the Obama years and they want to
go back to that and it's like hey he's
the Obama and the other big thing is
like I was saying the [ __ ] like
electability deal which is of course
just amazing that people still talk
about with Donald [ __ ] Trump being
president but the last people in America
are gonna still buy that electability is
like a thing you can even can't come
close to determining with any any kind
of ad accuracy are gonna be Democratic
primary voters the electability thing is
so outrageous that I'm just completely
numb to it now yeah because the other
thing is you can't argue against it
because like I said it's there's no
basis to it it's all just a gut feeling
it's just like my gut says that that the
American people are you know dumber than
me because that's a how is the
assumption of electoral people thinking
people thinking electoral goes well I
might want X wires
but what about someone the dumbest
person I know what do they want and so
that's dumber than me they're more
cautious than me they're more
reactionary than I am because it's
well-known fact that everybody from
Democrats to Republicans thinks that the
American people are more right wing than
they are even in the across-the-board
and so they think well what's something
that'll be safe and it's like hey former
vice president the popular presidential
administration who doesn't rock the boat
why not him but yeah like if Biden was
came out strongly to support Medicare
for all he'd probably be more popular
you know like it's it's like the
policies gonna I don't know about that
but really well the thing is is that it
all it all depends on where it does his
polling position come from and if it has
nothing to do with issues if it is just
name recognition and this idea of
electability then his policy visitor
beside the point
well yeah it certainly wouldn't hurt him
right it was same cow the same people
would support him as they do now
presumably yes we can hurt him but I
don't think it would necessarily okay
well we ran the numbers we'd lose 80,000
dollars an hour in our donations
well Biden was asked about this the
other day and his answer for why he
doesn't support Medicare for all is
because it will let employers off the
hook for paying for health care yeah
he's a why single why let them off the
hook it's very smart yeah all right I
got to appear like I'm not just in the
pocket of insurance companies in the
medical Lobby so what is a populist
sounding way I could oppose Medicare
fraud well don't you love sticking it to
your boss by having him pay for a
portion of your health care and which
means you're basically a serf to him and
you can't leave the job without losing
the health care and also he can switch
the health care every year at his whim
for a cheaper plan that covers less well
isn't that like a thing when they're
like during the like introduction of the
ACA they're like oh we're not punishing
employers and now like the only way they
can clutch on employers right banking
their bottom still they're bright ruby
red yeah it just does show how old he is
because he just you couldn't think fast
enough it was just muddled in that clip
what do you say to calls for some sort
of universal health care there were
something like Medicare for all from
some of the other people running I
I think they're they're well intended I
think that mean it is and it's not I'm
not but here's the deal right now you
have 16 you have this overwhelming
number of employers for a pain in the
health care plan why let them off the
hook all of a sudden they don't have to
pay anything what happens then - this
whole thing about profit and the rest I
mean it should be part of the
compensation if you have it like that's
what he thinks people irelia get like
that's what he calls companies or small
businesses or any business just
employers I guess that's technically
correct but it sounds like he started
writing his answer in German and and he
also said this week that we need to find
the middle ground on climate change yeah
which is even more terrifying than the
employers thing is the middle ground
only the middle of the country will be
left all Florida would get rid of Miami
and the South Florida Everglades down
there will still have Tampa about the
Everglades it's just a bunch of
alligators and [ __ ] it's a swamp it'll
be more of a swamp they can figure it
out I mean Orlando already the happiest
place on earth how much happier if it
was on the water if you had beachfront
property right there is near Orlando to
Tampa I would love to see Florida guys
like they don't have cars anymore and
they're just fighting over like who
stole their manatee it is a ride to work
Jerry Jerry dunk took my [ __ ] dolphin
three payments left [ __ ] [ __ ] dude
I'm gonna beat your ass it's just like
Aquaman but everyone is wearing a
wife-beater
yeah that's Aquaman it's the new aqua
that's literally just about how we make
Minocqua man real well no yeah exactly
but he was the only one in the
wife-beater I'm sure they were all
wearing suits they're all wearing their
dumb under underwater man outfit what if
like Florida people could what a Florida
people could just like they could walk
underwater and breathe underwater and
speed like weed no one ever knew and it
just sinks and they just create like
Atlantis is real but it is for duh just
like [ __ ] Miami and Tampa and they're
like yeah we've always been able to do
this we just never wanted to do like get
up early it sucks I'm just imagining I'm
almost positive at some point
his life Trump has wanted to call
manatees because they got in the way of
a golf course or some marina that he was
invested in they're like do you think
it's like the tact he took with
windmills
yeah they kill like other species or
something I know he's he created a boat
that's basically like a lot like a
underwater lawnmower goes over manatees
habitat it just showers them up yeah
Howard by killing me that's green that's
great energy I got I do gotta say like
the Biden middle ground for we do kind
of gotta get rid of New York and
California like honestly like we've had
our time with this experiment and it's
really not working out and this would
turn Ohio into the new New York which
give him a shot they've earned it how
many presidents have come from Ohio we
laden with Planet Express and bender and
all those scary yeah no look it's time
it's done California dog [ __ ]
Seattle they're not they don't make good
planes anymore Portland are you honestly
gonna miss that New England nope
get rid of it it's crap I can't wait
till Columbus is the mini Orca then you
get to live there and complain about
everybody being a SSRI addicted media
person well you know it's just gonna
change well no it's gonna be a pond then
okay the Ohio guys will just become the
new media class yeah new balmy new balmy
my personal experience seeing the
adventures on my couch this is this is a
first-person there's cat person but it's
just about two friends constantly
stealing headphones from each other
beats person the Biden middle ground
electability strategy is like
interestingly depressing because he
could wit I could see it it's like a
coin flip
I could see yeah I could see him barely
winning or barely losing to Donald Trump
yeah yeah yeah the electability thing
could totally backfire because it's not
a good strategies first marketing turned
well that's also it could work and then
we're just kind of like like children of
mening forward yeah
oh it's like no babies
we don't all light on fire but it's just
a slow thud you just wake up one day and
you find out that baby Diego diet and
you're like [ __ ] I can't go to work I
know it's uh it's ya know Biden will get
to you getting peached within two years
after like some terror attack or
something and then we'll get Tom cotton
or something in there and then we won't
have to worry about elections anymore
and I say thank [ __ ] god
yeah I wonder if Biden or any Democrat
becomes president if Republicans will be
like we shouldn't use impeachment is
just like a political achievement a
little cool if it even is somewhat
implied that they've you know I don't
know ignored a subpoena or obstructed
justice or something like that yeah
by they probably won't yeah Biden is
going to get impeached within a month
because he like kissed Shinzo Abe a on
the forehead we're in the future
impeachment will just be a formal
process that has automatically begun as
soon as the results just to keep
everyone honest yeah yeah I just I yeah
it's not gonna be Tom cotton oh just
like every other year Donald Trump will
be President and I love that idea that
sounds good to me
it kind of has to be doesn't it cuz like
just I try to close my eyes and imagine
a president a Republican presidency that
is not Trump and like how are they gonna
get hard for it how are the Republican
voters gonna get hard for a regular
politician ever again a guy who speaks
in measured tones and uses and uses
after a war measured tones but just like
uses euphemisms and stuff and like
doesn't just directly say we're gonna go
bing bang boom right somebody who's like
we represent a future that is shining
yeah act like like how are you gonna get
hard for that after after [ __ ] Trump
yeah all those Republicans are two
[ __ ] there they really feel about
Anna Wintour's not Trump but no I mean
it is is true though like Tom cotton
will literally do anything to anybody to
get there but he doesn't like I like to
sell it
as well as nobody but he's got a dual
yet in the capital nobody has ever sold
it like Trump did do a dual but it was
with an Iraqi teenager who
wasn't aware it was a duel he took ten
paces and fired it's called a surprise
duel with legitimate competition the
Iraqi did have a second but it was his
parents I mean obviously Tom Tom cotton
Tom cotton like probably really didn't
do anything overseas he's just sort of
like stood around they made him give him
medal and the mayor Pete had like the
same deployment but Mayor Pete was like
I am knocking a petition for a medal
that would be dishonest yeah yeah I
won't be Tom Tom cotton did like the
coolest way to steal valor which is the
way Lyndon Johnson did which is just
like writing a letter to a general being
like yeah actually this isn't written
down anywhere no one remembers it but I
did some more here oh [ __ ] dude he like
he like lied about his heroic son I know
unlike where was he deployed in World
War two music well he wasn't he didn't
he never he didn't join the military he
didn't leave that he stayed in Congress
unlike Nixon or even you he tried to
kill JFK in the Pacific special mission
for the OSS I'm gonna look this up now
he went he went to the Pacific unlike a
inspection tour and he got a seat on a
Renick reconnaissance flight and he just
sat in the he just sent a shotgun on a
reconnaissance flight but then
afterwards he petitioned for a medal on
the ground that they took fire and that
he heroically like you know Saturday
yeah
the heroic lease at there well which was
all made up but he did get it he got
that he got the you know yeah and that's
like at the medal that's the cool way to
do it that is the cool and mayor Pete
not courageous enough to do it not
courageous enough to lie can I say that
it's everyone knows mayor Pete isn't
really running from there's five
candidates there's I'm curious how many
of them are really running for president
because the vast majority of them are
running for vice-president or less yeah
he's running for a book like New York
Times Bill DeBlasio what is she like
dude he's running to be like assistant
undersecretary for Education running for
president to get reelected as mayor
because no yeah yeah cuz he's term
limited now and they got rid of the
exception for Bloomberg so if he wants
for president maybe that'll be momentum
to reverse it yeah I guess I love him
here from everything I've read about the
Blasio he actually is the only one in
America who thinks he's running for
president because everyone in his life
has sat him down and said you were an
insane person do not do this and they
did it anyway
and so I think he really thinks he's
gonna win everyone else though I'd say
twenty out of these candidates now are
yeah book deal some post in the
administration via via TV talking head
something like eh Oh thinks he can win
but will also be happy being vice
president but I don't think a tomato
yeah bata is just like it's basically
like study abroad for him yeah no that's
the thing I don't even like bado
cares about winning anything I just
think he likes being in a room with
people who like him
yeah just sexy to be with like the Des
Moines Democratic mom's clever yeah he
just gets the energy is the energy he's
a punk rocker majors like we just got
gotta like us it's like we are the ones
that can just like it's just poorly like
we he's so he's so gen X cuz it's gonna
it's already just completely fizzling
out he probably won't make it till next
year but after he's like that was an
awesome experience I learned so much Gen
Xers love completely just eating [ __ ] at
something and being like thank you for
an awesome time yeah thank you for
teaching me about myself you don't need
to vote for bait or work under any
circumstances just go see collective
soul they're on the road now this summer
go see them and that should scratch that
itch for you yeah I would County Fair I
don't know like you can see a both maybe
if you go to the right time Johnnie old
I'm John Hickenlooper is even running
for but he's running for you know like
emperor of the underworld or yeah thing
like this is just a stepping stone hello
/ is running to be the [ __ ] captain
of the [ __ ] oil tanker from
Waterworld it's astounding that more
third and fourth party people haven't
announced because Trump should really
have given the green light to everybody
to try which makes the amazed that
why hasn't Jesse Ventura run I think
he's like the model for Trump before
anyone before shorts Nagar or anything
I'm taking my time I've actually I've
become a common-law citizen of Mexico
because it's been more than six a year
down here so I've got to get the
paperwork in order I've got a League of
Nations passport can't get it renewed
unless I go to the canary I look I might
run for president you wouldn't even know
it'll be a camouflaged campaign star
Ventura pack right now seriously well
why not him he was a problem solver
before any of this yeah look I look I
disagree with the left on a few minor
issues that I get really bellicose about
but ultimately what you get out of it is
a light rail train between st. Paul and
Minneapolis yeah
Ventura only managed to feed Chris Kyle
yes law uh he used to be in the Reform
Party with Donald Trump that's true you
know what if only people who were in the
Reform Party win from now on happy and
happy you cannon after Jesse Ventura
Ross roasts alive Cynthia McKinney right
I think so
[ __ ] it yeah Ross Perot is still alive
leaves yeah he plays by the book he
plays a very good predictable opening
moves middle game end game think about
like the Ventura White House would be so
[ __ ] cool there'd be all this weird
[ __ ] all over there would be like a maze
young thing on the resolute desk yeah I
can't even imagine what kind of weird
[ __ ] ease into it's probably [ __ ]
sick well I'll tell you exactly what
we're gonna put turnbuckles up on all
four corners of the White House line
it'll be a giant ring we're democracy
democracy gonna be it's gonna be a royal
rumble it would you imagine the
president is still going to court with
Chris Kyle's Widow so sick
albian look I'm serving I'm serving
papers and or being served every almost
every moment of the day do you remember
the part you guys watched Jesse Ventura
conspiracy yeah we talked about this is
jann this is our first episode where I
talked about that remember when he went
to LaGuardia and he's like let me see
the 9/11 stuff and they're like no I was
governor they have to let see it now he
should run on it I'm running for
president of 9/11 you should run 20
years when I take office trust me you
want me to what if it was open he's
still doing he brings back conspiracy
theory as president he goes to LaGuardia
again he's like I'm the president he
goes the area 51 NOx right on the front
door and another I looked up the address
area it was somewhere between area 50
area 3 I didn't Trump promised that he
would let people know about UFOs and a
casa nation or if I did I just imagine
that he dangled something about a
declassifying JFK documents which they
did but they were gonna do it anyway and
he just took credit for but hilariously
they kicked it down the road a little
bit yeah well they release some and then
they kept what was hairy the CIA gets to
go we need six more months yeah it's
like with Disney and the [ __ ] the
copyright for Mickey Mouse they just
came down the road forever um Matt
you'll remember this what is the what is
the date that kevin costner AKA jim
garrison says at the end of JFK's like
I'm hoping my son eats his vegetables
yes stay strong Sundays 2030 years in
the thirties yes okay fingers crossed
all right
crossing off my suicide in 2023 off my
calendar I mean this is a perfect time
for Jesse to hop in the race because I
think like a couple weeks we give all
I'm not gonna hop in yeah well you know
your jaunt
it'll be a high jump like a couple weeks
ago wasn't there like an actual news
story about how Navy pilots have like
gotten the government to start looking
into UFOs because they just keep [ __ ]
yeah seeing them know there's been a
steady stream of very like ah shot
stories that in any other arrow would be
much more rare
oh the nineties people would've been
shooting their pants if the stuff that's
been released just in the past couple
your height of the x-files right yeah
it's like Navy pilots are like no
literally like we keep seeing UFOs that
like and the New York Times has this
video these [ __ ] pride videos of these
little videos burgers have a [ __ ]
fighting ring that's why the f33 keeps
crap for the f-35 he's crashing cuz I
keep [ __ ] fighting is not problematic
if you give them little gloves or if you
can teach them to play little avian
characters it wouldn't stick to their
kayfabe Imagi imagine
okay so halo like the events of halo
take place like there is a covenant but
the presidents we have during it are
Donald Trump and Joe Biden that's so
[ __ ] they're in charge of the master
chief of the carton program program
they're negotiating with the Covenant
like Donald Trump Donald Trump is gonna
talk to the prophet of mercy he may
actually may actually get it done may
prevent the human or the UNSC covenant
war if I get in there it's gonna be
first-person shooter it immediately the
President of the United States first all
this Biden is the only dove on the
Covenant because his son has a deal in
high chair the Covenant holy city of
high charity building the feeding tube
system for the grunts there are so many
candidates running for president that
should not be running that the news
comes out every two weeks where you're
like why the [ __ ] somebody's just like
I'm look you you can't even name an
office now without it being like there
already is one I'm the city councilman
in Phoenix Arizona and then it's almost
like a zombie movie where you think
these characters are like these are sane
people these aren't running for
president and then they get like bit and
they're like I'm running for president
and a ton of them are people who could
be in competitive Senate races against
Republicans and instead those that
reduces likelihood that those seats are
gonna flip which means that this all is
completely [ __ ] academic because the
Senate will just prevent any Democratic
president from accomplishing anything
real quick before you move on addition
more
Jesse Ventura like x-files [ __ ] because
okay maybe pilots keep seeing [ __ ]
UFOs again in the 90s this would have
been a bigger story yeah also there's
that like cigar-shaped interstellar
object that forms like no known like it
shows and then there's another thing I
swear to God whereas another
interstellar object yeah that's it yeah
an interstellar object in our solar
system that just like was recorded just
changing directions
yes oh my god ah album yeah no that's
that's a different one but yeah that too
just it just it wasn't it looked like it
could have been an orbit that doesn't
burp and although recently it but it's
not the same as oma
I don't think I remember how to
pronounce it and then there's the [ __ ]
pit videos of these objects that they're
following that just zip off the screen
completely off of whatever trajectory
they were on and then they came out that
harry reid had funneled millions of
dollars to investigate this paranormal
ship going on its this ranch it because
he's in utah a skinwalker ranch but
there's been like a place where they for
the whole 90s they were seeing a ton of
insane UFO activity and the classic
Jesse Ventura lines from the x-files
even the road President Jimmy Carter
even your own president side why do you
think why do you think he was shocked
into a malaise it was if the malaise was
a mayonnaise that was coated over this
country from another planet uh yeah UFOs
again like it sucks because they're
coming back in a major way but no one
gives a [ __ ] yes like UFO obsession and
conspiracy theories that was like such a
90s phenomenon of this kind of post Cold
War we needed something to communicate
the kind of like weird feeling that
existed in America and the anxiety
anxiety I have run tears closing it yeah
oh well more oh mama
and it was the rendezvous with Rama yeah
exactly arthur c clarke where it came to
our solar system and then sped up as it
left the sun and it but it was not it
was not a comet it was from another part
of it was not from any known place in
the sky you want to know the reason this
is in a bigger story I can't worry about
an unidentified flying
when I'm worried about an unqualified
freaking orange this is the resistance
caste
Wow
that's a that's a that's really um
that's really piercing satire resistant
guys one retweet equals one dollar from
Pete Pete a judge let's go okay someone
with she doesn't I don't think she's
ever written a column about UFOs but she
definitely probably believes in them
she has communicated and angels not at
this yeah I mean both before this I
don't know if you've ever done her for a
reading series we have Peggy Noonan yeah
we did her like in the first like
hundred of okay so this is this is a way
call back Peggy Noonan is a reading
series I have for you guys today
Peggy yeah she was like the proto Megan
McArdle so paying tribute to yes the
original infuriating toffee pudding head
yeah this is our column in The Wall
Street Journal the missing order in
American politics subhead I grow wistful
as I watch congressional chaos while
reading Kissinger's forthcoming oral
history that's just a book about all the
women you did you pull you put two
fingers in and above the g-spot and
create triple digit orgasms no [ __ ]
Harry Pope on my neck fold my back lick
my intervention have you ever seen a
German boy dance like this Lou Holtz so
this is Peggy Noonan writing in The Wall
Street Journal I am watching Washington
and thinking this we have reached a new
crisis point in Donald Trump versus the
Democrats they are speaking of contempt
citations subpoenas executive privilege
hearings it's a daily barrage the
Democrats are inching closer to
impeachment at least rhetorically
perhaps actually we'll see how Speaker
Nancy Pelosi can dance right up to the
edge to appease some in her caucus and
not over it but there is such a thing as
context as the Democrats seem to be
ignoring
this is a country divided I want to
raise one objection the daily barrage is
my incredibly shitty online satire
magazine articles you can read such as
Fox News it's issues correction for
telling the truth
so that's strike one Haley barrage it
sounds violent at least rough what's a
barrage of laughs it also make you think
laugh barrage oh that makes you think
yeah yeah yeah wow really good so much
stuck because I mean so many people I
mean on the left are afraid of thought
yeah no we have really good [ __ ] in
there like there's an article about a
congressman getting impeached for
passing of damn bill for once daily
barrage was [ __ ] good at [ __ ] we have
a hundred billion dollars in angel
investment from China baby says the
context that Democrats are ignoring is
that it's a the country's divided unlike
at previous points in American history
so she says here here's the
sleight-of-hand she goes almost half the
country is for mr. Trump truly madly
deeply that's not true that's not true
at all really not it's like it's [ __ ]
guy fourth vote at most
thirty percent of the country well they
all do that though they always take
polls of voters and say this is the
entire population every time right moles
are the only ones matter all polls
should all pull should take into account
the 120 million yeah people who no
longer believe in the process yeah all
right they should be like if an election
like if more people in America don't
vote than vote in a presidential
election like there should be no
president somewhere here some countries
have that you have to have fifty percent
you have to have some minimum quorum of
participation in order for the accounts
results to count that would be actually
useful if there if there was just four
there's some sort of executive branch
exactly and as opposed to now or there's
nothing but disincentives on purpose so
they could keep just on autopilot with
this tiny hyper partisan group of angry
middle-class old people so like it is a
absolute rough minority of
country that is in Peggy Newton's words
truly madly deeply in love with Donald
Trump and then she also says half is
against him unequivocally unchangeably
there is no resolving this or rather to
the extent it can be resolved it will be
resolved at the ballot box the
presidential election is 18 months from
now on November 3rd 2020 I'd like to
think that that's not actually the
election date and she's trying to like
suppress Democratic voter turnout but
you know this is the pages of the Wall
Street Journal so thanks for reminding
us an election day is Peggy she says
until then people are where they are and
hold the views they hold and don't push
them too hard again who are you talking
to don't push me like Who I am close to
the edge that sounds like something that
could be a warning at for a ride at
Disney that people are people
don't push anyone too hard keep your
hands inside the ride Peggy Peggy Noonan
she's at a turnstile show in the pit
it's like like I like to have a good
time don't [ __ ] push me I'm the queen
of this pit Democrats unveiled charges
and accusations the President as a liar
he's a tax dodger an obstruction of
justice but in a way mr. Trump
supporters accounted for all this before
they elected him they are not shocked
they didn't hire him to be a good man
their politics are post heroic they
sometimes tell reporters he's a man of
high character but mostly to drive the
reporters crazy I think actually like
Peggy is actually right she's actually
not that is I think that's all correct I
think there they are there's a certain
element of trolling the media when they
try to ask these I don't give a [ __ ]
ah-chan about oh how could a Christian
vote for a man who's because oh because
politics have been set up and the media
had been monitoring and trying to
explain politics along the lines of will
these voters these conservative voters
have XYZ values that they hold very
deeply and now they're finding out ya
know we're full of [ __ ] the whole time
and they just can't process it he says
oh you believe that [ __ ] you [ __ ]
dumbass well she says on the other hand
they sincerely believe he has high
political character and that he pursues
the issues he campaigned on again that's
that's true to the extent that he is
filling the judiciary with moth of the
Mothman Prophecies
just all moth men in the federal
judiciary
and made the tax cut but like he can't
paint on a ton of [ __ ] that he's
immediately forgotten about well yeah
and yes but the thing is is that they
don't really care about any of that
stuff they care about the stuff that he
has been talking about which is
immigration and and owning lives like
that
so he goes supporters give him high
marks for not looking down on them as
they believe most members of the media
who were always trying to understand
them do but again I think that's true
but like nobody looks down on his voters
more than Donald Trump but there's they
love being spit on their little piglets
they love it they love that he has
contempt for them because they think he
they think they deserve it from him what
they don't like about these media elites
looking down on is they think you don't
deserve to look down at me you [ __ ]
needle-nosed Trump on the other hand why
dick Donald he absolutely should be
looking down upon all of us on his
golden [ __ ] throne and pissing into
her mouth I can make you laugh I can
make you laugh as I really put you down
yeah he's like Don Rickles they love it
he says there he thinks personally
insulted every person in the front row
at a trump rally they would all love it
I would love she'd do a Rickles he
should do a Rickles show sit down you
should do a Wally George yeah just go to
town on them they love it their attitude
is don't try to understand me like
you're the anthropologist and we're the
savages I'm an American what are you
they factor the cultural animosity in
when they jeer the press real quote or
she made that up as an example quote and
it's an example yeah it's like he's
ventriloquism their point of view which
is of course rich coming from her yeah
when they jeer the press during rallies
at the president's direction they don't
really mean it
okay and when they post um Facebook
screens there's just copy and pasted
from the day of the Rope diaries yeah
they're trolling they don't really mean
it just having fun there it was Peggy's
next sentences they're having fun and
talking back it's like you know James I
got a comedy club when people talk back
to the comedian that they're having fun
they're getting in on the act
yeah yeah it's it's it's just it's a
cackling that's part of the process
they're having fun they'd be happy if
their kids became reporters an affluent
profession and half of them are famous I
dispute that I don't think they want
their kids to become Jim Acosta or
Anderson Cooper I mean if the
alternative is like carne then maybe s
like basement gamer I mean I probably
have them be Jim Acosta uh I don't know
I mean like after the water wars you'd
much rather be a carny than Jim Acosta
carnies at least have talents the
president doesn't really hate the press
either he wants their love and
admiration you don't need the admiration
of people you truly disdain Trump
supporters are now looking around and
thinking things are looking up the
economy is gangbusters everyone can get
a job good people are on the courts I
always when she writes things and where
if I see her on TV it always sounds to
me like Peggy Noonan is at her vacation
home looking out over like a long
expanse where there's water at the edge
of it and from that vantage point is
talking about the country yeah I mean
how many of these kids not just Noonan
but like really most of them are just
like them imagining what people would
say yeah well that's awesome
making up a point of view and ascribing
it to millions of beaches if I can get
rid of opinion conscience on it like
rerun like an old comic strip from the
50s where there are no jokes and it's
just about like a guy doing his job like
Jim Thorpe or something like [ __ ] this
[ __ ] this [ __ ] [ __ ] song it is the
most useless like sort of thing because
even if it's true or not how are you
ever gonna [ __ ] know there's no way
to test any of this [ __ ] like she's just
she's just [ __ ] riffing Matt everyone
can get a job now yeah well I mean she
is saying that like these people are
saying it but also like who gives a [ __ ]
the only people that should have opinion
columns are like interesting freaks it
should be like Bob Avakian David Dee's
Martin Oaks looking sick all seems like
it just all be people who are completely
insane like Soulja Boy should be an
opinion columnist and she should write
articles were like yeah Drake Rihanna
they all ripped me off like it's more
valuable than this [ __ ] dog [ __ ]
there it's like she's just like the most
well-known one but everyone does it the
[ __ ] food guy from the New York Times
who named Bruni Thomas Friedman Paul
Krugman for that met like literally this
is all this [ __ ] genre of writing is
it's [ __ ] point
it's just I mean it's pointless in a lot
of ways not only is there no real
informational value to it because it's
just one person's gut feeling from their
[ __ ] mansion but also no one [ __ ]
reads it anyway except for this small
group of people just mostly like us to
get mad at yeah pretty much pretty much
like we're the rubes were the ones who
are like oh [ __ ] you Undertaker stupid
parceling I but know it like baby-making
noon I'm sorry sir
you think yeah you think it's stupid to
Tibet to go up against a major combat
force like Yokozuna with the power with
the power of sumo wrestling behind them
the training what if what if [ __ ]
what if like Bret Stevens just killed
his family with a Bowflex what the [ __ ]
and they turns out like all these all
these colonists are just like doing HGH
and steroids
we just don't look like [ __ ] like
they're just all on anavar cycles and
they're like why it's just exactly well
if the country enters the kayfabe of my
world which is what will happen when I'm
elected president you'll start seeing
that like that was the only way
depending comes get better if you just
flip they're like yeah you can make like
a quarter of a million dollars a year
but you have to just abuse steroids
constantly and you have to take bumps
you have to go when you go in real time
you have to get hit with the chair it's
like you will not live to be 60 that is
a deal that you're making by being a
columnist this is just the last thing I
want to read from the other peggy noonan
piece this is the the analogy she
reaches for to talk about politically
divided America we are like Chang and
Eng the 19th century Siamese twin
brothers who worked for PT Barnum they
could not be separated yeah can I say
this is another thing a pause another
thing I hate about opinion columnist
whatever goddamn coffee book they're
reading that month ends up in their
column yeah as we all know from the PT
Barnum book that I've been reading we we
are America is like that elephant that
Thomas Edison
all right absolutely we are Tesla the
smoke is coming out of all of our giant
ears is is not direct current still
dominating our politics to this day
because they could not be separated and
went through their long lives together
married to different women living in
different houses and then we're also
twins by the way a few days a week and
this one a few and the other it wasn't
easy for them to walk through life
together but they did we have to - and
then she just goes now I wish the Swiss
subjects don't you and she spends the
rest of the topic alcohol I'm talking
about Henry Kissinger and his new book
Kissinger on Kissinger I swear to god it
didn't make it's like what 500 words
should be able to have what subject I
think she should have carried out the
the circus freak analogy yeah a little
longer yeah I can't he [ __ ] his own
looper awesome Kissinger on Kissinger
yes I was able to get down low enough
that I could lick my own metal make a
court yet never the sorry Jacob
Bacharach told us the person he [ __ ]
in a hot-air balloon yes officer was
hamster yeah a younger version of him
from from the back to back timers the
Kissinger ultimatum there's of course
there's all kinds of sequels and
prequels yeah
the sequel comes out for shads and grads
sequels and prequels I
she says America's like Chang and Eng I
think America is more like Beverly in
Elliott Mantle the twins from the film
Dead Ringers sorry a little bit little
deep cut that was for me and me only I
think they're more like the Collyer
brothers yes couple of maniacs in a
mansion eventually gonna get crushed to
death by a pilot newspaper well they was
there was a fire that got them and
that's a fire at global warming boom the
clutter carbon in Toronto got it my call
your brother's got [ __ ]
who's the bluegrass band
brothers the Coldplay with banjos as
Kyle Kinane put it what's that our body
politic
is closer to Mumford and I'll jump in
all seriousness it is to the almond I
really think the most accurate thing is
that we are Ray Milland and rosey Grier
from this thing with two heads that's
who we are
well if we get out of here James oh
we're hoping may trouble yeah we may be
pitched some impressions that year oh
sure why not do you have any give any
new characters new figures you're
working on uh whatever I'm ramping down
your ramp down okay as you would say in
the finance interesting I'm unwinding
some of these positions yeah he had a
long position on jet paul giamatti
shorty i had an IPO recently don't make
an issue with an initial Paul offering
and I was a I said we're gonna take it
public I did the reverse Elon Musk I
said we're gonna take it public $10
shares and now I'm severely buying
everything back I have an idea for
character for you what's that
all right James monkey W Bush he's an
ape who loves oil and bananas
Bush it's coming back to you should yeah
I did some movies were ours on Ronald
Reagan's lap Oh boom million you can if
you are if you if you play a music box
I have little symbols and I run around
up bang the symbols on civilians
it's an enhanced interrogation technique
with scissors you know short people
Shapiro
g-money as a little throwback could you
do Paul Giamatti who believes everything
ben shapiro does and i think that the
problem is that we are not adhering to
traditional sexual I voluntarily
committed myself to celibacy and then
afterwards involuntarily have been
committed to selling I've been pissed on
within the confines of matrimony money's
character on billions is epistles right
never watch abilities in this contract
that was part of the writer my Dom
forced my Dom is my agent so those are
the parts that I get I think we should
wrap it up but uh get the light yeah no
we're out reached the end here but James
you have anything to plug I have a
couple of things yeah go ahead go for it
I have a new podcast oh now your net
what was once our friend now becomes our
enemy we must meet on the field of
podcasting battle is it like is it like
a video game battle sphere like in the
three-body problem yeah let's you read
the book that's a great book you didn't
leave the sequels yes I haven't read the
whole shows yet but I really like the
Bears mind-blowing
I really like that bug you're like
having your mind but I absolutely do I
don't mind blown look you've got a
cradle the mind ball I have a new
podcast that's called the under culture
and I basically do that okay um the
under culture is a world of impressions
and sketches and some karaoke songs and
it's on the forever dark network and
everywhere else the podcast happened and
it's also on patreon I took a page from
your guys um your path to success that's
great we can't wait to destroy you we
invented patreon were the first people
ever on there have no no choice but to
take this as a personal insult I
immediately started tracting fire right
like um like I like if you walk up to
another castle in Age of Empires and
they just automatically start shooting
um also Trump vs. Bernie is coming back
ooh
we're doing uh the first redo um it's
like the apocalypse now redo Trump for
the directors disaster um Trump vs.
Bernie at the creek in the cave um
Saturday May 18th will be the first the
first of our return version of Trump vs.
Bernie me and Anthony it's a Munich but
this time they'll be like a 40-minute
digression where you go to some like
French colonial house in the jungle and
smoke opium with the guy's daughter
thank you there'll be a whole lot more
metaphor worked into a very metaphor
heavy script thank you for the
Apocalypse Now yes and that's in New
York that's in Long Island City uh this
Saturday and then we're gonna do it in
July in Los Angeles and at San Diego
comic-con oh well yeah yup
Trump vs. Bernie happening and the under
culture happening all right links to
Trump vs. Bernie and the under culture
at the show description you already know
the drill guys whoa once again thank you
very much to our good friend James
Adomian for stopping by the house in
person thank you cheers everybody
[Music]
[Music]
mpg
[Music]
