[Music]
put it in alright gang and gang we are
back to our regular regularly scheduled
programming slightly it's me Matt and
Virgil we are back fully recovered from
our weekend of that Crispin birthday
debauchery and depravity in beautiful
Atlantic City I would say America is
probably most romantic and gorgeous city
Oh totally hands down AC is for lovers
a C's for lovers fighters of
methamphetamine it's a great time and I
really wanted you to will to say the
thing you saw because I haven't been
able to stop thinking about it since you
described it I mean really kind of
annoyed I missed it the advertisement
that you saw before oh man oh man this
is like this is this made me glad that
you know I did not imbibe any sort of
like fear and loathing style
enhancements to our trip to this is this
gambling mecca because we were walking
down the Atlantic City Boardwalk at
night already a you know quite a scene
oh yeah what I fear is voice will just
back go across the boardwalk without
warning oh yeah imagine the city from
Blade Runner but like all the images and
voices are Guy Fieri's there will be
like got some red sauce available for
you on the offworld colony it's a
spice-rubbed pork sliders coming to you
live from the Nexus 6 I've seen deep
things you people wouldn't believe deep
fried quesadillas off salad bar
yeah I'd let I see any boardwalk already
aside so like we're we're all sort of
making our way down to the Hard Rock
Hotel Casino which was again an absolute
sight to but well we got there as a
journey concert was letting out so that
was a it was an ocean of Guy Fieri's
little and female Guy Fieri's the one
that really struck me as we came in and
I immediately a say yet guy he's got the
bright white bleached hair shot up from
his head
with the bald spot in the top and he's
super just cheeto orange but best of all
he had a sunglass shaped suntan line
around his eyes he looked like one of
those guys who was at the first nuclear
test well and like took the glasses off
and like that was the difference that
was how psychic it's like how long even
wearing those glasses and I was like I
was playing and I was like look at that
guy and then he went away and I was
talking I was like I can't believe that
guy and I turned and out of corner I'm
like oh there he is
and I looked and it was not him it was
just another guy who looked exactly like
him so Saturday night walking down the
Atlantic City Boardwalk to the Hard Rock
Hotel and Casino again already quite a
scene now imagine this you're walking
down there like one of the giant video
billboards as you're walking down on the
boardwalk I I begin to see an
advertisement that is just literally
like a sort of first-person shooter
style view of a mass shooting where it's
just like a gun going down a hallway and
it's like will you be ready for a mass
shooting and I'm like holy [ __ ] I'm glad
I'm glad I'm in a state where like like
the vibes don't matter because if I was
in a vibe sensitive frame of mind that
would have killed me and then it's like
I'm watching this I'm like what the [ __ ]
is this and it's just showing people
cowering under desks and you know trying
to like barricade doors and what I
realized is that it was an IDI for a
product that was like some sort of way
that you could like bootleg jam a door
shut in your office or school in the
event of a mass shooting style attack a
piece of wood you know it was like a
door stopper kind of like like a it was
like a rope you could tie around the
door like a like a cord attached to like
the side of the door from like
approximately where the handle is down
to the baseboard and you stretch the
cord out and pull it over the handle so
it's like you the the door handle is now
corded to the wall it's just a walk
around like an Alpine Mountaineer with a
[ __ ] length of paracord
[ __ ] this is the world a [ __ ] Gorka
for after 9/11 Trump went on TV and said
he was interested in getting a
parachutes and just like having a
parachute all the time yes in case I'm
not what he was in one of his buildings
and it was 9/11 oh my god I don't think
that's how parachutes work
oh you'll be fine yeah so that was a so
that's what yeah a slice of the old
dystopia definite vibe check then we got
sand monetizing the rod right we got to
the hardrock and the nest felix rightly
played out there was just demonic energy
coursing through that entire facility Oh
to the Hard Rock because I heard it was
fun it was now things are always bad you
know what I think you're right yeah
we have no a trad podcast hi hey I do
want to let everyone know though that I
did make a matching donation to the
Bernie Sanders campaign that equals the
quote unquote
donation that I made to what I assume is
you know the hardrock nonprofit it's
that they build wells or something or
they do you know charter schools or
something no I I donated to Bernie
Sanders the equivalent amount of money
which was you know haha not
insignificant that I lost playing a My
Cousin Vinny slot machine I don't
understand how people do this [ __ ] for
hours I just sat there for like you know
ten minutes and was like oh there goes
my money I don't a system like yeah well
anyway so yeah I uh I made a matching
donation to Bernie Sanders and the Hard
Rock Hotel and Casino but good news is a
third quarter FEC filing report out
Bernie has taken in a big hall big old
Hall was it twenty three and a half
million dollars twenty five I believe 21
so like 1.8 front of me I can just check
it right now I think I said 1.8 million
individual donors of those donors the
top jobs were was it Walmart the top
employers were Walmart Starbucks and I
believe McDonald and McDonald and
podcast yes
odd guests and the number one
professionist teachers no no it's a
twenty five point three million 1.4
million donations
the top three employers were Starbucks
Amazon Walmart um and the average
donation was $18 was that 1.4 donations
or individual donors 1.4 million donate
okay okay he's only he's got a million
donors but I think those a lot of those
are repeats because some of us are on
the monthly yeah I'm yeah yes oh also I
mean I guess they go on the fundraising
is the other interesting thing that was
published is a Pete Buddha judge had
like an insane haul but like from four
people yeah something like 19 million
dollars from like yeah three individuals
I believe it was a friend of the show
Jacob Bacharach who said that people who
share is the we work of it is just pure
Silicon Valley venture capital
speculation with no fundamentals
underlying it is uh someone pointed out
am i David Weigel in 2015 when the
Republicans had you know 50 people
running for president nobody had a
single quarter Hall as big as Bernie's
to him so so um I I just think a Buddha
judge is interesting because he's
pulling it like I don't know like five
or six percent and he's pretty bad he's
like holding steady he's not like you
know like Kamala or anything he's he's
it because like he's in the second tier
yeah but I think it's interesting like
these the huge money that he's pulling
in I think is an interesting sign of
he's getting enough money that like he
can he can hang around long enough so
like um we're out any of the big ones
flaring out dramatically and I just
think it's a it's an interesting
indication of where big money in kind of
hedging their bets against Biden and
backstopping Budaj edge to kind of keep
him in the running long enough to
perhaps be a kind of Dark Horse and like
things like we were proof that these
[ __ ] just have too much money
because they can waste it on total like
sky throws like this like boo - isn't
absolute long shot but and putting
giving money to him is an insane risk
but hey what else you gonna do with it
the pile can only get so far high before
it starts falling over you might as well
give it to him Oh
and then also Virgil you should Virgil
you showed me this video this weekend
and I could not [ __ ] believe it the
video of Buddhas edge walking to pick
the UAW picket line oh yeah can we can
we put that in yeah just sleep a little
that in however you feel like strike
flying kick that I guess long as it
takes
yeah it's been you know twelve years
since I'm a strike so yeah he's uh he's
talking to one of the strikers and he's
just like hey fellow worker how are you
and then he just asked him on camera
point-blank
so how BIG's the strike fund how long
you guys gonna hold out would you say
that the union's a will to continue
striking is waning what's the feeling at
the headquarters in terms of strategy
know what kind of concessions would you
be willing to make to manage he talked
to him like he was interacting like a
homeless person yeah no that's exactly
what it was and he was I mean he's he's
a robot and he you know he just loaded
the program for oh I don't know worker
here doesn't have that fight file not
found
so just loaded the program for someone
who's a kid got shot at a school geez
man that's sad you're doing alright
you're really wow so you're just not
working
hey you know you'll you'll get back to
work soon look he alerted the program
for like a hobo interaction yeah oh so
would you say that this town has good
vittles or trustworthy men how are the
railyard bulls in this part of town no
one was buying it like the guy who was
talking to clearly did not want to talk
so whose idea was it to set up this
[ __ ] uh it's one of his gargoyle guys
they've looked they know where his his
his weaknesses are ie everyone who does
not own a boat so they're like hey that
most of those guys pick up a you don't
have boats let's see him talk to them he
was he was doing the Virgin walk at the
are yeah him he's like it's just a side
by side
of him you know just with his head down
and that long stride he clearly wants to
be over with this so he's trying to walk
faster to make it you know you know it's
like hurry things along I can be at
Steven Spielberg's house right now just
housing canapes and having my ass kissed
by Kate Capshaw and that's of course
that's the UAW GM strike where which I
believe is going into its third week yes
and last week Bernie appeared at the CTU
votes uh Chicago Teachers Union about
whether to go on strike which passed by
like ninety nine percent he gave a
speech there on his like huge and really
well-received where he attacked by named
the Democratic mayor of Chicago
Lightfoot yes and she told them straight
out no you're fighting a class war and
then the next day he went out to Detroit
and he spoke at the picket line with the
UAW workers and was you know very you
know pounding on podium kind of speech
and was really well received there and
that suspect such a striking contrast
between you had Bernie you know actually
giving a speech at the UAW pick it and
then you had Warren who tweeted about it
and then you've had mayor Pete who
thought you know I well that's that's
the place to go I'll just just head on
over there no it was very very Kendall
Roy energy Bernie giving support to
potential teacher strike I think is
really huge because that is the one type
of strike that Democrats won't even
pretend to support because they usually
are good about pretending to give a [ __ ]
about private sector strike actions and
stuff but when it comes to public
workers that's where you know they're
looking to have that job that they're
looking to negotiate with those people
yeah they're looking to be the boss
that's what the Democrats aren't the
bosses most most urban municipalities
yeah and so they they can't even pretend
to support like sings like teacher
strikes also mayor Pete is the 1i
candidate I think who is most likely to
start rapping awkwardly and like
thinking like this is really smart this
is gonna be so good this is showing
another side he does that thing I think
it's on Fallon or it might be so fired
one of
awful [ __ ] light night show so it's
slow jam the new yes Alan and that's him
he's done that judiciary's just done
that so yeah he's already halfway bernie
is not slow jam he's not slow jam
definitely asked him to do anything no
yeah time for this nonsense
I will not sanction your buffoonery just
goes on all the shows and he's doing the
carpool karaoke yes doing the [ __ ]
dances with James Corden well I guess
like you know it's it's really been a
[ __ ] dog [ __ ] slow news week which is
very funny for us to say because
everyone else is [ __ ] themselves
[ __ ] their stomach lining out
because the peach myth is finally
happening like I said to me once again
boring ok is it boring that in a second
anonymous whistleblowers come forward to
say that Mike Pompeo yeah the Secretary
of State had an email chit was on the
same email chain as Olga coalition of
god that's right I [ __ ] Allah you know
and it's like I guess this is like
technically I understand like I've
already lost interested because like all
of trumps surrogates have thrown so much
chaff into the Arabelle like their
change of the whistleblower statute and
like I understand this is all [ __ ]
and all strategy you don't like just
confuse and you know peda fog the issue
or whatever but uh I've already lost
interest look here's the way it's
working here's why I'm bored with it
it's not because anything Trump says I
think I think the response from the
Trump camp has been really funny so far
no I'm bored because it just sounds like
the same [ __ ] from two years ago like
this is a rerun and this is a remake yes
and it's an remake where once again the
basic thing the incipit and incident is
obvious corruption by a potential
Democratic opponent no this is no
nunorita it's a reboot you are rebooting
the [ __ ] Muller things is the force
awakens show me a new thing I want to
see a new does another Death Star [ __ ]
you I love defending a hunter dumb [ __ ]
crackhead bite ins five hundred fifty
grand a month job for that with a
Ukrainian national gas company that he
absolutely got on his merits and was not
naked influence-peddling
but it's like
it's okay that he did that because
that's just how things are and you know
if Donald Trump's kids have done it you
wouldn't think it's okay good
this is fantastic I love that everything
that depends on me giving a [ __ ] about
one element of a massive tapestry of
official [ __ ] career and and
sanctioned corruption and be like no
this went beyond the line calling the
the Ukrainian president and asking him
if he ever saw
Trump's cameo in home alone too that
crosses the line
yeah we're just summoning different like
Elite fail kids yeah like they're
pokémon to battle the other fighting
each other I cast unter against Joe John
Jay Don jr. and as we fall stipulated
hunter would destroy him destroy but
yeah just like pet pass don't care oh by
the way hunter binds Pokemon type rock
he is a geo dude for sure
I didn't like it's just it's it's hard
to know because it's like I think it's
technically the correct thing to do
because I think it's good to give the
Trump people and everyone else kind of a
busy busy box to play with no that's
exactly but and like their response has
been very very funny like when you have
Giuliani on TV literally saying say
goodbye through the bad guy is
disgusting as Felix is describing like
just piss soaked like feces mouth on
television just drool and like just have
a seizure on television is hilarious but
then like again the response to it is
like again can't make you feel too good
about all this like the Democrats are in
charge of this and the Biden campaigns
response to this was to write a letter
to all the major news and cable networks
saying we are asking you very politely
but firmly not to have originally on e
on awful it's just like what why
wouldn't you want him on do it's not
like we have anything to hide and we're
suggesting that because he might be an
insane person but he is dogged ly
fixating on the my kids job that we
don't want you to talk to him it's it's
classic Democrat stuff
love it I guess like here's the best way
I mean because you know it's it's in the
ether I think here is the best way to
suss out you know what to think about
impeachment and that's through a Wall
Street Journal opinion piece from last
week that I definitely I definitely
bookmarked except I thought it would be
good to a good lens to view this and it
is simply titled would Shakespeare and
Peach Trump uh well he was a playwright
he didn't wasn't in Parliament yeah he
wasn't in Parliament and all wasn't a
politician well this is one of a
milliner I believe yeah glove maker yeah
the as it says here the president is no
more corrupt than King Lear it's a good
good point yeah yeah so this is by Greg
oh Belka in the pages of the Wall Street
Journal let's just sit let's just dive
into this and like maybe through this we
can suss out you know how we feel I
believe King Lear's Casino did not go
under after six months you know let's
see what what would the bard do you know
yeah so it says here the Democrats
pushing impeachment simply don't
understand Donald Trump their latest
theory that mr. Trump leaned on
Ukraine's newly elected president
Solinsky to tarnish Joe Biden and ease
the path to reelection in 2020 has one
glaring flaw it isn't in keeping with
mr. Trump's character mm-hmm okay let's
try think about that like what about
this wouldn't be in keeping with
everything we know about the transcript
or not a transcript whatever you want to
call yeah phone call yeah the thing
where he sounds like himself yeah it
wasn't you said like you know I know
this is funny but it actually does kind
of feel bad but that's depressing
no you look at that you look at the
thing and you're like every world leader
is listening to this child babble in
their ear and I do feel embarrassed to
see a politician like like Obama Schumer
Romney or whoever that you know okay
what they're saying on stage that's
that's a lot of [ __ ] like when they
when they're alone when they're talking
they're advisors or foreign leaders it's
like okay let's get down to brass tacks
yeah
and then with Trump it's like no there's
no there's nothing secret no he might as
well be talking to a bunch
you know retired orthopedist s-- in a
[ __ ] suburban basketball Stadium this
it's just it's like it's like one of his
rallies and was so what's up present me
by the phone call is the Ukrainian
president just mirroring what Trump says
cuz I think at this point every other
world leader gets it oh yeah oh they
know how to choke he is the easiest not
ever to crack in terms of how you get on
his good side and he's just saying you
know yeah thank you no it was it was a
great win no very good yeah no Anna
Wintour did look look terrible she's
very nasty person mr. president by the
way those Jupiter missiles make sure
that's a great deal my favorite thing
about is reaction to this is that he
keeps describing it as a perfect phone
perfect [ __ ] good phrase have you
ever had a perfect phone call had a good
phone yeah exactly every phone call I've
ever had is suck it's dog [ __ ] it's why
what people what's they created the
technology where you didn't have to keep
make phone calls no one does anymore no
one makes phone calls now because it's a
terrible interaction it's because a
normal person when when you're talking
to someone you want to see that person
so you can like read their body alright
I think because you kind of care about
what the other person is trying to
communicate with you but we know that
Trump doesn't care what other people are
trying to say to him to him it's just
like he's talking on the flintstone
phone mr. president i like talking to
you the only phone calls i get now are
in chinese yes or like someone in india
telling me the IRS is on their way to my
house to arrest me unless I give them a
$5,000 amazon gift card or my dad
calling me to like coordinate a playlist
if he played at his funeral again he's
in perfect health he's doing fine but he
just wants to update me unlike his yeah
his death the Spotify playlist but just
going on here you know better than that
back to this would Shakespeare in future
Trump it says here the Democrats did
like it don't understand Trump's
character because I guess they have been
he doesn't have a character he has zero
virtues as a human being like even the
virtues of like a cruel
like titus andronicus no personal
virtues he is nothing but vice and
weakness younger percent we've known
this for over three years why does
anyone pretend you know over 20 years
like everything about this guy's public
persona yeah doesn't scumbag like again
the first paragraph they're saying like
you know the one glaring flaw with this
is that like everything we know about
Trump's character would lead us to
believe that he's not the kind of person
to do an embarrassing sleazy [ __ ]
like just pathetic attempt at graft and
bribery over the phone it's like that's
what he's been doing the guy he's
bragging about how how close he was to
the [ __ ] Gambino family so going on
here it says anyone who observed this
man
during his 215 16 run for the White
House learned one thing he doesn't think
he needs anyone's help defeating his
political opponents okay okay he sees
himself as Gulliver and his challengers
is little know about you well [ __ ] you
you cannot have two literary [ __ ]
metaphors here you're its Lear it's it's
[ __ ] Swift or Shakespeare you got
pick [ __ ] off trying to extort a
mafia-like favor to defeat mr. baudin
would it be would be an admission of
weakness
likely the most odious of character
traits the mr. Trump I mean that's sure
like Choa despises that in other people
but it's not like he doesn't exhibit
that like he doesn't view himself
exhibiting that trait as a character
flaw no his that is like as you said
that's his only character trait no this
is just a classic Trump scheme it's a
completely half-assed and it's just
straight up just saying to someone yeah
you'll get to the bottom of this for me
won't you
I mean everyone the Democrats still
remember him saying in 2015 during the
decay they're in the race or 2016 saying
hey Russia give me some more stuff I
love it and of course they yeah they say
oh that was a joke but even if it's a
joke the premise of the joke is he would
like help and he admitted that even
jokingly in public so the idea that he
is psychologically incapable of asking
for help
somebody wrong going on here it says
even more ludicrous is the notion that
he would reveal such need for assistance
on a high-profile phone call being
overheard by a dozen officials in both
countries in
mr. Trump's world real warriors don't
connive they conquers what does this guy
think Donald Trump is and also if this
is so ludicrous to think that he would
never make such an embarrassing phone
call why did they immediately scrub it
and like put it on a secret serve her to
keep it out of official government
channels also you conquer by conniving
he's not [ __ ] patent he's a [ __ ]
real estate scumbag people's backs yeah
and you just like [ __ ] them over and
don't I mean like oh well yeah would you
say about him oh there's no way he just
stiffed all the contractors on one of
his projects cuz that would admit he
doesn't have money he did that I know
for a fact it would be like yeah you owe
me half a million dollars for putting in
these windows he's like no I don't [ __ ]
you already I'm good luck it sue me and
he did that so there's no I mean this is
already a mystifying editorial we
haven't even gotten to the Shakespeare
yes this is the obvious explanation for
Trump's request of a favor Springs from
what seems to be the prime motivation
behind all of mr. Trump's behavior a
profound sense of pride in his
accomplishments and deep indignation
when anyone calls them into question
having been lambasted as corrupt mr.
Trump likely wanted to expose mr. Brydon
as a weasel and not the Honorable
moderate man the former vice president
styles himself as but wouldn't it be the
same the motive wouldn't Matt it was the
same action it's it's it's it's yes it's
trying to use a leverage of this weapon
yeah yeah to get information yes Biden
best it doesn't matter what if it's
about pride or wanting to beat him it's
the same thing well let's go further
here I mean maybe it won't make sense if
I keep reading if Emma Kratz really want
to understand I'll present laundry bags
on our heads first if Democrats really
want to understand the president they
would read Shakespeare's King Lear yes
all the aging monarch wants is to be
loved and appreciated by his three
daughters how sharper than a serpent's
tooth it is to have a thankless child he
laments about his eldest gunner gunner
role got all gonorrhea
oh yeah trope hates his [ __ ] kids
though it's not because they don't kiss
his ass enough no because they're the
weak little [ __ ] yeah mr. Trump is
Lehrer and the country is the Kings
daughters what wounded the King more
anything was filial ingratitude what
seems to gall mr. Trump most is the
thought that his insurance
substantial tax cuts a booming stock
market deregulation judges go
unacknowledged by his gonna roll Reagan
enemies who instead seek to obstruct him
at every turn after a series of
seemingly never-ending assaults on his
dignity leer painfully observes out on
the rainy Heath I am a man more sinned
against than sinning it isn't difficult
to envision mr. Trump saying the same
absolutely yeah I don't totally agree
dude it's not difficult at all to
envision Trump saying that I'm not that
complete sight with a subject and an
object totally I love you get it like
yeah yeah what galls mr. Trump is that
the country just doesn't like him enough
also this person has never read the
[ __ ] play you know at the beginning
of it you know the inciting incident of
it is it's he's stepping down from power
yeah and he's giving his power to his
kids and brainy Goneril and Regan do
kiss his ass
it's Cordelia who who refuses to kiss
his ass and he gets mad at her and then
doesn't give her any of any of his
kingdom right yeah does this black the
opposite of what happens in the play
also odd saying that he's like a
conqueror and a monarch who like he
despises weakness and like value
strength through a monarch what the [ __ ]
do you care if you're ignorant [ __ ]
subjects like or love you seriously and
also yeah like you think your kids are
not the same thing as the [ __ ] rabble
the the [ __ ] big [ __ ] peasantry
who you never interact with even okay so
going on here says this is a very short
there's only two paragraphs left but he
says even adamant supporters of the
president aren't blind his annoying
character flaws the endless self
aggrandizement
the bravado the hyperbole the
unpresidential disregard shop ya know
like added by adamant supporters he
means the never Trump conservatives
those are the people who are annoyed by
they like everything yeah as opposed to
the Trump supporters who like everything
especially that's mr. Trump's brashness
invites his mistreatment
to some extent his mistreatment that is
so funny
Shakespeare's Lear was full of himself
too and like the king mr. Trump has been
subjected to a daily barrage of
indignities distortions and outright
falsehoods which render him a folk hero
to his following haters there was not
full of himself he was genuinely screwed
over by the thought in the trochlear
story mr. Trump's champions resemble the
faithful Kent who called the monarch
every inch a king every uncut in mr.
Trump they see every inch a president
impeachment may turn some against mr.
Trump but it will only rally those who
actually understand them see this is why
I support impeachment is because every
never Trump conservative after saying
you know we need to do something about
Trump has now now said of impeachment
bad timing
not good so like that's just a good
bellwether for why I think was probably
management because Trump likelier is a
senile old man and impeachment is
basically trolling him and causing him
to react online in a funny way and of
course I support that I see I don't
think I think I think he's missing a
beat I don't think see so much a
Shakespearean figure in Trump but more
of like a crap classical Greek tragic
figure I mean like in so much that he's
[ __ ] his mother and ate his children
oh yeah yeah I don't know I'm I don't I
don't know about doesn't Peter I think
the good thing is it doesn't matter what
I think or what any of us think oh yeah
well it's being done by the House
Democrats who by definition are terrible
so it will be bad in practice regardless
of what it's theoretical merits might be
it's it's going to be bad to the degree
that impeachment is limited to this
Ukraine thing to a very specific act of
collusion just one phone call that the
Republicans can then you know throw up
all this stuff and obfuscate the matter
and make it ambiguous and confusing in
people's minds I mean I guess the other
like a buzz word that came out of this
week outside of impeachment was of
course civil war yep yeah these folks
it's haven't wrote retweeted something
pastor Robert Jeffress another
apocalyptic Yahoo who said that if the
Democrats go ahead with impeachment it
will cause a civil war in this country
the I mean this is this is something
that you know right-wingers have been
fantasizing about since like the the
Golden Age of the tea cot internet oh
you like the early Tea Party stuff is
like this cosplaying of the American
Revolution and now another moving into
more of a civil war thing where they're
like you know we need to uphold the
Constitution by killing half the people
in the country yes who don't Revere it
the same way we do and you know like
obviously it is disturbing they have a
sitting president invoke a civil war if
his you know you know if we use the
Democratic mechanisms of our government
to hold them accountable or you know
attempt to I don't know punish him in
any way for his various misdeeds however
I think we need to be clear and this
goes back to I think the fourth episode
we ever did with you bear yes we talked
about the conservative fantasy of yeah
any kind of like a civil insurrection or
civil war against the federal government
and how funny an idea that was in the
21st century but I just want to like
reiterate that there is absolutely
nobody no one in this country on either
side that actually is serious about
having a civil war because nobody at the
end of the day really wants to die no
[ __ ] and honestly that's like it's the
good news because it's gonna prevent a
civil war but it's also the kind of
thing that would prevent like a
revolution Americans don't want to die
or more importantly some of the support
they're not willing to die for anything
bigger than themselves and that is the
gonna stop people from doing anything
that violent I you know in any large
number supporters do and but that's
that's more stochastic viola see that's
the thing is that yes his supporters are
on the whole pissed off and much more
heavily armed than his opponents well
that's tell you fragmented and you know
dissociated and like largely comfortable
middle-class fat asses and and there are
a few guys who have nothing left to lose
but you know worst-case scenario Trump
gets impeached you'll see like the
bikers for Trump will show up in
Washington for show
but they're like they'll block the road
for like two minutes until the cops show
up and ask them nicely to stop and then
they will because they love the cops so
much that's the real problem is that
Trump does not I don't think have any
kind of buy-in with like any kind of
significant sector of the military or
Langley the police mechanism in this
country so that if he was removed
through ordinal functions of government
that they would say now we're backing
him yeah because he's not integral to
anything now members might like him I'm
sure cops love Trump swaps especially
yeah but also if the cop if their boss
tells them to clear never of some bikers
for Trump from blocking the street
they're gonna do it yeah and so that
means that there's not going to be any
kind of main major uprising I mean it
might be a few guys who like yeah like
try to go kill Nancy Pelosi or something
like yeah I mean I don't want to
downplay like the potential for sporadic
yeah individualized acts of violence or
terrorism but like any kind of you know
yeah like mass secession or like
organized you know Battlefront against I
don't know urban liberals or whatever
not not gonna happen no no most people
who are most obsessed with this idea are
in a rascal scooter right now so like
you know nothing like that could
possibly happen as long as the donkey
sauce continues to flow the lights go on
and you know like we can get your
[ __ ] cialis scription really talked
about this for the again you know don't
don't take you much hard for this idea
because I'm think you know Matt I know
you've talked about this before the far
more likely outcome than civil war in
this country is just a kind of soft
military dictatorship like you know
Egypt or Pakistan or Thailand
yeah or you know Turkey or whatever were
it just basically the military as like
the biggest most durable most powerful
sector of power in American you know
society just basically takes over the
resources and ordering of civil society
yeah just to keep the donkey sauce
flowing and the supply chains you know a
running you know like I there's a kind
of like significant economic crisis that
precipitates up a little
crisis the very rich will just secede
from the public sphere and then the
military will come in to organize the
the economy along like sort of like a
bunk house matter everything's gonna be
run through like P X's and [ __ ] and like
in that 2014 in Thailand you actually
had something like a real Civil War
precipitating moment over the prime
minister who was beloved by the rural
peasantry and hated by the urban middle
class and they were in the streets in in
different colored shirts fighting it out
for like six months and then the
military one day just rolled in the
streets and said okay no no more of this
knock it off and and that's that's what
would happen is that the military as
like a third force would I mean
obviously the rule that they would
enforce would be much more to the liking
of the Trump supporters sure than the
Trump opponents but it would not it
would not necessarily be like a Trump
infused like blood and soil thing so
much as a man it but like a managerial
police state yeah and that is why you
know any you know a Sanders presidency
or like any left-wing movement or like
government or like let's say it achieves
power of any level in this country it
goes unspoken and like you know nobody
certainly Sanders isn't really talking
about it but I would say like priority
number one would be shrinking the size
absolutely the military and intelligence
communities in this country have
employees okay getting rid of the CIA
and NSA wholesale of course turning
landling Langley into a park that would
probably be easier the military is a
much tougher nut to crack but the best
possible thing would be to just simply
reduce the size and scope of the
military to about if I'm being generous
here a tenth of their current size yeah
like and of course doing something like
that could precipitate a real calm
exactly that that would might lead to a
military coup but I mean that's the kind
of thing where if you can't do that
that's mostly a little hope at all
Sanders plan for criminal justice reform
and one of the components is something
that criminal justice advocates have
talked about for a while now
is the fact that the police have to do
the job that a social worker should do
so it's about reducing the size of the
gun police increasing so what the [ __ ]
is that
oh no what do we do the army just act
like and again like the people you know
the founder the founder [ __ ] and
Constitution humpers in this country
talk about their love of constitutional
governments and how we've strayed from
the founders if you were to like bring
any of them back to life and show them
contemporary America the the thing that
would seem most alien and horrifying to
them is the vast standing army and
bureaucracy military bureaucracy that
pervades every level of the US
government that is the thing that they
would probably be most horrified about
and honestly that I'm agree free black
people it'd be neck and neck with us do
things but yeah like I mean that is a
thing that that would be abhorrent to
the you know founders of the country is
having a standing military the size and
scope of the one we have and I think
yeah project number one if you ever get
into power is scant vastly scaling back
the size of the US military
standing army just keep a couple hundred
nukes around as a deterrent against any
invasion but other than that most of it
eventually you'd want to get rid of
nuclear weapons entirely obvious but
yeah but and that is why I think Sanders
is so fixated on like the idea of
maintaining a a a movement once he's in
power it's not just to make sure that
they can pressure you know the Senate
into passing medicare-for-all or
something like that it is providing a
popular counterweight to these
institutions so that they won't be able
to resist reform without encountering
real like a real pushback from actual
people instead of people just going back
home after election day and watching us
things play out on TV and then Lee and
then one day they're watching TV and
there's a guy in a uniform there so the
president I'll [ __ ] what happened which
is exactly what impeachment is
and that's why you know there's another
reason to tune out of all the
impeachment analysis because it I don't
get to vote on it [ __ ] matter to me
so I support impeachment at the
beginning the year and I support it now
for the same reasons that it you know as
we saw in the Muller investigation which
did take out some of the guys underneath
Trump uh it's it's good it's something
that will cause an Ursa in his
administration hopefully create a rift
between him and some of the people
underneath him which isn't just funny
but it also has the practical effect of
ideally slowing down the you know his
white supremacist project and is well I
mean we know that Trump won't be removed
from office there's absolutely zero
chance so that's why there's no reason
to really care about this the other
thing is the house which is supposed to
be you know the probably the most
important element of our government we
know the Democratic controlled house is
not going to do any real thing to stop
Trump like they're not going to defund
ice they're not going to reduce the size
of the defense budget they're not gonna
reduce you know take away his spying
powers or anything like that so if
that's the case the best possible thing
they can do is hold these public
hearings like Natalie's committee is
doing to like get these thugs goons you
know you know drag them in front of a
camera and then pry into you know their
finances and their their their emails
and [ __ ] like that and you know create a
historical record of the profundity of
the criminality of the administration
even if it doesn't lead to anything if
it doesn't lead to indictments what
though it might you know some of the
evidence a turn up might very well lead
to indictments but even if it doesn't
you know at the end of this whole
constitutional process the Senate
acquits Trump that's fine because what
the hell else would they be doing except
trying to cut a [ __ ] grand bargain
with Trump or find common ground or some
[ __ ] like that like no there
wouldn't we know no legislation don't
don't even try well that's a busy busy
part that was what's so funny about
Trump threatening to shut down the
legislative process
[Laughter]
he says now he's like now we won't be
talking about gun regulate that was
gonna oh yeah well this is I mean this
gets to another point like a lot of
people when they try to give you sort of
realistic arguments for like why Bernie
Sanders would be like a bad president
they're like realistically what's he
gonna do what's he gonna get done with
like a Republican Senate and like you
know the house of the state of weight is
to be like honestly for years who were
president not doing anything is actually
pretty good blessed like it so is he's
not doing anything bad yeah you know I'm
saying just sort of like holding in a
kind of stasis but like in doing so
naming and shaming the actual in
individuals who were causing all of the
preventing any of the good things from
happening is not totally bad and it's
like actually preferable to a president
you know a democratic or progressive
president who would get things done and
by that I mean compromise and some
deeply of you know all the ways there's
a for conversation but I believe
American Prospect is running a series on
what a president can do like just
through executive order just on day one
with the powers already granted to the
president and it's an immense amount of
stuff it's more than just you know it's
more than just the Hyde Amendment or
student loans yeah yeah yeah like the
president could just like immediately
wipe out like every student Trump
already did it for veterans he already
[ __ ] did that and nobody [ __ ]
cared about it I mean that's the other
thing is like trumpets or establish the
precedent that like the president can
basically do whatever they want or just
ignore Congress so like just use that
you know yeah it's just like exactly but
you know and and like the final thing
I've been thinking about is impeachment
is about impeachment is it's you know
this it's it's a show this is this is a
TV show it's it's a movie it's a [ __ ]
reboot
that's what's so boring for all of us
because it doesn't matter it doesn't
fundamentally matter what happens to
Trump already the the endings been
written we already know what's gonna
happen but like the the forces that you
know still dominate our government that
produced Trump like that's that's still
going to exist because the people who
are most obsessed with impeachment don't
about reckoning with those forces they
don't care about that fight against
capital they are watching a TV show and
they're getting really obsessed with it
and I can't help but think you know just
good for you buddy you know all the
Russian people names you're saying a
weave oh this is it we got him this time
ooh have you no shame sir oh when when
Susan Collins gets my phone call she's
going to she's going to do the right
thing and you know that just like you
don't have fun have fun you're posting
you're watching TV must be just
vibrating out of her seat these days
it's it's it's it's one prophecy fail
[ __ ] the mother prophecy failed and like
here's the new thing and all remember
all of this took you know they like the
commercial committees have been
investigating the Trump administration
since day one but all this took was
Nancy Pelosi saying you know this will
start a formal impeachment inquiry
nothing else has happened since then
yeah and that's them that's that's the
the liberal media consumer you listening
to this you know it you should at least
try to be a little smarter than that and
realize how little this impacts your
life
and I mean you can you can you know find
it funny and you can think it's good
that that Trump is melting down online
turning on the people under him because
it is funny and good but ultimately you
shouldn't like try to contribute to this
process in any way you certainly
shouldn't give money to [ __ ]
Democrats in Congress the [ __ ] front
line Democrats who are in swing
districts who only now came around to
impeachment just because of all that
pressure and you certainly shouldn't
think that that collection of ex CIA
agents and healthcare executives oh my
god this is a yeah for how long is
impeachment that's all [ __ ] this is
all the show you're smarter than that
that's that reminds me the guy the
whistleblower is apparently a CIA agents
yeah so this so Q is once again half
right in that there is a deep state war
against Trump and this is part of it the
only thing they're wrong about is that
he is too much of a diarrhea fountain
[ __ ] to actually be able to effectively
fighting back against them no yeah the
the CIA angle is hilarious because it
could just be like this leak is just all
about making sure that that missile deal
will go yeah exactly
like they heard that and they were like
they were like when White House insiders
heard the content of the tape they were
horrified like what they were horrified
about is the idea that he might not sell
all these weapons to Ukraine yeah it's
like there's probably some insanely
complicated like guns and money
laundering operation going through there
like those those missiles end up in like
Syria or some [ __ ] and that's like you
cannot we can't have this idiot
blundering in there and you know like
obviously like what the Democratic
Congress Congress people who were like
you know the the most out front of the
impeachment thing was sort of like the
the gang like receded to live and yeah
AOC and others and like you know their
argument is like just impeach now
because Trump is like an existential
danger to as it was in [ __ ] February
2017 exactly but ya know that new gang
of the the the CIA agents and healthcare
executives oh my god now that was really
that was this [ __ ] Sun is there were
puff pieces about them calling them the
moderate squad yes yeah a little Cohen
[ __ ] even before they were elected you
have adopted the badass label these
freshmen Congress women created their
own group the badasses badasses kind of
came organically from the group since we
all had either served in the military or
in the CIA oh man yeah just yeah but the
other thing I tried to I tried to say
this earlier I'm gonna give it another
shot at articulating this like we drop
ISM isn't the range white supremacist
but and who has who just like says these
are these these these these projects
these that he wants to do like building
a wall in the southern border and
everyone else is like okay well that's
that's just the thing we tell that the
dumb-dumbs you know we don't actually do
crap like that because that's insane but
he actually wants it to happen and then
and the one thing that's really held him
back for all these schemes is the lack
of a bureaucracy of an infrastructure
that's loyal to him and competent he has
not been able to get that and things
like the Muller investigation ideally
impeachment hearings would target that
that that that division between Trump
and the people underneath him who sense
intuitively that oh he this guy is just
gonna turn on me in like the span of a
tweet I'm gonna wake up and there's
gonna be a million mag of morons
screaming
at me because he found an email where I
said he sits on the toilet too long and
and like it's good to go after those
people those people they should have
there should be a professional and
social cost to being working for the
Trump administration and it's one that
liberals generally don't want to impose
on these people because especially if
you are you members of Congress and
their staff members like those are your
friends oh you disagree with each other
but you go to the same shitty [ __ ]
bars you marry each other you're all
married to [ __ ] the same pool of
hedge fund people with media executive
there certainly was a heavy social cost
imposed on everyone who worked in the
Bush administration right remember that
so like I'm saying I'm saying unless an
impeachment inquiry is going to go hard
on those people to target those people
which I actually I'm afraid it won't
because Nancy Pelosi said she wants to
curtail it make it just about this
[ __ ] Ukraine phone call then the next
time we get [ __ ] of white
supremacists autocrat President he'll
have a competence you know group of
people who are loyal to him because
presumably he won't be senile remember
how Christian Nilson the the Homeland
Security Secretary who oversaw the
detentions at the border she was
supposed to be a pariah forever when she
got fired I believe she would just spoke
at an Atlantic conference
if all these people like end up on the
conference circuit or they [ __ ] you
know end up in like lobbyists jobs or a
hill staffer jobs or on Dancing with the
Stars or whatever the [ __ ] then they'll
realize there's no [ __ ] penalty for
doing any of this [ __ ] and if you don't
want them to be penalized then then
you're admitting that this doesn't
matter to you this is all at [ __ ] TV
show you're watching all right well I'm
moving on let's talk about another thing
that's making right-wingers incredibly
angry credibly angry and incredibly
horny oh yeah I'm talking about the the
teenage climate strike going on right
now and they've really uh I noticed this
the other week they've really um moved
on from focusing all of their
deep-seated sexual pathologies on the
park lanterns to the climate strikers
and Greta Thornburg oh we heard
berg zooming burgers we film in honor we
they're really mad at her they're
terrified of her
she's Hitler to them which of course is
wonderful because once again it's the
same thing actually kind of with the
[ __ ] gun teens is that is that
they're frothing psychosexual rage at
this girl subscreen which I mean I have
no problem with her I think she's doing
what she thinks is right but she at this
point clearly has been co-opted by I
mean like Silicon Valley is behind this
[ __ ] she's got people marketing with
climate strikes like [ __ ] Justin
Trudeau who's mr. [ __ ] pipeline
Hillary [ __ ] Clinton who we know from
the [ __ ] leaked cables when she was
Secretary of State
was all about expanding about oil
drilling and [ __ ] and she's out there
like horseshit well it was the same
thing with Malala right yeah it's just
it's all this all just ends up being a
[ __ ] they become mascots or a
corporatized movement that is designed
basically to monetize a social crisis
and never actually fix it it's hard to
remember that when you have all the
worst schools in the world just jacking
their dicks and screaming about these
people and how their demon spawn well
remember the climate activism isn't
isn't just Greta no no of course I'm
just saying that the that the whole
climate strike thing that's this I mean
yeah I agree with you that's
disappointing
that she's getting recuperated but it's
you know it's it's it's not a criticism
of her body no no no I mean I think
she's I don't think that she is an OP
personally but I feel and that's it's
like when people come and help you
people offer you helping you're in a
position like that it's not you're not
really in a position to turn it down so
yeah and I just know sort of the power
breath and in the real the real problem
is that we just don't have a model of an
effective mount for dealing with climate
change I always going for the model
we've always used and the thing is is
that awareness-raising model you know
mass protest thing it's its record is
pretty bad but there's nothing else I
mean the energy is there a thing about
Greta's she is more symbolic of the
reality for people
age yeah we're just learning about the
history and the state of things in the
climate and they're going wait what's
gonna happen when I'm 30 yeah wait wait
hang on you realize I'm 15 okay
I don't get the luxury of being dead
so I mean the energy is there and that's
great but like yes there has to be there
has to be a firm ideology there is that
energy gets dispersed or recuperated
like when you see like Woody Harrelson
and Billy Eilish being you know lend
your voice to this cause like you know
to raise awareness and they're just like
you can't talk about climate like yeah
enough of this awareness just start
saying we need to nationalize the fossil
fuel industry right now and phase it out
that's the only way it's gonna happen
you know
all right so late but I want to talk
more about let's see let's see what your
reading series this week this is this is
this is some hot fire here and let's um
let's go back to our friends at the
Federalist Oh because they've had a very
very Federalist style read are they just
writing to get on our show yeah oh yeah
because we're talking about how quill
let had blown them out of the water and
now I think they heard about that and
they were like rolling up their sleeves
like we can give you some crazy sexy
[ __ ] right now you you think you think
we've been lapped in terms of providing
you with psycho sexual dream journal
entries we have them this show makes up
25% of the readership of the Federalists
and I'm not talking about the listeners
I mean the five of us we've answered the
question who funds the Federalists look
in the mirror ya know yeah like quill it
um sort of they lap them for a short
period because quill it like the
Federalists is incredibly horny but it's
the type of horny energy for people who
like read or jack off to erotica mmm-hmm
whereas the Federalists is like just
wild like like you know people who whip
themselves and like you know put wrap
their dick and barbed wire and [ __ ] like
that yeah and you will see it very much
so in in this article here so this is
buck comes to us courtesy of a guy named
sumantra Maitre writing in the
Federalists headline climate worship is
nothing more than rebranded paganism oh
yeah
worship I mean I guess I mean do you
worship oxygen and worship food do you
worship what you worship that the things
that allow you to live every day I guess
you should you could argue by me I guess
she's saying no you take them for
granted until they're gone and then you
just die well well you know before I was
really close to Booker before the
Enlightenment
she writes before the Enlightenment you
know we consider nature is as divinity
as a divine thing and then after that it
became a machine to us mm-hmm
well the subhead here is we're seeing
sexualized dances oh [ __ ] hallucinogens
ownership in nature confessing sins and
pagan animism worshiping purified teen
Saints all to promote a supposedly
greater cause Catholic Christianity
Catholicism no purified teen Saints not
a thing sexualized ances is like from an
op-ed in the 50s about Buddy Holly yeah
I would love to see like the the English
the English army and the [ __ ]
Burgundians writing this about Joan of
Arc like look at these sicko Catholics
worshiping this with these sicko French
people worshiping this the sink trying
to fight the Federalist is the local
paper from the town in Footloose oh my
god I guess just imagining people
getting as mad as Joan of Arc as they
are about Greta yeah you're not gonna
[ __ ] kick me out at [ __ ] orally on
you [ __ ] you take my prod sword when
he'd cry for my cold dead hand
all right list was delve into the
psychology here Lynn towns in white
junior an American historian from
Princeton wrote an influential essay in
1967 at the height of the Cultural
Revolution in Western campuses arguing
that Christianity and judeo-christian
values ding ding ding there's that abuzz
American sit that tells you what you're
about to read is an absolute horseshit
from a [ __ ] doesn't understand anything
about history or the religion he
supposes to espouse she goes here our
judeo-christian and judeo-christian
values are responsible for ecological
disaster and climate
change the si naturally was adapted by
generations after ironically almost like
a document of faith the central argument
went like this white argued the victory
of Christianity over paganism was the
greatest psychic revolution in the
history of our culture by destroying
pagan animism Christianity made it
possible to exploit nature in a mood of
indifference to the feelings of natural
objects if nothing else the last few
days should be enough proof enough to
prove that Western civilization a
product of more than 1500 years of
judeo-christian values is facing its
most significant and sustained challenge
in centuries from tribalistic paganism a
force that seeks not only to turn back
time but essentially to destroy the
entire current edifice I'm sorry what is
Western culture if not at least
partially influenced by paganism it
sound like it's silt on the top of
paganism exactly like there's a [ __ ]
Easter Bunny you [ __ ] dumbass that's
why they add the judeo-christian part to
make it seem like Western civilization
is just always synonymous with
monotheism circa Palestine
yeah first century yeah okay so up next
next section Gretta Thornburg Sundberg
Cody Sundberg Suman Berg gratitude and
Berg Berg judenburg got a tune Berg and
the church go to toontown thank you
credit credit tune Berg and the Church
of Mother Earth as secular liberalism
destroyed the fundamental ties that bind
society
faith flag and family flag secular
liberalism ah the human instincts for
faith to believe worship submit and fear
didn't just go away but manifested in
various other pre-civil eyes tribal ways
for example a liberals liberal seminary
encouraged its students to skip classes
to pray and confess sins in front of
potted plants in Switzerland 250 people
in full funeral garb more than the
apparent approaching death of a glacier
that is why members of extinction
rebellion do what they do
extinction rebellion is an apocalyptic
cult that wants to radically and Wow
takes one to know one
I thought they were trying to stop the
apocalypse rabbi well no it's an
apocalyptic cult that wants to radically
end everything around you from your
private cars to the
Berger's who eat but they're good and
the plastic chairs in your yard right
but that's an plastic chairs in your
yard is a new thing that I that I
obviously burgers in your car
people are very worried take a look at
your yard your yard chairs gotta keep
those they're coming for your lawn
venture coming for your yard chairs so
it is a cult that was formed after its
member its founder took psychedelic
drugs and prayed for social change
members have blocked DC and London
intersections twerking the way people in
pre civilized era would perform a
facility gets to pray to God
yeah that's what they're doing in those
rap videos again I mean I like that they
they're odd that he just has twinned
pagan culture with a cinnamon as like a
synonym for pre civilized yeah well it's
just like all of the major early
civilizations were all pagan yeah they
were like a hell of a lot more civilized
than [ __ ] early modern Christian
Europe yeah you're talking the Romans
Romans Greeks yeah you know like the
Gauls in Troy the original yeah they had
a level of civilization yeah yeah for
sure
so yeah and also I loved working yeah
like that that's like the drag queen
story our like the twerking thing is
like there's Herod is terrified of ass
yeah ass emotion that's the devil doing
his work and then there's Saint Greta
our perpetual teen of sorrow I have been
comparing her to worship her worship to
Joan of Arc ever since she was invited
to this Parliament the birthplace of
modern democracy well why is that ok but
this isn't that's pretty hypocritical
she was surrounded by buffoons nodding
their heads like they were listening to
gospel truth I wrote about her long
speech before the new woke Capitol
fanatics adopted her as a pawn in a
recent speech to the UN while clearly
having an emotional meltdown she had
told that sorted leader is voice
trembling that they have filled the
children in history won't be kind the
gatekeepers immediately held her as a
brave Savior as well as a vulnerable
autistic teen who shouldn't be bullied
so there you have it sexualized dances
psychedelic hallucinogens worshiping
nature confessing sins and pagan animism
worshiping purified teen Saints and
throwing them up on an altar bereft of
their childhood
to promote a greater cause and as I say
I think about polyamory in that because
that that would be a good evening
add to that which is hexing Brett
Kavanaugh and having a Ouija board to
invoke with climate change
well she's he's just talking about the
general sort of uh the the new dawn of
witchcraft they're very afraid of you
know using Ouija boards that's also
terrible and everything old is new again
again the early early Christianity they
definitely did hallucinogens I mean not
sickness to be like bong hit dorm room
conversation here but like the book of
Revelation was written under the
employees by st. John of Patmos Patmos
an island in the Aegean I think known
for its hallucinogenic cacti yeah and if
you know you read the book revelation
man no man and I love it like uh witches
hexing Brett Kavanaugh well obviously it
didn't [ __ ] work yeah I mean maybe
they've covered up the fact that his
dick has shriveled up and fallen off but
I mean he's still gonna be on the
Supreme Court as long as we're all
[ __ ] alive yeah so I mean we get what
do you what do you what are you worried
about dude I just like it just like he's
just describing the elements of like all
the things that convulse his weirdo
Christian yeah mindset are being
replicated but not in the way that he
would prefer yeah
and he's just like yeah this is scary
and bad so goes the reality of course is
completely different
alright let's hear about the reality
much less than destroying the planet
climate change isn't even settled
science okay when conservatives don't
disagree that climate is changing that
is a straw man conservatives however are
opposed to hysteria have skepticism
about the rate of climate change and
would like to see an actual cost-benefit
analysis of the radical change being
demanded I think he says he has
skepticism about the rate of climate
change he already mentioned people
having a funeral for a [ __ ] glacier
what do you think happen to it it was
twerking it's work it's work itself to
death
more important than that conservatives
understand that climate change is
cynically used by a certain section of
people to justify their political goals
of steering the West away from its way
of life I
because climate change denial is exactly
the same thing but being steered in the
opposite direction which is good yeah
there goes a way that is perceived to be
evil and harmful hetero patriarchal and
capitalist how appealing to the
faith-based part of human brains the
need for subservience and propping up
children as human shields again
conservatives never have problem with
smoking human shields when it's in like
you know any other yeah you know they
just happen to be Palestinian or
whatever yeah just like well they should
have been [ __ ] there in the first
place well that's the thing they hate
them they hate the rule yeah they hate
using human shield because then they
have to kill it and then that's the PR
problem having to kill the human shield
so he goes on here say here the left
created a climate crisis and worships it
consider a new letter by more than 500
scientists which the mainstream media
completely ignored it urges the United
Nations to have an open debate between
scientists from both sides of the
argument and states there's no climate
emergency I would like okay let me just
click through viruses 500 engineers who
work for Exxon yeah let me just I'm just
clicking the link to cease uh it's just
there is no climate emergency you're the
scientist professor goose Burke out the
Netherlands he's good does it say what
their field is no just say professor
they're all put their old oh I at the
very end of this letter though the
Viscount Moncton of Brett's and
brenchley the UK doesn't believe in this
so they're just there professor ironic
yeah these are all gender studies
[Laughter]
because you're in short everything
you're being told is wrong or flawed and
you're a chump who is being taken for a
ride for all the Marxist faults the old
left at least wanted to conquer nature
instead of turning subservient to it of
course that went to its own extremes but
one can imagine Joseph Stalin putting
alt working climate fanatics as mentally
ill people in a forced labor camp to
build railroads in Siberia
I mean yeah that's what you want to do
the current shiny did nothing wrong
that's what I say the current Chinese
government likewise gives two hoots
about climate change and for all the
bravery of Greenpeace and st. Greta
there's nothing they can do about China
burning more coal than the rest of
humanity combined the modern left is a
combination of two of the worst impulses
in human history first are the ultra
privileged bourgeoisie which having lost
their old Judy
Oh Christian faiths are instinctively
attracted to pre civilize rituals from
overt sexuality to fewer familiar top
familial ties again you're not selling
me on what exactly I'm supposed to what
with what the benefit here is the hewing
to these judeo-christian values so I
mean that sounds well so that sounds
cool but that's not actually the case
like the actual people at the very top
are incredibly [ __ ] boring people
yeah like they're not even doing the fun
things they're not doing the [ __ ]
decadent parties and [ __ ] consider late
Roman public orgies and you get an idea
I like he just says that he's just no
you just think about people [ __ ] in
public and you get the idea of what I'm
talking about just have that image in
your brain and like yeah like I do all
the time
non-stop every minute of the day at the
same time which people in the
voyeuristic [ __ ] parties
human minds feel a gaping void gaping
really need to gap human minds feel like
gaping void that still needs to be
filled by an alternative faith it is in
that intersection where this occultist
apocalyptic climate paganism comes from
it gives some privileged people a noble
purpose as French philosopher pascal
bruckner wrote in his book the
fanaticism of the apocalypse saved the
earth punished human beings the current
movement has all the trappings of
religion Saints sinners a providential
end apocalyptic fear punishment and
penance it appears Emperor Constantine's
children clearly failed to civilize the
few their future generations the pagan
barbaric barbarians from the north are
back circling outside the Citadel again
he just comes down to this thing where
he's like they're doing and believing
all the exact same things I do but um
they're in the wrong way yeah yeah so
like I'm just saying like I I fully I'll
agree with him that like all this [ __ ]
just is repurposed religious fervor in a
pagan context but like you get to do
cool like you know Wicker Man 2 style
stuff which is way better than gr Church
sucks oh yeah well I mean I assume this
person is about tried Catholic yeah yeah
yeah obviously and so you know chances
are you also made this decision like
that yeah
consumer choice are you we're not you
know inculcated into this life from top
to bottom you don't know any other
possible world because you're not you're
not Amish you're not hermetically sealed
off from the world
so you're probably attracted
traditionalism for the same reasons but
can you read the person's like you're
I'm sorry you're attracted to rich rule
and shape for the same reasons but can
you read the person's byline says
sumantra maitre is a doctoral researcher
at the University of Nottingham UK and
the senior contributor to the
Federalists his research is in great
power politics and neo realism you can
find him on twitter at mr. Mitra very
cool so he's he's a climate expert in
other words yeah yes you could tell you
don't worry about it's fine no it's
funny cuz every month every month is
literally the hottest month ever it's
fine don't worry about you he's saying
that like you know like the the
neo-pagans have glommed onto climate
change as like their apocalyptic event
and he's like yeah made up not a thing
no need to worry about it let's not get
hysterical the apocalyptic thing you've
gone gone to is Ouija boards and drag
queens story our dude so who has the
better story okay like I'm saying
science yeah forget science you know
what I'm saying who has a more
compelling apocalyptic narrative even if
it's all [ __ ] you don't I'm saying
like we're all just choosing our
narratives and religious instincts to
glom onto and punish heretics yeah and
extol say it's over I'm just saying the
story you're telling is really
unconvincing really boring and makes you
seem like a huge [ __ ] dork mmm even
if you again you know like even if you
assume climate change is made up which
it definitely isn't like you can see
like I mean again your apocalyptic
narrative and the Saints that you extol
or like again like who like Molly
hemming leg like these are your [ __ ]
martyrs like come on I so if you're good
if you look my advice to these
Federalists people is you're right
all the teens their poly their wishes
their twerking they're worshipping rocks
but I'm saying to compete with that
you're gonna have to start playing the
game yeah oh yeah you're gonna have to
start playing the game and if what
site is offering roman-style public
orgies hallucinogenic experiences and
yeah midsummer style stuff you're gonna
have to do a little bit better you're
gonna have to start reaching it should
do DMT because right now it's it's
because of papal infallibility the you
know we just have to assume that the
Pope is right and like talks to God and
[ __ ] and like people are just not really
buying that anymore
but if the Pope just you know just went
into just a total [ __ ] drug binge for
you know 48 hours and came out of and
said yeah I saw God and here's what he
told me I try to believe it look they're
saying that like you know modern liberal
society now that we're a post
judeo-christian are you know reaching
into the past to you know
resurrect these older you know pagan
traditions which is also somehow not
Western and not civilized which is also
very funny um I'm just saying like the
trad cats or whatever you're trying to
reach back you're trying to do the same
thing and for exactly the same reasons
as everyone else is because you're
another alienated modern [ __ ] you
know bug arson or whatever but you're
not reaching back far enough or hard
enough yeah because I'm saying like your
modern martyr are like the covington
teens and Brett Kavanaugh I'm sorry
that's not selling it dude you're gonna
have to try harder oh you need your own
Joan of Arc she actually did go to
[ __ ] war and got burned at the stake
Brett Kavanaugh is sitting on the
Supreme Court and probably still doing
rapes allegedly so I mean come on okay
okay you know who I really want to
worship these like Sami shamans who
would eat like this some kinda like
psychedelic berry and then piss it out
and then drink the piss because you have
to you actually have to metabolize it in
order to make it a psychoactive yeah and
then they'd have visions and then
convulsions and [ __ ] and then I don't
know I guess tell you what where to
where the reindeer are you know that's
what that's what I'd like to worship but
the reindeer that's metaphor like I
don't need the rain I don't need
reindeer access information but it's
more like you know where can I get
really good to tacos where should I go
where should I go for dinner
just like what should I dye my hair I'm
just saying like they see the pagan
elements you know coming back in our
society and I'm saying if you're gonna
want to fight the witches you're gonna
have to you know become more of a witch
find our no I'm sorry you're too weak
you're too much of a baby to do it
you're no geralt of rivia yeah exactly
least rod tells better stories yeah oh
yeah I know rod rod is doing spiritual
warfare he's the closer this guy you're
just a grad student dude lamb you're
just a grad student who's just like
they're doing orgies not in public butts
presumably elsewhere private according
to these sketches yeah yeah so yeah
there you go these people love Western
civilization until they don't that's
that's basically a well it's gonna be
hard to go to church when it's 12 feet
underwater
have fun with that have fun putting out
a [ __ ] snorkel to get [ __ ]
communion anyway should we uh wrap it up
for this week yeah okay plug plug plug
time plug Virgil and I will be appearing
you know as yet undetermined role it'll
be good though I promise at at the goth
socialist variety hour at Littlefield
set next Saturday October 12th from 7:00
to 10:00 with the auntie Fattah and pas
de America and Leslie Lee is gonna be
there yes from struggle session yeah
that's a good crew it'll be fun I think
we'll put the link to ticket in the
description of the show come out yeah
also well the paperback edition of our
book is coming out yes all right yeah
yeah it's got a much better cover let me
original I don't know that we you know
we've accrued a few more listeners since
our book came out a year ago so you know
for those you're new here we wrote a
book and we command you to read it how
about this by the paperback book uh-huh
to pre-order on Amazon in the show
description we're not gonna link the
Amazon in the show oh okay okay link to
pre-order on the indie bound okay there
we go
right
[Music]
