you get up on your little 21 inch screen
and how about America and democracy
there is no America there is no
democracy there is only I be in an ITT
and AT&T and DuPont Dow Union Carbide
and excellent those are the nation's
what do you think the Russians talk
about in their councils of state Karl
Marx they get out their linear
programming charts statistical decision
theories min and Max solutions and
compute the price-cost probabilities of
their transactions and investments
[Music]
[Music]
hello everybody it's your chat bell for
the week
it's me wool menaker joined by Matt
Chrisman and standing in for Felix who
is currently blowing this month's
patreon that the craps tables of
Atlantic City is Brendan James how you
guys doing
surviving I'm fine so I'm pretty excited
for for this week's show I'm kind of
thrilled I'm super hyped that we get to
bring you this but this week's show is
an interview we did with the filmmaker
Adam Curtis it was a long conversation
it was fascinating and thrilling to me
because I'm a big fan of his work but I
figured maybe some of you aren't
familiar with Adam Curtis so I like
before we play the interview I don't
know how would you guys describe he's a
British documentary filmmaker whose
films are I think fascinating and I
don't I think they really fit in with
the sort of CHOP of vision of the world
well loyal listeners will know that we
did a gentle parody a loving parody of
Adam Curtis the Adam Curtis style
narration a couple episodes ago the show
yes
imitation is the highest form of
flattery we spent most of the interview
talking about his most recent movie
which is called hyper normalization and
it's like it's just a sprawling
documentary it's like oh it's like I
think it's like three hours long it's in
there's all these digressions and
basically what it is is like a history
of the last 40 years or so it's kind of
seen through the lens of I think like
the a lot of the themes that he's
developed in his previous work basically
about how like the neoliberal state has
sort of obliterated society well at the
same time frantically trying to create
systems for managing the very thing that
it's destroyed
yeah he's a his movies are very bleak to
say the least but um and I think I made
your theme of them and it's something we
talk about with him is the the failure
of not just liberals but also the left
to really change the world for the
better
or at all really over the last you know
half of the 20th century and and present
as well it's sort of a lot of it is
tough medicine to be honest but I think
it's very important and fascinating to
think about nonetheless and I think it's
something that we we should all probably
have to come to terms with it's maybe
some of the things he says you won't
agree with I don't know but I think it's
medicine that we all need to take it's
good but it's not as good as his
documentary about Brandon Waddell saying
every day to anyone I see under the age
of 25 hey kids
y'all know I'm cool I just want to point
out that during this interview Adam
talks about the film stalker and the
zone which is a an idea that we named
our post-election show after and he's
describing what the metaphor means and
he says I suppose if I wanted to be a
little bit more on the knows about it's
a little bit more clunky about it I
would have simply said we live in the
zone which is exactly what we had named
our postal episode due to artistic and
and and sort of subtle come here
we'll just scream it into your [ __ ]
ears you don't have to worry about
anything being over your head well I I
guess I again everybody should go see
watch hyper normalization you can find
it online I'm sure but you know we're in
a moment now where everyone is like
asking themselves like how we got to
this point you know with Donald Trump
being our president
and oh yeah probably more than anything
I would say that this movie like I said
it's very die aggressive it's very like
it covers a lot of stuff there's a lot
of threads in it but like overall that
kind of the feeling that this movie
evokes and the the sort of what it lays
out I think there's a better job of kind
of describing how we got to this point
than almost anything else I've seen
reason especially since the movie was it
was finished before the election oh yeah
oh yeah he brings up the Trump campaign
and he sort of points to it as as like
the culmination of these trends but
because it's still in the air it's it's
just sort of left there to dangle and
but when you watch that movie I with the
hindsight of having seen the election
happen
you're like okay really nothing else
could have happened like everything
Trump's election is the only thing that
makes sense
so as like crazy as it feels to watch
Trump assume the presidency when you
look at the way that things have evolved
and the way that culture and economics
and and and the spectacle of media have
played out really there is no other
thing that could have happened and I
think we all kind of knew that and even
on the show we would kind of talk around
like this like dark knowledge that we
felt like the only thing that made sense
was Trump winning even back during the
primaries but we couldn't really accept
that we were at that point yet I think
we all thought yeah sure sure a few a
few cycles from now you know but not yet
we're not there yet
and I think things are moving a lot
faster than even we we could get our
heads around in wrestle in wrestling
terms we've gone from a work to a work
shoot well who knows I again without
further ado let's just get to this
interview it was a thrill for me to do
it I really enjoyed it is one of my
favorite things that we've done on the
run of the show yet Adam Curtis
everybody let's roll that interview
I guess for people who haven't seen the
movie yet
I guess if I could describe it it
covered you cover the last 40 years or
so and there's a lot of fascinating
threads that you tease out but if
there's an overarching theme I guess
it's that the world we're living in now
is one where the line between fantasy
and reality between politics and
entertainment is now been almost
thoroughly erased and we're all existing
in these kind of synthetic realities
would you say that's a fair assessment I
would say semi synthetic reality but yes
that that's a reasonable assessment I
mean what I was trying to argue in that
film by going back into the past and
coming back to the present was to show
how so many different groups in society
faced by growing complexities retreated
from trying to deal with those
complexities and for different reasons
invented a simplified version of the
world which increasingly became detached
from reality and what I was trying to
argue is this wasn't just the
politicians I mean I they did do that
and they did it to hang on to power
they created fictions and they lied in
order to hold on to that power but we
liberals ordinary people right-wing
people also retreated
we're also what's the word complicit in
this and I think that was one of the
things I was trying to say in the film
is we're all living in a rather strange
it's not really fantasy word it's it's a
world that we all know in the back of
our heads which that it feels slightly
on slightly odd slightly unreal and
sometimes downright fake but because
there isn't anything else we just sort
of accepted and I was trying to get at
that I was trying to bring that that
feeling that people have in the back of
their minds forward and then say I'm
going to try and explain why we feel
like this do you think it's a kind of a
sense of helplessness no I think it's a
feeling that I mean the why I call it
hyper normalization is it's a phrase I
borrow from a Russian writer who was
writing about what it was like in the
Soviet Union
in the 1980s as when we look back now we
can see that the Soviet Union was
collapsing and he argued that people
living in the Soviet Union at that
I knew that those in power didn't know
what was happening
knew that those managing the plants were
corrupt and greedy and stealing from it
knew that actually the whole system was
based on lies and fakery but because
there was nothing else that was all
there is they just accepted it as normal
and he coined the phrase hyper
normalization to describe this sort of
slightly it's not just it's not
helplessness it's a sort of innovated
state you know that it's not quite right
but because you haven't got anything
else to compare it with a sort of
benchmark as you where to say look this
is real and this is fake because you
haven't got that you just sort of feel
slightly jittery it's like you know
those moments in um sci-fi movies where
suddenly bit of reality breaks through
and then goes back again like that it's
sort of like that now I was trying to
explain why there was that innovated
feeling of the moment well I'm glad you
brought up science fiction and movies
because one of the metaphors are that
you reach for from science fiction is
you talk about the store Gatzke brothers
and their book roadside picnic which was
then made into the film stalker yes
that's right could you explain the
metaphor of the zone and how that kind
of describes the the state that you're
talking about
well again this is about the Soviet
Union the strugatsky brothers were two
science fiction writers who really from
the 1960s grabbed the imagination of
young russian soviet people well they're
Russian people in the Soviet Union and
what they did is in a way they became
the closest to express the
disenchantment because there was no
political opposition because everything
was sort of normal but it felt odd what
the shrew got skis did was somehow find
a way of explaining that will bring that
forward into the imagination through
science fiction stories and they wrote
this book which i think is wonderful and
actually i'm and this is a terrible
thing to say to cine ass but i think
it's sort of better than the film they
put wrote this book called a roadside
picnic where it's it's a world like ours
but somehow set in the future and except
in the middle of it there's this area
called the zone which is as if someone
from an alien force
come once upon a time visited and now
gone but if you go into the zone it's
very strange
things change not in reality sort of
morphs the shadows go the wrong way
you're never quite sure which direction
you're going in and you can never be
sure what's real and what's not real and
what the shrug ask is I think we're
trying to do with that book we're say
this is what the Soviet Union has become
it's become a sort of weird strange
place that you know every things are
unreal a lot of things are fake and a
lot of things are very odd and it's not
as slightly out of out of phase but
because there's nothing else around you
you just accept it you're in the zone
and that's what I meant it's it's it's
normal but it's hyper normal because
it's not quite real and that's the zone
we're in and what I was trying to argue
in the film I'm not trying to say that
we're like the Soviet Union in any way
but what we do share is a feeling that
we're at the end of something because so
much around us I mean we know this
ourselves is you know that there are
lots of people who do bad things bankers
who have it's been clear that they have
done really bad things but practically
no one is prosecuted there are sort of
politicians lie to us and we know that
that they're lying and they know that we
know that they're lying but then nothing
happens it's this sense that that we
know that it's all a bit odd but then
nothing happens as a result of it so we
accept it as normal but we know it's
wrong and that's what I was trying to
get at and that's sort of what the zone
is about and if I was going to be what
we British called clunky and sort of
make my film a little what I was trying
to say but all of this we're sort of in
the zone now we know that it's all of
the time
but we can't see anything else so we're
stuck within it and I mean a lot of the
politicians that the mood that is
leading to things like brexit and Trump
come from that sense of dissatisfaction
of sort of an elevated state of
jitteriness that we know it's wrong but
we haven't got anything else that we
know is real to grab onto and say we
want that so we grab for the latest for
the closest but of I don't know
vaudeville that we find in order to push
it a bit another another sort of semi
real zone that you discuss in this movie
is cyberspace and you just talk about
another science fiction writer the
American William Gibson who coined that
term and again it's this effect of
prescience in science fiction to
describe a world that we're now living
in could you talk a little bit about
William Gibson's
view of cyberspace you know Gibson's
really I mean you're right son if you
look at other period we've lived through
it the last 30 or 40 years the left sort
of collapsed but it's through culture
that you get critiques and above all I
mean it may be because I like science
fiction but I do think science fiction
sprague quite a big role in this in all
sorts of ways and I do think Gibson's
really important because Gibson comes up
and I think it's in 1984 he writes the
the series of books in the sprawl
trilogy the sprawl trilogy they're
called they're set within this world of
the sprawl a world of the future in that
world people can see is a bit like going
into the zone again people can actually
jack in as he calls it to a cyber cyber
he calls it cyberspace he invents that
term and it's the world of connected
computers he's he's seen at that point
this is 1984 that you can conceptualize
in the imagination the world of
interconnected computers of networks as
another world and he calls it as another
space and he calls it cyberspace and his
heroes or you know anti-heroes go into
that world what's really interesting
about the way what Gibson does which is
well I think he's really important is
that he was writing in the midst of the
Reagan era when what was happening was
government and the power of government
to shape the world was receding and the
power of giant giant corporations and
above all of Finance was rising up to
replace them and Gibson's vision in
there in those books is there quite a
dark wand it's that what he describes as
cyberspace is a world where politics law
none of that plays any role what you do
is you move through these giant blocks
of wake was an ice that blocks of
information which are secured by the
most terrifying
protection systems but you can jack into
them if you're clever enough but if
you're not quick enough your mind will
get mangled they'll literally melt your
brain they literally melt your brain and
some you know some of these people who
go into cyberspace die and if you look
back what Gibson was trying to do he was
it was a metaphor for that time he was
saying look there is this other world
out there but actually it's sort of it's
the zone when beginning to live in now
where these giant corporations are
ignoring the old systems of power and
creating their new systems it was he was
he was way ahead of his time but I
proposed her to the film is that
actually his vision didn't last very
long and a bunch of excess acid yeah you
talk about these sort of California
technological utopians
who created their own vision of
cyberspace as a world free from power
and hierarchy where anyone could be
anything and we would all be free online
they saw in it a place where they could
actually have their idea of a
counterculture become true so what
Gibson described as an alternative space
where giant corporations were were
actually freeing themselves from
government power and controlling people
through ruthless raw power of their own
the the oh the aging hippies okay it
literally turned it round their idea of
cyberspace and you see this from the
late 80s really rising up in the early
90s they turn it into their vision of
where the counterculture
could actually flourish it could
flourish in cyberspace free of
governments free of control by elites
and they invent this sort of I don't
know a utopian ah I hear of a new kind
democracy where no one is in charge and
everyone can somehow connect together
through feedback in the networked
systems and together create a new kind
of stable world it's the very opposite
of what Gibson had described it's an
absolutely fascinating shift and it is
this thing that that idea of
individualism that the hippies brought
in in the 1960s and then sort of fell on
its knees in the seventies came back in
the 80s as a
way as a place that the left would
retreat to in the face of people like
Reagan and Margaret Thatcher here in
Britain as the right took control of
real politics the left saw in cyberspace
a sort of what how would you describe
it's not a fantasy world it's a sort of
another world to retreat to where they
could actually have their idea of a non
elitist society and I think that's where
a lot of the left got trapped it's
wrapped in this idea of sort of cultural
power over a real political power
trapped in a world which was a sort of
fictional version of a sort of a
simplified version of democracy because
what really rose up out of that that hip
that post hippie idea of cyberspace was
this idea that with through the
connection of computers on networks you
could have a system where all
individuals could connect with each
other through feedback no one would be
in charge and somehow out of that would
come a sort of new stability and they
look to ecosystems as well as in nature
as a model and out of that would come
this stability and there would be no one
in charge it was I tell you what it was
it was a picture of a world without
power yeah hmm if you look at the 1980s
politicians were reeling in the face of
the rise above all of finance because
Finance said no we can do it for you and
it was tough and it was and there were
tough people around Reagan and behind
Reagan and behind mrs. Thatcher and the
left could not deal with it so they what
they did is they invented this idea the
utopian idea of a sort of a space
outside time where there was no power
but and actually if you deal with if you
talk to the Liberals and the left these
days the one thing they never talk about
is power we noticed this it's really
interesting at a time when actually by
every measure inequalities of life of
life span of opportunity of wealth have
gone up massively and raw power has
shown itself again and again and again
over the last 30 years the left in Tunis
never talked about power I mean it's
almost left to gameofthrones does
just don't and it's all about how as
individuals we can just sort of move
away from these horrible powerful people
and connect through feedback in a sort
of a flat level playing field with no
hierarchies and somehow out of that
stability will come and I'm afraid this
is where I think the Occupy movement in
the Women's Day 2011 or yeah
they borrowed many of their ideas of a
new kind of society from that cyberspace
utopianism I don't know if you ever went
to any of the writings I did I did I
went to Zuccotti Park several times I
guess I wasn't really active in the
movement so say but I I did go there and
I guess the thing I found was the sort
of call in response this kind of
horizontal organizing it was novel but I
was just thinking to myself this is a
this would be a nightmare to get
anything done with well it's yeah i mean
i went there i wasn't i mean i'm
journalist i were to observe i was
sympathetic because I really thought for
once the left and captured the
imagination of people who would not
normally join into these things and they
had a fantastic slogan 99% and 1% they
had a great win behind them I went to
these meetings I just couldn't believe
it because it was all about again trying
to create a world this time for real
sitting around in circles where there
was no power and if anyone demonstrated
any power like I think we should do this
to build leadership they were sort of
from I don't know looked at very badly
as if they've done something really
naughty and you if you want to change
the world you have to confront the
entrenched power
well one group that absolutely did
demonstrate power was the New York City
Police Department do you think that that
exercise of power played any role in the
failure of Occupy Wall Street I think
that came from I mean I don't know
enough about Occupy Wall Street I think
that came late I think the real failure
of all these I mean all these movements
in the last 10 10 15 years has been
because they have failed to actually
confront the real issue which is how do
you inspire to things how do you inspire
a group of individuals to come together
to actually use their collect
power to confront entrench power and I'm
afraid the police men and women of the
New York Police Department are not
really the power we're talking about
what we're talking about is how do you
get hold of hello
those who run finance and actually make
them were shaped finance for in the
interests of everyone not just a small
group of people who then let it use it
corruptly as it was showed in 2008 it's
tragic
I mean you know I think as I say if I'd
been running Occupy I'd have sacked come
on it was just such a great moment I
remember thinking oh this is okay
they've done it no this is good because
they've broken the barrier of what of
acceptability amongst so many middle
class people who were beginning to feel
uncertain and alone they got through and
they will grab their imagination somehow
and instead of grabbing their
imagination they turn people's
imaginations away by sitting around in
circles pretending that there was no
such thing as power now power is
extraordinary it's both terrifying but
it's also thrilling and out of it come
extraordinary stories and narratives
have been the whole of human history is
full of stories about power right it
grabs people's imagination and the way
you're going to change the world is by
somehow dramatizing the power that
shaped your world and if I could bring
us egotistically and ruthlessly back to
myself the film are lesbian please do
actually dramatize where power now has
shifted yeah yeah so many of us the left
the liberals and politicians have
retreated into a simplified world we
haven't seen our power has shifted to
all use all kinds of new systems of
management and control that actually
shape our lives and if you're going to
make the world a better place you're
gonna have to a see them bring them into
focus and be deal with them and that
involves actually confronting the issues
of power on every level including the
way you organize political movements if
I could switch slightly
and go back to another section of your
movie that I have to ask you about
because for me it was sort of the
highlight of the whole three and a half
hour movie it goes back to the popular
culture and entertainment and about
halfway through this movie you have a
montage of late nineties mega-disaster
movies where all of these movies
happened over the course of about five
to seven years I remember seeing almost
all of them in the movie theater and
when you put them all together it really
is frightening and hilarious because
what they all show is New York City
being destroyed over and over and over
again in largely the same way with
skyscrapers and even the Twin Towers
collapsing into themselves or being
knocked over could you talk a little bit
about that montage and what the sort of
political and cultural forces you think
that this repeated trope in all of these
pre 9/11 movies were channeling or
anticipating I think what they were
channeling was the rise of a dark
pessimism amongst you know in a society
that once used to be progressive and
have hoped for the future and one of the
things I was trying to trace in the
whole film was the way so many
politicians but we ourselves had
retreated into a pessimistic view of the
world and I think the reason for that
was that somewhere in the late 1980s
politicians gave up having a picture of
a better future
it happened for all sorts of reasons it
happened for because of economic crises
it happened also because of the rise of
individuals you it's very difficult to
have one uniting vision when everyone
has to be an individual but what
replaced the idea the old idea of going
to build a better world and I you and me
get the politicians abode as that died
away what politicians turned to in order
to keep power and keep their prestige in
society they turned the idea of risk and
I do think risk is one of the really
underlying things that has been examined
in our society instead of saying I'm
going to take you to another world which
is
what they said is there are dark and
terrifying things out there in the
future coming towards us like sort of
dark strange hungry in these films it's
an asteroid it's a comet it's Godzilla
it's you know yeah it's a monster but
those films are a sort of cultural
reflection of that I think it's really
deeper than that
is you you see in the way politicians
warn you about how you eat how you all
the dangers and it's all about dangers
in the future yeah
now the trouble with that if you're
going to base your system of power not
on imagining good world's better wells
in the future but imagining Dark Worlds
in that the things that might happen
that I'm going to protect you from then
actually if you think about it you have
to imagine the worst because your
masturbation begins to run out of
control and I think what happens in the
early 90s is you begin to see it
reflected in the culture
if these disaster movies were channeling
the sort of pessimism of the late 90s
our popular culture now has certainly
grown even more dark yes because there
is no future I mean there is none but
and and what the real pro okay this is
really quite an interesting subject is
if you imagine in the 90s the worst that
might happen right and then then it's
2001 the worst does happen yeah yeah it
seems to confirm that dark pessimism
that had already been built into the
system so everything the dark imaginings
ran out of control and I made a series
called the power of nightmares in 2004
where I tried to argue that the dark
imaginings had run completely out of
control
it wasn't that there wasn't a serious
terrorist threat of course there is but
the idea that al-qaeda was an
apocalyptic Network with cells hidden
everywhere with and had the capacity and
the power to bring down Western
civilization's to its knees which let us
not forget is exactly what my colleagues
in the BBC and your journalists in
America was saying it was just
ridiculous it was something that had
really run out of control it's sort of
them died away but it's come back with a
vengeance now I don't quite know
why but it is I mean it is astonishing
have you noticed that there are no
politicians no elites no scientists no
think-tank people
no economists who have any vision of the
future other than a one going it's gonna
be really I don't know Elon Musk wants
to go to Mars that's slightly optimistic
no no that is absolutely true Silicon
Valley is the last vestige of a sort of
optimism isn't it now that's the most
frightening thing yeah verifying but
their political basis for that is a sort
of weird utopian individualism a sort of
Ayn Randian thing you know that guy
Peter Thiel he wants to create a house
off the coast of America that doesn't
have any government yes blood of young
people also Peter Thiel doesn't want to
die that's pretty optimistic problem I
should actually know to be fair to my
theory of the darkness closing in the
Silicon Valley can the baby boomers and
the sub baby boomers who sort of have
risen up and dominate Silicon Valley
because their arch individualís and they
don't believe in anything beyond
themselves the one thing they cannot
deal with is their own mortality you
know that novelist iron Rand they'd love
what watch what she thought
wasn't she frightened of death and she
went in it I can't do the German accent
but she said I'm not frightened to death
I won't die and the journalist went what
what you mean and she said it's not I
won't die the world will die what you
meant by that was the fact that if you
are a total nut individualistic
narcissistic person the world is inside
your head there is nothing else and
she's absolutely right from that point
of view when you die the whole world
dies because you are the centric world
[Music]
and and I would argue that the desperate
attempt to what's word it's the so
cryogenic thing they've got isn't it to
keep themselves from dying is part of
that it's this desperate attempt because
there is nothing beyond them and this is
the tragedy I mean I'm going back to the
idea of why politics doesn't have a
vision of the future is if you live in a
world of individuals where everyone on
this encourage to believe that what they
feel and what they want and what they
desire is the center of the world which
is that pretty much I believe the
ideology of our time then it's very
difficult to conceive of anything beyond
your own death but it's very difficult
now and I think that's one of the things
that left has real problems with is how
do you heard a bunch of narcissistic
piglets yes I mean it sounds silly but
it's sort of true that's why politicians
find it very difficult to create
collective movements because everyone is
running squealing following their own
desires and the one people that COO can
manage it are social media like Facebook
because you all believe that you are a
little piglet doing exactly what you
want when in fact the algorithms I say
are actually saying actually hang on
all those piglets look exactly alike and
we can tell them what to do because the
piglets feel that they are still
individuals which is brilliant they
squared the circle in a way that
politicians can't
well Adam one of the one of the funny
things that's happened in in the last
month or so since the election of Donald
Trump has been this panic in the liberal
media about fake news and the spread of
fake stories on social media networks
especially Facebook as somehow altering
the outcome of what other was would have
been a different election and to me it
seems like something out of one of your
movies this weird kind of meta panic
about fake news by fake news people well
come on there's been lots of fake news
way before this I mean what was what
weapons of mass destruction yeah right I
have real problems with this my real
problem with this is it's so patronizing
to those who voted for the Donald Trump
because basically what it's saying is if
only they've been told the real things
then of course they wouldn't
but they're stupid people they could
they didn't really know what was going
on because they can't tell the
difference between truth and reality
whereas of course we can well no you
can't because you didn't see I'm sorry
I'm fed up with this amongst there's a
certain bunch of liberals who just go
got the stupid the stupids are now in
control maybe they're not you're stupid
you lost because the point about the
Internet is that it does have a load of
weird stuff on it yes it does it's the
best thing about it yeah I was going to
say I have my vision of the Internet is
that it's rapidly becoming like remember
all those 1980s
movies set in decaying city centers like
Escape from New York and things Robocop
yeah yeah they Robocop and all those
sort of things and there there are
always weird mad people in sort of post
goth outfits in decaying fractures
there's a lot of firepower and it's just
it's exciting and fun and weird and
frightening and everyone else has moved
to the suburbs and my view of the
Internet is that that's exactly what
it's about to become it's going to
become this strange swamp that you go
into where everyone sensible has left
and they're reading their books but if
you really want to go and have fun you
go into this world when you don't know
what is true and what is can I just said
no I do think that the Liberals who who
who go on about post truths at the
moment have got to look back at 2003 and
say that was all post truth the whole
thing and they all went along with that
too at the time I understood them
including those who sort of didn't like
the invasion believed it yeah yeah
that's post truth and that is so much
more important
so to squeak about post truth at this
stage without seeing the much more
important roots of how politicians lied
to them again and again and again
over the last six or seven years is I
don't know it's again it an example of
the left for treating into a simplified
world they go oh it's all not really
real
so therefore Donald Trump's not really
real no it's not like that Donald Trump
and the dissatisfaction that that his
Verte had the vote that's for him came
from come from things like too
in 2003 it's not because they read some
little fake news on some newsfeed on
Facebook it's because in 2003 and then
in 2008 with the banks the politicians
lied and failed to do anything that led
to a people turning away from
politicians and not trusting them and
they deserve it if you if you do in your
next movie I don't know if you're
working on anything but just a
documentary about Hillary Clinton's 2016
campaign would include all of these
themes yeah magnificently it would be
the most comprehensive look at the
psychosis of our time so if I take you
what you're saying is you you you
distrust these you think the Liberals
are a few isn't to face up to why they
lost yep absolutely yeah totally succumb
to all these fantasies they're wrapped
around and and yeah blaming the Russians
are blaming the FBI or the America's
innate racism they can't they can't face
the essential disconnect between the
Democratic Party and the American
electorate yeah no I agree I mean I had
I got into trouble here with so-called
liberal friends where I just say look
people like Donald Trump and brexit well
she'd just take Donald Trump Donald
Trump is what in learning circles is
called a comedic character he is a giant
vaudeville distorted figure who is
showing you the Liberals what kind of
society you have created and for the
last thirty years you have been living a
lovely life but out there there is
something else and you have ignored it
and cannot flee and you have lied to it
and you have let it down you know
weapons of mass destruction did have a
big effect in my country and I'm sure it
did in yours it went quite deep they
really hate it they cannot deal with it
because what do you choose
is you have created a society in which
you don't actually believe in anything
longer this is more sort of what I was
trying to say gently and how can
organisation is that is the problem with
the Liberals and that the whole middle
that genteel middle class is not just
liberals is they don't actually believe
in anything
any longer and that's the real problem
and there's a guy I quote at the end of
hyper normalization who is a guy called
Abu Musab al-suri the Syrian he's a
terrorist you Janice would call it
mastermind but he's a terrorist from
from Syria whose writings in the last
five or six years have inspired many of
what are called the lone wolf attacks in
Europe and what al-suri says is look
don't bother with politicians because
they don't have any moral authority any
longer don't have a big organization
because you'll just get bombed [ __ ] by
America which is what happened to bin
Laden he's very critical of bin Laden's
organization in in in in Afghanistan and
what you do is you go for the liberal
middle classes and the reason is he says
in this very long book is they don't
believe in anything any longer so they
won't you can frighten them and I think
that's where we are at the moment and if
I could come back to the Soviet Union in
the 1980s if you live in a world where
you know that everything is all a bit
wrong and all a bit fake and that when
you get sacked from your nice job in the
media what you then go and do is take
the payoff money and invest it in air
B&B in in flats that you can apartments
that you can rent on air B&B and that in
your living off that you you know it's
all a bit odd but there isn't anything
else but underneath it you know that you
don't believe in anything and you also
know the politicians who represent you
don't believe in anything what I found
most sad not just about the Hillary
Clinton campaign but also about when I
watched yuk Prime movement and I watched
those meetings they didn't believe in
anything they had no picture of a world
they wanted to create what they had a
little picture was was of a system of
how to manage groups yeah and they EF
you know that's true Rosen they confused
process with idealism and that's also
true of your second category of people
who believe in algorithms as the
solution to the future because what they
say is if only the system of delivery of
information is efficient
then everything would be alright what
they ignore is they've got absolutely
nothing to say in that system of
information yeah yeah that's true it's a
picture of my dog yesterday looking at
it a more different occup eye it really
did feel like they felt that just
getting everybody together and having
the discussion would at some point in
the future lead to something but it but
like that that's putting the way that
collective organization and change
happens exactly in the wrong direction
like you have to start from a premise
yes you have to have an idea and you
have to inspire people when you have to
have something you imagine what they
they've confused it they've become they
became the very thing they were trying
to fight against managers that's what
they were they were like breakout groups
in large cause it is funny and it's
absurdness city but it's also deeply
tragic and I think underneath it all is
that both the left and the right partly
driven by Silicon Valley but not
completely have bought into this
utilitarian rational mode of thinking
which is that everything can be measured
processed and and the outcomes can be
predicted it's a sort of managerial
technocracy and the left went for it
because they did they ran out of ideas
the trouble is it's a dead end the way
you changed the world is by having a
vision of a future the last people who
did it were actually Ronald Reagan and
mrs. Thatcher they had a vision of the
world and their vision of a world is of
a world in which politics with Woodridge
great but it was a vision since then
there hasn't been anything and what why
it's so tragic part the left I mean I in
the film I talk about Tahir Square which
is a much even more dramatic example of
of Occupy is you had this vast movement
called out by social media and social
media is very good at organizing people
I mean one mustn't knock it for that
it's really good it it's good at process
it's good at managing and it managed to
get everyone out there they got to
Tahrir Square they toppled beautifully
and brilliantly this vicious dictator
had been supported by Britain in America
for 30 years
and then they looked at each other and
they thought well what do we do now and
none of them knew and the one group that
did have an idea the Muslim brother who
Brotherhood who are a nasty bunch of
right-wing reactionary Islamists swept
into that vacuum and seized power at
which point those liberal
revolutionaries turn back to the
generals and said please please get rid
of these now shoot them really literally
the group saying yes please do go I see
[ __ ]
I see [ __ ] from liberals in this country
now who are doing this ain't there
pining for a deep state coup against
Donald Trump they're hoping that the CIA
is gonna overthrow him like it's Central
America and the 80s or something no I
swear to god I've seen people maybe half
kidding but the thought is certainly
there no I've seen people say like very
seriously
you know patriotic people in our in our
government need to realize the threat
that Trump poses and stand up and show
that they're really concerned about the
Constitution by overthrowing the
president oh yeah we have we have some
particularly depraved liberals in this
country well during the Sanders
insurgency there was a guy Chuck Lane
who's a the editorial page he was the
editorial page leader of the Washington
Post who was basically kind of craving a
Pinochet to come along and take care of
the IND that was that was very Sanders
really oh yeah well I mean it is funny
and it's absurd but there is also a
serious thing on behind all this is that
there is obviously a deep desire to
actually make things better
and over the last thirty years certain
very soon my country in your country
have effectively taken hold of power I
mean above all of Finance but
increasingly that they're fusing with
elements from the technocracy of Silicon
Valley out of managerial system I was
gonna say I'm glad you brought up this
idea that there is a very intense desire
for change or for something different
and you talk about tragedy and and
really all your fill
you do you do you document this tragedy
we're people again and again they want
to get away from hierarchy from power
from these old ways of domination and
control but they always invariably end
up recreating the same thing over and
over and over again and you state that
one of the features of living in a kind
of post political world is this failure
of imagination to imagine a better world
so I guess in closing how will we know
or is there a way of telling that what
would it look like to imagine a
different world I guess is what I'm
asking do you have a vision of it or I
mean not to put everything on you Adam
please save us but how would we know
that we're beginning to imagine a
different world even within this hyper
real one you ask what real change might
look like and I think it's really I mean
that is a really interesting question
for liberals and radicals because there
is a hunger for change out there among
millions of people who feel sort of
insecure and uncertain about the future
and do want something do want that to
change I think that change only comes
through a big imaginative idea the sort
of picture of another kind of future
which gives people a which connects with
that fearfulness in the back of people's
minds and offers them a release from it
that's the key thing but I think that
the question for liberals and radicals
is that they are always suspicious of
big ideas
that's what lurks underneath the liberal
mindset and the reason is and they're
quite right in a way is is look what
happened last time when millions of
people got swept up in a big idea look
up the last hundred years at what
happened in Russia and then in Germany
the point is is that change political
change is frightening it's scary it's
thrilling because it is dynamic and it's
doing something to change the world but
it is scary because it can change things
in ways where nothing is secure it's
like being an earthquake even the solid
ground underneath you begins to move and
things dissolve that you think a solid
and real and I think that the question
liberals and the left have to face at
the moment is a really such a difficult
question which is do you really want
change do you really want it because if
you do many of them might find
themselves in a very uncertain world
where they might lose all sorts of
things they I mean what we're talking
about in many cases is people who are
the sort of the center of society at the
moment they're not out in the margins
they would have a lot to lose from real
political change because it really would
change things in the structure of power
or and this is the brutal question do
you just want things to change a little
bit do you just want the banks to be a
little bit nicer say or people to be a
little more respectful of each other's
identities all of which is good but
basically you carry on living in your
nice world where you tinker with it
those that's the key question but you
can't just sit there forever
worrying about big ideas because there
are millions of people out there who do
want change and the key thing is they
feel they've got nothing to lose you
might have lots to lose but they feel
they've got absolutely nothing to lose
but at the moment they're being led by
the right so things won't remain the
same but society may go off in ways that
you really don't want so what should
what I think them in in answer to your
question what you need is a powerful
vision of the future with all its
dangers
but it's also quite thrilling it would
be an escape from the static Nisour the
world that we have today and to do that
you've got to engage with the giant
forces of power that now run the world
at the moment you might and the kid but
the key thing is is in confronting those
powers
and trying to transform the word you
might lose a lot this is a such a
forgotten idea is that actually you
surrender yourself up to a big idea and
in the process you might lose something
but you'd actually gain in a bigger
sense because you changed the world for
the better I know it sounds sappy but
sort of this is the Forgotten thing
about politics is that you give up some
of your individualism to something
bigger than yourself you surrender
yourself and it's a lost idea and I
think really an austrial question is you
can spot real change happening where you
see people from the liberal middle
classes beginning to give themselves up
to something surrender themselves for
something bigger than themselves at the
moment there is nothing like that in the
liberal imagination
[Music]
[Music]
okay we are back hopefully after that
you haven't killed yourself like I said
we uh we recorded this interview with
Adam Curtis on Tuesday but uh since then
I guess like the big the big news story
that happened this week that we didn't
talk to Adam about was this whole Russia
hacked the election right
apparently CIA assessment has concluded
that Russia did intervene in the
election I personally do not know what
the [ __ ] to make of this and the
question I think that it should be as
this what is being alleged here like how
did Russia actually intervene in this
election the theory put forth is that
they were involved in the DNC hat which
by the way basically comes down to the
fact that John Podesta who
parenthetically is also the ringleader
of an international child sex slavery
ring clicked on a phishing link on a
random spam email and premised his
entire email system which not really the
kind of OPSEC you'd expect from the
yellow King but whatever reeve I agree
pills in Carcosa yeah
so they got ahold of that information
they gave it to WikiLeaks it basically
at the theory is is that and and this is
based on a lot of spotty stuff not no
real evidence but I mean maybe it
happened or not as I was saying like
anybody who says well is trying to play
dumb like the Russians didn't want Trump
to win give me a [ __ ] break
of course well here's the thing like I
don't like I said I don't know what to
make of this like I don't know who to
what the [ __ ] to believe but the idea
that that Russia would try to intervene
in our election or put the thumb on the
scale just to the extent that they can
for Donald Trump doesn't seem totally
implausible to me no like I can follow
that yeah but like what's weird is
watching the liberal hyperventilation
about it because on the one end the most
delusional and the Peter Dow and there
are people who seem to think that this
might lead to some electoral do
or that it may get the electoral college
to basically invalidate the outcome I
mean yes that's the wish right with all
of this yeah it's like go for it you
know I'm sure that those electors are
glued to your Twitter feeds and they're
really weighing these things because of
course we're governed by norms we're not
governed by you know power seeking
interest groups no no people are really
governed by these ideas about what
American democracy is so they're really
gonna be persuaded by you going this is
terrifying sir the line I keep hearing
over and over again is that this is the
biggest story since Watergate and like
everyone should be talking about this
non-stop like everyday or else they're
actively aiding and abetting actually
you know Peter Dow had the best take on
this he was like congratulations
if you thought Hillary was corrupt bad
or disingenuous in any way you played
yourself Russia played you you do yeah I
didn't know Russia got got her into
politics like 30 years ago and like
helped her create a [ __ ] track record
of awful bad policies and politics yeah
and and the danger is that this is used
now for the next four years to say oh we
don't need to re-examine the Democratic
Party we don't need to rebuild the
Democratic Party or bring in outside
organization and and pressure on it we
just need to make sure that the dang
Rooskies stay out of our backyard
because besides that problem everything
exactly right and that's the there's
people that are hoping to redo the
election which is like I understand that
in a way sure that I think there are
people who are cynically using this to
absolve themselves of like a because we
spent the last like two or three weeks
you know talking about like the
post-mortem like how did Hillary Clinton
[ __ ] this campaign up so badly and now
they're like spinning around oh she
didn't [ __ ] it up actually that all her
strategy was correct but one thing that
that that if you accept this premise
that there's one implicit Curtis
of Hillary within this argument that I
would like to see these [ __ ] at
least acknowledge because if a failing
declining birthrate plummeting currency
petro oligarchy like russia can sway the
election of the President of the United
States then we have to at least accept
that America is not already great well I
mean the other the other threads who
pick up here like if we are to believe
that that Russia was behind the leak of
the DNC emails specifically because
he'll the whole other thing with
Hillary's emails is like that the James
Comey thing was about her mishandling of
emails as Secretary with the DNC email
okay so like if that's swung the
election what's well in the election was
just people finding out what Hillary
Clinton in the Democratic Party are
actually like right that's not a ringing
endorsement either no yes it's not as
though like these hackers framed her up
like photoshopped hillary into a photo
with evidence in a guy like a critical
mass of voters in the Rust Belt found
out that the Clinton campaign took
seriously the work of Amanda Marcotte
and Jim Beall Smith and they were like
nah not going to do it and I just not
voting [ __ ] like I said this is just
another weird thread in this kind of
hyper normal hyper normalized
environment where we're living in that
that Adams talking about this sense of
kind of like vertigo where things keep
happening and nobody knows what to make
of it or what to do or how to change
anything and everybody is siloed in
their own totally self-contained
narrative loops that cannot interact and
are totally in commensurate and are
perpetuated by boutique media
consumption and yeah and no social
creation yeah it's just except for us of
course yeah obviously except for this
show
the good ones and yet another funny
irony and that we something we brought
up with uh with Adam is is now libs
using this latest revelation to like
exonerate or build up the [ __ ] CIA
and some kind of like I like I read one
article that was like it was just about
how bad Donald Trump is and it was like
in italics it was like Donald is trying
to say that the freakin Central
Intelligence Agency is wrong question
mark question mark exclamation point
like Nancy Pelosi was like to you know
tweeting he was like the CIA was right
about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction
it was the Bush administration that
politicized their their correct
intelligence assessments yeah yeah and I
also have been seeing all these
reactions these like precious reactions
from people saying well if the US ever
meddled in someone else's election they
deserve a do-over if that ever happened
well they're [ __ ] Robert Baer was on
TV again he was again a couple of months
ago he was bragging about how he medals
in elections and he was like I'll tell
you what folks if we did this to any
other country and they found out about
it they'd have another election sure
sure sure yeah and they have another
election and you'd like you know
assassinate whoever they yeah he was
about to say that part you caught it
yeah well do a do-over and Patrice
Lumumba will be reelected
yeah and also now a lot of people I mean
many of whom are card-carrying liberals
getting defensive about the CIA and the
integrity and the honesty of the CIA is
spun them into this just now tangential
defense of the entire American security
state and an empire like MSNBC's joy and
read today was arguing with someone who
said well what about when we invaded
Libya
you destroyed that country to their
issues we didn't overthrow Gaddafi
Google the Arab Spring
we didn't get a chance to talk about
with Adam but one of the best threads in
hyper normalization is about the kernel
the interview clips of Qaddafi are so
[ __ ] good I mean I wish he was still
alive and I miss him and the real people
want to make this about the Russians
yeah if 15 ganky teenagers can overthrow
your election result all wearing he was
eight squatting Europe yeah they're like
somebody's got their objecting krokodil
into the max well like Google like
emailing John Podesta and they overturn
your [ __ ] election your country is a
failed state before we close out the
show this week I would like to do some
plugging let's let's uh let's butt plug
right now as we got we got some I got
some things here I guess some things I'd
like to talk about first their hearts
yeah parts could we just go back to the
parts the parts you just talked about
the parts now is what I want to return
to as always first up on Wednesday this
upcoming week if you are in Brooklyn or
New York City Cady Halper she was our
subscription guest this week and my
soon-to-be a cousin through marriage
actually we are cousins and are getting
married I put them in Commons this week
she's having a holiday karaoke party
with her with the Katie help brought to
you by the Katie a per show and I have
promised to sing karaoke so if you would
like to come to that and never listen to
music ever again after experiencing this
please do we will be there as well I'll
be in town for that and they better have
the International that's all we'll link
to that Facebook event and the show info
right and then finally you know one of
the
cool developments now that I'm doing the
show is that people people send us books
now people send us books because you
know they think it's something we'd like
or you know they want us to talk about
it in the show and Christ knows I have
been on the that side of things for a
long time trying to you know pitch books
to people in the media or just get the
word out about something worthwhile and
I actually had two books that fans of
the show sent us that I just like to
shout out here because they're both
quite excellent the first of which is a
book of photographs by Daniel Cronyn
called the gathering of the Juggalos and
folks truth in advertising this book
promises the gathering of the Juggalos
and that's exactly what it delivers
it is a a book of photographs taken of
Juggalos in their natural habitat at
their gathering and it is fantastic it
is really really good Matt you've got a
copy of this too right yes I did I've
looked through it there's good stuff
it'll give you a nice understanding of a
subculture that I genuinely believe is a
prophylactic against Nazism and then
last but not least I want to shout out a
graphic novel called laid waste by Julia
her fair this is by a Fantagraphics
and it's excellent it's um how shall I
describe it it's a very very dark sort
of gothic fable about plague sweeping
through a sort of medieval Hamlet and
this is this family as they everyone
around them succumbs to the Black Death
it is incredibly bleak and sort of metal
but also quite beautiful and moving I I
really really like this book the art is
great and it's it's excellent laid waste
up by Fantagraphics by Julia Graf air
available at fine bookstores everywhere
so that's it that's it for this week's
show
everybody go out and buy those books
everybody come out to the Katy Halper
show on Wednesday and if you haven't
already watch all of Adam curtis's
movies to figure out just how the hell
we ended up where we are right there
until next time guys bye bye
[Music]
a dream
attention you are now entering that the
partition Aaron no games no smoke well
they weren't denied to the processing
area the next sketch both at our church
and prison as in two hours
you now have the option to terminate and
be cremated on the premises if you elect
this option and notify the duty sergeant
in your processing hearing
[Music]
SD Plissken America lieutenant special
forces unit black light two Purple
Hearts Leningrad and Siberia and this
men to be decorated by the president she
robbed the Federal Reserve depository
life sentence New York maximum security
penitentiary I'm ready to kick your ass
out of the world who are you police
commissioner
our special forces unit Texas club
we're to youtube to school
have a deal for him to receive full
pardon for every criminal action
committed in the United States
it was an accident about an hour ago
small jet went down inside New York City
the president was on board
that's not funny please you go in find
the president bring them out in 24 hours
you're a free man
[Music]
just like no time
did a new president we're still at war
Plissken need him alive is that your
answer
[Music]
you flew the Golf R of letting you know
how to get inside doesn't mean [ __ ] to
me give me the paper so there wasn't a
fool
[Music]
nope
[Music]
inside the world floor
