hold on man man y'all in the
superstructure too much mor y'all
everything and everyone nowadays cuz
y'all [ __ ] of the spectrum
[Music]
in my Diane Arbus because I just got
done with a photo shoot of a bunch of
hairy freaks that's right folks
hey am i Charlie going to the Chocolate
Factory cuz I just took this tour of him
some goddamn treats and snacks
am i vici because I just witnessed some
crime scenes being photographed that's
very very funny and what they're doing
today
Mike you will get that joke all bad I
want every one of them to DM me after
this Matt's jokes they're like about
like pokemon snap today like what the
[ __ ] is going on Ouija was a 1930s crime
scene photographer in New York City oh
of course dude yeah I got it he's also
known as the guy Peter Sellers stole the
dr. Strangelove voice from yeah really
and he was the inspiration for Jude
Law's character in road to perdition
that classic character you all as a
character you don't love one of the
finest actors of our generation tell you
about Jude Law sir so yeah it's uh it's
riffing with the boys stay
yeah chapo you know just been a really
light-hearted week so we're gonna give
you a light-hearted way a lot of fun
things have happened the world honestly
look okay so we did a photo shoot today
it was at an unreasonably early hour for
me I'm not saying like for the world but
for me I physically in excruciating pain
it was 11 a.m. I had to wake up at 9:00
I just sort of stayed up I couldn't get
to sleep we had a gas line up to talk
about Gaza but she couldn't do like the
photo shoot push it back we're in good
midweek but in an in its stead in the
stead of the serious episode today like
I was just physically excruciating pain
I should get a Purple Heart for what I'm
going through right now uh personal
mention the book worse we will be for
the first time ever doing a chapel world
premiere reading of a sample from the
book for the first time ever but also
book-related sitting in with us this
week long time friend short time trader
Brendan James it's very awesome we're
excited too because because
Brandon Rawe helped write the book he's
part of the one of the author team and
now he and then in the middle of that
process he abandoned us and so now we
have this awkward sort of you know
divorced parents coming together to
visit their kid at camp thing yeah where
he has to show up and do things for us
even though he has left us believe we
betray revolution so he went to the
hills with a small cadre I may not be -
I'm not gonna pitch in as much maybe
because I'm looking for what excerpt we
should read but I think I think I know
what what we should do some so I will do
that at the end always good to have
Brendan back in sitting in on the trap
even behind a mic instead of behind the
board's yeah um yeah so as you mentioned
we just got done with a little photo
shoot a little blow-up
yeah exactly um did we inadvertently
capture photographic evidence of a
murder I don't know we'll find out later
in the touch-ups but before then yeah
this week nothing but terrible news hmm
you know like just bad things happening
all over the world massacres in Gaza
another school shooting in this country
pretty grim all-around stuff I may not
be Leonard Cohen but I have seen the
future and it is murder I don't know
what do you guys want to study do you
guys want to begin with your report from
your field report from your trip to LA
today yes I've got a dispatch from the
field with my co correspondent Matt
Chrisman we were invited to go to the
NYU Game Center for I believe these were
the senior projects of the game students
the students who are learning to game
who are learning to make the game
they're spending with the fires a huge
thousand dollars to learn how to do
gaming have you ever wondered why every
game they're like huge directional
arrows telling you exactly what to do
now well they found out we were invited
by Jessie Fuchs our good friend from NYU
who is a professor of some sort of the
introductory level of video gaming so he
teaches them the to be cultural Marxist
he teaches them how to do speedruns in
Super Mario
and they go through the process and this
is their their final final thing that
they create after 12 years of being of
in video game school and I would say it
was fun it was a blast
it was interesting there was a large
variety of games there were classic
actual video games there were tabletop
games there were deck based games we
played the boy band simulator which was
based on the concept of those you know
those Japanese do yes Lou Pearlman 2 K
18 ok press X to lure this child onto
your hot-air balloon and when we were
wondering press f to call your lawyer
when we were walking around III spied a
poker table so we went to this room that
was the VR games that was the VR room
and the game was not poker at all I
actually would not have minded just
sitting down and playing poker for six
hours
it was a VR game where you are a dealer
in purgatory and you like you actually
have to do the job of a dealer until the
cards and everything and you're the
people playing the game are people
trapped in purgatory and I guess they
tell you their stories yeah and then you
develop relationships with them the
other one was there was the wait wait a
second this game was just purgatory sim
yes what it's like sure Sam but you're
an employee of perc yes exactly you work
in purgatory and you're a blackjack
dealer oh yeah I actually how about this
porca Tori I actually play I actually
heaven sign me up
I actually play a mod of the purgatory
skin sim called a Kolob sim I'm actually
ranked in kolob cyn I mean George Romney
say that's cheap but like come on there
were three another one was a bartender
simulator it was just simulating
drudgery one of them was called a flight
simulator yes and it was a simulation of
being on an airplane yes you're sitting
right here please sitting in the seat in
a airplane interact with that shitty
touchscreen thing that they have they're
like you could watch a movie or play a
game on the back of
other persons that's like I get your
point after two SEC's yeah it's like I
get the joke I don't actually need to
play through our day pardhu and
unlockable character yeah it's like Phil
five carafes of water on this forget the
flight 93 expansion pack where they
hijack the plane and these guys are
gonna organize to you know push a
beverage card through the [ __ ] flight
doors but you just still sit there well
that remind you just still watch [ __ ]
a lilo and stitch game a fiying the
plane does actually remind me of when we
would take flights every time we got on
a flight my screen on the seat in front
of me would light up and it would be
like passenger 9:97 wants to talk to you
about any which always be virtual we
make Jing system which I don't think
anyone's ever used before and we would
all click can't so like I responded with
art you horny it wasn't I can't imagine
why you left it was a big thing there
were also tabletop games and the most
interesting one was the simplest one all
of these games like all these you know
seniors had like swag and [ __ ] they had
like cuddles and whistles yeah just all
kinds of stuff to like draw you in like
the poker table for that game which is
unnecessary or there were bottles of
liquor for the bartender game the game
that we spent the most time playing to
the extent that I think we chased away
the creator of the game and she couldn't
handle us was a very simple card game
it's just a table with a few cards laid
out it's just a deck of cards basically
and it's it's actually ingenious it was
a combination of clue and
apples-to-apples basically it's how I
would describe it which makes it sound
terrible if you think but it's it was it
was cool no it was great so the purpose
of the game is a flip a card here's the
victim and flip the card here's what
they do here's something about them
olympic card here's where they were
found dead and you have five cards that
indicate like plot points basically and
you have to tell a story of how that
person died and you can play this with
six people and everyone tells us a
concocted story of how they died
one person is a judge and the judge has
cards of tomato test if the detective
yeah and the the directive has item
cards that they throw in in the middle
of your story to kind of throw a wrench
in it yeah you have to improvise and
then they decide who told the most
plausible narrative it's actually very
postmodern because it implies that there
is no actual answer there is only the
most satisfying there yes we all read
the New York trilogy I get it yeah I
felt very austere iam playing it uh but
Matt and I had a big disagreement at the
table because I insisted that as a
competitor I should get to challenge
your story I should get to point out
analogical ins consistencies that you
make when you're spinning your yarn and
I think everything needs to be
determined by the cards you're dealt
because that's what makes it a game
otherwise it's just a bunch of people
have but it's a social game in an
interactive game right but it has to be
structured by the cards you get oh I
hate oh you think concert conversation
is a new game social climbing is a game
I'm mr. robot welcome to mr. robot so we
played this game multiple times and like
anyone could go to this event and so
they were just like normies there and
they could not handle us at all because
we were we were we were spending some
interesting yeah you guys were like
pickle Rick jokes
we were pretty epic we would always
incorporate bacon into all of her
narrative was the best was the best
actual video game you saw no there were
a lot of art games that were not
designed to be enjoyable and the games
that were designed to be played looked I
don't know it's there was no pac-man
somebody should I don't know what I did
yeah nobody nobody reinvented pac-man
which is a big strike again so here's
what I thought somebody should make us
like some of these people they make
games with cabinets right and I thought
imagine if one puckish student just went
through you know spent eight million
dollars to go to videogame university
spent 87 years of their life there and
their senior project was making the
videogame from The Simpsons by dinner
with Andre game and with the full
cabinet with like all the controls tell
me more and all of that
run up a full game
full game and if that kid existed I
would have to give them all my money
that would be it to know the unknowable
by the way Wallace Shawn if you're
listening please come on the show yeah
come on the show well show love well
Shawn come on chapo please or come town
if you want the best game was the game
that we played in your career about a
lot and that I think that woman who
could not handle us and wanted us to go
away very much so should kick started
483 million dollars and you will get a
fine Sawbuck from me for a copy of that
game what was the name of the game I
don't just [ __ ] pointless pour it on
like the shape of the ice cubes in the
soda that you had so as I mentioned
earlier this has been a week of all just
completely bleak and dystopian news
chief among that being what's going on
in the Gaza Strip right now just the
wholesale massacre of protesters by the
IDF um I think we should let you know
that we are gonna have another episode
about this topic speaking with a guest
you can speak more deeply and
intelligently and from experience about
this thing's I think it's an issue that
warrants a deeper dive I will limit we
limit ourselves this week - I think
discussing some of the media reaction to
this has been really stunning and it
really goes to show you just how into
overdrive the propaganda arm of like the
Israeli government and Israeli Lobby in
America is to like not just a apologize
or cover-up this or you know shove it to
the side but like I think we're seeing a
transition now where the official organs
of like I said Israeli propaganda in
America are just openly embracing this
now Senator Chuck Schumer welcome to the
resistance openly embracing and the New
York Times is as good as any a
bellwether like the crown jewel of the
liberal media and in their actual
opinions section the range of opinion on
this Massacre runs the gamut from Thomas
Friedman saying it's an act of humor
sacrifice on behalf of the Palestinians
- Barry Weiss saying the exact same
thing mm-hmm she went on Bill Maher show
on Friday and said all these
Palestinians they timed this you know
fence protest they time being murdered
they timed being murdered including
doctors and women and children time this
to to the photo-op of the Israeli
embassy how dare that he I'm sorry the
American Embassy do you make jared
kosher look that she said just so they
could have the split screen of Ivanka
smiling contrasted with you know men
women and children being shot with
high-powered rifles from hunting blinds
by this IDF and what she said on that
show on Friday was let's not give them
what they want
so her argument is these crafty
Palestinians time their protests to make
it look make Israel look bad so the way
we beat them is to just not feel bad at
all like I said wholesale mass murder
yeah it's basically the Sharpeville
massacre of the 21st century but don't
fall for it
yeah don't fall for it and here's the
other thing like the idea that somehow
they're cheating because they time their
protests to make it more politically
effective ooh
how dare they their playoff protesters
yeah Israel Israel's actions in Gaza in
the last say like since 2000 since cast
led well sits Lebanon really have it's
been like since that's it's their
humiliation the hands of Hezbollah has
been okay we need to do a military demo
to show our awesome destructive might
against you know people are pretty much
helpless but I think the other part of
that has been let's up the ante of what
we can get away with yeah and the
reaction of this in particular because
you know there has been a big religion
of like this is off all this is Beauvoir
which again I hate to be a pessimist
like I remember this type of [ __ ] on
your Bush this is the type of thing
where the liberal quarters they notice
something that is bad under a Republican
president and II think it's a sea change
and then they go back right I mean we
not noticing it I hope I'm [ __ ] wrong
but
um in the liberal quarters the other has
been that but I feel like with the
reliably pro-israel more like American
lacunae set yes Ben okay we're up in the
ante this yeah okay
full steam ahead let's go um I'm just
shocked that I'm on a show with these
bros who are violating Barry Weiss's
free speech right now speaking of uh
like Felix as you said like pushing the
limits or like I said that there now I
think there there is I'm noticing a
shift in just the open embrace of this
kind of murder and violence back in the
pages of the the New York Times this one
really stood out from me in terms of how
just blood-curdling and awful it is and
again I don't want to say shocking that
this is in the pages of the New York
Times but I think it's very telling then
the New York Times publishes this and
it's by shmuel Rosener in the opinions
section really distinguished himself
with this one the headline is Israel
needs to protect its borders by whatever
means necessary that's not a border well
yeah the first and most important this
Gaza fence is not a border no it is not
anything close to an internationally
recognized border if it was it would beg
the question what nation are they
crossing over from yeah they are very
very consciously they don't have a
nation and if they did if this was a
border then Israel would be enacting a
blockade of a sovereign nation which is
an act of war yes if they did have a
sovereign nation they would also have
the rights of the natural gas in the
Mediterranean in their territory they
basically turned Gaza into the jail from
faceoff not recognized by any
governments of a [ __ ] phantom zone
something that is in a quantum state at
any time right depending on what you
need for rhetorical purposes is a
sovereign country or it's part of Israel
and and it just shifts from one to the
other and all the matters is that Israel
and this is the thing that matters more
than anything is that Israel is entirely
responsible for everything that happens
in Gaza they created an open-air prison
they're in charge of everything that
goes in or out of that place they put
the put up these [ __ ] fences they man
them they control how much water they
get they control how much how far they
can go into the Mediterranean
seek fish it is the their creation and
then they say well look at what they did
but anything they're doing is literally
what people would do in any kind of
concentration camp yeah like it's like
judging the Sobibor [ __ ] people for
rebelling against the SS also also going
all the way back because I think Hamas
is still a boogeyman I don't think that
that's that's old but it's just oh well
there's this genocide Oh government and
blah blah ignoring all the nuances that
have actually taken place over the past
basically like 15 years nobody wear
masks right whoa yeah exactly I think
that's the image is still among people
who don't either know or care a lot
about this is they just saying well yeah
but what are you gonna do is terrorists
running that strip and apart from that
being really essential izing what the
government is there it also excuses the
massacre of innocence we have you know
no stake and whether or not Hamas
ordered a fall out of government or not
and they just lived there but that is
that was a u.s. egyptian-israeli forced
error in 2006 when Hamas won the
elections in 2006 free freely and fairly
by all accounts and we sponsored a coup
with Egypt in Israel to start a civil
war between Fatah and Hamas and then
that resulted in Hamas being driven into
super you know militant mode and taking
over Gaza there as opposed to just be
the regular government of the territory
so this whole idea like Hamas took over
Gaza and it's a tyranny that they ruled
by under a military dictatorship it's
like that again happened as you said
Israel owns everything I think the u.s.
also owns it and Egypt owns it yes by
making that into a hot crowded corner of
I would say yeah a pretty authoritarian
party but one that resembles a lot about
a lot of other authoritarian parties
when they govern a place that has been
made unhittable by the larger colonial
labor and also but stepping back another
step further a [ __ ] party that was
boosted at its inception by by is
locking Israel you undermine the PLO yes
they got what they [ __ ] wanted with
Hamas that's true here's another threat
to all this a lot in a lot of the
reaction I'm seeing about like these
people who are being again just mowed
down yeah sixty-eight dead but like
thousands wounded yeah wounded here is
like almost too weak it's
you're talking about being shot with
high caliber bullets sniper rifles being
maimed permanently oh they're like so
like crippled for life or worse yeah I'm
a they're saying well these people are
Hamas the people who are approaching
approaching of the fence oh my god oh
they're they're Hamas or whatever so
yeah I'd say that yes if Hamas is if you
lived in the Gaza Strip which as we said
is a prison yep is a functionally a
concentration camp and Hamas is the
group that is organizing to stand up
against your jailers or to even die in
an active like sort of defiance or even
self-respect's like instead of living on
your [ __ ] knees yeah good yeah any
brave any expression of militancy in
that context is an expression of
humanity it's it's an assertion of one's
humanity in the face of a hegemonic
power that is denying you the ability to
live at all and this is another thing
that I think Virgil you nodded at before
with the Chuck Schumer reference is that
the way that the I would still say a lot
of liberals but mostly now like the real
chest-beating conservative pros real
types talk about this and talk about
unarmed people even though they don't
consider them unarmed in some way or
whatever it like being gunned down and
it's fine there in a way preparing you
for more domestic insurrections yes in
which black people or anyone of any
class or any race want to rise up in you
know for whatever greens grievances they
have in her gunned down they're saying
well I mean look I mean we saw this in
Gaza and are you really going to say
those people were innocent you know the
state needs to take the measures it
takes and we also remember that this
stuff is not theoretical and I'm not
just playing this out of my ass because
black lives matter protesters during
Ferguson during Baltimore were in touch
with Palestinian people because the
strategies and sometimes the actual
material were the same we're linked to
the same ideas and tactics that Israel
uses against the Palestinians so this
stuff links up beyond
oh it's Israel it's always gonna be
[ __ ] up they're talking about every
event that could happen here - yeah I
mean IDF does train him
American cops right oh but that point
about you know this is we could see this
in repeat you know I where I really
think we're gonna see this on repeat
like a sort of gray area stateless
non-sovereign non-state entering a non
border region they just at all cost
cannot be led and what do you think is
gonna happen when get out most of the
world starts [ __ ] saying yeah yeah
yeah
this is if things don't get drastically
better this is what the future is going
to look like rather is white people in
this country will support putting walls
and armed guards and dogs around every
black neighborhood before they even
think about reparations yes and that's
citizens of the United and what Felix
talks about is that we we like to
imagine that there's a thing called
human rights but in reality because of
the National international system of
nation-states the UN these concepts your
rights really are linked to your
citizenship and if you are deprived of
citizenship in a mutually recognized
sovereign entity you're basically not a
human being
same way that felons that turning you
know so many mostly black males into
felons is a way to abrogate in fact and
then it's like all while we're dealing
with criminals and drug dealers here and
then it's basically a racial Casas so
the future is gonna be creating these
categories like the Palestinians like
refugees like illegal immigrants who by
virtue of the fact that they have been
forced yeah by the vagaries of the power
of others to try to seek some sort of
life in any way they can their assertion
of humanity becomes a crime right and
because they cannot refer to a
citizenship right of a sovereign body
that can is mutually recognized by other
countries they essentially don't have
rights and they can be disposed of
anyway that the most powerful local
government can imagine to do so you know
what this also reminds me of is remember
when Trump said shed whole countries is
that the huge missed point there with
and this definitely was libs is okay
obviously he was being an idiot and
racist and just probably thinking that
entire cultures or [ __ ] holes etc but
the idea
beneath that that these countries are in
poor shape in other parts of the world
to say oh I'm so offended that he called
them [ __ ] countries I'm sure there
were vibrant places well a lot of them
aren't great places to live right now
because of America yeah or because of
other Imperial designs that have been
imposed upon them and that is a more
offensive thing and a deeper critique of
American racism and foreign policy than
just saying Oh Trump was mean on the air
once again a great a great a great
example of that sadistic line of thought
is the Ben Shapiro thing that quote that
I never see in any of the fawning
profiles of him where he says Mr toon
analogical is real is just Jews are just
better than Arabs Arabs like living and
they like crying and say like and he's
referring to of course the Gaza Strip
where there is just open sewage but
again this is a function all right the
absolutely conscious and systematic
decisions by their jailers yes that is
the way to that and I sort of say one
other thing like in in sort of trying to
metabolize the rotten and morally
hideous people who are trying to get you
to like accept this or think that it
isn't in any way just well say things
like well what are you gonna do they're
armed they want to cross this fence and
they want to kill Jews so what are you
gonna do just let them across the border
well obviously yes but the like the
broader question is in dying and in
showing the world what Israel is capable
prepared to do to stop them from
crossing this again not border I think
it is important you show to the world
exactly what the State of Israel has to
do to maintain itself in its current
form and if you're okay with that
right well then just [ __ ] it like forget
them you're admitting that you want to
live in a state or you think it we
should support a state in which this
kind of wholesale murder is just the
business just doing business yeah that's
just don't you want to live in a
murderous war of all against all yeah
and that's what that's the undergirding
conservative idea and that you we were
talking about how this connects to black
lives matter and and yeah protests the
United States and also the American
border with Mexico is that the
undergirding conservative idea is that
this that you must in any given
situation
ignore the content
created what's happening you are if
someone does something that you perceive
is violent to yourself that is hostility
why they are in that position why are
they deprived in this way that is not
something to be considered that is that
is sofa Street right all that matters is
that they're trying to get my stuff why
I have this stuff and they don't have
anything that's for man that's for
academics to have a perfect footage not
found a perfect example of that the IDF
this week and there's sort of savvy
social media shop cut together a video
of Palestinians you know approaching the
fence and being tear gassed and shot and
they were like the caption was imagine
you lived a mile away from this right
and the obvious question is if the Gaza
Strip had a fancy twitter app social
media account PR shop they could make
the exact same video asking the exact
same question yes but it wouldn't work
because they're pitching it to an
American audience and the American
audience they're pitching that can only
imagine themselves inside the gated came
right right they cannot imagine
themselves deprived well they cannot
imagine themselves the one trying to
fight for their lives they are the ones
on the other side of the thing so
because that video you're talking about
it shows this sterile little suburb
Israeli settlement and then it pans out
and it shows the the border and every
American is subconsciously going to
relate to that right they're gonna
relate to that more than they can relate
to any kind of abject lifestyle created
by by colonialism or imperialism or
capitalism for anything because they
think that they're on the inside looking
out and because of that the appeal is
going to be these people are coming for
you right and you need to be able to do
what you need to do to keep them
literally endure the it's David you look
at a TV commercial of every Republican
candidate yes running for all you are
under siege you have an amount and maybe
it's some part but you have this this
patronage you have this mess of pottage
that you've inherited from from your
parents and your parents house that's
under why exactly and maybe even if you
really interrogated it you'd be able to
say I probably don't deserve it in any
sort of philosophical sense yeah but
it's mine I'm not giving it up and I
do whatever it takes to protect it and
that's what binds the the relationship
to Gaza to the American border to black
communities in America is that throw up
the fences put out the guards shoot them
so that I don't have to worry about them
coming for my [ __ ] well we don't need to
venture Lacroix's the thoughts of these
people let's just read them them this is
a Shmuel Rosener again writing in the
op-ed pages of the New York Times
America's biggest paper the paper
brought the paper of record
this was wave of the New York Times to
start putting triple parentheses around
the op-ed the old gray man let's listen
to what Jim all writes here it is
customary to it adopt an apologetic tone
when scores of people have been killed
as they were this week in Gaza a chess
cook move but I will avoid this
sanctimonious instinct and declare
coldly interest Israel had a clear
objective when it was shooting sometimes
to kill well-organized quote this isn't
scare quotes demonstrators near the
border Israel was determined to prevent
these people some of whom believed to
have been armed most apparently
encouraged by their radical government
from crossing the fence separating
Israel from Gaza Israel chief all those
objectives and pleaded all of its daily
quest that objective was achieved
of course the death of human unlocked is
never a happy occasion still I feel no
need to engage in aunjanue mourning
guarding the border with moorim I'm a
logic guy I have no rash I have no
emotions other than rationality right
now guarding the border was more
important than avoiding killing what
border and guarding the border is not a
[ __ ] border is what Israel did
successfully yeah we do you know that
you know you know though like this guy
this I will take over the liberal
Zionist line to this which has been like
well I love Israel but I don't love this
yeah it's like what the [ __ ] do you
think this is the exact idea that it's
the exact idea that Israel was founded
on and that it's not a [ __ ] border in
the founding idea of Israel it is
because the only border is between Arab
and non-arab yeah that's your border
yeah there is your only [ __ ] border
there's the founding idea that
undergirds all this so yeah to the
to these freaks to these people who you
know the hand job at birthright was that
much more evocative than the Liberals I
had like God bless you God bless you for
like just giving giving me the F no
State thing straight right [ __ ] god
bless no it's the classic you know
preference for someone who tells you at
least what they actually believe over
the yeah yeah and then they get to like
this guy that whole [ __ ] paragraph is
losses was self-congratulation by
because of his clear I realism real
difference between the Trump supporters
and the never Trump people who
substantially believe the same evil
exactly and I will say though before you
go on if you do go on about that guy is
like the I remember there been a lot of
activists or speakers who said that they
don't really now when they go on
speaking tours or gonna go to college
campuses which is obviously a huge
battleground for all this stuff well I
don't say from the from the
pro-palestine side that they don't
really have to convince a lot of college
because anymore including Jewish college
kids they're like that battle is kind of
over like I'm sure you know there's
still the Charlie Kirk style you know
grand standards but like oh you like
socialism how about living in Gaza right
damn got him dude yeah so like those
guys are still there but the real
refusal to kind of grapple with the
realities that that actually happen in
the West Bank and Gaza versus Israel
those don't seem to be that complicated
for college kids anymore and therefore
the next generation of Americans and
American Jews but that just means that
the Bret Stevens is and his ilk and the
New York Times editorial guys who want
to chime in are going to get more honest
and more real because there's they're
not going to be able to really rely on
slipping it by anybody anymore they're
gonna have to go if you're either with
us or against us so I'm just gonna say
yeah I like killing them to paraphrase
Chuck Schumer for everyone American
Jewish college student they lose Game
five rapidly evangelical lunatic
according the end of the world right
because which by the way this embassy
moved to yeah yeah awesome is 1000% for
the DS snake-handling
unit it's a no entry yes who believed
Mike Huckabee when the rapture is gonna
happen in their lifetime
I find this quote because it's genuine
amazing in the in its a New York Times
article about Huckabee and a bunch of
the evangelical psychos going to the
opening of the the embassy in Jerusalem
I think it's really amazing and frankly
a sign of his commitment that Mike
Huckabee keeps going to Israel a place
where he can't get his delicious fat
back in pork sausage and wet ribs that
he [ __ ] subsist on I like to imagine
that when he goes to Ben Gurion Airport
and they asked him if he has any
anything to declare he's sweating
bullets because he has 12 condoms full
of pork gravy stuffed up his ass I love
that I love this fat like goofy the dogs
on coal character who's also a psychotic
that ironically given what his sons have
done then he's going back and forth
Israel on this like apocalyptic mission
but he just showed it like he's going
there because he's like oh the world's
gonna end I have to secure this for this
forces of Satan to fight Jesus Christ
forever and all these people will go to
hell like it's very heavy to him but
also like when he gets there he's like
[Laughter]
these guys who've been made to my
daughter I'm sorry folks okay
uh-oh y'all got a swimming hole over
here by the way literally everyone you
know will go to hell and they're like oh
this is fine normal destiny for our
people I'm sorry folks egg on my face
the article wasn't he wasn't there at
the Embassy opening this article some
2015 lay the egg on the face what are
you gonna do it in exile
omelette I like to put some pork gravy
on now I'm gonna eat that up yeah I wish
you got a got my okay this 2015 the
Huckabee goes to Israel I stand here on
Mount Carmel today he continued and I
hope that if called upon I would be
willing to stand all by myself and to
call fire from heaven and believe that
God will answer even if there are
hundreds and hundreds of false prophets
on the other side you may stand here
someday and be called upon to call fire
from heaven I hope you're ready to
believe that God will answer that prayer
he is casting Dungeons & Dragons yes by
the way by the way I hope that Kurds the
belted carbo all these Mossad
Psychopaths staring and I'm like great
speech governor I vow that I will stand
at the Golden Corral and I will demand
the prime rib even if the carbon station
is out of it actually I don't even want
to read anymore Shmuel want to say one
thing now about the [ __ ] the the
Huckabee thing a lot of people like to
talk about how it is insane and
horrifying that so many people in the
highest echelons of our government are
essentially apocalyptic psychopaths who
believe that Lenny lists Christmas
suspense premillennial dispense
dispensationalists who want to they are
a lot of Hebrews here they derail they
want to destroy the temple on the rock
they want to rebuild the third the
[ __ ] temple or the dome on the rock
to create the temple to bring about the
apocalypse that is [ __ ] up but
honestly it doesn't require evangelical
right mania to bully to do the things
that Israel and the United States have
do everybody know but you know it has
made it more politically feasible over
the past couple decades because thirty
years ago evangelicals were anti-semites
now they're all supporters of Israel
just two notes on the angelical thing
the big difference is over the last 3040
years the introduction of the completely
made-up phrase and horseshit concept
judeo-christian
thing yeah made-up nonsense tell that to
the guys that Edward the first stuck on
a [ __ ] boat tell them that she Dale
[ __ ] Christian is a term I could have
lived there I could have lived in the
movie layer-cake
I'm [ __ ] here I'm sorry she could've
lived anyway
[Laughter]
point number two about this idea that as
an ran said the the civilized man has
you know a right to to kill the
barbarians what culture is Israel
actually produced because as far as I
can see it's like EDM do Eurovision will
I've seen you wear capri pants you know
you have to think for popular will I
have seen you get into fussy arguments
with guys over who found the Marley & Me
blu-ray Israelis invented yeah well
Israelis invented wearing a lot of
necklaces to go to restaurants called
like Pizza Bonanza the shoving matches
over complete nonsense well I've seen
you send soup back at a restaurant
because the temperature wasn't to your
liking that is diaspora Jewish culture
I've never won peer slander the last
point I want to make I do have nice
calves Thank You Virgil um the last one
I want to make on this and like do be
serious for a second the other thing
they the media response in terms of like
the the moral nihilism or just pure
nihilism that's on display here is I've
Thomas Friedman said it shamil said it
I'm not going to read the rest of his
monstrous article but this sort of hand
wringing over how could they do this to
themselves
listen it's human sacrifice that they're
through Thomas Friedman said they're
throwing the flower of their youth away
rather than I don't know
teaching them to code or some [ __ ]
rather than giardia in open sewers
correct about that is again the fact
that these people can't fathom the idea
that they're that you would give your
life for something bigger than yourself
is very telling yeah and I think that
the the people the the men and women and
doctors who were blown away because they
approached a fence or threw a rock did
that knowing that they were facing death
and they did it anyway
I think that is the word for that is
heroin it speaks to two things it's over
there heroism a heroism that the two
borrowed term from my hated Pepe of
villains small sold you can't imagine
that kind of sacrifice but also it
speaks to the horror that Israel's
created in Gaza that living is no longer
preferable if you can't live on your own
terms well in any other willing to
[ __ ] die in any other context like
especially in American culture we love
the idea like they're very better to die
on your feet yes exactly that's exactly
like we talked about this in the thing
about how in the last episode about how
America turns Dave Goliath into David
right and we have so many stories about
Americans who are willing to do anything
for their freedom but when we see it
happening somewhere else it's it's
clearly some sort of perverse death
Drive and a cult created by some awful
Hamas government or by the wickedness of
Islam and not people in an untenable
horrible torturous nightmare existence
created by our ally in Israel who are
willing to do anything to try to stop it
and two things I want to say before we
move on speaking of the doctors who went
there the medical staff one of the one
of the medical staff who went there a
number of whom were shot one of whom was
killed who went there to provide aid for
the people who went on the march to the
to the not the [ __ ] border to the
[ __ ] fence is a Canadian doctor named
Tarek Lou Bonney who was shot in the leg
and I believe is still recovering and
according to a friend of his who
messaged me is a fan of this show and I
wanted to say and he asked if we could
shout him out and I say absolutely and I
think that he's want to talk about
heroism this is a person who is an
absolute example of [ __ ] heroin we
should all thank him for his literal
that's actual service here and another
point I'd like to make on that um the
IDF when these things started had a
tweet that they hastily deleted where
they said we know where everyone has a
bullets went yep yep all the shots are
precise they're firing the snipers are
firing the shots they know exactly who
they're pulling the trigger on these
people are clearly designated as doctors
yes or are they have large symbol the
same with every indication that they are
medical prison
the practical through that there is no
conclusion other than they are
intentionally targeting doctors and the
press yes so many people point this out
but there were all those tweets of
American hand ringers being like oh it's
just it's tough out there you know it's
all blurry you know sometimes they don't
know who they're Hey and it's you know
the classic two tweets next to each
other response is all those verses that
tweet of the IDF spokesperson going we
know where every bullet landed there
were no mistakes we come prepared we
know what we're gonna do each to uh is
there anything that they can do to
resist no well because BDS isn't good
either
this is violence and anti-semitism there
is literally so much evil in managers
there is yes and they want to increase
that they want to make it an illegal
thing to participate in BDS are you a
college professor and you said a nice
thing about Palestinian sorry you're
fired
yeah I doing business in any southern
American state you literally have to
sign a check box with the state saying
that your business will never know but
what we've learned called cordoning
because because during the Second
Intifada while they were mowing down
Palestinians and you know crying the
whole time yes Rayleigh answer is well
where is the Mandela yeah where is the
peace just ran him over and there is no
[ __ ] peaceful protest that would be
acceptable because this is not a thing
that's negotiable right because the
ethno state isn't negotiable and that is
where we are and I wanted to end this
because I think we want to move on to
talk about the ms-13 and the [ __ ] the
domestic cup parameters of this panic
about borders and control and get to the
fun part contamination is that after
operation barbarossa began Heinrich
Himmler gave a speech to a wife and SS
battalion and the quote that he said was
it is a time of iron and we must sweep
with iron brooms and I want to ask
anybody who thinks of themselves as in
solidarity with Israel or with America
in its battle against these phantom
terrorists or ms-13 or anything anybody
who wants to protect the West do you
disagree with that idea right and they
don't that is the proof that is the
presiding ideology of the
West quote unquote but these people are
trying to defend the presiding ideology
is the Nazi concept of complete
domination and extermination or defeat
that is what we're living in uh
are you ready to laugh yeah alright just
to play us out Thomas Friedman and
anyone who looks like Thomas Friedman
should never say the phrase the flower
of youth every case [ __ ] repulsive
anyway guys onto sunnier days I did want
to mention the the there any memes and
the Mon going uh border panic in this
country just real quickly the this thing
back the ms-13 thing Trump keeps talking
about ms-13
every time he talks about immigration
and the border and ice and anything like
that we talked to Jake Flores just last
week about how his run-in with DHS and
over his joke about killing Isis agents
I saw the head of ice testify this week
crying in front of Congress because
people were mean to him they're
literally talking about separate they're
they're now literally separating
children from their families and putting
them on privately-run concentration
camps on military base because because
john kelly said we're gonna separate
them and they'll go to foster care or
whatever and this is the week where we
found out what whatever means and
whatever means concentration camps on
military well for John Kelly
you know foster care or whatever that's
a superior parenting choice to whatever
he did or whatever good work general
[ __ ] so from say in one of his
idiotic speeches he's talking about you
know if they're chopping people's heads
off it's terrible bad no good and you
know everyone reacted to that like oh
you know this is disgusting that again
he's comparing all basically all
spanish-speaking people in this country
to a violent machete-wielding street
gang and you know connecting the two in
the minds of his hog followers and so
that was the initial reaction and then
the sort of the turn was people who were
like now now we have to be very careful
in the media he was clear that he was
just referencing ms/ms 30 MSNBC
[Laughter]
Chris Hayes with a [ __ ] like Santa
Muerte Rachel Rachel Maddow in a dark
alley have we got some news for you
we're going to burn down your building
unless we could sell in front of your
corner lawrence O'Donnell with just full
grill and you know this is idiotic back
and forth about oh just Trump know what
he's talking about he means when he does
is who gives a [ __ ] the people who
support his agenda know why this is
useful and we saw a story this week
about how ice routinely designates Pete
the people in their dragnet like the
dreamers as gang members as part of
ms-13 because they have a tattoo and
they're like oh books that's a gang
tattoo definitely a gang tattoo yeah and
they know it greases the skids for their
ongoing you know just pipeline out of
the country wearing a Cardinals hat
that's red that's a guy yeah you know
and one of the one of the things this
week was this guy I think he writes to
the Daily Beast's name is Lachlan
Lachlan mark hey Lachlan Mark a he he
had this this comment where he was like
um actually calling ms-13 animals like I
don't you know protest I don't think I
say he'll to die on you know they are
animals or whatever yeah he was
defending the the humanity of gang
members like ms-13 really the hill you
you guys wanted yeah and what I'll say
to that is on a one-to-one like
individual opinion basis like I could
imagine being like yeah ms-13 like they
do crimes that I would say fairly might
eject you from humanity or at least
polite society that being said for the
government yeah that is the hill to die
on yeah the government classifying
people as unhuman or subhuman yeah no
that actually absolutely about a guy who
was lumped into mister teen because now
it's just a way to slap away just like
terrorism on his arm that was literally
just the town he was born yeah and they
said that's the gang so he's an animal
now according to mark mark a that's the
bad Scrabble hand name Lachlan Marquez
sounds like an Indonesian businessman
using a fake name to check into a hotel
yeah play the game
thing like every this type of like
market immediate had everything is taken
in pure isolation zero context it's just
oh are you saying
gangs are okay their value neutral maybe
it's like this is like you said this is
good let's look at hero the resistance
Preet Bharara what was one of prepar his
favorite things to do it was to hit like
black kids with RICO charges because of
who their friends were on Facebook
because guess what they were gang
affiliated yeah yeah that's enough you
have to throw federal RICO charges and
give somebody [ __ ] gas price heads who
literally did nothing what's like math
it's like we you said before it's all
the all the things we're discussing
linked up because there are ways to
eject someone from not just polite
society from human rights from from
human right having a white pet or not a
citizen or they're a gang member or
they're a felon or they're a Palestinian
terrorist and said well the rules don't
apply to them sorry just finding
creative ways to make that tent bigger
yes and then saying go hog-wild and
that's what happens here we are it's
it's we are in a in a situation where
all of the brightest [ __ ] lines of
the media in in the quote-unquote first
world aren't creating ways to make
unpeople yes whose death won't trouble
the mass right who's whose massacre and
whose transportation and who's illegal
attention attention will not trouble the
massive people and the way to do that is
to take them outside of the generally
conceived of notion of a human being
with human rights and that is why these
[ __ ] hair-splitting scumbags trying
to well actually Trump's obvious [ __ ]
dog whistle de Nazism about animals are
doing the work they are
indistinguishable from you the [ __ ]
Julius strikers and Alfred Rosenberg's
of the 21st century they are doing the
work of the people who want to create
new categories of
unpeople to be disappeared and
eliminated and destroyed without anybody
batting an eyelash about it and that
because if you really think that that
[ __ ] precious distinction that you
want a [ __ ] point out on Twitter
between the ms-13 and well you know he
didn't recipient we know who is being
arrested in these [ __ ] ice crackdowns
through
dragging dad's out of [ __ ] hospital
wards where their kids are being treated
we know who is going to [ __ ] into
these ice detentions pregnant women
[ __ ] people who've been in America
for [ __ ] decades without any kind of
a brush with the law
we know that's what's happening we see
it every [ __ ] day and they want to
say well when he says eight animals he's
not referring to them and yet those
people are getting the same [ __ ]
treatment as these ms-13 quote-unquote
animals so what is the distinction
meaningfully yeah and there is no
meaningful distinction and that is why
it matters and that is why anyone who
wants to [ __ ] parse this [ __ ] is
doing the job of the future genocidaires
yep the [ __ ] future rwandan hate
radio people who want to [ __ ] cut
down the tall trees and smash the
[ __ ] cockroaches by the way look
forward to Barry Weiss's tour of
colleges coming up next year cut the
tall trees it's funny 19 so um moving on
you know we've it's been a it's been a
dark show we're talking about serious
things about the ways in which you know
governments and the media dehumanize
inconvenient populations that they'd
rather not you know and have around or
in a real we need you yeah it's been and
I have a reading series this week the
perfect person to check in on that
touches on this issue but does so in the
most hilarious way possible I'm talking
about Roger air and all those bathrooms
I can't remember it's been a while since
we've checked in with brother rod shout
out to roy and rosso for founding this
this rod piece it's a roger air postern
this week that he in which he decides to
take on the phenomenon that's been
happening as of us of late that we've
talked about on the show Jake Flores of
white people being filmed calling the
cops and shrieking minorities and black
people on the street so he's talking
about the barbeque lady the the the
viral video of the woman calling the
cops on those people in Oakland for
grilling oh yeah this is coming on the
heels of a week where we saw the amazing
Aaron Schlossberg yeah the viral video
star who is in not just one yeah three
separate videos
filmed by three different people of
three distinct instances of this guy
behaving like a psychopath on the
streets that viewer is the Zelig of Reza
yeah so it's been a big week for the
very specific type of guy that
Schlossberg is which is the Steakhouse
and statement watch guy yes like he has
like a David Blaine early tape of races
several different locations throughout
New York he's like I was hideously
raised to a black person here actually
gotta sell the durian here you never
guess who I threatened on it to call ice
on here yeah so and as you said they're
three to videos all funnier than last
yeah just I kept outdoing him and then
of course and then the videos after that
of him running away from the media were
yes where is hiding underneath an
umbrella for five minutes
yep going you can hear him from behind
the umbrella at one point go please send
help
yes and that made my week yep so and
what the proud boy so yeah there's but a
lot of these videos going around so you
know there's there's gonna be people who
have to find a way to be like now this
looks bad for the people in the videos
but actually what's really bad is the
people taking the booze and the mob
mentality shout out to Julia Rafi for
that [ __ ] stinker julia Rafi you know
Yaffe she's her immediate instinct is to
take the side of the monstrous [ __ ]
and not the people who are deservedly
mocking his now I honestly don't give a
[ __ ] about Julia Ioffe a like it's just
I feel like every week it's like we have
a new media [ __ ] like that who I've
never heard of him like yeah they suck
okay but the one funny thing about it
was what she's like look I'm a little
itical refugee and she was born during
perestroika yeah I don't care what he's
moved here when she was three yeah buy
that like I'm a refugee the Midwest is
very cold yeah so Rod Dreher vector rod
he's that he's gonna take on the
barbecue lady video yeah that goes to
some pretty extraordinary places and I'd
like the powers
and by the way the funniest part of the
video is the end of it where the police
come that she was crying and she starts
crying this thing I've been victimized
so rod begins checkmate
did you see the video of the white woman
in Auckland who called the cops on some
black people yes ok question in a public
park with the charcoal grill my view is
this unless they've set up the grill in
your house or in the ICU you leave
people with charcoal grills alone
because they are contributing to the sum
total of human happiness
now you think rod rod is setting this up
like brave bipartisan program this
[ __ ] Hank Hill he goes on and on
and he says again I believe the white
woman may have been technically correct
but was morally wrong ignore technical
correctness when you see it every every
rod article he can hold it together for
like the baby a sentence and a half and
y'all mind if I Wow of course I don't
think you should go into a bathroom
spas-12 automatic shotgun with a
flashlight attached that's not good
people true but the guys there are
exceptions yeah yeah racist lady you are
technically correct the best kind of
correct but you know you just say she
was technically correct but morally
wrong and besides she's a pill so you
old maid Stepford wife [ __ ]
so she got he goes maybe the barbecue
gripe err is a racist but we have no
reason to assume that maybe she's just a
Pedro maybe she's just a petty person
who sees a violation of the law and went
all nanny state so he's going on and on
like this and uh maybe she's just an
[ __ ] that we would all hate anyway
maybe she's a Democrat yeah I like how
he's actually saying she's a liberal
actually he's that's it that's a
rod-like behind-the-back pass so it was
sneaky black that's why you play the
game that's why is the best dude so so
here's where here's what here's where it
gets interesting you know a rod
describes what happened in his
inimitable fashion and
create several outs for this woman you
be anything other than what she appears
as so he goes here he goes
here's a story so rods dipping back into
his mind palace for instances from his
real life that is good so I was I was
just calmly barbecuing in my own
backyard and somebody said hey whitey
tell Obama called me white here's a
story here's a story we lived in an
apartment complex not too long ago there
were three young unmarried guys living
in the flat above ours they would get
loud on the weekend we decided that
being good neighbors meant that we
should put up with banging and hooting
until 10:00 p.m. but not for a second
will I tolerate hollering but not after
that because that was bedtime the first
few occasions we went up to ask them to
knock it off they were nice about it but
then they got obnoxious usually after
they had been drinking finally one night
after multiple attends to attempts to
ask them to stop we had to call the
apartment security people we didn't want
to be those neighbors but they left us
no choice the difference is that those
bad neighbors were causing actual harm
yelling and banging on the floor and
playing loud music and so late in the
night the war like with hammers they
were playing they were they were
auditioning for an off-broadway
production of stomp
yeah I'm picturing rods neighbors just
like a conga line of three men wearing
land you try living below a old timey
jug-band one person will not stop
scraping on a washboard and the other
that's blowing into a jug at all hours
of the night that's the thing
rod rod is one of those people who like
his experiences are formed by movies but
because he's like sort of like a vintage
weird like vintagey guy all those movies
are like actually just a radio plays
like fibber McGee and Molly let me tell
you the story when I live next to the
Fat Albert game they're playing drums on
track yeah I used to have an apartment
that was beneath the rehearsal space for
gold diggers of 33
do I regret the fact that the country
Bear Jamboree was massacred by the
police after I called them on them yes
right I still think I was in the right
rod Dreier walking you do it chucky
cheese just seeing it in terminator
vision okay here's Rick that's
interesting so he goes um the people
grilling in the park were not harming
barbecue Graper one bit barbecue Gruber
replied to your post interesting from
interesting cake from Annie okok Bugman
barbecue gripe er still head the jerks
upstairs been three young black guys not
white guys I wonder if I would have said
anything to them at all for fear of them
turning it into a racial confrontation
if I had called Department security on
them like I eventually did with the
white guys after they ignored our
repeated requests to stop banging on the
floor
would they have confronted me in the
parking lot with a smartphone camera
calling me a racist and distributing a
disease a crisis in this country of
white people being afraid to call the
place okay and turning me into a racist
pariah that griping white woman's life
must be miserable today now that she's
become a meme who wants that I noticed
that many places on the internet
celebrating the public shaming of the
white woman never stop to ask whether or
not this is a proportionate to her
offense what I love here is that this is
a favorite tactic of mine among all the
conservative intelligentsia and that is
inventing scenarios ahead and then
getting angry at what happens in their
imagination what looking at this story
of this obviously racist or incredibly
anal retentive woman like either she's a
racist or she is the most psychotic Lee
rule fixated person on in on earth
making this ridiculously wasteful call
to the cops in this situation it made
Rob Trainor mad an imaginary black man
yes yep I lack men who literally do not
exist and I love that rods fear it
wasn't like oh oh you know they'll kill
me with their hip-hop guns everything
it's like they're good
make me into a meme yeah oh no they're
gonna post me and say that they had to
do a tool B that's it does she really
deserve that become a beam like I am
Daniel by the way I also like about this
app a deserve to be dabbed on just right
asleep but I like what I also like what
I rod here is that he says like imagine
being turned into a pariah you're mr.
Benedict option you want to be a pariah
yeah a [ __ ] would imagine being
exposed for all your weird you do it
yourself rod yeah you would volunteer it
you write a column every week where it's
like well yeah I saw another piece of
driftwood that looked like a nipple ya
got me whipped myself I have thrown my
computer into the river anyway he's so
worried about becoming a me and someone
should have him listen to the show yeah
we've turned this [ __ ] into a
meme plenty of time I don't think rod
doesn't mean like he it's too
inaccessible for people it's like
imagine so in the past year rod is lore
he's not anymore on his right you can
you probably are just barely getting the
point where you can explain to like
extended family members what your job is
yes imagine now explain to him what
Roger is doing now we're a point of
clarification short the woman who
recorded Kenny Powers lady the barbecue
at a BBQ Draper is named Michelle Snyder
she's another white woman and rod rights
here but it's easy to imagine yourself
tormented by a harridan like Michelle
Snyder the woman with the camera phone
and knowing what came next for her
national infamy thanks to social media
is pretty horrifying this is the next
paragraph if you read Tana he/she coats
big book extensively from Tana he see
and then quote his own review of the he
sees Tana you see coach this book at
length here's where it gets really good
guys when rod dips into the mailbag hot
32 he's like let me get some little
homies okay we have a terrified in in
Baton Rouge yeah no I just brought now
there's a shape in my closet look at
that looks like a new era cap with the
sticker still on I shot 87 bullets into
there yeah you guys horrible yes before
we get to that just we need to
re-examine what we've seen here which is
that Rob Brier saw a story of a woman
who is clearly racially panicked and
called the cops on people who were doing
literally nothing yeah and his thought
was yeah but what if they had been doing
yeah okay wait till you get to this
reader this is update number two reader
done writes and by the way as as a
longtime fan of Rods there is an open
question in the rod community whether
these reader letters are just Rob
writing down so I honestly think that we
are we are witnessing a M night
Shyamalan joint okay no Roz is split -
yeah rod is the child from st. elsewhere
yeah yes listen to this the snow globe
is just a [ __ ] bathroom yeah listen
to this note to rod this is gonna be a
rant so feel free to edit or even toss a
little more instead you are now entering
the rant zone that's right the red sound
crab still ramping after all these years
yep that was great alright this okay
this this reader letter is incredible
okay he goes reader done writes okay
I've read most of the comments clearly
none of you live in Oakland you did I'm
just I'm certain your reactions to this
incident would be different if you were
saying that is I know because I've lived
there for over 20 years including near
Lake Merritt the location of this
incident first let's dispense with the
notion that this was a racially
motivated incident between a white woman
and some black folks this lady is not
white repeat after white lady is not
white what it is clear to me from her
facial features and that her racial and
ethnic background is mixed absolutely
white and Pacific Islander
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Laughter]
this began with like this began with
like feel free to edit this what did rod
take out what remains he's setting up
this whole thing where it's just like
why do we always assume that this is
racial and his reader his fan is like
I'm an expert in skull times groups
yeah who does not like at least 1/32
Weger she's not wife he goes possibly
white and Pacific Islander which would
not be uncommon in the Bay Area is
crawling with Mick stop server island
woods listen to this when you live in a
racially and ethnically diverse area for
a long time you begin to detect and
distinguish ethnic and racial
differences and any combinations thereof
that often go unnoticed by people who
have not been exposed to such racial
path who have not been exposed to such
racial and ethnic diversity again the
race mixing Terminator Jack like El
Pollo Loco in line and just like
evaluating the breakdown like by his bed
everyone he sees and then he's like mmm
people who don't live here would never
be able to distinguish this person is a
frisian i have always wondered about
northern california because my favorite
and the most one of the most in mentally
unwell at times MMA fighters are from
there the Diaz brothers Dan Quinn is
from there it's a absurd area the people
there see the people there seem to love
driving around in their cars and making
videos address that their enemies then
crashing their car yes but then it's
like then you see this like this guy who
like gets behind people's Toyota
Sienna's and like licks the tire that's
a Polynesian type and it's like oh the
ones I know about are the most normal
were like Dan Quinn is probably a pillar
in his community for Northern California
guys it's not just this this letter gets
even more normal
Wow second is the second point he's
making I'm gonna play the sex card here
even though I don't normally do this but
whoa card the comments here are pretty
well sexist nosy busybody killjoy
grouchy old oh sure
she's a regular mrs. Kravitz Google the
reference if you don't get it get the
reference that's probably witched
yep yeah I'm fairly certain most of you
wouldn't have used those words to
describe her if she were a man why don't
you just toss in frigid for good measure
just sayin next let me explain to
everyone how things work in Oakland they
don't nobody and I mean nobody respects
common courtesy and the rule of law not
to mention bothers to comport themselves
appropriately in public spaces the area
around Lake Merritt is in complete chaos
all the time again if you see the video
it's a beautiful grill it's chaos no one
will tell me what race they are are they
even playing music I don't even remember
if there's music there's just standing
there making food yeah I what he yelled
at them because they were paying playing
like Kenny Chesney and they're like he's
like this is [ __ ] on my spreadsheets
this is one of the race identifiers I
use all the time
why was this petty nosy busybody so
called the white woman calling the
police over such over such a seemingly
innocuous incident as people wanting to
barbecue using charcoal um maybe because
the City of Oakland is located in a
severe high fire danger area and it's
against the law Oakland Hills fire of
1991 anyone Google Images I survived it
it wasn't illegal to cook there it was
that they were using I don't even
[ __ ] remember it was that's how petty
it was it was like they weren't using of
the ones that were provided they were
using their own or vice versa either way
it was the main thing that Noah's
adorable
would see another person doing that and
think I got a call can we stop
disrespecting the experience of a fire
survivor yeah yeah this guy he's what
he's one of mine I see on the meetings
but yeah yeah yeah get your Mansfield
this guy he's transcended but this is
the most seth rogen observe and report
guy oh yeah yes I reserve my perimeter
that there was someone violating fire
code by the way all I remember all I
know about the Oakland Hills fires of
1991 is that it was one of the disaster
scenarios you could play in SimCity 2000
it was rule that in flat it was caused
by a by a rowdy pack of black goo
lagoons barbecuing without a permit yeah
do you think SimCity is hard try playing
it on expert race identify your city has
no police so the National Guard has been
deployed so going on from the Travis
bickel's diary and why does the citizen
have to report someone breaking the law
because people regularly openly and
brazenly break the law in Oakland and
asking them nicely to desist does not
work and what does the Oakland Police
Oakland PD do nothing absolutely nothing
that's why she was waiting for over two
hours for the police to respond I'm
surprised they came at all my car was
stolen and the police come when I
reported it no goes on and on and on and
he goes talking about miscreants in his
neighborhood to kill him and then just
on and on this young man named Dennis
who's constantly getting in my business
stealing pies for my windows the only
guy left in America who gets bullied by
a game that's like Jeff Goldblum with a
mohawk this young man named Bart
destroyed my memoirs his father is also
bad but I don't remember what was the
name of the man I don't remember this
person is conservative grandpa that's
clearly a crank that's a maniac and like
many neighborhoods have just a psychotic
person who cannot handle other people
existing and is just driven
to abstraction by other people up like
being in their field of vision but the
fact that [ __ ] rod felt like he
needed to give this maniac yeah that
much real estate in his column really
speaks to how rah had for all of his
pretensions to being some sort of some
sort of neo [ __ ] gothic intellectual
is just a cranky [ __ ] weirdo Matt
Matt it goes on like a so he goes what I
see from this video is a relatively
reserved woman reporting illegal
behavior and being absolutely harangues
by the woman filming the incident who
assumed one that this woman was white
and two but did this woman have calipers
I don't think so
oh you do not have calipers on your
person you are not qualified to speak on
the race of anyone who you're
interacting with well if you live in
Oakland for 20 years you get the perk
that lets you identify races and puts it
on the mini-map oMG are you kidding me
the woman who filmed the incident and
browbeat the other woman to tears should
be ashamed of herself
I think her behavior even meets the
requirements of menacing criminal
statute this tattooed on the inside of
his eye because there's you know sjw
virtue signaling PC [ __ ] run amok
this is PCBs run amok he goes this is my
favorite part and now this poor woman is
being viciously attacked on social media
have you seen the memes they're brutal
so it goes on like this for another
thousand words at least talking about a
pregnant woman who was shot and killed
in Oakland just just Deathwish
everything it goes on and on murder you
let somebody cook in a public park and
then the next day they're massacring
pregnant he's going civility and decency
are dead in Oakland where they're dead
in California and soon they'll be dead
in the entire United States going on a
cold-blooded murder in broad daylight
blah blah blah keep it up Oakland pretty
soon there won't be one decent
law-abiding citizen white person waiting
as lawlessness and incivility are
rewarded and responsible citizenship is
vilified decent
person means non Polynesian white rods
rods a postscript to this gigantic
letter is any Oakland or former Oakland
readers want to challenge this I'm sorry
but if I don't have any other readers
who are completely insane and live in
this guy's zip code I'm gonna have to
take what he says for granted I'm sorry
hey rod a rod another reader from
Oakland here yeah you know I may have
gone a different skill tree than this
guy I could use only identify tops
Latinos this guy seems to have the
Pacific Islander perk but I mean I
remember some of these stories there was
one story I read about a woman in it
wasn't that app but it was one of those
Facebook groups yeah and they wrote a
lot of things yeah and it was a team
showed up at her door with a Solo Cup
because they were going to a party in
the neighborhood and they didn't know
her was and and he said is this this
person's house and I said no and they
left and she took a picture of him and
she put a post where she said their
team's running around the neighborhood
they might have cups of acid there's
something about suburbia that makes
people more gas literal acid in your
face suburban mania is a place but the
thing I want to point out is that is
that the guy says all this law is being
violated and no one is doing it and the
thing is is that every person listening
to this violates the law every [ __ ]
day everyone does am i laying three
violates the law all the [ __ ] time
and what matters materially is who gets
held accountable for it and that is a
racial caste system essentially is that
everybody is like just trying to live
their life some people violate statutes
and the statute is to get [ __ ]
enforced are the statutes that are
enforced by racial strata yeah and
that's that's the thing to remember so
this [ __ ] acting like oh you
people you're you're flooding the law
know that everyone's flaunting the law
all the time it's it's these people who
are being disproportionately enforced on
laws that everybody breaks all the time
thanks boner law
thank you for the measured response to
the guy who sleeps in a ghillie suits I
just arrived just to close out our rod
what I like about here is rod begins
attempting to make like a point that a
normal human being would but ends up
going completely opposite and
inescapably one would have to conclude
that either rod himself or his readers
are all deeply insane we thought -
Brennan so man
Wow it's been a it's been a packed show
today we've covered a lot of ground
every emotion it's just we've yeah it's
been the whole colors of the rainbow
we've experienced today and we'd like to
close now with a reading from our own
book the Chapo guide to revolution in
stores August 24th oh by the way I
suppose I'm very quickly but you can do
it at the very end well I just want
something right now okay by the book
okay okay all right the point the chapo
guide to revolution in stores August
21st available to pre-order now Brendan
James take us away the world premiere
reading from the book thanks guys so
this is the media chapter you know we
don't sign each chapter but I think
Virgil and I worked on on this one the
most and I'm just going to start the
very beginning and read you a bit of the
introduction that that we in which we
track the history of American journalism
to where to where it ended up today
extra extra read all about it
daring dirtbags disrupt Daffy Democrats
discombobulated discourse that's how
this chapter might have read if we still
lived in the ink-stained era of print
news today however virtually all
Americans get their news opinions and
pornography through the internet how did
we get from dead how this is so bad how
did we to get from dead shut up I wrote
that I know how did we get from dead
logs to live blogs from editorial boards
put on your newsboy cap and read on
because chapo trap house has the scoop
that's a quotation right okay this is a
section called sir have you no shame sir
a history of journalism the first
mass-produced newspapers emerged in
Germany
shortly after the invention of the
printing press they included relation
allure for Mannion wound Glendon wick
Durgin historian which translates as
account of all distinguished and
commemoratives and Lister back Kenton
Juden list of non-jews these
publications disseminated vital
information about the current affairs to
the literate masses the concept spread
to London where Gazette airs on Fleet
Street added such innovations as
editorials and the page three slags
across the Atlantic a media culture
flourished in the 13 colonies where the
issues of the day were hotly debated
within the pages of newsletters and
pamphlets among the early commentators
was a young publishers apprentice named
Benjamin Franklin he was a polymath and
the first true American man of letters
and that he generated reams and reams of
extremely horny correspondence as a
sexual degenerate who disseminated
totally useless advice to the ignorant
masses a sample aphorism the fool wakes
up to the cuckoos crow whilst the wise
man rises to the songbird of reason
Franklin was also our nation's first
pundit out of the colonist
pamphleteering culture emerged an
uncompromising devotion to freedom of
speech which bruised such rightly read
radical polemics as common sense and no
taxation without fringe las' flags after
the revolution ratification of the
proposed US Constitution was hotly
debated through the competing serials
such as the Federalist Papers
and the massing were popular Wow I had
no idea about these 10 Bills of Rights
number six will shock you American
journalism in the first part of the 19th
century consisted mostly of libelous
attacks on politicians illegitimate
octoroon children classified ads for
bounties on escaped slaves and advice
columns newspapers sent it to be
partisan outlets loyal to single-issue
parties like the anti-masonic and the
hose down the Irish League some
periodicals however were brave enough to
challenge entrenched power notable among
them was Harper's Weekly which ran
Thomas Nast political cartoons depicting
corrupt politicians as Rotunda gluttons
with dollar signs adorning bags over
their heads part of the American media's
long and disgraceful legacy of body
shaming and showing the Catholic clergy
as vicious crocodiles crawling out of
the Potomac to hunt for children part of
the American media is long and honorable
tradition of truth-telling such
publications were few and far between
the progressive movement spawned a class
of hard-nosed investigative journalists
who dedicated their lives to rooting out
corruption challenging the entrenched
power of monopolist exposing the
horrifying conditions in which the
working classes live and doing their
best to make sure those working classes
didn't breed too prodigiously
fearless muckrakers like Upton Sinclair
Ida Tarbell and Jacob Riis showed how
dedicated journalists could improve the
lives of the millions by doggedly
pursuing the truth but most journalists
were not fearless muckrakers 99% of news
Hawks what we like to call hacks in this
era long before Columbia j-school and
valuable resume building unpaid
internships the job of reporting the
news was not the province of fail sons
of the educated upper-class like it is
today indeed instead most journalists
were the children of impoverished
immigrants they were the seven sons of a
proletariat deemed too sickly and weak
to pursue a respectable child labor
trade like coal runner or Triangle
Shirtwaist er these young cowards were
plucked from the slums at an early age
and sold to the Hearst Corporation the
media industry put these amorphis lumps
of raw humanity through a brutal baptism
by fire the Cubs were instilled with a
healthy fear of challenging entrenched
power taught to fairly report on both
sides of any given issue such as women's
suffrage or lynching and totally
sequestered from contact with females so
they would emerge from their chrysalids
as weird sexual neurotics the one who
survived earned the right to call
themselves bona fide journalists some of
them became investigative reporters
adopting the moniker gumshoe a reference
to their habit of stopping women on the
street and offering to inspect their
feet for grime often even going so far
as to offer a thorough tongue cleaning
free of charge the cream of the crop
became pundits regular columnist
paid to pontificate about every single
issue with special emphasis on the
issues they knew absolutely nothing
about in the rapidly modernizing world
of the 1920s when women's skirts were
getting shorter and wearable tech like
polio braces proliferated the common man
relied on these noble perverts to
analyze predict and explain to today's
reader the concept of an individual
possessing a perfectly average level of
intelligence intelligence and education
at best shooting out half-baked analysis
of complex political and social matters
to be closely read by millions as if
they were the divinely inspired words of
a prophet descending a mountaintop may
seem absurd but remember that people
were stupid back then and didn't have
Yahoo Answers and our legal advice to
explain things to them
some examples of punditry from the early
20th century union organizers are
murdered in some parts of the country
and that's okay why we need a second
Great War to toughen up the entitled
greatest generation what my rickshaw
driver taught me about Nanking the next
up-and-coming US global hotspot
limiting the work week to just 80 hours
will hurt the people it's meant to help
Spanish flu or Spanish boohoo new
influenza nothing to worry about
we need to talk about our we need to
talk about Al Jolson is he ashamed of
being white civility and compromise why
buy more republic will last for a
thousand years
[Laughter]
was it pre-order available now buy
there'll be more readings to come yes to
juice you entice you to buy this
wonderful tome that we've all written
before we go I have to yeah yeah yeah
we're but we're good wrap it up today
but we have a to quick notes from Virgil
number one by the book by the book by
the book by the book you like the book
by the book by the book you want to buy
the book by the book by the book number
two I want to give a shout-out to our
Irish friends Roybal will be voting this
week on repealing the eighth amendments
Roy the Irish Constitution Ritter -
right and essentially legalizing
abortion yeah that's right you'll be
voting to repeal the 8th and polls show
repeal winning but you know what we've
seen in recent elections nobody knows so
Aaron go to the polls and vote both to
repeal the a repeal repeal the [ __ ]
ate much low to our Irish yes
repeal the [ __ ] a lot also if you're
in Ireland by the book Boyd a pocketbook
put the book in a fairy ring till next
time guys
[Music]
Oh
[Music]
