I think the whole thing like we like the
targeted harassment things just like
means that you've made your popular you
have a lot of followers and you made fun
of someone's thoughts on a public forum
yeah someone's like the thoughts that
they've broadcast in a public forum and
you made fun of it that's the that's the
only that's one of the confluences
between liberals and alright is that
they both think posting is like war and
that if you like quote tweet someone or
just even say anything about him and
more than like you people tweet at that
person that's like a salt it's the same
way that the alright guys like we're
ready for me more well but it's because
those are the people who do like to
participate in pylons so of course it's
what they ultimately fear the most yeah
so in their mind they're like let's go
after this you know whatever ninth
grader and Tucson who you know it
doesn't know what speech to use that
that their greatest fear is it being
turned against them and so they
interpret it when there's two people
being like I don't agree with you
well it's it's like a it's like a click
like any other click you know like I
didn't think that this was like a big
podcaster person but she's got like a
following you know like and there she
got like a response on Twitter it's not
like it's you know the other thing is I
gotta [ __ ] say you really can't talk
[ __ ] in LA
you can't talk [ __ ] on Hillary you can't
talk [ __ ] on any [ __ ] movies because
someone's probably there that worked on
boss baby that was good to meet them
because I have a lot of question I feel
like if I was in Brooklyn for DC is
totally ok you can talk [ __ ] about the
city of DC on the streets or else people
on paper we're diametrically opposed but
there's no reason why we can't go out
and get a bland burger people in DC love
eating a bird that tastes and feels like
a hockey puck they're very upset about
these burgers and the Caliphate should
honestly take over DC it would make it a
better City it would and the chronic
alcoholism problem among wonks and they
would have quality halal meat I have
another idea
boss baby burger here we go okay now
we're talking made with real baby yeah
uh yeah it was it was it was it was
really weird and I didn't think that
anyone would find out who it was or that
she would have been tweeting about me
but I guess while she was seeing their
angry she was dragging me for her for
the hauler for hi sweeties online this
is definitely the most boring episode of
black mirror is probably not what if
your phone knew your name or of you or
of you and your computer had the same
birthday what if you what if your mate
was a TV what if what if you had to plug
your your dog into a wall and charge him
what if what if instead of someone
saying oh how was your day they said
what did you download
[Laughter]
[Music]
