on this week's tale of mayhem in
mishegoss the Cobell boys mean a nun
labor with other individual desires will
our heroes house-call turn up the cure
to this mystery or will they be
borrowing a cup of abomination find out
on this week's episode of shuffle Trap
House
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
semper games the following is canon for
those of you who don't know I'm Virgil
Texas and we are chapo traphouse most of
the time we are your everyday
run-of-the-mill arts and entertainment
podcast but once in a blue moon we delve
into the occult indulging in a session
of the tabletop role-playing game Call
of Cthulhu based on the works of HP
Lovecraft and like HP Lovecraft Matt
will and Felix here roleplay as 1920s
investigators who are incurably racist
neurotics over the course of their
adventures they match wits with the
immortal her medicine Podesta at the
summoning of the pizza gate they filed
the mad monk Rasputin and his eldritch
allies infiltrating American elections
and they scuttled industrialists Enoch
Musk's rocket in Musk's of Nayer laughs
attempt tonight scenario is a prequel to
the events of tabletop game theory
episodes one through six and I did not
write this scenario mr. Corbett was
authored by Michael DeWolf and published
in 1990 by Kaos iam in the excellent
collection of mansions of madness I have
merely made a handful of alterations to
the scenario to reflect the ethos of our
program it must be stated that
absolutely positively nothing in this
scenario is based on real events or real
people with that in mind let's play mr.
Jeff's team
[Laughter]
[Applause]
Chris can I get some talking music it is
November 9th 1924 Calvin Coolidge has
just won election to a full term as
president beating centrist Democrat John
W Davis for just a few months now the
three of you who've been hosting a radio
show originally started as a lark by
three pals who met on the telegram
Capone speakeasy is found a loyal
following among disaffected members of
the Lost Generation we're sick of being
smeared as misogynist for their support
of fighting Bob La Follette and that
would be a good time to introduce your
characters and describe your day jobs
I am Professor William hackenbush a
latinum besotted failed academic who of
course attended Miskatonic University
and where I studied the esoteric science
of phrenology and many other sort of
lost mystical occult Sciences couldn't
get a job after I graduated so I am
still working in a book depository as
the show begins to take off we have just
begun our nicola month subscription
advertised in the back of Colliers
magazine but unfortunately I am still
living in a shack in Red Hook Brooklyn
where I commute to work in midtown
Manhattan at the Book Depository by
Zeppelin every single day
I am Lieutenant Colonel Felix Gumtree at
the time of this scenario I am an active
duty as a liar in the US military
[Music]
I have a like below average to average
IQ but I'll just like say anything to
get out of anything and I invented white
rabbit can you explain your coffee or
your at all historically accurate I all
invented I invented everything I'm
wearing right now you may think this
idft shirt this Patriots flat brim these
gym shorts you may think they didn't
exist in 1924 and that's why you're in
the [ __ ] audience and I'm playing I
invented these when I fought the Great
War as the only samurai as a member of
the US Expeditionary Forces I thought
what what would make me more aerodynamic
while also showing support for what I
would hope would be a great team many
years after my death in the future
America's game Brady baby let's do this
I am dr. Matthew penny-farthing
I actually do not live currently in Red
Hook I still live in Kansas where I am a
goat testicle specialist at dr. John
Brinkley's facility and I communicate to
the show via radio 'la and by telegraph
I got an early episode became notorious
for a telegram where I sent saying shut
up stop shut up stop shut up stop shut
the [ __ ] up stop I'm sorry I'll be quiet
stop
[Music]
but other than that this is basically a
hobby because I am a well renew marae
today and very well-respected in my
community and there is absolutely zero
chance that I'm gonna get torqued on
ether and replace some farmers testicles
with bocce balls that will never happen
one last detail here feel just that love
me one second he's getting character
here you may have noticed that I brought
a friend on stage here tonight this is a
tribute to author HP Lovecraft's famous
cat do not ask me the name of the cat we
will not be discussing the name of the
cat but just know that he joins us here
today and although none of you have
interacted with the mythos before you do
have some phobias and manias I mean like
largely my entire career as a
phrenologist and a cult expert is driven
by a deep-seated psycho psycho sexual
obsession with my sister and also my
fear of modernist art
yeah for me like many people have
alleged that I'm addicted drugs but they
themselves are in fact real drug addicts
and not me
like every red-blooded white anglo-saxon
Protestant male I am ether and women's
shoes very good it is unusually hot
November in Brooklyn the tail end of an
Indian summer you've just finished an
interview with a young Dorothy Parker
for her New Yorker piece what will
become of the ethnic left you decide to
beat the autumn heat by taking in a film
the latest installment of your favorite
action movie franchise man washing a
horse 7 infinity horses part of the
Katzenjammer kids extended cinematic
universe let's see it
[Music]
the
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
wait for the post credit sequence
[Laughter]
[Applause]
thank you - director cm Wade I [ __ ]
hate those movies so much man like you
see like the agenda in there like the
only the only guy warning about the
horse catastrophe was Irish I wonder
who's [ __ ] pushing that agenda there
honestly hasn't been a good movie since
1919 the gay picnic those last one I I
[ __ ] hate the Katzenjammer kids
extended cinematic universe I think
they've all these Nickelodeon's that
keep putting out every single week just
more slop to be lapped up and like I you
know we're the only radio show that will
tell you that it sucks true artists like
Buster Keaton and fatty Arbuckle's
Sherlock jr. go unnoticed or you know
this is bad this is problematic well you
know Buster Keaton did with that ladder
you and you know like if you wanna if
you want if you want people to tell you
how good you know washing horses number
seven is you should tune in it's like I
guess like the bigger radio shows like
the cuckoo hour or the champion spark
plug hour if you want to hear those
[ __ ] Jonathan's lie to you go for it
you guys are a bunch of snobs this is
great popular entertainment you guys
only like movies if it involves
Frenchmen trying to murder the moon yeah
that's that's why we go to the movies is
like spectacle you know if I was to
invent film theory now in 1924 I would
include that unfortunately though I just
feel like I still go to see all of them
because you know the clip at the end of
the cats fighting each other I want to
see how that plays out it is early
evening now when you have to record an
episode you assemble that Professor hack
and bushes cat filled home you set up
your recording equipment let's hear it
okay I guess Calvin Coolidge is the
president we warned you it would happen
yeah welcome welcome to Perdition Earth
we warned you what would happened and
all we were called was a bunch of La
Follette lads but what the [ __ ] I mean
this is this is it it's it's cool it's
cool if we're living the Coolidge world
now yeah we've all got Coolidge brain
we're all just paulie's [ __ ] not saying
anything [ __ ] like all this entire
election all you told us La Follette
supporters was like oh you're acting
Portuguese the [ __ ] world is
Portuguese now hope you're [ __ ] happy
okay I guess it's time for this week's
reading series I will be going into the
Colliers magazine things you can do with
flower article counting down the top 12
things you can do with flower more this
[ __ ] I [ __ ] hate reading this
dude I hate waking up every day like one
Oh what is the elite media going to tell
me what kind of cake I can bake [ __ ]
hate this man sucks like I maybe look I
may be like tempting fate here but
sometimes I just wish that like an
eternal evil like we had to fight an
eternal evil and maybe like 2/3 of us go
insane fighting it instead of reading
another [ __ ] [ __ ] article from
Colliers it is good to have dr. penny
farthing in person so you know I don't
have to read over the the ticker tape
his interjections you know about the
things to do is Lauer yeah I can't wait
to hear be able to react right now to
the absurd of idiotic things that you're
supposed to do with flower
the [ __ ] I mean forget this flower [ __ ]
yeah [ __ ] Davis how did we come on how
did that guy Lewis yeah I just
presidential candidate Jim Davis what
the [ __ ] was he doing I may not be John
W Davis but I lost the election that's
the voice that he has the Democratic
Party voice
the guy's spent his entire campaign
drawing comically fat cats instead of
actually trying to connect to the
American electorate Felix as dr. penny
farthing goes off on one of his classic
rants you idly look out the window and
see Will's neighbor park his automobile
in front of his house across the street
he exits the car and pops open the trunk
taken out to canvas wrapped objects one
is small and round the other
approximately the size of a baseball bat
carrying these to the front door he
holds them both under one arm as he
struggles with the lock it's it's very
funny watching a man fail and that's why
you watched this I would like to put
these in some sort of failure
compilation one day the larger package
slides loose and falls to the front
porch the canvas folds fall open and you
catch a glimpse of something white and
cylindrical we have a kinetic situation
outdoors gentlemen
there's a man very crowdy Schley
meandering around the driveway perimeter
visually absurd caning an obfuscation of
the kinetic parameter and we are at zero
target 3,800 hours wait wait I say wait
it is it is this [ __ ] neighbor trying
to smuggle in an ionic or Doric column
into the neighborhood and [ __ ] tanked
the property prices around here I I
don't pay $4 a month in rent to look at
a corinthian column out my outside my
window every day everyone make a spot
hidden role fail
oh wait I passed pass good clutch good
clutch comes nice
you failed Felix not my best role he's
just warming up yeah wait just wait the
three of you staring at Will's neighbor
only will can discern in the dim light
exactly what the object is it appears to
be the hand and fingers of a small child
will make a sanity roll oh so it begins
[Music]
okay who fail lose 1d three points of
sanity we were all depending on you to
clutch for Wow ouch whose paper already
Will's neighbor glances around then
quickly wraps the hand up he unlocks the
door and disappears into the tightly
shuttered house a moment later a light
appears in a basement window quickly
blunted by hastily drawn shade
should we go check this out I mean
honestly I'm kind of sick of a recording
or radio show I mean we've already done
three hours and I don't think I can do
another six yeah there's there's no way
like I mean just just do we can just
like do some races skits later let's I
don't know what the [ __ ] that guy was
doing maybe he was just like doing the
normal thing of leaving your kid in a
normal temperature car but it could also
be like you know he could be a simmerman
sleeper agent so we should investigate
will you have a passing familiarity with
your neighbor he's a bit local
businessman by the name of Ephram Jeff's
team and to you he's always seemed to be
a quiet inoffensive and normal man I
mean as a professor I've always noticed
that you know he took a very intense
interest in the sciences of phrenology
being cold and bringing the dead back to
life
he's his only oddity as a touch of
absent-mindedness he lives in a large
well-kept estate across the street from
you and you have a nodding relationship
with him he is one of the more respected
and prominent businessman in the area
here's to no local politicians Fred
Trump and people like that Steven Pinker
allegedly here he's also a gardener and
occasionally comes by and gives you
fruits and vegetables that are
delightful from his greenhouse delicious
years ago he would often leave home for
long periods of time traveling out of
the country to attend to his business
which is an import-export of some kind
but the last few years have I'll bet
seen him spending more and more time at
home he maintains regular hours working
five days a week in his downtown office
during weekends he usually stays at home
quietly but he regularly goes out and
late afternoon on Sunday usually
returning home before dark this is one
of those trips
who I hope I don't have to catch the
4:30 garbage barge back into Manhattan
so yeah I mean I why why don't I go
across the street knock on his door you
know I'm gonna roll it oh yeah yeah I
know we're rolling deep I'm bringing the
whole squad like that's a big house you
have no idea how many people you could
have in there you could be playing with
a full party we don't know I mean if he
doesn't I mean if he's having a party
maybe we could attend it that is one
kinetic scenario I would like to ask her
can let's do it okay sure you march
across the street head over to mr.
Jeff's teens front door everyone make a
listen roll and fail fail all right
where's my listens dad
alright not a pass yet any closer all's
well well I mean I gotta say implicitly
mistrust of this guy but he seems to be
having like an incredibly regular time
this evening I mean from what I can tell
he was just taking a ventriloquist dummy
out of the back of his Model T and
bringing him inside probably to
entertain his guests with a very
realistic ventriloquist dummy yeah I
mean he's a rich he can afford a good
one a few other notes about mr. Jeff
Steen 14 years ago his father died he
took old control of the family company
Jeff Steen importers of America
he was once married but he's presently a
widower lives alone he's a lonely old
man basically
you knock on the door you hear footsteps
about a minute later he opens oh
professor how are you hello mr. Jeff
Steen it's your next-door neighbor
professor hackenbush how's it going oh
quite well is there anything I could do
for you uh you know we were across the
street watching you like we normally do
I mean we're just doing some people
watching you know you know how it is are
you watching me well you know what hang
with my friends here television hasn't
been invented yet I feel like I don't
look out the window I feel like we got
off on the wrong foot I'm sure I served
in the military every branch not just
this country I'm just making sure this
neighborhoods safe like there's a lot of
gang activity here and you're a very
prominent businessman and yeah I just
wouldn't want them to do the knockout
game to you I've noticed the
preponderance of Italians in this area
yeah yeah they are pondering their
[ __ ] dicks off over here
oh well all is well here thank you for
checking in your honor
you're welcome your majesty
Oh what are you doing I mean what are
you are you all turning I mean you want
to be you want to hang out yeah I got I
got I got some pretty good ether here I
got a full pint bottle oh yeah I was
just a brand-new rag yeah I have a new
song we just like some laudanum I will
note that rampant drug use is not a
normal socially acceptable thing in this
era so he's taken aback by your
suggestions and says oh no I'm a bit
tired and I must go to work tomorrow
but perhaps another time could you show
us I mean you know just couldn't help
but noticing again doing doing my people
watching doing my radio program looking
out the window checking out people on
the street I couldn't be listening the
incredibly realistic ventriloquist dummy
that you took out of the back of your
car I was wondering if maybe you could
like regale us with some you know
sleight of hand or close-close magic or
sleight of mouth more like yeah I don't
know what you're talking about
I'm not a performer I'm a business but
right you still want to hang out alright
alright I'm gonna I'm gonna try to fast
talk him alright so um I was actually
best friends with General blackjack
Pershing and he said I was the greatest
soldier he ever met and that I should
replace all his songs and there's this
thing called the war bounty in the
military that if you kill the Kaiser
make him run away like a little [ __ ] he
is you get to take his the jewels of the
German royal family or whatever anyway
because Pershing liked me so much he
gave me one of the biggest rubies and I
would like to invest it and you seem
like a guy who's getting kind of
Hannukah with it so
you want to get this bread about to have
a [ __ ] bonus on me you want to get
this unleavened bread yeah it's not
brother make a fast talk roll soggy cut
yeah pass [ __ ] yeah [ __ ] told you yes
he's impressed by what you're saying but
says that all sounds very good with the
rubies and what have you I tell you what
perhaps next weekend you could come by
and I could give you a tour of my
greenhouse
hey brother I'll be there with bells on
let's do it very good well good night
Semper Fi buddy
he shall wait I got the latest Al Jolson
record he shuts the door swanee and then
bang bang Ryder blues on the b-side you
want to listen he shuts the door this
guy sucks well you're just there
harassing him an incredibly good time
and he's just not interested I wanted to
[ __ ] get smacked up and listened to
Mamie by Al Jolson he doesn't want to
get high and show you his child's ooh
we're gonna play this strategically
gentlemen we might have to become
clandestine I forgetting okay I think
all right no we got to wait till next
weekend it's simple like I have to steal
a huge Ruby and say it's mine and then
we go to his [ __ ] green house and
like figure out what kind of [ __ ] he's
doing we could get some glass and paint
it red see my idea I like that as like a
team-building exercise like one of us
can hold the piece of glass one of us
can paint it the other can direct it
that's a fun idea I think though we
should take the time in the in the
intervening period before our green
house sorta maybe I don't know there's a
can we go to the library or do any
research and always go to the library to
the book depository library is free sure
you guys are [ __ ] nerds what lines of
investigation do you want to pursue
how about let's look into his
import-export company or is there a
commute can we look into any family
history or records or anything like that
I will say make each of you make a
library use roll a fast pass all right
you know what I always say some people
have read a thousand [ __ ] books but
haven't lived the pages of a single one
and that's the type of guy I am
so I failed you turn up several stories
of interest here's the first one
dated 14 years ago local businessman
killed an accident it was learned today
that Theodore Jeff's teen owner of
Jeff's teen enterprises of America is
dead victim of a tragic accident
accident while vacationing in the Virgin
Islands
Jeff seen while in the company of his
son Ephraim died in a fall while the two
were traveling through the high
mountains of the Virgin Islands it was
so easy to just make it a fall off a
yacht according to authorities the two
men were on a hike they were set upon by
a group of bandits known to frequent the
area while being pursued on the
mountainside the elder Jeff state
apparently lost his footing and fell to
his death his son managed to escape
eventually making it to safety the elder
Jeff's teens body has not yet been
located authorities fear that it may be
lost
possibly consumed by the wild dogs that
roam the mountainside of the Varginha
theater where Jeff seen is survived by
his wife Elaine and one son Ephraim at
this time it is not known if ever will
take over the management of Jeff's teen
enterprises
the other piece two articles dated
twelve years ago
obituaries Jeff steam Lynn Ann Meyers
age 22 died in childbirth in her home a
graduate of the pier pot school
mrs. Jeff Steen was married to local
businessman Ephraim Jeff's team two
years ago funeral services for both
mother and child will be held Saturday
afternoon mrs. Jeff Steen is survived by
her parents
Edward and Shirley Myers and her husband
Ephraim Jeff's team president of Jeff C
enterprises of America second article
nurse hospitalized after accident in
patient's home professional nurse miss
Mona Dunlap was admitted to central
sanitarium yesterday following an
accident that took place in a patient's
home her condition was diagnosis serious
miss Dunlap hired by mr. and mrs. Jeff
Steen to help with mrs. Jeff's teens
confinement apparently suffered a stroke
while attempting to deliver the Jeff's
teens baby unassisted mr. Jeff scene
returned from his office Wednesday
afternoon to find nurse Dunlap
unconscious and his wife and infant son
dead due to complications of birth
doctors at the sanitarium say the woman
has yet to regain consciousness and it
may be some time before the full extent
of her injuries
bro this guy's endured so much loss and
tragedy we should help them
it's a bit sad don't you yeah it's crazy
people just there there then they're not
[Laughter]
life goes on until it doesn't you think
someone is totally safe and just gonna
be with you forever
then one day you you can you wake up and
add two p.m. and you log on Twitter and
you [ __ ] it out you log on to Telegraph
Avenue fine all right what should we do
I mean I'm I'm glad we you know did the
research here but I'm not really not
quite sure what to do with this or how
it can help us well my suggestion is
always break into someone's house and
this seems like a perfect chance to
break into someone's house do we really
do when he's invited us to come over
yeah like in a week we don't know what's
going on in there now can we credit
Frankenstein's we need to get in there
and find out what's going on it's the
20s how hard is it to break into a house
mad once they got what they got that lap
I got that like little eye hook that's
the most advanced lock technology that
there's no factory security there's no
DNA testing or anything if you get
caught for like killing someone you're
just an idiot you can just like skipped
out you could go to like one town that's
three miles away and you say oh I'm not
that guy I'm a different guy
there's no IDs or an order would ever be
able to know you know why do we do a
radio show why don't we just like lie
about being lawyers or something so
stupid dr. penny farthing I know this is
your first time in the big city but I
assure you you cannot just waltz into
someone's house like it's a barn
all right well what's your idea just
wait until he invites us over just hang
out for a week no I mean like we like
we've done a lot of work today like I
lied to that guy you guys read some
articles
and already read some articles before
that let's you know do what we do for a
week whatever the thing is we do just
pass out from using ether and then I'll
lie to that guy in his greenhouse and
we're [ __ ] rolling I mean that
intervening time you'll learn how to use
a library I will say I don't need to I
know to use the world I will say that
both of your approaches are totally
valid for this scenario if you find
yourself at an impasse you could perhaps
both role your debate convincing skills
you guys are about to get [ __ ] on what
would that be exactly what do you have
on there that would be good at using
logic to win in our human path talk no
there's no faster he's bullshitting
someone to get that win an argument
persuade persuade it would be persuade
persuade sounds good then
so our wait are the debate here is
whether we should I just you know hang
whether you should like just go in now
okay what do they hang out I mean I I
would like to hang out for a week
sitting in front of my fireplace poring
over leather bound volumes and looking
at lithographs of my sister like I
always do I want yeah I want to like get
in shape for this I want to throw a big
heavy ball at another guy in a
turtleneck I want to get a good pump for
this [ __ ] I will say will and Matt both
roll your persuade and Chi I should have
a higher persuade than you oh if I
explain your persuade how goddamn it it
was so close past [ __ ] the consensus of
the group is that it's more sober to
wait all right losers all right we can't
we can fast travel this though you guys
are watching me and just pick up
triangular weights you're amazed at how
strong I am fifty pounds the most a man
has ever lived holy [ __ ] you're [ __ ]
under armor turtleneck looks so dope on
you I'm just sittin overalls are sick
I'm not lifting anything but I am
standing in one of those belt
contraptions belts the pounds away I
don't even have to do anything it's
amazing your cardio is nuts dr. penny
farthing adjusts his Zeppelin tickets to
stay another week here in New York City
let's go see Sherlock jr. another three
times all right that that's so sick and
Sherlock jr. when he's like yes dear
Watson I'm thinking that I am back
what what what's the problem you don't
like that [ __ ] you in the days that
transpire a March is assembled to says
that we will resist Calvin Coolidge not
another teapot dome and then it's up
bright and early in Saturday morning
you're all crashing at Williams place
and mr. Jeff Steen knocks on the door
he's carrying a basket full fruits and
vegetables because o are you ready for
the tour gentlemen absolutely mr. Jeff
Stein I've been thinking I've been
waiting for this all week long you know
he hands you the basket thank you for
these gourds what do you do with the
basket just put it in my living room put
it in my sort of a conversation piece
you know well if it's edible food okay
I'm going I mean obviously I don't have
an appetite because I'm you know it's
completely dope to the gills
so I'll refrain from eating one of these
you know almost certainly poisoned or
cursed produce sure you put it down on
your table and he leads you across the
street to is the extensive grounds of
his home he leads you around the
beautiful temple you have here mr. Jeff
said it's a normal house that's not it
looks like in the 1920s that was the
normal house every house yes every house
is like that yeah I'm saying the vibe is
different it has a normal house vibe
there's an old man house vibe just just
like that picture
I can't wait for the tour Thank You mr.
Jefferson yeah I bet you know it's good
when neighbors can you know be more than
neighbors almost like they benefit you
they have benefits he leads you to the
back of the grounds there are two things
of interest here a vegetable patch at a
greenhouse oh man well you said
vegetable and then that key hidden that
that cord got struck I don't like
thinking about vegetable I didn't cut
straight the cord so well it's just it's
given it's giving there are no more
normal house vibes here no vegetable
garden green house he takes you to the
greenhouse with it in there very normal
greenhouse before it's not a normal
green house oh these zucchini are out of
season dude it's not zucchini or really
any plants that you recognize except
orchards the rest of the plants are
exotic from parts unknown you've never
seen anything like it none of you have
any bought a skill right anything
involving the natural world that would
help you identify plans maybe get ten
that's it that is that is base I think
will you had a biology I think or no
well I have biology but I don't that's
the same any animal I have a phrenology
my education is eighty for some reason
you lied you lied to your own spooking
skill sheets yeah that's what learning
is you lie until you know something I
have very high occult stats no one
called mat roll your biology
Hale I'm a dumbass I'm just a simple
country now I'm just a simple country
just a simple country testicle doctor
we're just wandering around not
recognizing anything we're saying the
Jeff scene takes you around the
greenhouse he explains to you these
plants are very delicate they're
sensitive to the slightest change in the
environment it's very hot in there and
it's jungly it's just the greenhouse
experience oh this picture great a
delicate orchid just like my sister
anything you want to do in there can I
take a maybe pocket one of the plants
take a sample got you on one of them see
if I get higher or something
during my gun on man I know we're all
armed obviously yeah there is one plan
it has large orange and blue leaves very
appealing looking at
can I eat it and you want to pocket it
I'd like to just like you know take a
sample I would say that doing this would
require mr. Jeff's team to not be
observing you because presumably you
would not want that to be the case so
Neelix oh yeah I'll start talking about
my finance Turtles country yeah okay you
know what to do okay so okay so he's
like showing you a leaf it says uh oh
the lieutenant colonel isn't this the
most gorgeous leaf I've actually seen
better ones but this one's pretty nice
you know I I really appreciate this tour
of yours like just normal ass house
she's [ __ ] nothing weird about it
the regular green house that everyone
likes to have but I was wondering if we
could talk about you know my investment
profile perhaps unless maybe I told you
about Oh business yeah yeah so thing is
like I was also trained as a Janissary
and Janissaries to not own property in
the ottoman empire but it doesn't exist
anymore as you know yes um but thanks to
you thanks to you here oh yeah here oh
yeah
people still [ __ ] spit on us when we
come home in the Zeppelin but as soon as
I got off the Zeppelin at the Empire
State Building Steve Admiral what does
this have to do with business nothing
nothing I just get emotional I think we
still have guys over there but
but not you know irregardless like I do
have I do now have like several optional
investment properties in the British
Mandate of Palestine that's where I got
this shirt and I also you know the
aforementioned
giant Ruby from the Kaiser who ran like
a [ __ ] because of me Felix may go fast
talk roll God what the [ __ ] is happening
today 81 over 70 [ __ ] [ __ ] my ass he
says to you I don't see any import
opportunities there and as you know I
import goods what are you talking about
like those are all other places well I
will say that while Felix is trying this
chicken eree
Felix and will attempt to pilfer and
chew on the planner event will both of
you will have to make a sneak roll due
to Felix's failure do you have sneak
that's a thing on area nope nope nope
did they change sneak to something else
crap dammit sleight of hand
no you roll your dexterity then done
[Music]
half pass
nice work boys I can already taste that
sweet exotic flower my mouth will you
pocket a few of the leaves Matt anyone
you're familiar with this scenario just
out of curiosity Matt you chew on it you
don't even bother using the hand go
write it for it its waxy its bitter
tasting yes and it stimulates your
pineal gland now we're talking allowing
you to see objects outside of this
reality oh yes
that's what I've been trying to do
you're getting cut it out right now my
ass you feel her can't so cut it out ass
awesome man this shit's like the vibing
twenties mr. Jeff Stein says you know
well we got a cooler with plant so why
don't we go outside standard on the
backyard absolutely absolutely love to
outside is one of my favorite places
let's go as he takes you outside and
shuts the door in the greenhouse dr.
penny farthing you lose grip on reality
you are no longer in Brooklyn
you are no longer anywhere well you are
in a place so to speak a dark rocks
trone landscape decorated with
crystalline growths
occasionally lit by flashes of
rose-colored lightning
you are naked BAM well I'm at good did
you could you I mean you know for
authenticity sick man what's your power
forty well you wanted to be I guess I'll
just walk around nude on the beach
this is great the free vacation to the
beach to the nude rock beach you walk
[Laughter]
Chris wait on the therapy
[Applause]
okay you spend 10 minutes wandering
around the crystal fluffle it's a fairly
uneventful I mean you're just nude kind
of vibing out and enjoying it all
exactly what I hope would happen when I
hate that plan you think to yourself god
I hope a place like Belize invented
itself this reminds me of when you you
ate those other plants at the Calvin
Coolidge convention and some teenage
supporters of the Kaiser attacked you
for liking Art Deco architecture this is
like the time you use oriental research
chemicals at Ozymandias fest
[Laughter]
something does happen after ten minutes
you see a scuttling spider like form of
dancing across the landscape directly
towards you oh that's not good seven
feet tall emaciated the scuttling thing
hungers for human blood
oh well there's Scully's path
lose one sanity you keep it together but
it's going to war too
what do you want to do he's used to this
so I'm completely nude I don't have my
cane I'm assuming the just me my poor
pink flesh at the scuttling spider
monster I guess I just have to run away
you also have the option to attempt to
will yourself out back into normal
boring works [ __ ] I've never tried that
before
well you could try I owe you I know you
haven't yeah you've never been one to
cut a trip short
now of course not that's a waste but if
you make a hard power roll all right
power yes but a hard roll meaning you
have to get half your power or lower
what's your power again 40 hello yep I
passed but it was not hard it was soft
by the way you're attacked by what do
you want to do dodge or fight back dude
60 year-old whipping idiot I [ __ ] I
might as well dodge roll your dodge and
tell me the level of success
I succeeded very very strongly those are
- wait that's a - yeah
oh we create it fails ah [ __ ] you you
dodge out of the way of the wretched
spider being oh yeah now it's your turn
that run can keep you to run away and I
can't fight this thing turn your back on
it keep willing yourself alright yeah
alright keep doing that I'll try it
again I'll try I'll try to work myself a
still a heart doctor penny farthing
uh-oh
oh my oh by the way for you to Felix and
will you see him he's just kind of
standing there smiling
this is a great afternoon I love
visiting neighbors of my friends sir mr.
Jeff Dean says he all right yeah no he's
fine he's just feeling himself
you don't his feelings ya know this
we've known this guy I've been saying
his words into a microphone when he
writes his letters for like a year now I
know this guy
sometimes you're home he's just naked
like sometimes he's just not wearing it
bad it attacks you again with it's awful
claws touch I have got probably all
right for health that's a pass take two
damage roll the one on both times what I
rolled a one on both nights take two
damage what's your hit oil what's your
HP out now you're at nine uh okay well
the awful spider things like chew any
rabbits and what UT guys see is dr.
penny farthings face become bloody and
ripped up that incurs us any loss for
both of you to make sanity rolls I
suppose I'll make one for pass Oh easy
pass both of you lose one sanity you're
not fazed by this you knew you know he
was kind of a weird guy when you met him
on telly so this is just kind of
something you're like okay I like due to
the lack of nutrition and our diets have
just average normal people I see
people's face start bleeding all the
time yeah it's regular like it happens
no big deal I'm not even sure like Korea
is a place yet and so we definitely
don't have like their ill mass
technology skin and skin care is in the
worst state it's ever been
dr. penny farthing the dimensional being
comes at you again right before it's
about to sticky
in the chest with it's awful claws you
snap out of it you're back in human zone
you're bloody and you still taken the
damage but you're not nude so that you
got that gold it was good
worth it anything you want to say to
your colleagues who are now mystified
that your bloody don't eat the fruit
thingy that I had just ate don't use any
of it it's bad it takes you to a bad
place
but now clearly this guy has got evil
forces going on here he's it is not a
ventriloquist dummy he is he's full-on
evil doctor penny farthing man you want
some like orange slices or niacin man
like you're you're here right now but
you got to just ride through so you're
up here right now doctors are uh mr.
Jeff Steen and says does a big yell on
it goes oh what a day he saw the green
house at the vegetable garden tours done
whoa we can we see the rest of your
house can we go inside I'd love to take
a tour I mean you know I just I'm a fan
of architecture and interior design
my house is it's kind of a mess right
now you know I mean my place I mean come
on I have seen your places I live with I
live with three dozen cats and yes I've
seen your I've seen your place would you
look what I want to come hang out there
I really think I should be getting to
bed it's been a long day
I think Playboy's law I think like
dr. dr. hackenbush like he may have like
God attacked by Andrew dimensional
spider but
his idea of breaking into this guy's
house later is sounding better and
better like this guy doesn't want to
help veterans [ __ ] hassle I will be
like writing a bad review of him on
telegraph this [ __ ] probably has like
the little rascals and Shirley Temple in
his [ __ ] basement
we saw him unloading all the little
rascals out of his car last week and I
we need to get the bottom of this so I
think we should ask what I've been
saying we okay look I'm sorry you had to
pay an extra 30 cents to change your
Zeppelin ticket back to back to Kansas
dr. Brenner you are they got eaten by a
[ __ ] spider monster okay well I
thought he would believe my lies what
the [ __ ] do you want from me here's what
we do guys make a polite exit yeah wait
till he goes to bed break into the house
it's what I can see okay okay we also
like goes em I will I give you credit
for it no stop trying he also goes to
work and as you know he tends to leave
every Sunday so those could also be good
time oh right I wish every day was look
at Sunday
oh whoa what is it it's Saturday okay
easy all right
well oh yeah let's move aside it's
Saturday at the late hour of 2:00 p.m.
he's already put a sleeping cap on and
he's trying to get you to go with the
buckle thank you so much for your tour
of your extraordinary green house mr.
Jeff Steen I see it was all very normal
oh and I would love I would love to host
you in my reading room anytime you want
yeah let's make it happen
thanks again we'll talk about when yeah
thanks again for the vegetables now I've
got to go to bed like it old widower
does the only old man who's normal can i
tuck you in no no no you want me to like
carry the candle for you
no oh all right I mean you know don't
come crying to me when you burn your
[ __ ] down but
please enjoy your gifts oh no for sure I
cannot wait to eat the regular ass [ __ ]
you brought us all right he goes back in
the house and he goes to bed that one
wait lets you know camp out at my place
look at some lithographs do we so we
have like that basket of fruit that he
gave us do we know anyone who knows
anything about biology at all do we have
any any like success flappers who listen
to show maybe like you know they're
scientists somewhere do you yeah
[Laughter]
everyone make a spot hidden wrong
fail fail
I wrote I got excited
big success in coming
that is one of the worst ones I've ever
the fruit is normal it's normal fruit
all is well that's what that rule was
trying to establish that it's a normal
good for it to consume and you see
nothing unusual about the fruit I mean
we should probably give it to your cats
then
you got so many of them
all right so here we are ah you know
what's called a day wait for tomorrow
wait till he goes to work break into
this [ __ ] house I mean dude he
didn't even let me tuck him in [ __ ] this
guy I'm breaking into his house we're
going we're going sicko mode uh that's
the plan you're doing it Sunday Sunday
yeah sunday sunday sunday break into
Jeff Steve's house house house free the
little rascals rascals rascals great
let's do that after the intermission can
we get another he'll get another
six-pack on the stage please Oh beer
give me here some old timey Charleston
music as we walk all Bechet budget
[Music]
ten minutes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
all right boys you're welcome if you
also gave him a promotion it's Saturday
night and you have planned now to go
investigate the house Sunday evening but
before then you've got to record another
[ __ ] episode of your [ __ ] show so
we I mean I know that it sucks we have a
responsibility when you have literally
tens of listeners
[Music]
they you know there are expectations so
look I'm gonna be honest with you guys
didn't really prepare there's nothing in
Colliers magazine this week that's funny
enough to - I gotta say the flower
recipes were pretty good there's nothing
to make fun of there yeah no honestly
they gave me some good ideas like just
eating flour out of the bag okay so we
did just see we did just see another
horse picture so let's just phone it and
do another cinema man watching a horse
aid man about the age of infinity age of
claim and eight age of calamity so I
want to be alright man washing Hort
horses a man washing horse eight age of
calamity let's go let's dance the
Charleston on this absolute piece of
[ __ ] and I'm gonna start off I'm gonna
start out okay III I got to speak on
this guy this corpulent rapscallion who
reviews films under the pen-name the
cinema Claude
he loves these [ __ ] movies can't get
enough of them projects all of his own
thoroughly shallow and inadequate
politics on to the horse movies he loves
the horses wants to be a horse and it's
just like I don't I don't care how much
you like these movies Lillian Gish is
not gonna [ __ ] write you a fan letter
okay she's not gonna see this bro
Lillian Gish is not walking through that
door okay
this [ __ ] he loves the horse movies
but has the [ __ ] has the temerity
this unmitigated gall to look down his
nose on real artists like DW Griffith
and say that their movies our boy his
movies are problematic they reflect
uh-oh bad views about racial politics in
America [ __ ] off dude by the way did you
notice how [ __ ] fat Teddy Roosevelt
has gotten these movies yeah he is
gettin pic in his earlier films like the
Rough Rider trilogy I mean dude like the
guy was cut he was Jack you know he'd
films those action sequences like you
believe it but he's gotten so lazy now
he's just sitting and like you know he's
just on a SETI basically pretending to
fight yeah you can see the guys with
two-by-fours jostling him he doesn't
even moving anymore also I don't want to
be that guy but it kind of felt like a
pandering that they brought in a female
horse yeah yeah it feels like they're
just trying to go for those yeah I know
the holes of the you know the Jane
Addams types you know I'm talking about
and yeah and you notice like also like
the big thing about the stable hands
like all Irish so the Liberals that
watch this movie can feel good about
themselves because they also have Irish
stable hands and it's just like more
more just horseshit no pun intended but
like also like I'm sorry the way that
the guys newsboy cap blew off from the
hose was completely unrealistic that
it's not the kinetic trajectory it would
take this is [ __ ] [ __ ] you know
it redounds to dr. penny farthings pet
theory that we are in an era of extra
normalization I mean look the horse
washing movies pure unmitigated
liberalism and it makes me wonder that
it's
point in the future there might be some
sort of new form of liberalism that we
all have to live and suffer under that
would suck
I pray it never happens but you know
yeah oh oh they added a filly
they added a filly in horse wars eight
and it's just like pandering to the
flappers okay
totally pandering to the flapper imagine
these [ __ ] pigs going up to the Bonus
Army of which I was a part of and also
help disperse I mean like you know oh
sorry that you don't have any money but
there's a girl horse now [ __ ] you dude
you got you got a girl horse can you got
it yeah you have fillies in in in cinema
now I hope you're happy
Calvin Coolidge is still [ __ ]
president you get it out of the way you
record the damn Evis ode you spent the
rest of the night
looking at lurid daguerreotype so with
your fellas you've you know I love it I
love it my eyes comically bulge out of
my head at the end of their stocks
I'd like to around each other and
explode I have an extensive art
collection of women pulling up there
like you know floor-length dresses
through show a bit bit of ankle yeah
well I think my tongue to roll out of my
face all the way down to the end of the
road and then roll back into my mouth
it's sound I'm trying to get my [ __ ]
sunk by a girl in a sea shell shaped hat
[Laughter]
it's Sunday mid-afternoon now and like
clockwork mr. Jeff Steen leaves his
house in his automobile reading from the
scenario that I definitely read and
prepared before doing this like any good
keeper eventually the investigator
should get to peeking around the house
itself boy good idea boys you know I had
literally an hour and a half ago okay
well you know I mean you wouldn't have
[ __ ] gone to the spider realm were it
not for
yeah yeah that was great all right well
I we learned like all types of [ __ ] he's
planning they're granted like none of us
know anything about botany but like if
we did it would have been a really
valuable trip actually yeah no I yeah
nobody I swear to God there was this is
a this is written in 1990 multiple
editions of this game before but there's
no edition of this game where any
[ __ ] investigator was like I'm gonna
put 80 points in botany all right boys
you know the plan let's do some cat
Bergland when nearing the house you hear
the crash or breaking glass and the
rattle of furniture coming from the
front basement window
now what let's take a look in the
basement window what do you think guys
yeah let's go down there you see
something vaguely man like flash into
view for a split second before jumping
into the shadows
Aaron says it seems as though they were
a burglar is afoot
I whatever that was it was vaguely
man-like and I know it's um something
going on well I mean okay so like the
basements probably being burglarized
that means you know ground for attic
second floor open for more burglary can
we try to go in the front door or what
do you think should go shut it goes
through the basement window or what do
you think up to you guys what do you
think guys I mean you're attacked your
our tactics guys alright so like one
thing that blackjack Pershing told me is
that every house starts with the
basement ends with an addict
[Laughter]
so also one thing he always told his
forces you know together you're weak but
divided you're strong
so like you know I've clearly like put
in the hours throwing the medicine ball
I think I should climb to the attic and
you guys there's no attic what a shitty
house [ __ ] all right your big choices
now are bust into the basement in order
to catch this burglar or whatever you
think it is I think we're try to Jimmy
the lock in the front all right well
well I think I don't like that this guy
ripped us off I think we should figure
out what his game is let's go to the
basement yeah this bus in that big
basement boys let's do this
Felix what's your strength really high
[Laughter]
okay roll it tell me the level of
success all right
better not [ __ ] choke this one
it's been a bad night you need a normal
level of success to break it easy
42 nice yeah you bust the basement
window three of you can crawl in all
right
you go first we will follow right behind
I'm crawling in basement gang gang gang
shaking [ __ ]
all right I'm crawling you're in you all
crawl in you're in a laboratory filled
with various chemical sword in jars damn
I suppose is a root cellar what's up
alright numerous beakers retorted some
mortars and pestles and balances several
dried plants specimens litter the table
on the other side of the room can be
found scalpels cat got needles rib
spreaders clamps other implements all
stored in large metal cabinets you know
this guy's smart as hell he is he has so
much science [ __ ] I bet when he watches
they're archetypes he like does it
through a [ __ ] microscope but the
immediate thing that you see is the only
word for it is a thing a thing made from
discarded parts of humans it consists of
a woman's head with two arms sprouting
from where there would normally be ears
and a single human leg attached to the
neck
thank you make sanity rolls all right
lake much fail bail banker hard for
Howard is forward pass Felix lose one
sanity the other to lose one d6 and ward
fail I'm looking for sanity points here
thank you God
Republicans Matt make a intelligent roll
[Music]
fail no that's good that oh yeah you
stupid to be scared
exactly I would say if you had passed
that and realize the profundity of what
you've seen you would have had a bout of
badness and because of your mania for
women shoes might have gotten a little
heated about thank god of too [ __ ]
stupid instead you're just like normal
scared boo
now what immediately how do you react to
this horrible well maybe maybe it's not
horrible I don't know that's a subject I
know I know I know normally ladies gams
don't grow out of their head but
[Music]
not bad what's your immediate response
like like one second response I go good
you would will or smooth Felix you're
the only one who kind of keeps his wits
about it all right I'm immediately lying
to myself and telling me I've seen
telling myself I've seen this before
and it succeeds clearly I only lost one
sanity point if you can only lose one
sanity point for every lie you tell
every day you're fine so all right I'm
gonna try to get my get the game's wits
back together because these guys are
crackers like throw out a cool one-liner
okay gentlemen I believe she's fallen
head over heels
[Music]
I actually
I learned how to do that I learned how
to do that when I was the first James
Bond in 1970s while you're doing that
the thing goes up the stairs and it's
it's I love to watch it go natural
locomotion of it is just a one foot
hopping up each stair well that's just
like bad design and it kicks against the
basement door leads to the first floor
of the bill house but it doesn't manage
to kick it down now what I always open
the door for a lady all right so both of
you are like you know you're teetering
on the saying but do you think we should
pursue I don't really think that thing
can like tell us anything can it do we
know if it can talk we don't know right
so I could talk to it's a foot right
it's a [ __ ] foot yeah a foot cannot
tell a thousand tales so I think we
should sort of like let let her do her
thing and this poke around here it kicks
the door again and again get up there
dumbass
is there anything else we can
investigate in the laboratory yes read
all of these things
now I've read it shut up okay on the
other side of the proof can be found but
fears be a surgical center you would
know it as a mass unit feelings yes yes
I would
let's take a look yeah let's look around
there is the cabinet which contains the
things that I mentioned earlier dr.
Caligari
[Music]
when you near the cabinet the faint
sound of an electric compressor can be
heard and it might be noticed that the
lowest drawer gives off a faint draught
of cold air I think we should have been
that lowest drawer I love to feel cool
you open the drawer and discover a host
of refrigerated human remains nerves
tendons blood vessels all carefully
stored for what seems to be future use
make us a mural Hey fail oh that's my
first handy fell not feeling good
everyone lose one sanity for just seeing
parts of your body which is honestly
something we should all be comfortable
with
another part of the lab our bottles of
glucose saline solutions the place is
slightly confusing as it seems to serve
a surgeon a chemical manufacturer and a
plant breeder
wellgood only looking at all the
equipment you realize this costs several
thousand dollars more than most men
could spend on an innocent hobby
yeah that's almost a million isn't love
having an innocent hobby of sewing legs
to women's head do we is there anything
are there any books around we could like
can we roll spot heading for that no
it's a spooky lab no they're operating
without instruction it's not a book zone
also the foot thing manages to kick down
the door and flee to another part of the
house all right check it out okeydoke
[Music]
look you go upstairs first ground floor
most of the rooms it's a normal guys
house there's kitchen dining room pantry
guest room what is interesting is the
front room which is used by mr. Jeff's
Tina's his study above his desk is a
collection of books standing on a single
shelf the four most interesting books
include an Arabic copy of the Quran a
copy
are there other cars other pens
it's in Arabic its in Arabic so yes
there are other kinds really weird
Maltese version now technically it's
only the Quran if it isn't there's a
book called 20 experiments in the occult
by a dr. Arthur eternally a well-worn
copy of true magic by Thea Phyllis
weddin and a large crudely fashioned
book bound in Cobras skin called the key
and the gates opening it all the Texas
and Sand sprints hmm but is there any
way this does she have a copy of the
case for the state that will be Israel
by Alan Dershowitz
[Laughter]
no but there are 14 leather-bound annual
journals dating back to 15 16 years ago
up to the current year and a black
loose-leaf binder holding uh mr.
Jefferson's notes regarding his
botanical experiments we read the diary
read his journal refresh we have to read
you press X there's a lot of diary
information here so if you could jazz it
up and make this not boring that would
be helpful to me you will make it so
notable excerpts journal one is from 14
years ago Journal 14 is from the present
year journal 1 September 10th another
embarrassing memory lapse today this
journal should help me deal with the
problem self-employed CMS
I don't remember everything that's ever
happened in my life but it's good for
Democratic presidential candidates
September 13th
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
September 13th I've had mothers sign
allow what happened between September 10
I guess he stayed home that day
[Music]
September 13th I've had Mother's signed
the last of legal papers that transfer
ownership of Jeff's teen importance of
America from her to myself she seems to
be doing well in the new nursing home
and I hope they could give her the
treatment and attention she needs
afraid her condition continues to
decline rapidly and that the father
seems to open him I if she knew my role
in his death although I don't in the
least feel responsible I'm sure it would
kill her she would never understand the
power of my new Lord Rama SEK feh oh boy
could she have but experienced those
moments on the mountain in for the
Virgin Islands when he appeared in all
his terrible magnificence he spoke with
me and left his mark upon my breast
then he took hold of the father and the
two became one with each other before
devouring him Rama SEK futur my father's
head from his shoulders that's this
guy's God
what we made him and his father come
together in some sort of town situation
I in a metaphoric situation Oh God
but his father was killed in the
sponsons who but if you mean it's kind
of like being gay with your dad yes yeah
yeah that was what I was implying
October 29th have been a charming young
woman at a social gathering her name is
Lynn Meyers I have arranged to take her
to the pictures next week my lord I
think would approve of her December 12th
spent 30 hours in ceremony have located
Rama sack feh he wants a bridge to the
world and needs my help
I've agreed my studies have shown that
Rama Sita is an obscure Asura a Virgin
Islands demon the Asura are said to be
older gods the ones who rule before the
coming of Shiva certain things spoken of
in Webb's book lead me to believe there
may be a link to a being called yog
Sothoth
oh boy that guy's bad news from Journal
2 January 10th I found myself wanting to
make Lyn my wife and have sealed the
thought by proposing to her she accepted
and we have set the date of Barisan
March 9th of this year rama Sekulow
assures me the time is right
March 13th have returned from our
honeymoon Lynn and I have decided to
keep the family place as it is excellent
for raising children it may all being
well Lynn will accompany B on my trip to
Ceylon for a new herbal tea supply
Herbalife and this may be my last trip
out of the country for a while a man who
plans a family must be willing to settle
down a bit April 1st at doesn't lid to
visit her mother-in-law I cast the
ceremony I don't believe she's ready to
understand yet Ramba sec buzz told me he
wants a union of
he demands the union be made with my
wife I am to await 13 days cast another
easier ceremony and then wave Rama
Sakura is to take my place the Stewart's
a [ __ ]
mixed religion marriages are always hard
April 14th cast the ceremony in the
morning and Rama Sekulow came I way in
the basement while he visited Lin for
several hours oh he seems to suspect
nothing my god
older God calm July 19th I've told my
wife to remain in bed throughout the day
as she has taken ill from her pregnancy
I took the day to contact Rama SEC but I
have to deliver the child myself at home
my masters directed me to raise the
child as if it were my own November 21st
horror of Horrors my life is in ashes
poor Lin went into labor today and in
the course of getting birth to the child
she expired despite all I did to save
her
there's dunlap blundered into the room
at the wrong moment when she saw the
child took leave of her senses in trying
to take care of her I may have neglected
Lin at a critical moment at any rate
she's gone and I blame only myself a
second child a boy who was born dead and
I have turned both bodies over to the
funeral home the child of Rama Sacre
I've hidden in the basement the thing is
limbless and appears to have trouble
breathing I don't think I can live for
long
continues November 25th the funeral in
the child was said that one's born
November 26 the ceremony of homosexual
brought him forth to explain the child
he said the thing would live and that I
am to spend the next ten years preparing
for a time when it wouldn't eat me when
the time comes I am to equip it for life
on earth it will be given limbs and
lungs I'm not to contact Ramos ACMA
until 10 years in a day have elapsed
separate Catholic or something what's
going on I don't get these this strange
religion that he's a member of December
14th I felt someone to help me actually
that part's point list of journals 3
through 12 nothing important is included
here they cover three trips to the
Caribbean acquisitions of unusual
orchards and a third botanical
curiosities meaning of several old
friends work matters various accounts of
mundane purchases inside
Journal 13 are in the homestretch now
we're at 25th the child grows large and
the time has come our child entered the
ceremony with Rama SEC VII he told me
that when spring has arrived I have to
search out fresh limbs and organs to be
added to the creature the time of
experimenting is over as the thing is
still a child I will use only the limbs
and organs of children by experiment
show that the more youthful parts adapt
better than the older ones any parts
that are unusual I've directed to feed
to the child Rama Seco Watson to develop
a taste for such things and says that it
is now the time for growing journal 14
the last journal
maxvill says I've been spending too much
I'm asking too much appellant that's the
thing another thing I must admit to
feeling killed aiding abetting his false
belief somehow now sorry MacDonald
schematic let's get back cut cut that
make sure the audience doesn't hear that
most of the child's organs are now in
place and a few limbs have been attached
the grafts heal nicely my years of
experimenting are paying off March 28th
April 8th April 11th April 19th May 14th
May 25th these days contains similar
statements to those above the increasing
growth rate of the child think
necessitate increasing we frequent trips
of the garbage dump is a source of
surprise and pleasure for Jeff's team
Wow fatherhood cleaner hip is another
one of those Zeppelin parents that read
a lot of that there is one final entry
though I am being followed by my nasty
if I buy cannot buy a nasty wretchedly
about neighbor who'll never be very
nasty neighbor who will absolutely never
make $30 a button by selling a radio
show through the back pages of Colliers
week
[Music]
if I can I find a way to deal with him
myself
and the next ceremony with Rama
sacrified will be forced to ask for
their destruction oh [ __ ] this [ __ ] we
gotta find this [ __ ] thinks that I'm
not gonna be as big as Amos and Andy
he's got another thing coming
okay yeah no we like his like foot child
we're gonna kick the [ __ ] out of it
we're gonna blow up we're gonna buy
Colliers one day we are gonna like we
were gonna make Jack Benny look like a
loser after he gets famous
there's also botanical notes must we oh
well you need a body roll time we don't
know what anybody's for there's no potty
on here
so the keeper is to be blamed because
the investigators did not have the
foresight to roll a botanist let's just
it's not on here let's just do some
Margaret Sanger [ __ ] to this foot child
call it a day
the foot child is upstairs let's go kill
this [ __ ] thing let's just kill it if
we kill it it's everything's fine you
know what that is how you solve most
problems just want to be clear you paid
attention to what I just said right yeah
journal entries yeah yeah I try to yeah
okay good that's that's a lie it's the
child of a elder it's around the son
secta and it's gonna it's an
all-consuming creature do we need to
destroy it
seems pretty straightforward right
okey-dokey oh boy okay okay I think
we're [ __ ] up you head up to the
second floor master bedroom this is uh
Jeff Singh's room it's relatively well
flap relatively well-kept closet only a
third full of clothing because you know
wife's dead so yeah
a framed photograph of a sleep wife as a
prominent place top nightstand next to
his bed
there's nothing particularly poor any
framed photos of him with former
President Theodore Roosevelt there are a
few photos of him with Taft nothing else
up for daily importance here except for
the foot thing it's in a corner kicking
and you're scared can we try to
communicate with it in some way I've
been I feel bad maybe it's maybe if it's
shown love it could become good tell me
what you're doing what do you think guys
I mean thing is like you can always try
to talk to somebody and then you really
reserve the option to kill them later
the old I do with you guys oh oh quick
question keeper can I try to feed the
foot child the plant the psychedelic
plant leaves that I've purloined from
earlier in the greenhouse
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
now you're using your dude alright
alright okay fine but you feed it like
you're feeding a go to the petting zoo
yeah yeah leading out and have some some
the thing has an intelligence of zeroes
I don't think it's in this plane or any
other plane what's that about planes
again oh I I will say it doesn't go for
the baton said it kicks around appears
agitated by being cornered by the three
of you okay I got a Derringer you got a
gun Matt's got a sword let's just eat
sure our weapons and just tee off on
this thing
wait wait wait wait wait wait wait I
mean is there way we could like stuff
like stuff the flower down its gullet
like I mean you know I got a feeling
there might be something there kind of
like an we force-feed the flower you
know it's an enhanced interrogation
technique that we use overseas
lieutenant what's your end goal with
this abomination I don't know I mean
like you know I always say like a
stranger is always a friend you haven't
met yet but I also say a stranger can
also be your worst enemy that could
murder you so I can't lie to this thing
because there's intelligence of zero so
our school war hero what aren't you a
war hero
absolutely master of every weapon that
ever existed yeah and some of the ones
that haven't come out yet if you want to
destroy it you can destroy it let's do
it
fine [ __ ] it I tried peace I'm not even
recalled for roles the three of you
having cornered the thing and aiming
weapons at it weapons it does not
understand managed to blow it off ugh oh
yeah
good fun what a bot Warcraft games easy
as hell a [ __ ] goat it today you
destroy the scampering foot thing all is
silent but you hear faintly something
almost like a whale noise a plaintive
wail that's not entirely human coming
from the basement
oh my god we have to go back down there
let's go back to my house no I mean we
always say [ __ ] like that like what
happens to that whale just like rolls
over on your house it kills all your
cats oh wait wait oh my cats are in
danger
yes basement basement basement yeah I
thought so say something else while I
look for the page wow I sure can't wait
for the election of 1928
I wonder if there'll be a Great
Depression that happens around them
probably not though like the stock
market the economy with concerns too
like profit and supply and demand is at
an all-time high
and I can't I just think we got a repeal
prohibition so we can just finally we
need we need better entertainment I hate
dude I [ __ ] hate it when you called
the bootleggers to come over and get
drunk and he doesn't leave and he makes
you listen makes ulis do his [ __ ] his
own minstrel shows that he's making with
his friends [ __ ] terrible dude I hate
it it's okay when the bootlegger makes
you cross the state line into
Massachusetts and then won't even sell
beer after 10 o'clock ok daenam on time
you head back to the basement again
a spooky weirdos freelance surgery
there's a closet on the south end of the
lab that you open it's empty but you
notice a fetid unidentifiable smell that
pervades the clothes space and you hear
plaintive almost like a child or
actually professor it's like a cat's the
ways when it begs for food
[Music]
but it's doubt of me now what I gotta
get I gotta give that Kitty a head
scratch one of these baby following the
sound and the smell you see that the
back wall is a false panel oh it's one
of those new things yeah I heard about
that read about that architectural
weakly yeah if we keep grinding we can
get you like that what do you do the
panel had to grind for this what do you
do as a panel
open it you open the panel and you hear
a faint plaintive gurgling from the
other side Liseberg are there are there
any other adjectives we can use I'm
reading you open the panel light is
produced into a back hidden room
stumbling out of it it's a true horse
Shirley Temple
it's a creature the creatures body looks
like a huge dense mucus with a
consistency of an overcooked pudding
anterior skeleton can be seen poking
through the body from time to time with
three great vents closed by wrinkly lips
rhythmically aspirate the monster with
puffing wheezing sounds oh my god it's
the cinema clot ten human legs all
Children's through though of various
colors and sizes rip the lower part of
the body providing it with local motion
while the 15 chubby little arms and
circling the upper side of the body rise
about grasping at nothing the thing is
quite featureless except for a wet
circular mouth located on the creatures
underside that gurgles and coos softly
in a way that resembles the sound sounds
a human baby makes the creature Viren
Lee stops a squat and scour the floor
with wet suckling noises searching for
food the biggest waste products are
passed out of his suggesting system by a
sphincter opening up atop the center of
the monsters body much like a sea urchin
a near continuous stream of doo doo
issues of the hole there's a picture
here if you want to give a the
audience's description because really
good oh man that's like a villian goat
sees
[Laughter]
yeah I mean that is not a good thing to
see wonderfully drawn tones I'm not
gonna lie guys that's pretty weird
that's like what one of the weirder
things I've ever said but still gotta be
honest would everyone make a sanity Bowl
oh I failed that [ __ ] pass I mean how
the [ __ ] would I pass look at that
you're into weird oh my god oh no
[ __ ] well Felix and Matt lose 1d tend to
sanity let me know how much it is zero
that's ten [ __ ] both of you make a I
think an intelligence roll yeah yeah
make it intelligence roll pray for
stupidity
I'll [ __ ] I've passed Felix
[ __ ] pastel boy you are both
cognizant of the monstrosity now you
realize the thing from the diaries that
you paid very close attention to me
saying about this thing being the key to
the opening of the gate you both
temporarily insane give me D 10 rules 10
3 10 dr. penny farthing you gained a new
mania that was not fun well maybe you're
into the doo doo it's this thing is
[ __ ] and farting out it's due to
acid you're really here for it you gain
a mania for doo doo and you want to
consume it's due to you but it's
spilling the doodoo and I'm on your
sipping
lieutenant country you rolled three yes
violence read miss the sentence on you
you explode in a spree of uncontrolled
violence and destruction directed at
your surroundings oh my god [ __ ] dude
if they if they true if I could just get
drunk and pissed I would win the [ __ ]
boxing Olympics dude type of guy when
I'm pissed I get quiet and I can knock
anybody out with one punch I'm so
[ __ ] mad dude put on [ __ ] it you put
on that jazz [ __ ] I'm so [ __ ] pissed
right now you know if there if there was
wrestling and grappling involved I would
[ __ ] destroy Jack Johnson yeah
dude if I could just bring a gun in
there I would [ __ ] kill him no
captain I rule that Felix immediately
sets at the child thing all right and
that mad also goes towards it to get
some Felix if you go and see it
immediately what would your weapon be
probably the pistol okay you pull you
take out your pistol and you shoot the
thing at point-blank range that gives
you a bonus die roll it all right
[Music]
that's d100 right yeah that's a D
hundred and then roll the tents place
twice take the Louis of the - alright I
got a ten nine
to
I don't know what you did Oh
ronk guys [ __ ] alright do you 100 is
[ __ ] we're gonna roll that again we
haven't done combat forever what do you
want okay what do you roll Oh 60 out of
its the hundreds place right look it's
not my fault this is a talking intensive
thing and I was mostly focusing on the
fast dog ability I believe you have an
80 handgun so you fire and you shoot the
damn thing yeah roll damage damages
we've listened at the bottom here
character shoot Oh 2010 1 e +
and roll it what's the damage it
nice Yushu the thing black eye force
spews out of the bullet boom
that's excited about that I can't wait
there you go buddy
I just grew up you do do
even though one of you is explicitly
only one of you is explicitly hostile I
guess I'll call this a combat situation
and say bullet time will you act first
what do you want to do you observe your
Patriots going bad one of them shooting
this thing and the other one licking his
lips like an old r2 maybe putting on a
napkin
[Music]
my homies are going and saying
I'm following them into the mouth of
madness taking out my pistol and also
firing directly into the doodoo so roll
a normal shot what is that just a roll
against your handgun okay right that's a
pass roll damage windy sex
six good shot that's why I say man that
shot Felix you could you could roll
another shot without the bonus die
all right this role of demon food
Pass will damage
for you should sing again and uh or do
we shall you have if we keep shooting
it's gonna run out of doodoo
[Music]
I don't care how otherworldly this thing
is you can only [ __ ] for so long
[Music]
according the rules of this edition the
child thing can make up to three fist
attacks per out on three separate
targets I'll say it tries to slap all of
you and every other time spot
what will its avail what melius ass
[ __ ] god that is fail Felix
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Felix like that damn [ __ ] look I am one
shot at [ __ ] right now I need you guys
watch this this is this is really pissed
I'm really pissed I'm one hit just like
shot this thing resulting in doodoos
worry guys I got this this is even worse
than the battles if you're done the some
and gallipoli dr. penny farthing it's on
you and you are mad and you want it I
want that doo doo role for doo doo so
you go up and embrace the creature yes
it's Chloe I'll hold
Oh baby I want to get up in those
crevices there's actually nothing
written in the scenario for this
particular situation you a anyway what
you surprise me
I'm through the look at you pass as to
what might happen what effects on your
body eating this creatures waist what
reduces
I mean you tell me man I have no idea
I'm just a simple country testicle
farmer I'll say roll your dexterity see
if you can even do it
Pass
[Laughter]
[Applause]
you embrace the creature which is
fighting and fumbling with its child
arms your friend and co-host Felix and
you it's just like I'm watching I'm
watching him eat this creature shed and
because of my friend illogical skills I
was like I always knew this [ __ ]
was German
[Laughter]
I'll say it's the top of another combat
round will and Felix both have guns
aimed at point-blank range you can fire
a shot at the top of the round but you
won't get a bonus tiny this looked like
a shot all right roll it Felix how will
first
[Music]
fail Felix
Oh our death roll damaging
a 2010 that's a 1 d6 alright whatever
similar numbers
I got a nine all right you're doing a
lot of damage to it yes coming a lot of
IE course yeah you both can make more
shots on your regular combat round so
we'll surfers ass roll damage too
Pass will damage
it
the thing is nearly totally
incapacitated it is a baby after all
yeah [ __ ] dump one
I'll say that
he tries to flee and it tries to flee
through William who's standing between
it and the staircase it's gonna try to
[ __ ] knock you down if we pass you
what do you do god I am the thin blue
line that separates our civilization
from total madness and insanity and baby
monsters allow you to either dodge fight
back physically or just make a shot
I want to off I'm gonna fight back okay
roll it well wrong against what fighting
ball
my fighting brawl is basically the same
status the gun so can I change that and
try to shoot it again
no just go alright now your stole the
damn fighting bro fail he gets a heart
it extreme success it uses its baby
child arms to push you aside and scurry
to the staircase leading up to the
ground leading up to the first floor but
it's very very weak from you guys
shooting it and you idiots waste
that says you're still insane you hurry
after a forked knife in front of him in
a comical fashion floating on a scent
way but on the top of the round I'll say
that Felix are both both can still aim
and shoot
all right will you want to fire fire it
will one shot fail Felix
[ __ ] pass baby that's good
that one hit point you shoot it it
explodes in a [ __ ] disgust it's this
enough it's gross I'm saying there's the
IE core in its name oh yeah there's the
to do and he SBB arms just splattering
old ah hell yes
phase the [ __ ] up it is suppertime folks
bring the damn dinner pickle because
daddy's gonna eat crisps can we get a
normal music
Matt you're really sad you lost the
source you're all kind of coming out of
it Felix out of your violent rampage
Matt out of your it is then that you
hear the front door open and you hear
the see the basement door open and it's
mr. Jeff's team looks down and sees the
corpse of his side
oh no I'll definitely have to kill
myself now
[Laughter]
[Applause]
he falls to his knees and says what have
you done
he was the way doodoos off-the-menu
tonight we should murder him seriously I
mean he's killed how many children to
build this thing let's make it look like
he killed them yeah yeah yeah yeah I'll
start stripping bedsheets into long thin
strips and then tying them together well
he's just crying there because you've
destroyed his entire life's work and
he's lost the last shreds of his sanity
it's fantastic he's easy to kill right
like one come back to my place mr. grass
what I just like you listen I told you
got the new Al Jolson record
it's got mammy and swanny on it no
reason if I mean everyone I've ever
known is dead
well okay weird [ __ ] you are doing man
there's so much other [ __ ] you could
have been doing you could have like
built ships in a bottle you did this
[ __ ] and now we have to make it look
like you killed yourself sorry do you
think I'm happy I lost ten sanity points
today because it's the [ __ ] weird
[ __ ] you're doing over here I'm never
going to recover no one's ever gonna
write a song for veterans
he's weak and fully insane now what do
you want to do
I'm not kidding we should kill ya let's
go okay let's go really yeah he's like
he's killed the dozens of children yeah
and he know he didn't kill any children
where you're not paying attention limbs
from those four children who died he de
children die all the time a child Depot
yes is the dungeon master alan
dershowitz
he didn't have to kill any children like
every child dies in this era 95% of
children die in this era all right his
underwear on every time he was stitching
he was just taking the limbs from
children who died of other causes which
is every cause in this era well okay we
can't get anything from him I mean if
he's fully insane that means he probably
can't another I mean he's not gonna be
able to you know go on to 1920s
match.com and find another spouse to get
impregnated by this elder one so not
really a danger I guess I know you're I
know you're totally insane right now but
and you consider subscribing for a
nickel a month due to Capone speakeasy
are the popular radio program oh I want
to buy the monogram what do you want to
do put him out of his misery or just
don't you feel like I'm alright if you
guys want to kill him and make it look
like he killed himself
that's phone me but I'm just gonna say
thanks for having us over man yeah Torre
dude he's not really defenseless so just
tell me what you want okay let's just
kill him yeah just yeah and this ended
no point in living you killed him but a
bullet in his head point-blank range
I definitely like you know
alright it look like a sewage
[Applause]
alright classy it was meant to be you
right you right on his personal notepad
I've decided to put a bullet in my head
I decided why I decided to lie down on a
bullet and you should not ask any more
questions about what has transpired here
anyhow I've decided to fire a shot
directly into the back of my skull this
is to any cop this is gonna look like
classic suicide three shots to the
stomach two shots to the head next to a
giant ball of ectoplasm yeah and child's
limb yeah came beating suicide shoot so
back to wills yeah look at some more
comic books yeah books will get [ __ ]
up on ether and allowed it pet my cat
all right I will say any sanity losses
that you sustained over the course of
this scenario are taken care of by the
sanity game for the opening of the
[ __ ] game also ketamine spray also
and killing a totally defenseless old
man and you still have the leaves well
done we did it guys we did it this
shit's easy
game is easy claps I gotta say I have to
say geez only we've done this a number
of times now and I've done games where I
had to do physical combat and games
where I had to eat monster [ __ ] and it's
much more chill and fun to just eat the
monster [ __ ]
and that was canonically our first
encounter with the Methos a few weeks
later you decide that we're gonna hire
more people for our radio program and
we're gonna get rid of the awful Jameson
friend who's just not cutting it you
replace it with the Portuguese and the
rest is history
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
