one other thing from this New York
magazine piece sort of some against it
very similar to the New York Times
pieces it's captured the way Bernie
Sanders just has [ __ ] you money at this
point like like his ability to raise
money my mommy real good he's not just
freaking these people out because like
nobody's courting that like he doesn't
have to come and kiss their ass or or
then but you know or adopt positions
that you know are palatable to them or
go to Lloyd Blankfein's [ __ ] summer
house in the Hamptons for a chicken
dinner it's also sort of displacing
their sense of social Worth and I just
want to read this part it says here
meanwhile parts of the Democratic field
we're doing the same with candidates
focused on building Sanders style small
down or email driven funded fundraising
machine Sanders raised ten million that
way in just his first week as a
candidate it's kind of stunning how a
bunch of these people running for
president haven't gotten ahold of a list
of top past contributors and said what
can I do to get this person fumed a
hedge fund honcho out of the loop for
the first time in two decades it's sort
of basic political IQ everyone wants to
seem relevant one prominent investor
told me but for the first time he or any
of his friends could remember we're just
not [ __ ] relevant we're not that big
a deal of of deal anymore none of us a
lot of the donor community is worried
about losing their presidential perks
and ambassadora gigs too baristas said
veteran new york yeah they're doing
violence to the spaces of don't think
that's right but I like to be I was like
losing it to baristas like a lot of
their guy like baristas are their
biggest enemy yeah of course like it's
their biggest like sort of social enemy
and like the person they interact with
who's like lowest than them on a totem
pole yeah they still have to deal with I
feel on the hook to to sobriety yeah I'm
so sick of these hipster baristas
talking down to being my Wall Street
friends you know there aren't Starbucks
or adjusted [ __ ] deeper they're
rocking out to Mumford & Sons I'm so
sick of these hipster baristas
speaking of them small donors and
a staggering amount of money that
Sanders and now other people are trying
to raise from this model of getting a
lot from getting a little from a lot
based on you know like email and turnout
Sanders with something like 400,000
small donors right now [ __ ] baristas
alright there's a very they're gonna
[ __ ] late in there like under four
they're gonna carry out their [ __ ]
barista agenda on all of us you're so
tiny my donors are so tiny I want to put
you in my pocket ah beans this is a I
saw this really great take today on
Bernie Sanders you know money money
making this is courtesy of the National
Review and J cost under the headline the
problem with Sanders small donors
subhead he is now winning the money race
thanks to activists but do we want
voters on the fringe setting a party's
course which is the answer is if you're
the National Review and talking about
the Republican Party yes absolutely what
does the fringe mean like he has more
donors yeah the French masses but I
think they mean that they don't have any
money and so therefore they really don't
know the friendship that I think they
mean an enormity of sense is that you
have the people who deserve to have a
say in politics because they have worth
by virtue of their wealth and the people
who don't have any and as such should
not be making any kind of decisions or
having any influence on politics but
that's like reverse engineering a
definition of populism by income yeah
they love it
he goes he says here the corporate
Titans gave to politics not out of
kindness of their own hearts but to
acquire access to government that the
average person does not possess this
kind of financing strikes at the core of
our Republican ideal that every citizen
should be equal as far as the government
is concerned and since the Progressive
Era there have been countless efforts to
bring the special interests to heel
which we have opposed of every step the
emergence of the Internet has created a
legitimate alternative which Sanders is
making the most of rather than if
politics financed by special interests
Sanders is drawing funds from an army of
local activists whose commitment to the
cause induces them to chip in $20 here
or $40 there taken individually the
activists cannot compete with lobbyists
from the telecommunications or
healthcare industries but there
numbers are so vast that in some they
can prevail propel Sanders into the
front of the money race call me a
contrarian but I have my doubts about
this mode of financing - again he
doesn't that buddy [ __ ] doubts about
the other mode of [ __ ] financing
that's horseshit
obviously not his name is Jay cost he's
these these them he wears a blazer with
dollar bill cost he's one of those
finance guys who just has like a none
creative writer named him I'm sure that
when he when he opened the newspaper to
see the Citizens United decision a
single tear rolled down his [ __ ]
cheek he goes yeah so yeah I have my
doubts about that yeah let's leave that
aside he goes again stipulating that
donors have access or influence that
average voters do not possess is it
really better for activists to be the
main source of Finance corporate
lobbyists are going to invest in
politics for their stockholders
interests but activists have a wide
array of a wide array of ideological
views that are often out of step with
the rest of society the Sanders voters
in particular are far to the left of the
average American and probably the
average Democrat - we complain so much
about political polarization these days
and I think with good reason but to what
extent does the polarization in the last
generation lead back to this revolution
in campaign finance our grassroots
extremists pulling candidates to the
ideological fringes by increments of $20
a piece it's very possible again like
amber as you bring up his definition of
fringe here seems to swing wildly back
between masses of people of which are so
numerous that not even the millions of
dollars from corporate lobbyists can
compete with but they also happen to
hold views that are entirely fringe like
Medicare for all of course which is you
know a fringe view held by about 70% of
voters in this country yeah well but I
think yeah he's just saying that there's
motivated and being motivated makes you
a suspect
yeah glassy-eyed psycho but again like
the elevation assess but like the only
motivation could be trusted his
self-interest like all these rich ass
forget self-interest like William F
Buckley and the National Review was
founded to make sure that the fringe of
the conservative movement took over the
Republican Party and they did and
they've changed American politics
because of it and then now now that uh
you know if say
wasn't raising any money and was just
like another dennis kucinich they
wouldn't have to come up with a new
narrative about how actually small money
donors are bad so he closes this out by
here saying all of this speaks to some
inconvenient truths that Americans have
fully have failed to fully grok I love
when people use that word all right nerd
politics is very there's so many words
of it their politics is very expensive
somebody has to pay for it and whoever
does is going to get special access who
do we want those persons to be special
interests activists someone else we
collectively don't know as we tend not
to think to that much about campaign
finance maybe if a socialist captures
the Democratic nomination in this cycle
we'll think a little more clearly about
whether we want our local hippies
bankrolling politics he says who do we
want you know running politics special
interests or activists it's like oh I
don't know yeah if you want like a bunch
of people collectively coming together
around an idea of a public good that
they are not personally invested in but
is you know the product of their lived
experience about like the troubles of
living in a decaying capitalist
hellscape or just guys who his entire
life their entire livelihood and the
livelihood of their idiot [ __ ] kids
depends on the world being drained of
all its resources and turn into a
[ __ ] cinder
I wonder I'm having a hard time can't
think of it so that Bernie money is uh I
mean it's money real guys money's really
no good right now and it's it's it's
causing a lot of agita among I want him
to do I want him to do a Instagram thing
of him going to to a like a buffet and
just press like the soft drink dispenser
and having it come out it's being my
money real good right now we also never
debase himself in such a way no no II
also the great photo of him shopping
this week it was great getting some
Progresso soup yeah yeah why what Bernie
makes it rain he just pours soup
directly I drew his driveway watch the
sodium for any that's all I'm saying so
ya know he is a the amount of money I'm
the polling he can use the poll
continues to give people a lot of
heartburn
and I hope it continues to do so and I
more than anything I hope he does get
the nominations so everyone who is going
to spend probably the next month just
angrily interrogating you like will you
support the Democrat will you support
the Democrats feeding Trump is the most
important thing ever having to find a
way to back out of that rather shoddy
moral commitment Howard Schultz along I
had no idea he was such a brilliant
visionary I just I've I feel I have to
support him
