[Applause]
hey this is well the bad bad Medicare
Chapo morning zoo crew counting down all
your 80s 90s and 70s rock and classics
we're broadcasting live live live from
the migrant Caravan Caravan Caravan
making its way up to the US border you
just crossed into Mexico from Guatemala
and we're all here we're party and we're
rocking and rolling we're swish in
addition we've got our soros sponsored
go bags you're full of drugs guns and
lawyers we're ready to bring this is
rock and roll invasion to your doorstep
Isis is here they're loving it we listen
to the rock goes in a Foghat
[Music]
[Applause]
looking for jobs no we're looking for
blood blood blood before the midterm
elections elections we're registering to
vote along the way we're registering all
the migrant boat errs coming soon to a
neighborhood near you you you all now to
get tickets to see Jethro Tull tall tall
at the Motor Speedway our fourth caller
becomes a US citizen the citizen who can
vote 10 times x times little bit later
in the show the our top of the hour
we'll be talking to George Soros or Oh
Soros who's bankrolling this entire
invasion invasion invasion its camp of
the Saints all day day day on the Chapo
morning zoo crew crew rock and roll
bringing a caravan to you you you Pepsi
Max is the only sugar-free Cola
alternative that contains authentic baby
parts we are here at Senor frog's for
the next 42 hours two-for-one cocktails
for anyone who promises to behead a
senior citizen once they get to the
United States
Hezbollah style terrorists are here with
al Qaeda with Isis with the drug cartels
cartels there are no women and children
in this Caravan again dude [ __ ]
taking steroids we have the most
powerful Muslims the Shia division
they're doing pull-ups and covered
wagons there are no women and children
it's boys only it's a non-stop caravan
of a man cave dudes Rock more like a
carrot man it's just four fellows will
be coming soon before the midterm
elections elections
you cannot stop us us chapo boarding zoo
crew crew crew coming up next it's Led
Zeppelin when the hypocrites saw 10
times in a row row row row
[Music]
[Music]
