I have a little theory about why
Bernie's oldest actually helps so
because he reminds people that was last
he reminds people of your one good note
and that's literally it
the reason that people like Bernie in
like Corbin so much is because this
stage of neoliberalism is just it's a
daycare everything has bright [ __ ]
pastel colors when you like look at ads
for [ __ ] like you look at ads on the
train it's all GrubHub and like apps
that help you do it isn't really garish
time yes all the ads are all the ads
like you were a little goody good boy
you deserve a teacher today or like and
when you cut when you put when you call
when you call like you're [ __ ] when
you call your [ __ ] knife is garbage
you have ass and yeah baby shout and
when you call your [ __ ] garbage
monopoly Telecom come because your [ __ ]
doesn't work you get like a little
infantilizing jingle they paint plated
tyrannical fat children to calm them
down like we're trying to get to you and
everything everything is worse
everything's worse your money buys less
half your [ __ ] income is going to
rent you're a [ __ ] baby all these
apps do basic things for you because you
have no time anymore because you're
because you're because you because your
boss iPhone won't even say I yeah
information alert hydration you need a
[ __ ] app to remind you drink water
because your boss now is like your
principal they could call you at any
time to get you in trouble for anything
school never ends and you when you're on
the phone with your principal you're on
the phone with the [ __ ] infantilizing
customer service or just everything in
this world seems like a daycare you want
an adult to break through and yell at
somebody and that's Bernie that's your
[ __ ] angry grandfather who at least
respects you to tell you how things are
and that's Corbin and I think that's why
people have an emotional a little bit of
why people have an emotional connection
to them yeah I'm serious
also like people don't this idea that
someone being old and dusty and like
that being a huge check against them
like that's such a middle-class thing
hold a sack like shut up dead that's
such a [ __ ] like know dad's [ __ ]
thing like it's like actually that's a
you problem most of us have kind of made
our peace with our parents no I mean
like my mom watched a little too much
PBS she was she did a pretty good job
like it's fine I'm mad about you can
never watch really that you hate
yourself or and you want someone to
blame either piece with their with their
dumb fight honestly McBurney could win
in 2020 and he would be the only one at
a national level who I would have any
kind of you know interesting but I would
want to know who he could he literally
couldn't even nominate somebody for
[ __ ] vice-president who would
probably be president when he dies only
if somebody about corned beef give me
Barbara Lee give me Barbara
double coleslaw well amber to your point
also I mean yeah Corbin is like your
cool grandpa who comes over sometimes
and will show you his big book of trains
and even lend it to you if you're if
you're good and youthful and you oppose
Israel the perfect grandparent the weird
thing about Korbin is when you go back
and you read like the the very big dense
boring histories of the Labour Party he
does not exist like he was such a
[ __ ] spook just like cokes pictures
of storm drains until the media well it
doesn't my hobby's don't hurt anyone
[Laughter]
