and now I think we should go into the
Chapo reading series for this week and
this week's selection as I mentioned
earlier comes to us care of a dennis
prager are you guys familiar with dennis
prager
oh yeah how like how a fan like how how
would you describe dennis prager
he's a very angry
radio host he's sort of he's rush
limbaugh if he was really proud of like
being in Mensa
he's just farting shock jock of the
right but he he thinks that he's really
really thoughtful dennis prager looks
like your friends uncle who like just
sort of clutches the arms of the couch
and sighs wall black baseball player
successfully scores a hit or steals the
base and then goes into the bathroom
where he takes a pillow and screams the
n-word into it and thinks you don't hear
that's what he looks like to me and it's
always looked like to me Oh like yeah
he's like he's incredibly corny
he's like be like the ultimate like
corny dad right-wing archetype but he's
also like super into religion like
that's his main thing and also like he's
like super into Judaism but like his
main project is like bridging the gap
between Conservative Judaism and
evangelical right-wing Christianity like
he's really wants to like sort of you
know he wants to bring those two forces
together and like that's I think his
kind of goal in life he plays the
accordion and I think most importantly
for the selection we're about to read is
that despite being obsessed with
religion and sexual morality he's not
gay he's horny as hell but for women and
this is what we're gonna talk about so
the the article that I've selected is
actually a series of articles it wasn't
it was too big just for even one post
it's a two-parter
the title of which is when a woman isn't
in the mood but for our purposes we can
just call
this women owe me sex by dennis prager
parts 1 & 2 this wants to [ __ ] really
happy
he needs to [ __ ] he's got he's got a
[ __ ] at least something at least once a
day and similar to what we mentioned
before about David French like when he
was talking about prints and how the
real heroes in America aren't famous
like the tick is that they're only
talking about themselves keep that in
mind when you read this because Dennis
is absolutely talking about himself so
okay let's begin this is when a woman
isn't in the mood part one by Dennis
Prager given our preoccupation with
politics and economics it is easy to
forget that for most of us micro issues
still play a greater role in our lives
so here are some thoughts that as
heretical as they might sound have been
found extremely helpful sometimes even
marriage saving from listeners to my
radio show which features a male-female
hour every week male/female hour on his
show every week the guy I can't met
that's that must be like the happiest
hour radio oh my god can you just
imagine the [ __ ] sexual thank you
it's like when it's like with Stern has
a pornstar rival sibian only [ __ ]
with a sheet between them yeah it's yeah
Dennis it's like why not at the
interview porn stars but Dennis Prager
is like so why so if you're on how many
agents does uh the Muslim Brotherhood
have in the State Department okay he
goes on the subject is one of the most
common problems that beset snura jizz
the wife who is quote not in the mood
and the consequently frustrated and hurt
husband it is an axiom of contemporary
marital life that if a wife is not in
the mood she'd need not have sex with
her husband here are some arguments why
a woman who loves her husband might want
to rethink this axiom
Wow this is I mean people have long
requested a version of Eliot Rodgers
manifesto where he employed the use of a
thesaurus and we finally have it close
your eyes and think of Prager baby he
says first women need to recognize how a
man understands a wife's refusal to have
sex with him a husband knows that his
wife loves him first and foremost by her
willingness to give her body to him this
is rarely the case for women few women
know their husbands love them because he
gives her his body this idea almost
sounds funny now this is the old women
aren't really horny thing that he's
going into here he's like he's like
ladies you don't really understand what
it's like to just be like so horny that
like your teeth are grinding together
and you're just like your eyes are
bugging out of your eyes that you're
married to me yeah you can really tell
he's running from his own experience
he's like look women don't enjoy sex at
all they hate it they hate every second
of it but they'll do it three or four
times a year to refer to reward alpha
genius men like ouch you're getting
sweat on me this is disgusting Dennis
yeah you need to shower beforehand you
know I mean like you know like everyone
else in the world when you know me and
my wife we have sex once every lunar
cycle
I mean who hasn't heard this wrong hole
Dennis every wife says that no I mean
this is a common problem whom amongst us
hasn't wanted sex from a woman who
wasn't willing to let you use her body
to jack off with but no it gets so much
worse because he describes sex as like
the worst chore imaginable but one that
you know the intelligent woman will
submit to your regardless of how [ __ ]
unbearable it is he says this is
therefore usually a revelation to women
many women think men's natures are
similar to theirs and this is so
different from a woman's nature that few
women know of this about men unless
told about it again women just sex isn't
something that they really think about
or care about so it's very hard for them
to understand what it's like for a man
yeah women have no idea men are horny by
the way men are really good at hiding
you know meet me personally I've never
gone into a GNC and knocked all of the
pre-workout samples off the table with
my boner Oh humble brag Felix come on
careful now this is a major reason
husband's clam up a man whose wife
frequently denies him sex will first be
hurt then sad then angry then quiet
imagine the the silence that permeates
the Prager household at all times
there's just the sound of like
silverware clacking on like a dinner
plate as he like just sort of like cuts
is like you know Bert roast into every
fourth tiny pieces just steering into
these vacantly dude you know what dinner
at the Prager household is like it's
like the Attic dinner scene in Clockwork
Orange he says no he says men are afraid
to tell their wives they are often made
to feel ashame of their male sexual
nature and they are him million
humiliated indeed emasculated by feeling
that they are reduced to having to beg
for sex ooh never beg for sex fellas
that's that's not a good look not a good
look
I mean you don't want to be like Peggy
Bundy let's not have sex about ho black
people have a crime bone in their brain
[Laughter]
okay this is part one he goes on to list
like typical female reactions to finding
out that men are horny as hell
all the time and just like need to jack
off and [ __ ] them constantly it's it's
it's not really entertaining it's stupid
as hell and the real the real meat of it
is in the part two of this article where
he he starts speaking directly to the
women more okay so moving on to part two
now he says in part one I made the
argument that any woman who is married
to a good man and who wants a happy
marriage
to consent to at least some form of
sexual relations as much as possible and
he says men need to you know he does say
also men need to understand that
intercourse should not necessarily be
the goal of every sexual encounter I
mean sometimes you just want some head
am i right
yeah no like this is Dennis Prager
co-wrote the three 6 mafia's song slob
on my knob but in the original cut in
the original cut it was like slob on my
knob a wife does her job does their job
rock Obama ate a dog III missed this
part he includes this massive caveat at
the end of part one that's important he
said
now everything I said here comes with
this clarification everything I said
applies under only two conditions the
woman is married to a good man is number
one if she's married to a bad man forget
about it I don't know who decides that
maybe the wife has decided she is
married to evade the second condition is
she wants him to be a happy husband if
either condition is not present nothing
written here matters so just keep that
in mind he like how he writes this out
like a like a mathematical law craigers
theory of unfuck ability it's it's
Euclidian geometry folks when it's true
one place is through everywhere in
geography ok so he says the female
orgasm is highly theoretical it's like
string theory ok so he says in part 2 I
advance the argument that he imparts you
I advance the argument that a wife
should do so even when she is not in the
mood for sexual relations I am talking
about mood not times of emotional
distress or illness dude yet he did not
heartless people yeah he says here are
eight reasons for a woman not to allow
not being in the mood for sex to
determine whether she
neither husband sex number one number
one this is like David Letterman year
number one if most women wait until they
are in the mood before making love with
their husband many women will be waiting
a month or more until they have sex she
says when when most women are young and
for some older women spontaneously
getting in the mood to have sex with a
man they love can occur easily hey
Dennis I got news for you
they can also spontaneously get in the
mood to have sex in men they're not in
love with it happens all the time but he
goes on to say for most women for myriad
reasons female nature childhood trauma
not feeling sexy being preoccupied with
some problem fatigue after a day with
children and or other work or just not
being interested there is little
comparable to a man's out of nowhere and
seemingly constant desire for sex can I
just say that like his explanation for
why women themselves wouldn't want to
[ __ ] it's like it's very dan Quinn I was
like going Dan what Dan Quinn talks
about the violin explain the violins who
are sinners the oral set the violin is
an oral sex technique invented by Dan
Quinn where you put two fingers above
the g-spot one on the [ __ ] and you play
the [ __ ] like a swizzle stick flute
Dan's words not mine but Dan says that
it creates triple-digit orgasms others
it reminds me of the the the movie
within a movie in Boogie Nights the
documentary about Dirk Diggler that
amber waves directs and he's yeah if
we've been doing this years ago think
about all the marriages we could have
seen I think that's that's part of my
reason for doing this you know I've
gotten thousands upon thousands of
letters you know from people tell
God you've taught me this and you've
made our love life so much better and
this isn't you know go out and have sex
with ten million people and you know how
to get a girl off it's about how to get
your wife one you know if only you know
people could have been doing this before
we could have saved a million
relationships you know I've saved out Oh
God really on number two I'm gonna have
to skip a lot of this cuz oh my god it's
unbearable but he says number two why
would a loving wise woman allow mood to
determine whether or not she will give
her husband one of the most exported
expressions of loves she can show him
what else in life of such significance
do we allow to be governed by mood what
if your husband woke up one day and
announced he was not in the mood to go
to work if this happened a few times a
year any wife would have sympathy for
her hard-working husband but what if
this happened so often as many wives
announced they're not in the mood to
have sex
most women would gradually stop
respecting and therefore eventually stop
loving such a man
stop taking sick days and [ __ ] me
already I think we have to read between
the lines here and determine the
Dennises wife treats not [ __ ] dentist
like a job yep it's a full-time work
we're gonna get to the punchline about
Dennis's wife at the end of this by the
way there is a there is a turn coming up
just a little preview ooh boy
thus in the past generation we have
witnessed the devise to the concept of
obligation in personal relations we have
been nurtured in a culture of rights not
a culture of obligations
this is to me this is not to me because
I think dennis is getting into this like
BDSM relationship of like just like
erotic servitude because that marriage
has gone downhill since you couldn't
like kill your wife and it was a
misdemeanor that's why there's all these
divorces yeah number five
partially in response to the historical
denigration of women's worse since the
1960's there has been an idealization of
women and their feelings so if a husband
is in the mood for sex and the wife is
not her feelings are deemed of greater
significance um yeah that's I that's I
think probably because it's
you know her body that you're like awful
hog is gonna be like you know limply
thrusting in and out of for a couple of
minutes so I think that's actually why
they do get veto power over that yes
Dennis is like literally describing why
rape is a crime anyway he's like and
it's bad number six
yet another outgrowth of 60s thinking is
the notion that it is quote hypocritical
or wrong in some way to act contrary to
one's feelings one should always act
post sixties theory teaches consistent
with one's feelings this is like a Brad
Goodman from The Simpsons episode I'm
not a person being I'm a person doing
of course most women never regard it as
hypocritical and rightly regard it as
admirable when they meet their child's
or parents or friends needs when they
are not in the mood to do so they're
stupid kid [ __ ] up I mean you would
actually miss sucking your terrible
husband's fetid [ __ ] over seeing your
daughter graduating or visiting your
ailing mother in the hospital
oh my god with a [ __ ] man no I mean this
is the post 60s culture we live in women
are so women be selfish folks number
seven
many contemporary women have an almost
exclusively romantic notion of sex it
should always be mutually desired and
equally satisfying or one should not
engage in it I can't believe he's
writing miserable this is this is the
greatest cellphone of all time yeah it's
like Oh having these feelings to be like
universally like this is what all how
all men think but it's like oh my god he
goes oh yeah this is like addressed his
wife worries like oh I'm sorry may you
want the perfect romantic comedy world
where you don't just lay there like a
stiff board as I sweat all over you and
and gasp and almost get a coronary
as I just leaked my disgusting comment
via
I stare at the ceiling this 1960s
entitlement culture women are just like
I want to have an orgasm oh oh oh I
don't want to [ __ ] my disgusting husband
with his scoop neck he just screams
about black people all day now he says
oh god it gets so much worse I don't
have to read all of this one because
it's it's it's stunning he says
therefore if a couple engages in sexual
relations when he wants and she does not
the act is quote dehumanizing and
mechanical now ideally every time a
husband and wife have sex they would
equally desire and equally enjoy it in
some kind of fantasy world I guess but
given the different sexual nature's of
men and women this cannot always be the
case if it is a romance that a woman
seeks and she has every right to it
would help her to realize how much more
romantic her husband and marriage are
likely to be if he is not regularly
denied sex even of the non romantic
variety that right there is like that's
like the kid promising his parents that
like he's gonna get a job once once they
like [ __ ] him give him back his xbox
like like he probably thinks master just
jacking off is wrong if you're horny but
like yeah it's a it's a wife's job to
use her body to just let her husband
jack off whenever he wants just just get
a whole and just jack his dick off into
it basically and how she feels about
that is utterly irrelevant if she loves
her husband this is like this is what he
did what he's writing that whatever a
horrifying type of sterile [ __ ] von
trier ask sexual encounter that would be
would totally be fine with him like he
doesn't give a [ __ ] he'd be totally
satisfied by that yeah man I came what
else yeah I know he like yeah he just
gets his nut off and then he dips it in
the cup of water they keep by the bed
for the dick cleaning cup okay finally
number eight in the rest of life not
just in marital sex it is almost always
a poor eye
to allow feelings or mood to determines
one's behavior far wiser is to use
behavior to shape one's feelings act
happy no matter what your mood and you
will feel happier act loving and you
will feel more loving act religious no
matter how deep your religious doubts
and you will feel more religious act
generous even if you have a selfish
nature and you will end up with a more
generous nature with regard to virtually
anything in life that is good for us if
we wait until we are in the mood to do
it we will wait too long so he says if
what I gotta say is orgasms long enough
she'll eventually have a real one look I
know that like the people on the show
were foreign policy non interventionist
but I want to send the 87th Airborne
Division to like rescue Dennis's wife
there needs to be a zero dark thirty
type movie we're like a sexy lady CIA
officer who like you know uses a
vibrator and sleeps around liberate
Dennis's wife yeah yeah can we I just
want a waterboard Dennis like you're not
gonna get any information but he just
like should be waterboarded so there you
have it folks um when a woman isn't in
the mood follow these simple rules and
you'll be you'll be smashing in no time
yeah oh but I told you that there was a
twist at the end of this you guys ready
for it I'm ready oh yeah it's not
liberating Dennis's wife it's liberating
his current wife Dennis Prager has been
married three times I can't imagine why
what holy [ __ ] if you know any of Dennis
Prager his ex-wives please let us know
because we have to interview them really
we really do we also and I'm sorry I'm
sorry so sort of fundraising for them
because Jesus these women have suffered
enough
dude Dennis Dennis Prager is like the
yellow King is the yellow is the yellow
teeth King oh man that was that was an
amazing Reading Series
aye-aye-aye previewed that one I said
where you're gonna do it lay back on
like Episode four or five or so it was a
long time ago there's a long time coming
I'm glad we had the the time to finally
do it but I was I was hoping that you
would forget because I didn't I didn't
want to read it again
pluggin horrifying I'm glad we've we've
traumatized you all today with that but
that's that's the whole purpose of the
reading series and just keep them coming
