I don't want to shout out one person at
the conference a guy who I remember from
the the bleeding heart liver carrion
days will Wilkinson who he was a his
paranoid libertarian Cato guy and then
he moved he quit politics and he moved
to Houston to get an MFA and write his
novel this was about I think like ten
years ago now and the novel was going to
be about love and loss amongst walks
during the Bush administration oh and it
was gonna be like a romantic lay about
hit because he was one he was like you
know a foot soldier for the for the
think tank ah cracy during the Bush
years so it was going to be a thinly
veiled autobiography of like [ __ ]
other walks likes getting slapped in the
face with a lanyard while having sex at
like the Heritage department or a
Heritage Foundation broom closet or
something oh my god do to imagine just a
heavy makeout sesh with Panera soup
still like a little bit of soup crusted
on the corners of your mouth you just
push that Social Security privatization
paper off the desk
you're already square-ass
and you're just going to town going to
town right through a pencil skirt but I
neared you you're just [ __ ] you pull
out and you [ __ ] you you not on a
chart that would explain how Medicare
block grants work that's so [ __ ] hot
dude that's so [ __ ] oh my god Wow
[ __ ] I'll be back in five minutes boys
oh my god the last couple of years
without fanfare he moved back to DC and
he's now like the director or the like
the vice president's about you and Annie
Sinatra miss Kaysen and he's now a Vox
contributor and the book the novel has
thankfully disappeared from ever
apparently it's never coming out well
hopefully he read it and realized as
workers I did know one must read this so
he ever send out the manuscript to
publishers or anything I mean probably
I've never got a well you know if you
are a listener
works in the publishing industry or your
friends with will we copy of his wonk
romance novel please Chapo travels at
gmail.com nerd who has had this like in
my head for a decade now the thought of
this has been like hanging over my head
like the sword of Damocles it's like one
day this awful book about running
interns at [ __ ] Kato or American
Enterprise that's gonna come out and and
I'm dreading it and then he popped up
back in DC and he's like hey let's talk
let's talk moderation like wait a minute
you were gonna be a novelist dear
American Spectator I never thought this
would happen to me well if you are
listening to this and you still have
that manuscript we will publish it
ourselves scene we will put money
towards marketing it by a billboard does
he either he either put it out there
either submitted and no one put bit or
he read it and realized ya know all of
us will blurb this and I would like to
know if I well I would literally I would
you know as a filmmaker myself and you
know a fan of certain types of films I
would punch up a lot of those sections
