all right so finally we bring to our
last read and I think this is the
official reading series for this episode
and it may cause Matt to have a stroke
Oh God it comes courtesy of again
another chapo all-star we haven't
honestly checked in on in a long time
but I think I think the time has come to
for her to make another appearance I'm
talking of course about Washington Post
opinions columnist Megan McArdle
probably I would say the all-star in the
Chapo roster like in the chapel Hall of
Fame I think she's racked up hype more
points and had Williams yeah like Babe
Ruth Ted Williams and Muhammad Ali
rolled together is Megan McArdle but
instead of sports it's being right
having good thoughts and putting them
into writing them down and publishing
them okay
courtesy of the Washington Post Megan
McArdle said I was going to talk about
affordable health care and the costs of
prescription drugs Megan McCain Megan
Megan McArdle we did want to throw them
Megan McCain and their husband Ben
Domino getting mad at town Meyers real
quick that was a funny thing that
happens a funny that's a really
convincing
Isaac acting job fear bed domino sorry I
love my wife
sorry age I love my wife I wanna I have
a huge fan of my wife okay man that's so
mad it's Seth Meyers for being mean to
her I wonder how my daddy's gonna get it
himself for all the times he publicly
owned her on Twitter before they got
married
was it a Stefan heck found one where it
was just like like a manual RT where it
was like someone's that he was manually
RTing someone that was like contest you
know like win a date with Megan McCain
and then he's just in all caps no do not
want ya with any matter and we all have
to admit I mean come on
she's very she's very traumatic she's
great yeah just I mean they went to a
date and like she screamed at the waiter
until her face was the color of a
[ __ ] play like do you think it was
like lady it was like lady in the [ __ ]
instead of fighting over like connecting
the same piece of spaghetti to kiss
they're both flagging down the same
manager and the waiter fire he grabbed
each other's wrists Bend Domino though
claiming that Seth Meyers only got his
job because he was gargling Lorne
Michaels balls yeah
no no that's true that is like Lauren
Michaels saw Seth Meyers and he was like
I want that sexy [ __ ] to suck on my
balls
sexually not my dick just my balls and
again very weird Ike Barinholtz also
pointed this out he's calling Seth
Meyers a hack which is like whatever
been Domino got fired from the
Washington Post for plagiarizing PJ
O'Rourke hey if you wanna fired for
plagiarizing a hack if you wanna you
know be the best deal for the best yeah
people aren't like what would you
plagiarize from PG at work hey sometimes
I like a little alcohol with my politics
cool is awesome column about like I
think all the hippies should get jobs
cleaning golf courses no no no that's a
bunch of people smell bad uh hello epoch
Department okay so this other favorite
Megan and I think honestly the better
Megan if we're being honest here Megan
McArdle whoa there is a high cost to
making drugs more affordable for
Americans so like now I know like okay
pays $120 for an eighth once well I mean
it's true like if people had access to
medicines some of them might not die
early and those people might end up
being school shooters or Hitler or
something so you know that's a cost yeah
consider so I mean Megan is here to tell
you that like yes it's become we as a
public we become increasingly aware of
the sort of ludicrous and you know like
blackmail basically involved in the drug
companies can now charge $700 for
insulin or something like that and that
there's a growing going I think that's
been synthesised for almost a hundred
and that you know they abused patent
laws to like you these things from being
like you know public domain you know
basically in a perpetuity and you know
you may think that that's bad and
Megan's saying you know you may be right
but like on the other hand what are the
costs of fixing that you know it could
be higher than you actually dying from
diabetes what if they what if they try
to make insulin generic and then they
forget how to make it I mean you're
telling me when you go to the
supermarket you want that shitty cereal
it's in a bag what if you start getting
prescription drugs that are like you
know a knockoff of prozac yeah you don't
want to go into Trader
Joe and get some tap okay Megan McArdle
Americans outraged about prescription
drug prices is odd in a way what
beautiful opening sentence drops it
counts I love a nice declarative clear
statement of intent to begin any article
I like I always like to begin an
argument me there's like hang anything
well as you're aware the most
infuriating part about Megan McArdle and
her writing / thinking style is
essentially laundering her hard right
wing the point of view through obscene
Thuy affectations and absurd hemming and
hawing where you go on the one hand on
the other hand and you make it seem like
you're being a forgiving a fair-minded
representation give me an R and over the
ships oh yeah oh she write I read knew
what she believed in and would say that
you're a worm if you think otherwise
like she mcarnold wrote that [ __ ] it
would be like a kind of equals a I think
maybe but one could see Charlie or it
equals B who is John Galt I don't know
people are kind of saying who he's a guy
is he I don't know he might be a guy
it's fun I kind of think he's a guy it's
weird okay
drugs this is McArdle again drugs
account for less than 10% of the
nation's overall health care spending
and while the price of some medicines
has spiked overall spending on
prescription drugs has grown more slowly
than brought at broader health care
expenditure li dying because they're
rationing their insulin like on the
regular no but like there could be more
oh she what she saying is like it's odd
that you care so much about how
expensive prescription drugs are costing
because the cost of prescription for
drugs has actually grown far slower and
less dramatically than the cost of
everything else associated without
exploding
so she goes in 2017 the increase didn't
even keep up with inflation oh my god
yet push I guess all those people aren't
dead yet polls show that pharmaceutical
companies are one of the most hated
private sector industries below the rest
of the healthcare industry it's like and
below even lawyers it's like this
company where they say hey I need this
thing to not die and then they say five
million orders
if you can't afford it we won't give it
to you it's weird people resent that cut
that industry how could you not like
somebody who is weighing two things in
two hands one of them is like you know
will thousands of people die because we
just gouged the price on something we
didn't invent and on the other hand is
like his kid going to the new schools
new mime academy how could you hate that
ongoing war against New York's the new
school no okay look I just think it's
emblematic of the type of person
everyone everyone at the new school
their dad is all Martin shkreli it's a
long story he goes that's why it's been
such fertile territory for Democratic
presidential candidate senator Bernie
Sanders who in April introduced the bill
to control prescription drug prices and
last week tweeted that once in the White
House he would lower the outrageously
high price of prescription drugs this
idea the idea is proven so popular that
even Republicans including senator Rick
Scott are getting into the act Rick
Scott by the way if he's getting in on
the act he must have figured out a way
that he can steal millions from Medicare
recipients directly Scott is gonna be
the first senator sponsored by big ball
or baller which isn't really surprising
at all is it Megan drugs maybe a small
part of our health care spending but
it's the cost that were most directly
exposed to month after month more is a
big part yeah more immediate moreover
it's easy to directly compare us prices
with much lower prices and say Canada
yeah another comparable like
industrialized first world nation that's
literally we share a border with that is
in every way that's like America that
like for some reason their drugs cost
ate like a fraction of what it we do in
the people literally organize caravans
to go north of the border to get [ __ ]
drugs
Megan ons honestly Megan would like to
build a wall but on the Canadian borders
you Americans can you know steal
prescription drugs from Canada so he
goes um Americans think the difference
is unfair because it is and yet
Americans arguably get a pretty good
deal from all this overspending what
they get new drugs okay
like that [ __ ] for like make your IRA I
lives just liquor yeah new drugs we get
new drugs the oversize profits the types
of boner pill the oversized profits that
pharmaceutical companies collect in the
United States encourage them to do lots
of research and development in the hope
of earning more of those sweet sweet
returns again Lauren for [ __ ]
unbearably strong right you're writing
she writes like a [ __ ] high schooler
does she have any editors who are like
this isn't cute or funny Megan it's
actually grotesque and it's really good
in there she says encourages the sweet
sweet returns and one way one more sense
the rest of the world essentially free
rides on Americans willingness to pay
more okay willingness so yeah yeah our
willingness to pay no nobody nobody
asked us yeah yeah if given the choice
we would actually like to pay less and
that's what this article you're trying
to argue you're trying to talk us out of
in Megan's ideal world we all would be
willing to pay oh yeah that was like
your since your hosts hard-working
pharmaceutical reps they deserve every
penny okay what's so stunning about this
they gave me a slightly different type
of [ __ ] snap isn't Megan makes a
shitload of money right I mean I've
super she has got pretty good salary
writing for the post uh and like she
gets money in exchange for her
willingness to debase herself in public
over and over again what's stunning to
me about this line about how actually
American pharmaceutical interests a
their their profits subsidize medical
research that the rest of the world free
rides on is the oldest [ __ ] line and
like the health advisor [ __ ] PR
playbook they've been pulling this for
probably twenty years now and they're
doing it again they haven't changed this
line at all therefore their profits oh
it's going all to research they spend
vastly more money on [ __ ] marketing
and like a stock buyback on these video
marketing they spend enough pens that
have the names of drugs on it and hand
jobs for doctors so that they'll
prescribe them like they turn a fraction
of these profits on legitimate medical
research and most of the actual
important medical research that leads to
breakthroughs are are from government
funded National Institute of Health they
that they get and then onto it because
we have at a time release mechanism and
then patent it's and no one can get that
drug for next hundred years because we
don't have any mechanism to distribute
drugs or
actually uh to to develop and distribute
drugs we have to give the rate research
to private companies just because they
have a distribution network which we
could absolutely have that be a [ __ ]
public provision as well if okay Megan
continues you know and the thing she
says I just want to say if she does it
encourages them to put the money into
research well it's obviously not the
case
well beyond that it's like you're just
you're just saying that like that's
there's no support there you're saying
well logically it would it's the same
argument when they say oh you cut taxes
on rich people then they're gonna put it
back into their companies in the form of
investment and that'll mean more jobs we
know they don't do that we know for a
fact they don't do that but it sounds
like something you would do if you were
in that position so you think yeah
you're right they do that but we know
they don't do that because also her
premise that their money comes from like
the next big like life-saving drug no
their money comes from slight variations
on existing drugs and addicting the
nation to opiates yes and buying old
patents and jacking up the [ __ ] yeah
yes this is what I mean that like Megan
this is what you're taught with Megan
and other [ __ ] reptiles like are
taught at like the Koch brothers
Institute for Humane studies and these
journalism programs to get you placed in
somewhere like the Washington Post so
you can just regurgitate these ludicrous
like PR bromides from private industry
what you learned there is how to like
enesta sighs any sense of shame or
feelings that like you're a bad person
like megan gets paid to embarrass
herself in public because he doesn't
care what she didn't give another
bondsman what she says doesn't care at
all what comes out of her mouth she just
knows that she has to do it she's just
thinking about that williamson on a
catalog she's thinking about putting
another [ __ ] geegaw in her goddamn
kitchen so go she goes oh he's a Lydia
rodarte-quayle he goes on here if the
United States enacted european-style
price controls on drugs less of that
research would be done and that would
mean real losses to human welfare in
recent years drug companies have offered
among other things a cure for hepatitis
C a treatment for drug-resistant
epilepsy and near miraculous remission
rates for previously terminal cancers
okay
Oh they've invented all those things
good let's make a public domain and have
it so that everyone can have access to
these new wonderful life-saving drugs
and once again I want to see the [ __ ]
work on where the goddamn research for
these comes from because just because by
our patents that or sells it to you or
puts a commercial out does not mean that
they did the [ __ ] research that made
that happen because the argument is a
familiar one though and advocates for
some form of price controls already have
rejoinders probably the most frequently
heard is that drug companies can keep
research investment high by cutting in
other areas such as marketing dividends
and stock buybacks and boohoo if the
shareholders don't like it The Advocate
again that's literally what I just said
so she says the advocate solution is
simple appealing and wrong it
fundamentally misunderstands the nature
of drug drug pricing issue which is not
a budget problem but an investment
problem a budget problem is what it
sounds like it's how you match outflow
to inflow if your salary drops by a
third you start cutting expenses until
you've eliminated the deficit farewell
vacation and it making it come time to
sell one of those cars but the
investments are but investments are
about how you make your income grow
imagine that you're deciding whether to
go into business for yourself it doesn't
really matter what sort of business but
since Tuesday was national roast leg of
lamb day let's say you want to open a
sheep farm I don't know what the [ __ ]
she's talking about here there's a
here's a good thing you start with a
simple defensible moral principle which
is that no one should die in the richest
nation on earth because they can't
afford insulin a drug that's been extant
for seventy years now you can create an
argument - Rhett - like sort of reverse
engineer an argument against that you
have to come up with this convoluted
thought experiment where you're
investing in land futures because it's a
gross leg of lamb day or you're
comparing it to a household budget where
you're like oh oh if drug company is you
know cut back on marketing then you know
if you think about that like your family
that means that you won't be taking a
vacation what the [ __ ] is she talking
about
looks like the classic Felix tweet where
you start off page one of an economics
textbook is the economy is why we have
ice cream page ten fifty is and that's
why it's okay that people die in
factories
I just I'm very proud that a Bloomberg
or Washington Post sorry I forgot she's
not she's Washington Post has hired dr.
William gull you know bread prices it
was a was it it was the Jews were the
ones who have not not been blamed for
nothing
yeah
but no she's just--she's she's like
leading a trail of breadcrumbs into the
enchanted forest
so you can just get lost there forever
if you're like well yeah I want to
forget a lamb farm okay and then what a
but what if those yeah what about that
extra not the car payment and and by the
end of it you just don't even know what
your name is I have to say like
McArdle's like affectation I guess has
worked on me sometimes cuz it's just
like we really do beat up on this shitty
writing so much and she's terribly she's
just a [ __ ] hapless like in her life
she's like a hapless no hope she is like
a succession of like partners and
husbands just like please so we had one
husband well she had a partner lou hamer
us before that who all the same kind of
like her and then this guy who ties
world of warcraft all day and she just
wakes up feeling nothing and then panic
at that nothing and all she can do is
just like buy mixers or some [ __ ] that
use like a courts tip so you can make a
finer type of cookie dough or whatever
and it's just like it is sad to see
someone's life just so nakedly pointless
and they're so clearly unhappy but then
you just read this like man she's just
[ __ ] terrible
she's such a [ __ ] person she is so dog
[ __ ] as a human being but she doesn't
care I mean the grenfell thing it sounds
like a horrible things happen do things
that shocked the conscience inside and
make people needless suffering and and
and the thing about that kind of thing
is it makes people think what can we do
to stop this and her job is to get in
between you and your outrage and say
exactly you shouldn't be outraged about
this and if that's her that's her job
that's your [ __ ] there like they put
that foot like her [ __ ] like her
[ __ ] corn planter and in her [ __ ] and
you know what Matt it's this is exactly
the same move that she does in the
grenfell column which is like you have a
thing that shocks the conscious
pointless needless suffering and cruelty
that happens because of greed and no
other reason but the greed of private
actors capitalist drop yeah yeah exactly
yeah he gets in there and says I know
you think you may think it would be good
if we did something about that but what
if I were to tell you that in doing
something about that there's a
a butterfly effect that will create an
even worse scenario that will be in legs
even more suffering than what exists no
drugs for anyone yeah exactly but she
goes on here she says do you still open
the sheep farm you can you can cut the
budget and maybe still eke out a living
when you're making a new investment I'm
gonna I'm reading this whole thing I'm
reading this whole thing you could cut
the budget and maybe so eke out a living
but when you're making a new investment
the question isn't how can I make my
income match my expenses but is the is
this the best use of my time and money
most of us want to do more than eke out
a living if government squeezes the
profit out of a business we're not going
to go into that business we'll do
something else
that's how pharmaceutical firms think
about research and development not as
something they must do which they will
support by economizing elsewhere but is
something they would like to do if the
investment pays better than doing
something else such as executing stock
buybacks it's also how people buying
people how people buying biotech stocks
or lending money to pharmaceutical firms
think about their activities and so if
the returns on those investments are
squeezed fewer investments will be made
it's almost like the [ __ ] profit
motive is a direct conflict with human
welfare how about we just them
nationalized all pharmaceutical firms
and run them as public concerns oh wait
a minute no no because you need the only
thing that makes people develop new
medicines is profit motive those those
scientists in those labs at the national
list of the health they've got dollar
signs in their head which is of course
why [ __ ] Cuba which has a totally
nationalized health care system and is
also an impoverished island under
[ __ ] economic embargo for 60 years
cured cancer and cured AIDS and fetuses
and it has a [ __ ] of a cancer vaccine
they were able to pull this [ __ ]
together without having an industry that
depends on like taking a bunch of
[ __ ] like general practitioners from
Omaha taking about the steak dinners and
then giving them all lap dances at
scores okay I hear you're saying in his
valid point but imagine if you will it
was an shilada night at your house but
someone made a little oopsy-daisy and
forgot to buy the soft taco shells now
you could make it with hard taco shells
but if my husband who hasn't made eye
contact with me in six months he forgot
where I put my 35,000
our tortilla maker then I just have to
completely pointlessly meander through
life at the behest of the Bohemian Grove
and reptilians and then I just die a
pointless existence having never really
been loved or loved anyone and then you
can't get your aunt waters but there's a
know there's a fundamental complicating
this of it has the profit motive is what
gives people the incentive to do Do's
life-saving work and in what and we've
already pointed out that that's not
necessarily true the cuban health care
system comes out with amazing life
sanitation i on a shoestring bucket
budget with no profit who's the guy who
created the polio vaccine right on it
insulin to I'll show you he didn't say I
want one day for the disgusting slug
daughter of Joe Manchin to be able to
buy 16 [ __ ] below ground pools on a on
a recently a mountaintop removed Hill in
[ __ ] West Virginia but I think a good
example that is even more trenchant to
how there's just this is a fundamentally
incorrect argument this idea that that
that profit is what is good as is what
saves lives and medical in the medical
world is people might know this or not
but we are on the verge of getting a
epidemic of antibiotic resistant
bacteria that could like deaths decimate
the human population because we have
because bacteria have over the last
couple of generations grown increasing
resistant to existing antibiotics
antibiotics are becoming less and less
effective at stopping infections we
talked about this with Lee Phillips it
basically means that like not only or
most medical like surgeries would be
impossible without antibiotics but like
very simple things like like catheters
would also be impossible without
antibiotics and the pharmaceutical
industry is not doing anything about it
because there's no money in it though so
this is a case where the let the profit
motive is literally incentivizing
apocalypse apocalypse yes
well sanitizing us allowing everyone to
die of antibiotic resistant bacteria
looks like guys you don't swear for
their floor or looking pretty smart last
paragraph thank god there's a reasonable
argument of course that Americans should
be willing to forsake pharmaceutical
research to
current drugs more affordable but before
going that route everyone needs to be
clear on what sort of decision is being
made otherwise it's all too likely that
cutting drug prices now in the name of
easing people's budgets will mean later
discovering that we inadvertently
sacrificed the life-saving investments
of the future okay well we've talked
about why that's [ __ ] and why her
premise is wrong but right there where
she says what did she say we're doing it
in the name of what about the budgets
otherwise it's all too likely that
cutting drug prices now in the name of
easing people's budget there you go
that's what help that's what
prescription drug prices mean to to
Megan McArdle oh I might have to not get
that that rice enema machine but I was
gonna instead of literal life or death
for millions of people which we know for
a fact it is how many [ __ ] times have
you seen a story about somebody who
rations their [ __ ] insulin until they
die because they haven't been getting
consistent treatment for their diabetes
it happens all the [ __ ] time and
people never even get prescriptions
filled that they have been prescribed
for that because they can't afford it
and then they die we know that people
are literally dying over this it's not
about whether or not you're gonna and
she inch and and she tips her hand to
and she says well it's like a household
budget if you cut here you might not be
able to take that vacation or you might
have to sell that second car just that's
her baseline as somebody who's going to
[ __ ] - going to Aspen and has three
cars the [ __ ] garage and and who is
who's a household budget is just just
this vast array of the dispenses that
she can slowly winnow down in the case
of an economic downturn instead of what
it is for most people which is a [ __ ]
razor's edge of life and death and a
thing like a spike in in the cost of a
of a prescription
is why you die it's why you die or it's
why you use you can't do something else
that's vastly important to your life and
that leaves you completely [ __ ]
somewhere else I mean again like the
question is being posed is not about
budgets is you know if if you like have
X like how much money would you pay to
keep living how much money would you
keep paying what would you pay to keep
your foot like how much money would you
pay like to you know have a liveable
call
of life this is the question that our
health insurance the health insurance
and prescription drugs in America in a
privatized system asks people every day
to Megan because I don't think she's
like I don't know human being not
running I'm not really a human she's a
really strong argument for the David egg
theory yeah to her that's a reasonable
question and that you could create a
graph actually they could chart out like
where your sweet spot is between like
living living a decent life living a
life that's brutally you know per you
know prescribed by a chronic illness
that would otherwise be treatable but
you know also you want that you know jet
ski or whatever she probably has like
you know formulas and graphs that she
thinks represent like a logical way to
figure this out but at the end of the
day she knows this is all [ __ ] but
she knows it's her job to write it and
put her name on it and they just want
they they just want real estate in the
newspaper where someone will say are you
doing other people someone will just say
you know hey affordable drugs that you
know save your life or the lives of
people you know and love that might
sound good but what if it weren't yeah
and the thing is is it and whenever
she's doing this she's invoking a real
argument and and she and it is a kind of
a straw man thing and I think she could
argue well when you talk about the way
people talk about things they really
only emphasize the positives and not the
trade-offs it's like yeah that's what
literally everyone does in politics
you're acting like that's some sort of
cheating demagoguery when leftists do it
literally everyone [ __ ] does that but
yes of course they're [ __ ]
cost/benefit of course there's there's
trade-offs there have to be for
everything but her assumption is
whatever we do the trade-offs they're
all in the context where there are these
disgusting fat blood-filled tick
parasites who are sucking off everyone
else so that their kids can go to Clown
College their profits are in our kehna
are sacrosanct like whatever whatever
whatever we're doing in terms of trading
off a bloated disgusting corporate
sector of capitalist profit tiers that's
built in because that can't go anywhere
like joe manchin [ __ ] daughter all
the Sackler z' they they have to be kept
whole they cannot lose their standard of
living there cannot lose their 15th
yacht not even their standard of living
they can't even take a minor haircut
nothing now
I can't lose anything yeah and that I
just think that that's a very faulty
assumption to say the least and it's
funny how she doesn't and she never
really puts it that way of course cuz
nobody would accept it but like look at
that article she's talking about the
incentive to produce well what's what's
who makes the money it's not the guys
who make the [ __ ] disease changing
drugs it's the guys who sell them it's
the [ __ ] companies that sell them
that make them money that the people who
actually do the life-saving research
they cannot be motivated by the thought
of oh my god I'm gonna be a billionaire
because they never become billionaires
their [ __ ] bosses do and like so much
of like like economic theory like the
way I mean like like when I say Megan
isn't human I would say like most of the
economics profession like as a
discipline is also deeply inhuman in
that like it's this weird overlap with
like evolutionary biology where they
assume individual human beings or these
like just rational computing machines
that are always making decisions based
on their like genetic outcome and they
generally don't think they think like
altruism generally doesn't exist or it
only extends so far as like your
immediate blood group and that everyone
is capable of making these choices like
like a computer nodes and kind of an
algorithm which just based on any human
experience outside of the realm of
economics is untrue yes and then here's
the thing economics creates that world
by which we literally are all competing
with one another to [ __ ] like I that
you know like my getting prescription
drugs comes at the expense of everyone
else or like things like that work makes
this robotic inhuman world it's like a
self-fulfilling prophecy
and here's the other way that you know
it's [ __ ] the assumption there is
everyone is motivated by personal
interest and not even that specifically
fine and hapless financial interest
investment and that's why people create
life-saving drugs well as we've said the
people actually create life-saving drugs
our scientists and doctors and I and
they I could say categorically they are
not motivated by becoming billionaires
why because they became scientists
instead of becoming pharmaceutical
executives if they cared about money
they wouldn't have that job they would
have the job in the [ __ ] C Suites so
clearly there are people in the world
who want to help other people and that
and the capitalism exists
it's supposed to be the thing that
directs directs resources right like
efficiently that's the argument of
capitalism it's the most efficient way
to direct resources and that might have
some validity in certain like consumer
markets but in something as is vital and
and as an inelastic as [ __ ]
healthcare and in medicine it's simply
not true we know where the resources
should go we know what we need to do and
we have people who want to work on those
things we could just direct the money
that way we do not need this parasitic
class directing the money in a way that
guarantees that they are always
compensated and that people because of
that die because you create the
artificial scarcity of price in price
points elevated price points to to limit
the number of people who can access a
drug I would say at the end of the day
economics like as a discipline is
largely created and maintained by people
who hate humanity mm-hmm they have a
fundamental contempt for human beings or
humanity as a concept and like they wish
to exist only as individuals in
competition ruthless competition with
everyone else and they cannot conceive
of a world in which that is not the case
and they are in fact creating one in
which it is so Megan McArdle once again
probably the greatest all-star in chop-o
history campus security was not called
unlike the Grenfell episode but you know
we've got children now we're on that
Mary Ann yeah in fact Lee ever since the
Mary I'm into my life I just can't get
as angry as I guess well I hope it will
not affect the quality of the show I
think that just about does it for this
week and so until next time guys bye bye
bye yeah
