hey everyone I have to take a moment and
respond to some statements made on the
show a couple weeks ago when I was not
present now I don't listen to this
program I've never had to listen to my
own podcast I'm not terribly sure what
it's about all this percolated down to
me through the hate messages I receive
from the weepy woke people identity
Europa members sexual offenders and
other such individuals who contact us
and that gave me the gist of what you
creatures have said and I feel that I
must set the record straight
first off allow me to settle this
trivial controversy yes it is wrong to
have children I've explained this many
times imagine if I built a robot keep
capable of feeling pain and then I told
it I'm going to unplug it in 70 minutes
and then I set it on fire
it would be wheeling around in circles
flailing its flanges going why why air
our air and now that'd be funny and we'd
all be laughing of course but I've still
done a bad thing don't have children has
nothing to do with climate change and
has nothing to do with the Jacobin
articles by people who [ __ ] up and had
kids and are trying to delude you all
into thinking they didn't [ __ ] up which
we all know they did we all think that
evidence we don't have kids there you go
primary arguments for having kids I'm
bored I'm ready for the next stage in
life I want to watch something learn
about dandelions and ethnic cleansing
I'm aging and I've given up on all my
dreams so I have to offload them onto
someone else and a desperate bid for
immortality these are all model and
selfish reasons for bringing life into
existence you might be thinking oh I can
program my child to feel happiness well
guess what Amelie you can devote your
resources right now to those who are
suffering in poverty to organizations as
imperfect as they are that can direct
your excess income towards social
justice political change and if you're
only ethical imperative is to create joy
you can do that by putting Alyssa T in
your boss's coffee ideally ideally we
would forge a global agreement to no
longer have children and to use the
surplus resources that would otherwise
be squandered on child-rearing to the
development of labor-saving automatons
devices powered by these
resources could drive our vehicles
conduct surgeries have sex with us and
otherwise increase our quality of life
and we programmed into the feel pain
well of course we would be funny to
conclude my first point no moral reason
have a kid no ethical reason to have a
kid no logical reason to have a kid one
exception if you're in a relationship
that's on the rocks and you want to try
to get going maybe having a kid will do
the trick that's worth a shot number two
you live in a dying world any rational
person would conclude that the situation
you're in is hopeless should you feel
joy obviously it's easy for me to answer
this question
I'm with the half of my colleagues used
to have low standard of living I grew up
on a fixed income used to take advantage
of various welfare programs the other
half you know potty-trained oh and
golden Thrones once it the same fancy
lad Westchester High School where the
boys room stall had a OCS phone number
scrolled on the wall and laugh we'll
notice he's laughing because he knows
but now I'm doing great you know some of
my debts are paid off I have a lot of
legendary skins and I'm experiencing
egodeath weekly yeah yeah yeah I
recognize that in the absence of
systemic change what we might even call
revolutionary change all of that is
trivial and transient the neighborhood
I'm standing in will fall under water
etc etc so should I feel happy about
that
answer yes because I'm spending the
podcast money on drugs that enable me to
appear behind the curtain of reality and
gain insights from the spirit realm
which I then deliver to you and by the
time the IRS realizes that's not a valid
this is expense will all be done as for
you the anxious and self-conscious
listener of my words I permit you to
feel joy 25% of your day a regular
person sleeps about eight hours a day so
combined with that you're spending 50%
of your time alive on earth in bliss
that's a square deal enclosing that
should solve all your issues
it's rather cheap to get an IUD or secta
me although these are
you know not publicly-funded as they
ought to be Ohio was just passing a six
week abortion ban which stands to be
upheld by the far right wing high court
majority hold the balance of power over
your body in which case your feminists
like me you should make yourself aware
of which kitchen implements can slice
the bone for what society breaks down
that's all I wanted to say you know
don't let me the otherwise interrupt a
little lord fauntleroy socialist autarky
role play our DJ let's go com1 virgil
texas the word children comes from two
greek words chili O's which meat is cold
and dread which is a guy with a cold
same dad through this we can see that a
creating progeny is a cold cave cave is
the root word for the English word
comfort so we can see that it's a cold
comfort to have a kid is to imbue them
with the name of whatever fandom you
have you want to name your kid Lannister
go ahead you want to name your kid Deep
Space nine your kid poor go
I do name your kid the matrix do you
want to make your kid dress up in an
assassin's creed outfit every day you
could do good but the most important
part about having a kid especially if
you're a politically active adult like
everyone who listens to this show who
you know most of whom not danger of
having kids not because they're not
sexually active but because they simply
they stick condoms down their urethras
they don't know how to put them on
they've never successfully applied them
they just stick them down their urethras
they eat female condoms cuz that's how
they think it works because they're
trying to be male feminist they just
swallow them all this is one of the
lowest IQ listener ships it was any show
but have a kid is to have a device you
can use to win an argument are you
arguing with someone about some just
[ __ ] indecipherable like internal
drama and whatever left organization
you're in hey it'd be like I have a kid
and I don't want to raise them in a
world where you know bylaw 562 exists
that person that you're arguing with
gonna be afraid that you're gonna kill
your kid if they pass up I love boobs
salt having an argument about fandom oh
who do you think knows more about x-men
days of the past in front of us oh do
you think it's just the dumb house or do
you think it's the guy who named his
daughter Dark Phoenix neo so not only is
it alright to have kids it's that it's
the most moral thing you can do
don't drop that beat let's hear some
Mozart for a change this has been firing
like
[Music]
I don't know what I believe anymore but
there's there's much Assassin's Creed
you sit this special chair and you
access the memories that are left in
your dad's comm by putting on a rope and
jumping into hey do you think the game
of Assassin's Creed would be possible if
people didn't have kids
no I'm so confused I don't know what to
do should I have a child you should
probably have like three because what if
one dies that's a good point I'm doing
the math here one of them is gonna be
like deeply affected by their sibling
dying so that basically a wasted kid as
well you got to see one of them's gonna
be resilient that's why the bushes had
like seven kids
despite being rich you know what's even
more fun to dress up as your favorite
fandom little kitty cat kitty cat
dressed up like sjw Star Wars that's
true it's pretty good it's pretty good
when it cat put something like Boba
Fett's hat it's pretty fun it's like hey
little guy I hope there's no catnip in
space well regardless of where you come
down on this issue I think we can all
agree on one thing is that you should
make pretty much all major life
decisions based on what we tell you to
do yeah so here's my bit hello Jemma
bail again I am I'm a lazy French
construction worker oh sorry mummy I
lift my gosh cigarettes in the bucket of
oily rags why took my three-hour lunch
in the mistress break
Cathedral and my bad mommy did you guys
see that by far the best joke about
nurtured on burning down was braces joke
we said micron was told that a six
hundred and seven year old woman was
getting hot and he dropped everything
and ran I don't I don't like making fun
of French people after their historic
whining bird down or the you know bodies
adjacent space that was bad deserve to
bird down I don't know what you and I
have yet do you think it's funny do you
think it's funny that the French safety
inspector who inspects all the buildings
in France was distraught over a
particularly emotional mr.bean skit he
saw funny to you dude yes you guys
that's not even happen that's not what
did it and some people say oh it was
definitely Muslims it was not it was it
was a prank by a bunch of USC frat boys
you really think really funny that this
horrible tragedy happened because all
the safety inspectors were on strike
because Makran tried to raise the work
week to 17 week for the French people
all the time they deserve it but it is
cool how they're like the chrono bag
what if we have a law that says you can
go dog or kill your boss punching cops
in the face it is cool but they're
really good at setting cars on fire too
so you know shouldn't be too big of a
leap from there yeah it is cool but look
at what they squander all that labor
power on what being smoking cigarettes
yeah yeah being racist driving around
the bicycle with a baguette in their bag
demanding of an increase the earned
income mistress allowing French people
they have like earned superiority
complex by you know how relatively big
dick their labor population is compared
to you know anywhere else but they lose
because they'll watch like dumb and
Dumberer and just weeping at how
brilliant it is no it's fake they have
universal basic Ortolan well I do want
to talk a little bit more about a Notre
Dame burning down but first I want to
introduce our guest who's sitting in in
the trap this week it's Nick hey is from
means TV he's the the Wonder kid behind
the the brand new socialist streaming
platform that you may have heard about
Nick what's up what's happening thanks
for having me that's what's up he's like
he's like a mad mixture of sir che
Eisenstein and Brandon Tartikoff
probably that too so I feel again a
little bit responsible for the burning
of one of the world's most historic
heritage sites you know what's the [ __ ]
dude I feel like we willed it into being
by doing that episode about Ben Shapiro
shitty book about the death of
westernization and not too far nothing
earlier than that doing an episode on
Glenn Beck who certainly covered himself
in glory following this fire by like you
know Shapiro of course the the death of
the West Brigade people are just like
the burning of been happening every day
like people not going to church is
really what burned the West abandoning
its heritage and then Glenn Beck took it
a step further literally saying on TV if
it was arson we'll never know yeah
because like what if these sickos of
France are gonna cover for the Islamists
because they don't want white people to
wake up to what's happening because
they're part of the Soros cabal it's
amazing and it's perfectly self
contained because in their minds now it
was definitely arson because there's no
evidence of it the fact that there isn't
evidence of it proves that it was
because it means a being Hubbard up done
and done but I just think they're being
the wrong kind of racist because as soon
as I saw flames leaping out from the
scaffoldings of the notre-dame
renovation I was just like well this is
obviously lazy incompetent French work
man
smoking cigarettes and yeah have you
seen any of the Facebook posts of people
being like wow the sanctuary is still
standing like faith the brick park Wow I
mean Nick that's what you're saying
cause like I was thinking like the other
day like all the like the death of the
West people who are won't admit it
publicly because they're too busy like
you know crying and lamenting on the
timeline but like deep down inside
they're really glad this happened you
know there's like they love nothing more
than to wallow in this kind of [ __ ] and
you know pretend that it was like you
know Muslims who you know burn down
there because even if it wasn't people
who start thinking about what if it was
yeah what if it was yeah and even make
me feel yeah exactly it would make me
feel exactly like I'm feeling now all
the time but now I have like a physical
image to look at yeah but the thing is
like there's something so essentially
like faithless about that and like you
know I'm not a religious person but if I
was it would be so easy like after this
massive fire like swept through the
entire Cathedral do you feel like oh
wait look the stained-glass window is
still there the crucifix is still there
that's seems like God saved it to me I
think you know have you seen this of
like Jesus running into the fire they're
like the weaves who don't know anything
about Japan
but for Catholicism they're like oh my
god Muslims came in there and burned
down the Christ machine it's broken now
I realize how important that is to us
Catholics Muslims poured halal sauce all
over Saint Peter's sword I think Peters
APD's be a sweet katana they wear a
crown of thorns unboxing peaceably
together in the glass tube because we
are here doing this is another of our
famous unboxing videos where this would
be the unboxing video of the Ark of the
Covenant
oh no oh dear oh oh no and then like of
course the other thing is that let's go
around the circle
I've been to no show Dom visited it I
have cited it before the fire the wind
we win that madman I've seen it I have
not seen no never owned your own Felix
Chris alone Oh Chris I seen it hell yeah
Felix word Cathedral comes from the
Latin word Catholic and the word
Benadryl and so it's a medicine for the
Soul I saw it when I was 8 years old
very time since this you two losers yeah
well because you could never do it we've
done it eight years old if I had died
row sixty eight eight years old would
have been the middle of my life so think
about that my friend told me it was
pivotal if I had died earlier one of the
most pivotal moments of my life that I
forgot about until you asked me did Rick
okay please [ __ ] me my friend told me
that she went there but she didn't go in
because they don't allow outside
beverages pretty sure I would have made
the same calculation as a troll like
they've just they've already raised like
a massive amount of money to rebuild you
know the the water I have a billion
dollar good Lord Lord I think we should
do a competing GoFundMe but just as a
troll do it like in like a concept art
made where it's just like we're gonna
rebuild no trade on but update it with
brutalist architecture that's the big
concrete slab it'll be a funk oh Christ
the god Notre Dame fired a Twitter was
just really abysmal because like on the
one hand there was like the the ultra
like left woke take which is just like
it's actually good that there's burned
down and like you know uh oh you're
crying for Notre Dame but not you know a
million other wrench past reviews or
tragedies that are going on in the world
which is dumb but then like even dumber
was just like all the people just like
- shake this [ __ ] building it's like
dude sorry it had a great run as the
world's number one building but I think
it's time to give I don't know the
Chrysler a shot I do know one spot you
know I think it would have just like
caved in I like it sounds like the
reading even like a little bit about it
like they did all this shoddy like
reconstruction work on it at the turn of
the 20th century and it was like just
part like huge segments of it were just
like slipping off the foundation and
stuff and transit gloria all Mustad and
get over but it's just it's just it was
a big deal and it is it's all it's
humbling in that moment to see such a
you know an enduring symbol of
civilization burn in front of you like
that is how it should be humbling for a
minute I wasn't home but also of course
not also you don't have to break your
ass to show everyone else how upset you
are about it or how little you care
either way
you just have to get on [ __ ] record
with everybody I am incredibly moved by
this
that's how so for I am that's how much I
care about culture or being like I am so
[ __ ] woke and I'm so anti-imperialist
that this is funny to me I'm like the
dang Joker over here is funny that down
like in a way Fury ating possible
positions on this yet I'm sure you think
it's I think it's somewhere along the
lines of like I don't know it's a tough
one to work on because I'd refused to
actually learn anything about France so
I don't think we're gonna make a full go
of this one but just you know a very
historic building burning down because
let's assume someone just threw
cigarettes somewhere that's probably the
reason right that's pretty funny but it
was a cool looking building so that's
sad but no one died and that's good and
okay they should make it a Baha'i temple
I just want to like bring up kind of a
silver lining to all this - which is
assassin creed unity is I did a search
for a Sanskrit Notre Dame and the
results were beginning to say the least
were they epic uh you know a lot of
people didn't physically get to see them
but they did get to
see them in Ubisoft's adventure
Assassin's Creed unity where you get to
clip through the altar itself beautiful
people feel likes people are people are
crying about what happens to the the
Cathedral and Assassin's Creed but like
Raccoon City is still in the state it's
in you know yeah can we get a fundraiser
going maybe no I it was another one of
those events that like I feel like if it
happened like 10 years ago this would
have been like a three-month long news
cycle and there would have been like a
special time a edition you know a
special issue of time that you read in
your dentist's office 100 most
influential buildings not just be like
the past and future of Notre Dame yeah
really you know beauty from the ashes or
whatever but now because it's just we
get so much information all the time and
every every day there's a new thing that
would have been a new big cycle like 10
years ago and our receptors were just
completely [ __ ] fried everyone's just
tripping all over themselves to just
examine this one input and jam it down
the same pipe but just sort of filter it
through their shitty brand you know be
it like I went here with my parents when
I was 14 and it made me the person I am
today and it's basically like you
[ __ ] killed me today or you know [ __ ]
Notre Dame or what it I don't really get
anyone for doing any of that because
that's the you know the government the
nanny state is stepping in on you know
things that hurt no one like abusing
opiates and this is all we have left but
you know we're gonna forget this
happened in two weeks one group of
people whose brains are definitely fried
and for [ __ ] are like the the I had to
check in on Rod Dreher of crow yeah he
burned through every synapse in his
brain on this and it's just like I said
earlier the way these people just love
feeling this way like they're so happy
this happened because it gives them a
chance like I said like theatrically
Wallow and how miserable and besieged
they feel but like it's the same people
who always say that Muslims have like to
talk about like Muslim martyrdom complex
yeah exactly yeah it's just the clearest
projection ever being a Christian in
America with big surprise like I thought
it was
during the butchers and it was maybe
like a little bit more infuriating then
because it felt more officially
enshrined in state policy yeah not that
it isn't now I mean it very much is now
but I guess it's less culturally overt
now but to do it now he's just so
[ __ ] funny if it wasn't so
insufferable in theory the move that
they're doing of course is like you know
Glenn Beck just like already for
stalling like you could ask him like
what would convince you that this wasn't
arson and nothing good like he just
literally took gave people permission
you know to believe what they're already
gonna believe about this and Roger air
was like I certainly hope we find out
this wasn't arson yeah cuz I can't
imagine with a violence of Francis
suffers in just allegation for that he's
just edging already like get buying his
plane ticket okay fingers crossed
but she was just slapping his erect [ __ ]
to do jacking off he's just [ __ ] open
palm slapping it yeah we're gonna get a
really good answer on this one you just
picture the French fire inspector
standing in the ashes sucking on a
cigarette going oh what is through a
chain of events like Rod Dreher goes
over to France to like investigate it
and figure out there about her situation
he becomes like a Jerry Lewis figure
they like think it's a comedy act
who's this six year old man who's
obsessed with bathrooms this is the
rebirth of Lewis you can become the new
mr. rule oh yeah like the bathroom
bathroom playtime yeah the new funniest
French movie ever made left while at
correct Hall one of the one of the best
one of the best reactions of this
vintage is that guy that that wet face
creep of Matt Walsh yeah who is just
like baying for blood and just going i'd
really like someone to explain to me how
a fire could get that big that clear no
like an ancient wooden structure covered
in construction equipment just like the
Wikipedia article for fire fire
spreading
I don't think so did you guys see that
video of John Kasich doing like a
reaction oh that was great I thought I
was like waiting for him to be like I've
donated $20,000 to Notre Dame University
guy in this car YouTube's no it was just
in a parking lot in Ohio which I really
liked is the contrast talking about this
World Heritage Site and he just being
like I'll tell you what you know he's
like you can burn the building but you
can't burn the memories matter what no
matter what the Irish will stay fighting
fighting fires forever they are yeah
he's standing in this desolate there's a
security guard to the right off brain
like hey you know remember that Western
culture were all morning yeah this is
its gravestone right here they said I
couldn't sleep here and I told them this
was public land
I mean Kasich burned down Notre Dame
while trying to charge his phone a
Samsung Galaxy Note it was a symbolic
act by forces sympathetic to Dan Quinn
oh right Lucifer Lou Holtz that they
make these bones are enshrined by like
it I think it'll be funny when the
billions of dollars for the Notre Dame
GoFundMe are squandered missing and
Makran posts a screenshot of his notes
app saying you know I'm still in a toxic
situation we have for my Pastis
addiction though I don't really this
criticism is just harming my mental
state and of course it it wouldn't have
been a you know world level news event
if our own president didn't chime in on
to our baby
hilarious suggestion that they use the
like the forest fire airplanes
several tons of water I know it's like a
bunch of guys are just standing there
watching a fire totally helpless like we
need the big wet senile baby to tell us
what to do I just look oh my god
knew what beat fire I just I loved his
confidence though I mean it shows you
why he is president is that he does
anything that happens like he feels like
he can just he's like you know I think
the key to putting out the fire is to
use more water than there is fire and
then you know like people pointed out
like the drop those on forests cuz like
to drop all that water is like really
heavy
it literally collapsed the entire stone
abyss of the pill yeah
so that's good but yeah be on the
lookout been cioppino of course as usual
is like smarter smarter than like the
Matt Walsh Glenn Beck figures and that
he didn't outright start immediately
making intimations that this was some
kind of a covered up arson job by the
Muhammadans oh he's more subtle but he
did hilariously claim that Notre Dame is
a monument to judeo-christian culture
and as many people point out during the
construction of Notre Dame the Jews are
literally expelled from France and they
earned every like Jewish like a text in
a big bonfire in front of Notre Dom uh
you know what you have a few tables you
get together stronger though you know
once again that's what's stronger
together means these people literally
know nothing about they know nothing at
all yet they don't nothing about the
Middle Ages
if your kid got a whooping cough you
went and killed a Jew over it I mean
that was just like how you dealt with
any kind of problem in your life I mean
you know they got rid of those cure but
like if that's what works just walking
around like Liam Neeson just like I got
a fine you know our condolences to the
people of France sorry we can't make it
there on our tour but no you don't speak
our language in our very funny anyways I
gotta say see Joe st. John the Divine
now number one draw in the world
sorry Notre Dame you had a great run but
Cathedral of st. John the Divine number
one I think Rick Lawrence church is now
the
one Cathedral in the rut West Saddleback
ranch that's Shield of the West my
opinion so it's a ranch actually all
right so there is a certain New York
Times article there's actually two New
York Times articles that came out this
week about this presidential race and
some of the our favorite characters
contained within the spot line that when
formed together are just a magnificent
tea party that I really have to share
with our listeners and and you guys it's
just it taste so damn good to see it
this is a particularly delicious tea and
then piping hot courtesy of Elizabeth
Williamson and Kenneth P Vogel of the
New York Times we get an amazing profile
of near attended of the Center for
American Progress progress the headline
the rematch Bernie Sanders versus a
Clinton loyalists and like this there
this is New York Times this is the paper
of record and it is now in the paper of
record basically all of the inane [ __ ]
that we talk about and make fun of yes
negated yeah this Israel News Twitter is
real life
identical don't believe anyone who tries
to tell you otherwise yeah so this is a
this is a good counterpoint to all the
people when you talk about Twitter
[ __ ] when you talk about real [ __ ]
well we have been talking about real
[ __ ] that's what this is harassing this
old woman is real [ __ ] so I'm just gonna
dive into this this article here it says
the bad blood started early in 2008
Neera tanden
then a top aide on hillary clinton's
first presidential campaign accompanied
mrs. clinton to what was expected to be
an easy interview at the Center for
American Progress the influential group
founded by top Clinton aides but feiiows
shakier the chief editor of the think
tanks Think Progress website asked mrs.
Clinton a question about the Iraq war an
issue dogging her candidacy because she
had supported it missed handin responded
by circling back to mr. Shakir after the
interview according to a person in the
room punching him in the chest
I didn't slug him I pushed him a still
angry MS tendon corrected in a recent
interview of Hallie
right off the bat in this profile their
attendant we have her admitting to
assaulting a co-worker for asking
Hillary Clinton a pointed question about
her support of the Iraq war she's
basically Suge Knight's Felix I know you
would like this hold is that dust over a
balcony using people who work in DC and
any job in Washington DC
yes okay yeah no okay if amy two is the
last Ragan near as your a sea star she
um I don't see how you walk away with
this from this article liking her less
because okay the things to actually not
like about her are like policy related
but I'll be honest my image of her
before this article was sort of like an
IEC like that I see I see is not the
right word like robotic kind of like the
way that people in DC or robotic and
seemed to take no pleasure in anything
and have no passion but this is like
this is real [ __ ] man and he's real a
[ __ ] she's she is the real ass dude
real ass due to the week well it's what
Neelix is what you and me always admired
about Peter Dow and yeah Watson yes
hosters just Toms Lake Times there for a
paycheck
I think Peter though Peter is a man of
passion yeah Neary's - III I got some
respect for it man well she's [ __ ]
posting at 3:30 in the morning every day
the people with 100 followers she's
powered by pure hatred and vengeance and
Faiz - he's the campaign manager for
Bernie - so this is cap this is neat and
and literally punching the Bernie
campaign as I said he fires went to went
on to be you know running Bernie Sanders
campaign and then you know this week
they've think progress did that video
sort of making fun of Bernie about being
a millionaire because of his book and
then the Sanders campaign you know sent
them an angry letter saying you know
like I thought you were supposed to be
you know neutral in the campaign and
then fundraised office yeah yeah so
reading in the article it says here the
blow up is another reflection of the
ideological divisions among Democrats
this time between a legacy Clinton
organization and a liberal wing trying
to move the party to the left to harness
the energy of millennia
Mr Sanders team remains convinced that
the Democratic establishment worked
behind the scenes to deprive him of the
party's nomination in 2016
his campaign has cast the group as
beholden to corporate interests set on
thwarting him in 2020 ms tendon rejected
the carrot that characterization and
asserted in an email to mr. Shakir that
the center shares the goals of unity
Jodie Enda the editor-in-chief of Think
Progress said her that her website is
editorially independent and that we
don't have a favourite candidate and we
don't have a candidate who we disfavor
still miss tendons mother Maya tendon
says that her daughter can be very
aggressive she's not gonna let anyone
rule over her she said and she has
loyalty to Hillary because Hillary is
the one who made her those Bernie
brothers are attacking her all the time
but she lets them have it to my
attendance said she said Sanders he says
Sanders got a pass in 2016 but he's not
getting a pass this time so this is near
his own mother spilling the tea okay
she's very mad about that why are you
yelling they call her mom yeah this is
Connie Chung all over again yes I can't
I can't speak to why they did it but I'm
certainly glad that they did do it it
feels very strange to me I don't know
why they did that they were Romeo
dialing Felix yeah I guess so
everybody's been like if you go look at
that tweet where she's like this is
really upsetting like it's just like
people on the left like climbing over
that each other to be like this is wrong
like I'm sorry this happened to you like
every like all the people you know on
there it's just like who cares like you
know talk about things we're not really
gonna remember a few weeks from now I'm
just very puzzled by it I I have nothing
to say but that is incredibly puzzling
to me Felix is you taking this
opportunity to send a coded message to
his mother to never because my phone or
our talk about him to a journalist my
mother would say I mean I have a Jewish
mother so she would only talk to the
press to say I'm a perfect angel was a
clean room well it's the thought that
counts isn't it continuing here it says
the Center for American Progress and its
sister political arm with a 60 million
dollar combined annual budget and 320
staff members have played an outsized
role in the Democratic Party for nearly
two decades founded in 2003 by top
advisors to Bill and Hillary Clinton the
organization has sought to rebrand
itself as a brain trust for the
anti-trump resistance its donor roles
overlap substantially with those of the
Clinton's campaign and foundation the
think tank has taken in millions from
interests often criticized by liberals
including Wall Street financier big
banks Silicon Valley Titans foreign
governments defense contractors and the
healthcare industry individual donors
can ask to remain anonymous MS Tandon
whose salary was three hundred and
ninety seven thousand dollars in 2018
was an unpaid advisor to mrs. Clinton's
2016 campaign while running the
think-tank and was considered a
candidate for a top White House job had
mrs. Clinton won the presidency I think
that just seemed wrong is that that's
just okay because there's no more
finance campaign finance laws that she
can be an advisor to the Clinton
campaign while running this organization
with you know huge shadow donors yeah
that seems like a convenient workaround
but back to mrs. Tandon
my attendant the mom she says that's
what she does she shows up at rich
people's places because she needs funds
from them that place runs on Neera
tanden
yeah right so he runs on xaniix so yeah
no this is I think accurately describing
her job is just you know like kissing
ass of rich people to get their
donations i mean III launder their
shitty points of view and a liberal
point you know what I mean I I
sympathize with that that's kind of our
job too you know that's why we're doing
this whole European tour we've got to
you know go to the iron bank and explain
ourselves yeah or else if we don't go if
we don't go over to Braavos aka Germany
the iron bank aka the ECB
we'll back positiv America they view an
example though of how this courting of
donors does seem to influence the policy
of CAP it says here in November 2015
after Ms Tandon invited Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to a
question-and-answer session at the
session at the center a dozen staff
members stood during an all staff
meeting and read a statement of protest
in an email missed Hannon sent on the
day of the Netanyahu visit stolen and
released by WikiLeaks
she told the think-tanks founder John D
Podesta that the far-left hates me for
hosting mr. Netanyahu but the invitation
may have sealed the deal with a new
board member mrs. Tandon was wooing mr.
Levine a pro-israel philanthropist the
next month MS Tandon wrote a jubilant
email to mr. Podesta telling him mr.
Levine was joining the board so
Netanyahu was worth it she added with a
smiley face emoji
mr. Levine no longer sits on the
Senators board but his foundation
remains a big donor oh speaking to her
Twitter habits it says on one recent
night miss Tandon feuded on Twitter with
liberals over whether mrs. Clinton's
come condemned far-right hate mongers
strongly enough more than two years ago
the online bickering raged for an hour
drawing trolls from both factions when
the woman originally targeted by Miss
handin Suites delivered a wake-up call
Neera you're responding to a graduate
student on Twitter at 1:40 a.m. that was
a hand against actually but you know it
mean like the the article does give a
pretty I think a pretty good look at
like how cap and the you know operates
as a you know fundraising arm that you
know I think it can legitimately be said
that you know they raise money from
incredibly rich donors and like in
exchange they craft and talk about
policy in a way that doesn't offend them
or speaks to their Oracle and they help
create the agenda of the Democratic
Party because those those dullards in
Congress don't know anything about
policy they're all unemployable fail
sons and small business [ __ ]
Philistines and and like local TV
anchors they have no practical
understanding of any policy they need to
outsource that [ __ ] and cap does it and
in one end of it goes money from [ __ ]
golf dictatorships in the defense
industry and pharmaceutical
and out of the other side comes things
like a medicare-for-all plus limited
edition one more thing here says Ms
Tandon acknowledged tensions with what
she called millennial agitators party
but blamed mr. Trump who made crazy
radical ideas seem more normal she said
in the interview Oh crazy again she's
talking about Medicare for all that's it
like you know this is a dome over
America yeah I mean yeah this is yeah
this is what cap exists to do is stop
something like Medicare for all which is
why anyone who got mad at Bernie for
criticizing cap I just fundamentally
don't understand what the what the
stakes are here and what the issues are
and then what the concept the odd thing
about that were they were like why is
Bernie picking a fight with this obscure
think tank they're like you know most
Americans you know couldn't care less
about or know about and I'm like well a
if that's the case then what harm does
it yeah right and be like may boast
people may not know it but like this is
like a real contest for like who's gonna
control the future the Democrats already
and they are on the other side yes
Bernie owner isn't these people saying
oh he has no idea to do the things he
wants to do well if you're unaware why
Trump has not been able to do a lot of
big Z's campaign on besides a lack of
will and doing it it's because all the
people he has to staff is
administration's and departments with
our people from existing think tanks
again those thing takes have positions
identical to Rubio or Jeb or someone
like that so he ends up governing like
that out of laziness and out of default
and so to take on the existing think
tank world whether you agree with how
it's done or not it does show that he
has some idea of how he wants to get
some of these things done you can't have
both
yeah well before we move on Felix this
is the New York Times calling your
mother says Mikey Barbara calling your
mother mrs. Biederman I'd like to ask
you some questions about your son oh yes
his sister's marrying a doctor
[Laughter]
[Music]
it's a cute little slice of life
that's like a Gilda Radner character the
the second times article that you know
dovetail is extremely nicely with the
Neira article is another news article by
Jonathan Martin headline stop Sanders
Democrats are agonizing over his
momentum again just delicious Earl Grey
mural gray Earl Grey hot the the real
money paragraph here is from canopy
filled fundraisers on the coasts to the
cloakrooms of Washington mainstream
Democrats are increasingly worried that
their effort to defeat President Trump
in 2020 could be complicated by Mr
Sanders in a political scenario all too
reminiscent of how Mr Trump himself sees
the Republican nomination in 2016
okay I'll stop right there could anyone
see the problem with that formulation at
least as far as Democrats go they're
worried that you know Bernie Sanders is
gonna be a repeat of Donald Trump you
know the guy who won he's doing an
amazing job now just decided to pretend
it didn't happen these people are more
fixated on the 1972 presidential
election than the one that happened
three years ago well it's a fascinating
election just like every single argument
they make is rebutted by the simple
words Hillary lost everything you want
to do is when Hillary did and it were in
failed therefore it can't work by
definition you [ __ ] scumbags
but what if it worked yeah the opposite
continuing how some Democrats are
beginning to ask do they throw it a
70-something candidate from outside the
party structure who is immune to
intimidation or incentive and wield
support from an unwavering base without
simply reinforcing his the establishment
is out to get me message in the same
grievance mr. Trump used to great effect
but stopping Mr Sanders are at least
preventing a contentious convention
could prove difficult for Democrats he
has enormous financial advantages
already substantially out raising his
Democratic rivals that can sustain a
major campaign through the primaries and
he is well-positioned to benefit from
historic
large field of candidates that would
splinter the vote if he wins a
substantial number of primaries and
caucuses and comes in second and others
thinks his deeply loyal base of voters
across many states he would pick up a
formidable number of Delano at going on
here there is a growing realization that
Sanders could end up winning this thing
or certainly that he stays in so long
that he damages the actual winner said
David Brock the liberal organizer who
said he had discussion with other
operatives about an anti Sanders
campaign and believes it should commence
sooner rather than later so you know
he's taking what he learned to it I know
it's rat [ __ ] Anita Hill there yeah
during the Clarence Thomas again just to
remind you about David Brock he was a
Republican hatchet man he was like a
Roger stone figure right up until he
claims he had a conversion moment when
he saw Pat Buchanan speak at the 1992
Republican convention and just incite a
pogrom against gay people [ __ ] which
you know ferret fair enough you know he
feels personally attacked but like that
was his motivation to become a
democratic party attachment man he's not
a guy who like I'll be the hill a little
bit nutty and a little bit [ __ ] no and
I was also conversion took place far
later than that because he was still
going after Clinton in the first few
years of his administration right yeah
it was part of the whole Arkansas
project thing at the beginning yeah so
uh just lastly I'll read from this here
it says the matter of what to do about
Bernie and the larger imperative of
party unity has for example hovered over
a series of previously undisclosed
Democratic dinners in New York and
Washington organized by the longtime
party financier Bernard Schwartz the
gatherings have included scores from the
moderate or center left wing of the
party including Speaker Nancy Pelosi of
California Senator Chuck Schumer of New
York the Minority Leader former Governor
Terry McAuliffe of Virginia mayor Pete
Budaj edge of South Bend Indiana himself
a presidential candidate and the
president of the Center for American
Progress near attention so again like
it's it's hilarious that like they
really and this is really fun to read
because they are kind of checkmated in a
way in terms of like I mean they're
still going to attack him and try to
defeat him with everything they've got
but they're checkmated in the sense that
like they've already said if all of the
rich people who donate to us and all the
leaders of the party can't literally
meet together in private dinners to find
out a way to us
him from gaining the nomination how can
we do that without making it seem like
that's what exactly what we're doing
right now we wander our hand in this
well that's not obviously working
against him just like we did in twelve
thousand 16 well that's not a checkmate
that's called a Zhuge swung if you're
just some like Lackey consultant and you
just manage to like get into one of
these dinners like I'm sure there's a
bunch of people who get in and get the
dress up and get all excited about going
and you just sit in a room and you're
surrounded by all those people and then
they get up and they're like alright so
how are we going to prevent Bernie from
winning it's like how do you not just be
like oh I'm in the evil this is like
there's Kent Brockman and [ __ ] dr.
Hibbert
[Music]
it really is but I like that they couch
their concern in well we're worried that
he's gonna either damage the eventual
nominee and make them lose or he's gonna
get nominated and then lose to Trump
they're acting like they're real concern
is he's gonna lose but that is a hundred
percent [ __ ] the real concern is
that he would win yes they would love it
if he lost a trump that would be
fantastic
another four years where they don't have
to do anything and have to govern and
they get to ram it down our throats
exactly they're like see and you get to
probably put paid to socialism for it
being a threat again for another twenty
years they would love it if you lost a
trump if Bernie wins they are [ __ ] or
could be if he actually like is serious
about it uh here's the point I want to
make about that though and uh Dave
waggle made this point and I think he's
exactly right what they're really
concerned about but none of them are
gonna say is that if Bernie gets the
nomination and it's you know like I said
like anything can happen there's still a
total ego but like there is he is in a
very strong position like he has got the
you know pole position to [ __ ] right
now with his money and the fact that he
does so well in caucuses and the fact
that like there are so many other
candidates to like take this thing
convention and leave with the nomination
what they're too afraid to say but what
they're all thinking is that if that
happens and Howard Schultz is gonna get
in the race split the vote and ensure a
trump second term however Jacob
Bacharach added a little to what Weigel
said and I think he actually has exactly
right what what all these people who are
what the all these people are saying
when they're like they're saying we're
worried about Bernie in the general what
they're really saying is I'm going to
vote for and support Howard Schultz
ensuring Trump's second term because I'm
like I'm gonna do everything possible to
keep burning from becoming president
because that then like we vastly prefer
Trump being president to have president
100% and that is why this article was
both very encouraging to me in a way and
also discouraging it was encouraging
because it really showed you oh he is a
legitimate threat to this [ __ ] party
structure like the the argument that he
is somehow a sheepdog for the Democrats
and and he's just like herding all these
potentially radical people away from
like you know a [ __ ] PSL or something
he has clearly seen it that's why I said
to this [ __ ] party which means great
that's good this party needs to die but
it also tells you that if he did get in
there there is he is going to be so
[ __ ] hamstrung by the fact that the
people in his his party are going to
have no investment in his presidency and
in fact are gonna have an investment in
seeing him fail which is gonna be
matched by the one that the Republicans
have so that's gonna be very dangerous
if he not to mention also and also to
add to that should he become president
he will immediately face immediate that
is more uniformly hostile to him than
they are to Donald Trump
every regard up and down yeah and you
know that goes to show that these people
need to not just be defeated in you know
these primaries they need to be evicted
from the party that's lutely victim the
coalition although the canopy and that's
why you're happy because is the thing is
Bernie exposes their impotence Bernie
doesn't need their money yeah he doesn't
need their their know-how which they
don't have any [ __ ] know-how and he
doesn't need their votes cuz they're all
on the [ __ ] coasts yeah yeah it like
their existence as you know hey you need
us because we're the ones that put
things together to make it a party
otherwise it's just a sort of it you
know a bunch of people
aimlessly opposed to conservatives and
with no ability to exercise political
power but Bernie's model is no you don't
have to do this this this you don't have
to create this funnel this this
laundering mechanism from from
corporations and from special interests
it connected to you know then take their
money to create a party you can create
an alternative source of revenue which
means an alternative source of
legitimacy so I don't worry about them
supporting our Schultz I mean they
should do what those you know labor
rebels and UK did and start the [ __ ]
problem solvers party that gets 2% of
the vote yeah I mean the thing is is
that the whole theory of power with
Bernie is that I mean yeah if it was a
if it was a typical Democrat Republican
race Bernie could end up losing to
Howard Schultz sort of spoiling it 2000
Nader style in Reverse that's possible
but the idea is is that Bernie changes
the electoral math because he appeals to
people who are
one vote for a democrat or otherwise
wouldn't vote which means that that 2%
who probably will vote for him in you
know the suburb in raytheon acres
northern virginia and you know in both
shoes rhode island and stuff but that
will not impact the national popular
vote because at the National Electoral
College because Bernie's gonna run up
margins in a lot of states that are more
a blue-collar right in other words that
he causes a realignment right and the
thing is there is so much pressure on
those who want to be Trump yeah I think
he has very little to worry about I
think a potential Howard Schultz
candidacy would take more from Trump's
column overall yeah but here's the thing
though like all those people in those
dinners if Bernie gets the nomination
will either openly or tacitly support
Howard Schultz yes and all the people to
stop Sanders people who are obsessed
with party unity and claim that they
they all claim to hate Bernie personally
because they feel that he was a spoiler
for Hillary Clinton that he he damaged
her are beyond record the diet ethical
problem that was the huge albatross
around her neck the entire year they
claim to not like him personally because
you know this or that or he's rude or
mainly because their way they finger wag
or he acted as a spoiler I mean you
shouldn't be fooled by that they hate
him because they hate his politics they
do not they have a vested interest in
Medicare for all or anything like that
they want they prevent that from
happening ever and generally as far as
the leadership of the Democratic Party
goes have a vested interest in just not
governing responsible they do not want
to be on the hook for running a country
no oh god they were so horrified to get
that supermajority in 2009 they were
just desperate to get rid of that thing
no but like what's hilarious about this
is like the thing that these people
still the reason why like if you still
to this day search Susan Sarandon 's
name will see some of the like most
mind-melting drivel imaginable is cuz
you know he was a spoiler you know and
they're gonna absolutely try to do that
against him they would they would have
no problem supporting or voting for
Howard Schultz that's what they're
telling you is that
if you if you work hard for Bernie and
you know he runs a good campaign and
gets the nomination guess what I'm gonna
vote for Howard Schultz that's what
these people are telling you they're not
saying it openly but if you read between
the lines it's not easy to figure out no
they're right there I mean it's easy to
figure out Howard Schultz campaign would
be like great fodder for comedy though
like every time that dude steps in front
of a camera he says something that just
is like he's really like being an
entrepreneur and it's him like trying
like fumbling with an espresso machine I
think those defections would help Bernie
who would you know if he wins the
nomination would you know face an
immediate problem of solidifying his
support yeah in a party with you know
people like that yeah because everyone
recognizes okay we have a pressing
existential need to defeat Trump that's
the one thing that has to happen if
Bernie wins fair and square
and you're maybe you're you don't like
his policies may be a little waffling on
him well you're really gonna [ __ ]
hate the people who are just straight-up
traitors to that cause absolutely and I
also like the idea that if you if you
read a lot of these people long enough
you always see them come back to this
idea that he was never vetted in 2016
and you know if he's a nominee oh man
what the Republicans are gonna dig up
about him did you know that he supported
the Sandinistas in the 1980s it's like
good I'd like to have that debate we're
like the other side is like yeah we were
Pro Contras in 1980 know those guys who
sold crack and murdered children and
nuns [ __ ] yeah we literally like those
guys just one last thing about Bernie
this week because it was the other big
news from him and the campaign was his
the Fox News townhall that he did in
Bethlehem Pennsylvania which you know
leading up to it was you know
controversial on the left because like
there are people like you can't
legitimize Fox biggest [ __ ] TV news
channel on the in the country
highest-rated one can't legit highest
youth reach to can't can't legitimize it
well I was laughing about if when Trump
got mad at that segment that was the
angle he went with Bernie went on and
gave a platform to what Nash
very gross
well white man left us should reconsider
their actions you know is very gross
dude legit amazes place it uh you know
some very very bad things nasty
well hilariously like the idea that like
this would help FoxNews all of the
rillette like Trump was very angry about
that that really should tell you all you
need to know he's very mad he felt
betrayed by his fans at FoxNews is
pissed off at Bret Baier and the crowd
and and literally said that like there
are many people outside the des panel
that like aside they had Trump signs
they love they love Trump
however Fox viewers are pissed off about
it too because they know how bad it
makes them look yeah that like and
literally the most common comment I've
been seeming like in responding to this
is people just saying I made the switch
to Oh a a and then like Mike Huckabee
[ __ ] angelical news never like [ __ ]
the media's fake news Fox's phony news
the Mike Huckabee show is the only thing
we can watch to get the real truth oh
yeah so I mean this is even like I'm
sure it's like and I won't have any real
effect on Fox News his bottom line it
did you know it has opened up a pretty
funny fracture in their own audience and
the second point I want to make is like
I watched that Bernie Sanders the thing
on Town Hall he [ __ ] crushed it like
somebody like like his closing statement
I thought like literally I was like he
could be President if this is the
message he goes within the general
watching just a couple of points I think
sometimes the divisions in this country
get a little bit too hot okay at the end
of the day we are all Americans who love
this country and I also think and the
media place is not a good role in this
and again not just Fox is we have a lot
more in common than most people think we
do alright pull up the ball should we
raise the minimum wage to a living wage
yes
should we rebuild our crumbling
infrastructure should we make sure that
our veterans get the health care that
they have earned all right should we
make sure that we do not cut Social
Security or Medicare or Medicaid should
we give huge tax breaks to billionaires
you know that's how most people feel so
I hope I hope look I'm looking forward
to a good campaign and the last point
that I want to make and I thank Foxx up
you know for the opportunity of being
here and and that is I want to see our
country have the highest voter turnout
in the industrialized world not one of
the lowest so no matter what you abuse
aw get involved in the political process
stand up and fight to make this a better
country thank you all very much like I
don't know maybe I'm being too
optimistic or something but I thought it
seemed like even even they even or
organs that are hostile to Bernie had to
give it up like Politico had a whole
piece about how yeah he he [ __ ]
killed it what's funny now is all of the
other struggling Democratic candidates
saw that and are now like oh yeah I'm
gonna do a Fox News townhall and they're
all gonna get old news audience like
yeah you're gonna ace that I do want to
see Eric swallow well bust out his team
of rivals idea from Massachusetts and
his from California No oh right yeah yes
California and he is running he's doing
what those things where he's just gonna
have one issue like jay Inslee is the
climate change guy he is the gun control
guy he's running he's got like Parkland
teams following him around like a school
of fish he he and he's got and this is
kind of smartness it's a very highly
emotive issue it's a super partisan
issue that yeah it's very weighted
towards like Democrats ranked it highly
they have a lot of emotion around it it
doesn't offend any of the big donor
groups like your health insurer don't
keep in the fossil fuel industry don't
give a [ __ ] about [ __ ] gun control
and Bernie's waffled on it and the heat
that's like they pointed about who he's
not he doesn't have an F for the
from the NRA you know so it's it's kind
of a decent wedge issue but he also has
now said that he wants to appoint
Republicans plural to his cabinet to
show the way we can cross over party
lines and I just think if you hear that
and you think that's what we need you
will have a pudding brain you're a baby
you're more on baby
yeah he's you're not just the baby
you're a stupid baby your baby the other
baby babies made fun of for being a
[ __ ] yeah you're a baby and you're
listening to this you're valid I see you
this wall well said I want to make a
team of rivals which Obama also said
after he was elected I never understood
why that was persuasive
yeah I know I know I know what the
reference is it's just I like the idea
of a team of rivals if it's like young
sexy hotshots
you know do a bank job yes and they're
brave yes one last job yeah of course
that even miss that always misunderstood
the idea of the book because I mean at
least Obama you could argue his team of
rivals thing was based more on the book
which was which was popular right around
when he got elected because it was about
personal rivalries they like William
Seward was a guy he did Lincoln just
beat for the Republican nomination and
so they had that M natee and but it was
not ideological rivalry they were on the
same side they were all [ __ ]
Republicans or or they were former
Democrats who've to the Republican Party
they were all Pro Union I mean they were
all on board with with like [ __ ] Pro
the modern idea of team of rivals would
be like if if Abraham Lincoln put
Jefferson Davis and climate van
landingham is [ __ ] it was actually it
was like when they made Johnson as VP
and how the [ __ ] did that turn out so
that's the pitch that will work on me if
it's like an ally mcbeal thing it's you
know rivals in the boardroom friends in
the bedroom dude could you imagine if
like Ray LaHood Kathleen Stabler's
they're so [ __ ] hot dude I love it
thank you
I'm most excited to see I think the
Buddha judge one is gonna be more boring
than you think because Buddha judge
she's a lot of the way that
conservatives talk about him now reminds
me of how conservatives talked about
Obama in like 2005-2006
where they're like pot sort of neutral
to positive on him now like I thought
was very notable how Ben cioppino talked
about him if you remember Obama got a
lot of like positive play after like the
purp America speech but it's gonna be a
lot more boring than you think Buddha
judge is a robot he's a killer you know
he knows exactly how to say whatever
dole [ __ ] for her [ __ ] stupid
audience he's been in front of because
he's been like Buddha judges like he's
like he's like you know uh Floyd
Mayweather grew up in a storied boxing
family and he was taught from like a
young age how to jab and he always held
up his shoulder at the right way from
every waking moment was spent preparing
for prize fights and that's how Buddha
judge is with job interviews he had a
little like a little [ __ ] busy you
know busy box and at like a fake
LinkedIn screen on it he had a speed bag
but for the question what's your
greatest weakness I volunteer too much I
am most excited for is Leigh's Town Hall
that's good the guy who talked about
accidentally seeing porn with his mom
during his kick oh that was Hickenlooper
that's the other script western just do
it no one knows which one is which but
they're very different cuz jay inslee is
the climate change guy he's about all
about climate change and Hickenlooper
literally drank fracking fluid to prove
to people it was safe he is fracking the
entire state of Colorado and just it's
gonna collapse into a giant sinkhole
open the Hollow Earth [ __ ] Oh Denver
Airport of course journalists purposes
we're gonna say they both saw a deep
throat with their mom
[Laughter]
this is mandated by the FEC or yeah FEC
is a Fairness Doctrine every candidate
saw a bank bust with their mom I mean I
think it's like the last thing I'll say
about like the the Fox News [ __ ] is it
like you know Fox News obviously is you
know a reprehensible institution that
has done incalculable damage to our you
know culture and politics but if you're
gonna make that argument that like you
can't engage them at any then you better
[ __ ] make that argument for NBC CNN
and you know all the major networks and
cable news networks because they're I
mean like it's all of that spring like
basically what you're saying is that
like like it's only because Fox is like
the openly racist one that like makes it
like the no-go zone or whatever but like
like for instance what all the networks
are the New York Times for instance did
in the run-up to the Iraq war like yeah
we're pretty much okay with that or like
that you know that that bridge is still
okay to cry I mean I I think you could
say arguing like long terms and in terms
of the role that Fox who's had in
softening the brains of the boomers of
this country that they're more
responsible in a general sense for
Trump's presidency but if you want to
say which news network in 2016 it was
more directly responsible for Trump it
was [ __ ] CNN Jeff Zucker admitted it
they're like oh this is great we love
the Trump campaign it's just it's huge
ratings it's electric they covered him
all the time everything yet we're free
[ __ ] advertising than anybody else
could buy combined all of those other 16
people and that's because CNN decided
that it was wasn't worth not not
focusing on every insane jabbering thing
he said and that just took the air out
of the entire [ __ ] campaign because
it was all going into Trump's giant
mouth and like so you can't just say
this is Fox News all these [ __ ]
institutions suck
absolute dick yeah like if you're gonna
make look like a structural analysis you
would have to conclude that the all of
the capitalist press yes is your enemy
and and and a detriment to our society
but if I'm melting brains how about
[ __ ] Facebook the [ __ ] the the
nightly viewership of Fox News is less
than 1% of the population yeah but like
and the other thing is like I would say
that like look you
it's a question of like should you be
interviewed by Fox News if you're a
leftist or interviewed by Tucker Carlson
for instance then I would say like no
there's no point in doing that because
he's just gonna shoot torn into whatever
whatever ridiculous leftists on there so
that they could criticize liberals but
only in a ways that'll lie with his
critique but like as far as like Fox
News as an institution goes if you were
running for president of the United
States is the biggest cable news network
and the idea that by boycotting it like
yet like as you said about like like DSA
people are gonna stop buying catheters
and like a gold coin like rascal
scooters from like the people who
[ __ ] fund Fox Iraqi dinars in a
bonfire yeah like it's just it's silly
and how well Bernie did in that forum
speaking to that audience like I said
like to on a major the biggest American
cable news network to respond to a
question about Medicare for all in two
unbroken minutes which you never ever
get to do on any cable news like get the
based in concision you have to say
things in like 17 seconds or less but to
have two minutes to explain something
like Medicare for all to a national
audience I think was incredibly useful
and good and you want to talk about you
know what's more embarrassing
you've seen these [ __ ] CNN Town
Hall's over every single [ __ ] person
asking a question is a [ __ ] internal
yeah oh yeah
so yeah but um I guess like those are
talking about the malign influence of
the media in our country yeah man we're
sitting here is that what building that
works
somebody has no we're sitting here with
with Nick Hayes who is uh done just that
with uh with means TV you may have seen
some of these videos on Twitter with
friends of the show street fight Josh
Madras ki sorry June you know you
probably hear people constantly talking
about this horrible thing called
capitalism I have yeah you've heard that
yes you're like what how does capitalism
affect me I will tell you
it runs your entire [ __ ] life when
you wake up in the morning and you feel
like [ __ ] and you have to wipe the sleep
from your eyes and like look around and
be like why does this have to happen
this early in the morning
that's a capitalism and it controls
everything like your healthcare your
education it all comes down to making
money but some things just don't make
money Nick you just like tell us a
little bit about like first of all for
anyone who doesn't know what is means TV
and like what you guys are trying to do
with this this new platform yeah so
means TV is a project Naomi who's my
partner and I started like a year and a
half ago around the time like we were
starting to get involved in like
electoral politics stuff so like before
we did the video for AOC we were kind of
like we need like a media platform that
doesn't suck just in case you're not
aware Nick you guys you did the major
AOC campaign video that everyone saw
yeah that was you guys yep yeah the area
effect the idea wizard that was huge and
building a national profile before the
primary yeah like yeah we reached out to
her when she had like eight thousand
followers so it was that was really big
and then we did like Kanye Liang's video
which was just trying to like bury like
all the like slander basically like
Hawaiian media had been pushing about
him and you did and you did that IOC
video basically it cost you basically
lost money yeah no definitely we did
yeah we just did that because she ruled
and because uh there was no like the
only people we saw doing video on the
left for like even like like leftist
socialist people like also did [ __ ] for
like Wells Fargo and stuff it's like
that doesn't square so yeah we did we
started doing like electoral stuff and
we were like wow this is like we're
making a lot of impact here like this is
really cool but we also want to do some
stuff sort of outside of like electoral
politics space because like politics is
boring and annoying and you get burnout
on it really quickly so we basically
started trying to leverage like our
political contacts people we worked with
and shoot some different stuff like with
Kanye Lange with street fight with all
those guys like the model is a kind of
Kowalik of cooperative of people who
produce
and you know edit and share like these
these videos and then it's based on like
you guys are getting went from like
subscriptions and yeah so the whole
thing is like we're a worker co-op which
we are advocating as like the model for
digital media now like we're seeing
digital media jobs like only becoming
like harder to maintain like nobody can
keep a digital media job for more than
[ __ ] you know you're getting
cannibalized alright venture
entrepreneurs and capitalist firms as
they pick the bones off of you know you
know once proud organizations or not so
cool edge you yeah exactly so yeah the
whole thing is like we're work or owned
so everybody that's like anytime anybody
that's a full-time employee at the
company within a certain period of time
gains access to a percentage of the
profit and equal voting power as anybody
else in the company so you we've saw
over the last couple weeks the the
street fight video explaining in their
own way you know what capitalism is but
like like as this goes forward like what
like what's on the horizon like what
kind of stuff are you guys gonna come
out with yeah so we're doing this
campaign is basically like a proof of
concept because when we say
anti-capitalist entertainment to people
people don't know what that is and so
this is trying to show people like this
is what we could have you know if we
were to sort of fund and invest in like
a structure like this but the end goal
it means TV like what we're working to
raise money for is a a platform like
Netflix sort of a digital streaming
service that you can go to that you can
pull up on your Apple TV that you can
pull up on you know your phone or
whatever and you can watch like movies
TV shows reality shows about workplaces
being unionized like animated shows
about like people like Elon Musk being
[ __ ] like it's a place for leftist
and it's also just a place anybody can
go and like watch some [ __ ] that isn't
like aggressively individualistic or
militaristic or or like if you are you
know have creative pursuits or like you
like doing animation or videos or things
like that this could be a place that you
think you could contentiously pitch to
and a platform where people could see
your work if you wanted to create it
yeah where maybe even get money for it
yeah we do we we take pitches and we
like work with people to develop those
and
budgets for those projects like you know
not only are we trying to like provide
people with anti-capitalist
entertainment but we want to create a
place where like if you're like I got
person like me who's just staring down
the digital media landscape right and
like it's like okay I can go cut ads for
the Saudi Empire for fun or my wrists
yeah right right it's like there's this
there's it's such a bleak landscape
there just has to be another option for
like young people like people within
sort of anti-capitalist politics to go
and in ads noting creatively uh produce
this very ambitious producing all of
these programs producing a full slate of
programming for a streaming service
that's obviously very expensive even if
you're doing a lot of stuff in-house how
do you make this into a self-sustaining
enterprise so a big part of that is I
think being clear with people what we
are and what we're trying to do which is
we are explicitly political we like are
anti-capitalist we are socialist we work
with communist with anarchists we are a
multi tendancy big platform or big tent
platform right and I think that's why I
like like we were talking about Fox News
it's like Fox News tells you what the
[ __ ] they are you know and like you know
where CNN is like we're unbiased and
it's like you're not though and I think
just being honest with people and being
like this is our perspective this is
where we come from goes a long way but
the actual funding of of projects and
stuff like that will be a
subscription-based basically like we're
gonna be always putting out free videos
and kind of infotainment stuff just to
like bring new people into the fold of
like leftism but we'll also be creating
like a paywall system basically why make
a streaming service from scratch instead
of say a youtube channel or a twitch
stream I mean YouTube can just take your
[ __ ] down
is that like YouTube if they don't like
your stuff they can just take it down
and I think there's a lot of power to be
built on YouTube but it's a it's a
corporate platform I mean I'm getting
recommended Jordan Peterson videos after
I watch a street fight what is copper
yeah for me
so really smart
damn so it's just it's like that
platform is they know that their
viewership is coming from these kind of
alt-right channels and that's what
they're pushing in algorithms and it's
like you see people like contra points
who are doing a great job of beating
that back but I think YouTube is so
personality focused and so like I'm
talking to camera for 30 minutes about
just like some you know whatever that uh
sort of expanding that imagination a
little bit and being like what if we
also had TV shows and movies and like
web series and animated shows and all
these different sorts of things we've
never had like oh so similar to what we
talked about with contra points like the
vast majority of the content on YouTube
is just unwatchable tract with zero
production value thought or care put
into it at all it's just like yes very
inspiring the [ __ ] talking to his
laptop you know whereas like you know
doing something a little bit more
artistic merit or value to it or just
you know production yeah I mean that's
in the left has been you know and maybe
rightfully so a little bit but kind of
cast as this like lazy like kind of
incompetent like we got yeah but it's
like we're not like we have people you
know leftists are everywhere like
leftist are the most creative people in
our society like making the best art and
it's kind of always been that way but
there's we've always had to work through
these hyper capitalist structures and
platforms where you know our ideas are
stifled or they're gone through they go
through a corporate filter and they're
suddenly anti-worker when maybe we set
out to make something different and
that's I think what like me as a young
person like looking at like how do i
plug in and try to like make an impact
in media it's like oh I just don't I
just eat [ __ ] for like my whole adult
life and then I'd like retire I guess
maybe but and probably not so it's it's
yeah like a platform for us to be able
to build power in visual media in like a
highly produced way in a way that feels
like familiar to just like your average
person and uh you know to the example of
like you know how this is this is all
very ambitious but like you know how do
you make it so sustaining you know like
the model of like small donor
our subscriptions I mean [ __ ] like this
show is a [ __ ] like prime example of
how that can [ __ ] work because like
the show wouldn't be successful if we
had done it through like a medium where
like we weren't in control of like you
know like our own content and how it was
done yeah I I also just wanted to pop in
and say because Nick and I were
discussing this right before we came
here about how in terms of sustaining
and building something when you look at
even like I don't know any other form of
corporate online media we were talking
specifically about vice like we just
heard today that Vice Live went under
and all the empower about that we're
crying right now it was my favorite
nightly program but like you know all
those companies are built rather by
design or in the end to just like cut
the base production is low to the bone
as possible and funnel all the money up
to the top like six people with the
sometimes the explicit goal eventually
harvesting and selling it Shane Smith
yeah yeah we were just talking like like
could you describe like like how means
TV let's say how your approach differs
from the I don't know the Vice model for
instance yeah I mean the biggest
difference is that we're not a pyramid
scheme
we're not like selling we're not going
to investors we're not going to
investors but we're also not going to
investors and being like we're gonna
bring Millennials back to cable
television knowing damn well that'll
never happen
it means TV promised number one we are
not a pyramid scheme promise number two
our co-founder is not a neo-nazi really
but yeah if you're just like if you're
operating like a co-op from a very basic
basic level you don't have to worry
about whether or not it's all gonna just
be taken apart by investors you know two
years down the line once it's proven
successful because that's not the model
of the company I think that that is like
the single fundamental having worked in
the online of web media for a long time
that is like the single greatest
difference that you could ask for you
know that as a creator your content is
like there to be supported and it is the
lifeblood of the of the the platform so
I guess there's a closeout Nick I want
to thank you so much for for joining us
and all the great work you've done with
means TV but you know for our listeners
that they want to
now it means TV or like subscribe review
as they say what are they what do they
do yeah so we're actually doing a
fundraiser right now you can go to means
that media we've raised over $50,000
already and we're trying to raise close
to 500 thousand to fund our first year
of TV shows movies reality shows
animations all that stuff so means not
media is where you can find that stuff
and then you can also check us out on
YouTube we have the channel with neat
the original nyan cat video thanks to
Sara June which has been a huge huge
boon to the YouTube channel into the
meme the online left meme culture
all-time great memes mm-hmm so I would I
would check us out there and we're at
means underscore TV on Twitter and
thanks guys for having me on to talk
about it absolutely thank you and where
we go Virgil sit give us those beautiful
plugs let's plug it up oh boy we have a
bevy of plugs today first office you
might have heard we're going to Europe
during the American the American
Expeditionary Force nine will be in
holiday role in Germany on June 1st
Glasgow Scotland June 3rd London June
5th Manchester June 7th closing things
out Dublin Ireland
June 9th tickets go on sale this Friday
you can find them when they go live at
Chapo Trap House calm / tour also you
know while you're there subscribe to our
newsletter just go on Chapel traphouse
calm just like a little link at the
bottom right there and if you're in
Europe you have no excuse for not coming
to one of these shows all that place has
[ __ ] trains and who doesn't love for
a traveling up by rail the gentleman
right carriage I'm not [ __ ] if you're in
Europe if you're in the Middle East if
you're in East Asia guess what it's
called Eurasia it's the same continent
take a train walk drive [ __ ] you come
plug number 2 Mayday Mayday we are doing
a live show at the Housing Works cafe
and we do it right in Brooklyn the one
in Manhattan it is at 126 Crosby Street
in the Lower East Side you can get
tickets and
link embedded in the description of this
episode or go to Chapel made a trivia
dot splashed that calm I believe some
tickets are still available this is a
benefit for Housing Works and we'll be
doing pub trivia yeah all of us will
write a ten question
category over I'll have to do that yes
yes you do
I know I said how long do I have dumbass
lady
yeah I'd the dumbass it's literally how
the Mayday show you [ __ ] idiot oh oh
I don't celebrate that holiday good
Kenny day in May Oh
31 days in May any of them because the
questions can't all be about fortnight
or Game of Thrones no they can missus
gonna be able to answer any this but
maybe one person you think I give a [ __ ]
stupid or not my problem that's their
that's taking up with their parents
their accuser that bad that's really
nothing I can do about it plug number
three we are doing a live show in Ithaca
New York on the evening of April 26
that's this week it will be a Cornell
University 301 Tower Road room 105 it is
sold out on a vent bright but I kind of
think they were free there so any any
wag could have just reserved a ticket
even if they're in Tacoma yeah with some
dastardly proud boys as I it's late
April Fool's joke my bed it's capped at
140 people first come first seated maybe
there's a standby if you want to come
check it out and if you can't get in
well there's a nice slope you can hang
out on and this is for closing out Union
days 2019 that is a that's a thing that
they do at Cornell it's about unions
unions and how they're good uh final
plug of the evening uh this one's fun
our friends at D Krim and why which is
an organizational coalition through
policy advocacy community organizing
public education working to improve the
lives of people who perform sexual labor
by choice circumstance or coercion it is
a union of sex workers and allies three
goals decriminalization D carcere
ization and DS
Digman cessation of the sex raids in new
york they are do I know these organizers
and they have been doing phenomenal work
in terms of applying a great deal of
public pressure towards what seemed
unthinkable about a year ago which is
the criminalization of sex work in New
York and they're hoping to become a
National Organization they are doing a
fundraiser to keep the lights on because
this is this organization advocacy is
very expensive work and you the listener
can get something very special if you
donate for $50.00 okay so Virgil did a
[ __ ] job of explaining what this is and
asked me to record a pickup at
explaining what the gift is we are going
to record a podcast episode with will
Matt Felix and Virgil and then I'm going
to have my friends at a cassette tape
label press this podcast episode into
100 unique cassette tapes after that I
will destroy the digital file of this
podcast it will only exist as cassette
tapes and if you donate to this charity
fundraiser we will send you one of these
100 absolutely limited completely
unlistenable unless you have the
physical object cassette tapes and they
will be packaged with nice cool trippy
art and yeah back to Virgil it will
never be released digitally it is going
into the k-tel vault if you want to hear
it you must donate $50 uh so please is a
very good cause please go to the link
embedded below and even if you can't
donate $50 you know donate whatever you
can those are the pugs thanks again to
Nick from means TV a very cool project
we hope you guys will all check out and
till next time boys yeah
[Music]
