uh let's just gears I got a I got a
little reading series for you guys since
we you feelin that
let's do it um this is a this is a
medley that I've arranged here and this
is a return to a classic character can
you guys guess who it is
I'm gonna say Caleb it's Caleb yes it's
now going into this I I realized that
like there are only so many letters to
Caleb because you know they happen once
a year and then Jeff stop doing them
when Caleb had a psychic break and ran
away to New York City Fran was missing
for 80 hours and he realized oh wait
maybe I shouldn't be raped my son in my
newspaper column every year maybe that's
warping him in some way so I feel like
the best
Caleb's are like in the later years when
he became like an adolescent and all the
columns are just like why have you
become such a willful little boy mama
and I are so sad but there is still some
excellent um Caleb cuts so I want to
read no I mean sort of a medley of Caleb
for you guys and I hope it lives up to
his his previous disappearance okay for
those of you who are not aware or not
been versed in the Caleb Jacoby saga
Caleb is the son of Boston Globe
colonist jeff jacoby for many years
wrote a an annual column to his son kind
of letters to Caleb in which he
proceeded to you know in a Shamal t way
talked about fatherhood but really just
berate his own son for his readership
and then when he was a teenager I think
back in 2014
Caleb ran away from home and went from
all the way from Boston to New York City
and was found I think in like the emaan
of his store in Times Square after being
missing for 80 hours and the letter is
to Caleb that I discovered as a result
of this are sort of like the Rosetta
Stone for why and how this happened so
like I said this is a letter written to
a very young Caleb and it begins my
beloved Caleb you gave me a real jolt a
few nights ago you had just gotten into
bed for the night and I was sitting with
you so we could talk for a few minutes
before saying goodnight
Papa you announced I will get a gun I
couldn't have been more startled if your
heads had spun 360 degrees not that I am
a gun hater on the contrary I think that
in the hands of honest people guns do
more good than harm but if there's one
thing to understand that intellectually
and something different to hear I will
get a gun come out of the mouth of a
child who is just turning 3 especially
when the papers are reporting a horrible
story in Michigan a first-grade boy his
shot and killed the first grade girl a
gun who could have put such ideas in
your head and then I remembered I did to
talk about how you read a read Caleb a
Peter Rabbit bedtime story that included
some guy using a gun it go it goes on
and on like that but I just like the
opening scene of just Papa I will get a
gun instructions on how to go into a gun
show get a 40-cal and mop your dad back
okay but like this whole thing about
like he's starting like his three year
old and he's like do you know that a
first grader killed another first grader
the other day this is a repeated theme
throughout this and it's also like kids
say stuff like that all the time yes
absolutely okay this is another one this
is called messages to my son my beloved
Caleb you're 10 I can't believe a decade
has elapsed since I wrote the first of
those annual letters just punishing
psychic abuse he's been punishing Caleb
and brow beating him like since he was
since he was a zygote bein an infant
yeah you were only 16 days old the first
letter begins he had 16 days this kid
was already yours terrible baby listen
to this pregnant stomach I marvel that
the emotion I felt for an infant I
barely knew and prayed that life would
bring you many blessings but the real
point of that letter was that I was
already thinking about your character
and how much I wanted you to grow up to
be a decent kind and honest like every
parent I want you to do well I wrote but
more than anything else I want you
do good ten years later I know so much
more about you than I did then I know
that you have a good mind and are an
avid reader I know that you love vanilla
ice cream but recoil from grilled cheese
sandwiches what an [ __ ] Kaylin I
think that's in the dark triad I know
that you will try to Breeze in your way
through even the most obvious lie I know
that you're another complaining patient
when you're sick and a champion sulker
when you're angry I know that you don't
on your little brother I also know that
your formative years are speeding by for
better or worse your upbringing is half
over and like yeah like it's half over
but your life is already over because
those first ten years have already
completely worked you beyond any hope of
becoming a normal human being because
because of your ridiculous awful parents
but Caleb Batson that's in my letter to
you but the message of that first letter
character matters and I want yours to be
good is one that I still try to
communicate to you you certainly heard
me say it often enough when I asked you
a few weeks ago to tell Micah what I
want whoa that both of you to be when
you grow up
you knew the answer a good person you
replied with a here we go again roll of
your eyes religious [ __ ] is to name your
son's after like characters in the Bible
who like picked up mountains and threw
them to defend the Hebrews or the [ __ ]
is in the Bible but it's your sons are
just like candy stealing kids who don't
talk because you've ritualistically
browbeaten them and abuse them you've
like [ __ ] tied them down and hit them
with William Bennett books the Clockwork
Orange but it's a [ __ ] Dennis Prager
YouTube video okay here we go I I'm
skipping a little bit but Jeff continues
some messages I try to convey through
behavior more than words I want you and
Micah to become loving fathers and
husbands so I make sure that open
affection is something you see and get a
lot of some men are in he
about kissing or hugging their wives or
addressing them with terms of endearment
you're growing up an environment where
your father makes no secret of his love
for your mother for me well that's funny
cuz like he's like you know I want you
to grow up
we're like positive male and female
roles are like you know just are modeled
to you every day which is why I refer to
my wife as mama and every one of these
columns that I'm writing to you Caleb
Caleb but wife is a woman who you [ __ ]
and she's also your mom every woman is a
mom I have no idea why your [ __ ] is
better it gets better it gets better I
hope your children will grow up in a
similar environment speaking of your
children I have been shamelessly
propagandizing you for years on the
advantages of marrying early and having
lots of kids two things I didn't do but
wish I had when you're 22 years old and
you get married and have five children I
remember asking you when you were about
four oh my god ravenous what will their
names be you said they would all be
named Caleb
[Laughter]
caleb is the resistance like this is
like a David Cronenberg movie this is a
dog bathroom until they make a baby
sorry I'm going back to the decency
matters most Colin this is really good
it's like remember what I said like you
know in his like first letter to his kid
he's like you know I just saw how
innocent you were and there were
immediately thought of all the evil that
exists in this world the title of this
one is decency matters most skill it
begins as they all do my beloved Caleb
you haven't gotten much bigger since
last March you're only three inches
taller and three pounds heavier but
those aren't the only ways in which
you've been maturing when you turn four
last year he's not mature he's a [ __ ]
toddler Qi Oh school see when you turn
four last year you were so stricken by
the thought of a celebration that would
make you the center of attention that
you didn't even want your nursery class
to share a cake and sing happy birthday
but when you turn five this month and
mama arranged a small birthday party you
enjoyed every minute even when your
friends sing happy birthday twice and do
you remember how after the puppet show
and ice-cream you couldn't wait to take
the kids upstairs so they could all
clamber to the top of your bunk bed when
we first got you that bed nine months
ago even getting into the bottom bunk
made you uneasy not anymore
not okay so it goes on not that we're in
any hurry for you to grow up you are
happy secure and deeply loved five year
old boy and it would be your 401k is
doing great and it would be a crime to
let you learn too soon just how unhappy
insecure and hateful place the world can
be that is why for you last September
11th was just another day and break
[Laughter]
kid caleb to ease you into the trauma of
9/11 I've painted hints about the
Holocaust into your bedroom knowing that
you're a precocious lad who looks for
the truth I I've left that's how they
got him bunk beds yeah Caleb you may be
wondering why Caleb Caleb that was sick
listen to this okay that is why for you
last September 11th was just another day
in pre-kindergarten you didn't learn
then and you haven't learned since about
the mass murders that took place on that
terrible morning nor do you know
anything about the savage bombings that
have killed hundreds of innocent people
including children younger than you in
Israel a country a country you have
visited twice I saw these by Caleb Caleb
even though you were already promised in
marriage the Ariel Sharon's
granddaughter he starts out talking
about September 11 and he talks about
[ __ ] bombings in Israel and he's just
getting this he's just getting started
because you have never heard that a
mother in Texas drowned all her five
children in a bathtub priests committing
sexual abuse question mark
anthrax sent through the mail of all
these horrors you are blissfully
ignorant for now that is not to say you
don't know that terrible things can
happen in the world you've learned in
preschool and we've talked about at home
some of the atrocities that are recorded
in the Bible
o Pharaoh's malevolent decree to drown
every Jewish baby boy for example but it
is one thing to know of such episode in
stories from long ago it is far more
unsettling to know that evil and terror
are all too real parts of the world you
now live in he goes on of course I hope
that you were never the cause of
injustice are suffering either Caleb I
hope you never become radicalized no
that is why we place so much emphasis on
the importance of kindness and decency
and not hurting other people do you
remember the day last summer when you
bit a girl in your preschool camp the
marker you wanted when I heard about it
that evening I was appalled
and insisted that you apologize right
away mama called the girl's house and
gave you the phone when she came on I'm
sorry I bit you you told her I won't do
it again that's what happens when you
take your kid to is really pretty sure
this is the backstory to Dexter the
reason we make such a big deal about how
you treat other people is because we
know what can happen when they don't
make that our priority their children
sometimes grow into monsters who fly
airliners into office buildings or
detonate bombs in Korea or pray sexually
on teenagers who turn to them for
counsel father had written a letter
the Cairo post to him every year how
many killers family like Kayla now this
is a hundred percent real I'm with my
horrible selfish son on top of the
Empire State Building killed could be
our best material it's a reading series
it's the funniest blood vessel Oh Caleb
how old is he now he's like a teenager
Nick's no Caleb does now he does beats
it's your no sylvans caleb is like a
soundcloud beat producer kill you cope
you already know who it caleb is
actually young job yeah the guy is a
saying chocolates just somebody they
hired but it's actually killed
he's like Caleb my young boy right
beautiful young boy Caleb if you grow up
and people don't trust you
I will shoot them Caleb Caleb my sweet
boy the kind of boy you are now informs
the manual become I hope that when
you're older and here's somebody in a
barbershop
talk it's sweet on Keith Keith you
[ __ ] whip their ass you know kill
Jacoby producing benzino's new well
again like I said when we first said I'm
not making fun of Caleb I'm glad he's
good he seems like yes
she's been through enough yeah yeah but
like all his beats have titles like like
on the grind resilience hard work
definitely eats definitely gonna have
five kids by the time he's 22 I'm
totally confident about just like how
Jim Davis is the final authority on
Kenan
Jeff Caleb's father is the final
authority on all caleb cannon so
actually I'd like to use this as a plea
now to jeff jacoby Jeff please start
writing these letters to your son every
year again I can't deal that like it's a
limited run on these I need more it
doesn't have another kid or something
like your style is Cho oh yeah he has a
younger brother Micah Jeff Jacobo please
start reading letters oh my god now
that's there's still time that's a
really good question like why doesn't he
write these to Micah when he or
something [ __ ] out yeah I think it's
cuz Micah's adopted I don't know only my
blood gets my letters yes someone else
write a letter as a child of adoption
myself I think that's mega [ __ ] up
yeah yeah that shit's [ __ ] yeah if you
ever be rotten letters to all your kids
about how selfish that was a joy to
share with you guys as always a joy to
share with Virgil for the first time and
of course it Leon also for the first
time and with are you the listener I
always love talking sexy to you like a
real boy you do I did we wanna be's like
you worried me you just wanna be if you
want
[Laughter]
