[Music]
all right hello everybody it's your
Chapo for the week it's me Matt and
virtual here and we were very excited to
be joined now by a now making her second
appearance on the show getting that
2-time Chapo challenge coin it is Naomi
Klein to talk about her new book on fire
the burning case for the green new deal
Naomi how you doing very well good to be
with you guys again
in writing the book or putting it
together you you sir through an emerald
job of going against pure doom ISM
despite the content of it it was that
was that difficult I mean there's a lot
of doom you know I mean I it's it's
interesting what passes for you know
being hopeful these days is just sort of
seeing any possibility that we might
rally and and and do what is required to
prevent absolutely catastrophic
unraveling because we've already locked
in you know level a level of warming
that is extremely dangerous I mean the
way I sort of hesitate over the word
doom like I have you know I think we're
going to be no matter what we do we're
going to be living with greater levels
of climate disruption than we're seeing
already and we're already seeing some
really really scary events with having
more on the planet by one degree Celsius
and so I think it's really about how we
decide to take care of each other in a
context of serial climate shocks whether
we're going to dip into full kind of
climate barbarism and you know and the
reason I don't just feel sort of raw
terror about it is that there's a
there's a greater appetite for that kind
of systemic change then there has been
at any point in my adult life right and
there's definitely a generational shift
going on as you guys know where there's
you know activists in their 20s are not
terrified of connecting with other
movements they're not
aside of talking about capitalism they
actually know that the climate crisis is
one of many systemic crisis crises
produced under the system so that's
progress I guess you talk to the just in
the beginning about how like this this
sort of shift in this debate away from
this idea that global warming is a
problem but we can manage it within the
confines of a free-market capitalist
system to one that supposes that there's
basically nothing we can do the scale of
the problem is too large and we just
have to sort of withstand it
given that turn how does that thinking
lead to what you described as climate
barbarism and what might that look like
well I think work in it like I don't
think that we are I don't think it's a
coincidence that as climate disruption
becomes a lived reality whether or not
people claim to deny it or not and I
think most of the people who claim to
deny that the climate is changing are
just lying right like Donald Trump you
know had to had to change the designs of
his golf courses to deal with sea level
rise they all know what's happening they
just think they're going to be alright
they think they're going to make be able
to make short-term profit I think
they're going to be able to fortress
themselves and their families and and so
the climate barbarism is no longer
denying that it is happening or or
really just kind of doing a kind of
lackluster effort around the denial like
the occasional tweet saying it's a
Chinese hoax but adapting in the sense
of moving money from responses to to the
crisis over to building concentration
camps and fortress and the borders and
we're seeing this in the US you know
we're seeing the money move from you
know FEMA Disaster Response
to ice and migration detention we're
seeing in Europe
a similar process underway with the
offshoring of of the patrolling of the
sea use for migrants
to the Libyan Coast Guard as they call
themselves but they're really a bunch of
warlords and they're bringing migrants
to concentration camps in Libya and all
of this is modeled after Australia which
has been doing this for many years where
they intercept the boats they make sure
that they never make it to Australian
soil and they bring people to these
offshore camps on remote islands like
Manas and narrow which are themselves
really vulnerable to climate change so
this is you know they market this as
deterrence but it isn't really deterring
because we have more people on the move
and at any point in history and its
really a strategy - forretress majority
white continent from the impacts of
climate disruption and the wars that we
fund so essentially all of the despite
the odd and lackluster protests to the
side all the people who really matter
all know that climate change is
happening and are already seeing the
effects of it but this barbarism is
leading you know not to the creation of
infrastructure or a social order that
would maintain a decent quality of life
for people you know in light of these
facts but to essentially manage large
human populations in ways that keep them
out and you know in camps basically and
further criminalized people for seeking
refuge right so with the Trump
administration we've seen the new quota
for how many refugees they're willing to
accept is 18,000 I mean that is nothing
I think in the final year that the Obama
administration was 130,000 so they're
massively contracting the number of
refugees they're willing to accept even
as the number of refugees increase the
other thing that they've been doing
really systematically is attacking
temporary protected status TPS right and
the significance of this is that there's
actually no such thing under under
international refugee law as a as a
climate refugee because when the
convention was written it wasn't
understood that there would be climate
refugees so you know you can have a
refugee forum or you can have a refugee
from all kinds of civil conflict
genocide but not
climate disruption and so one way that
people who are displaced by natural
disasters have been able to get
temporary status in the United States is
under TPS and TPS is a program that
gives people temporary status if they if
something extreme happens in their home
countries and one of those things can be
a natural disaster that's one of the
ways that you can get TPS and if you
look at what the Trump administration
has done from the beginning that they
have tried to close this loophole right
they went after Salvadorans protected
under TPS and restorations protected
under TPS now they said that people from
the Bahamas who were hit by Hurricane
durian can't come under TPS so this is
like the one way that people hit by
natural disasters have been able to get
status in the US and they're shutting
that down even as they massively
restrict the number of refugees allowed
and of course you know your listeners
know all about what is happening on the
borders with family separation and the
building of these camps but I guess what
I'm stressing is this is not just about
Trump this has been happening in these
settler colonial countries like
Australia as well at New Zealand you
know I don't think it's a you know it's
by happenstance that an Australian guy
in New Zealand goes to a mosque in March
and opened fire and killed more than 50
Muslim people at prayer and in his
manifesto he describes himself as a
ethno nationalist eco fascist and you
know he sees immigration to Australia
and New Zealand North America and Europe
as part of this war as part of the great
replacement I mean he said it he said it
in his manifesto and then this in turn
inspired the el paso shooter to go to a
Walmart opened fire and more mass murder
and in this guy's manifesto he actually
says you know climate change is
happening Americans aren't going to
change so we have to keep Mexicans from
adopting our way of life
why he chose the Walmart he was
literally saying only we get Walmart's
you can't shop like us and we're going
to keep shopping so I mean it doesn't
get more literal than that he apparently
doesn't know there are Walmart's in
Mexico but again like a whole all part
of this is this idea that like no longer
is like the you know rising tides the
threat or the idea that we can do
anything about you know putting stop the
amount of carbon we're putting into the
atmosphere at a level that would make a
difference but it's all about how people
now are the real threat of climate
change and that like everything we're
doing to intervene in that is about how
to surveil stop and ultimately you know
kill and contain human beings themselves
which are like a sorta like an
environmental disaster in these people's
mind for some of these people it's text
like these mass murderers in El Paso and
in Christchurch but for other people
it's its subtext but it's been a big
part of the subtext of a climate change
denial movement for a long time you know
I wrote about it in the piece in the
book about the Heartland Institute you
know I went there in 2011 and they were
basically saying you know laughing about
about climate disruption and drought and
and you know I quote one of their
speakers saying you know oh well if it
hot if it's hot they should get air
conditioning you know I mean they damn
well know that people in in very poor
parts of the world don't have the option
to go to a Walmart and buy air
conditioning they're just saying I don't
give a [ __ ] right okay so if I'm reading
you correctly so what you're saying is
the camps on the border Trump's what is
what white supremacist policy that's not
an aberration that's not just his
particular populist dementia that is the
the next step at next step adaptation to
the externalities of climate change and
you see that all throughout the
developed world right I mean you see it
and I'm not saying that everybody who is
moving is moving because of climate
change
it's one of the drivers of migration so
it's certainly a big
driver of migration from Central America
because Honduras and El Salvador and
that's fifth year of a drought that is
pushing farmers from from their lands
they can't feed their families that's
why they're moving but we also know that
basic like climate disruption just makes
everything worse
right so if you have gang violence and
you add now a drought on top of it it
makes things worse if you have a crisis
of domestic violence
it makes things worse so you can't
reprieve these things apart we know that
in Syria the fact that there was a
historic drought in the in a year before
the outbreak of civil war was one of the
exacerbating factors but I am saying
that whether people deny it or not we
know that we are in an era of mass
migration that is not going to change
and the reality is that the parts of our
planet that are compatible with human
civilization are contracting we are
going to have to share less and less
space and there's a couple of ways to
deal with that one way is to say screw
you you're not coming in we're
protecting our own and to rationalize
that with brutal theories that ranked
human life series that have always been
alive in the American psyche and in this
and in the settler colonial psyche
because they were required to
rationalize the theft of indigenous land
and to rationalize slavery and now they
are required to rationalize the fortress
thing of borders you have to tell
yourself a story that makes it okay that
families are being ripped apart that
people are being locked out who are
clearly desperate and I think we're and
so that's one way of dealing with this
reality and another way of dealing with
it would require a kind of revolution in
values where we would have to decide
that actually we really do believe in
equality and we believed that rights are
attached to the person and not for their
nationality and we would have to figure
out how to live together on this
contracting space for humanity in a way
where we don't turn on each other which
means that we need to
dressed in a huge way in healthcare in
we need to invest in mental health as
well because communities are under
incredible stress and you know we we we
have to you know build in these kinds of
shock absorbers and of course we have to
do everything possible to keep it from
getting a hell of a lot worse which
means that we have to do everything
possible to get to a hundred percent
renewable energy and a zero emission
economy well let's talk about the
baseline for a minute let's talk about
the do-nothing and just see what happens
reality we're talking when we're talking
about climate refugees we're talking
about adaptations that take place at the
border at the port of a point of entry
what would internal adaptations look
like ten twenty years from now right so
if we if we literally do nothing like if
we stay on the road we're on so that
means we blow the completely inadequate
emission reduction targets that were
introduced under Obama and that's but
that's the road we're on under Trump
that would lead us to about four to six
degrees Celsius of warming and like I
said we've warmed the planet by one
degree and we're seeing the unraveling
under that so how do you adapt to four
to six degrees of warming I don't know
what to say about that what that looks
like it's it's really damn ugly
I don't like Kevin Anderson who's in my
opinion the world's leading expert on
emission reduction he says a four
degrees warming isn't compatible with
anything you would describe as organized
civilization I mean with four to six
degrees warming New York doesn't exist
so I don't I don't know I mean choose
your choose York life life choice we've
imagined this future many times what
about the modest emissions reductions
the non revolutionary future like the
Obama era kind of right we'll still
still have the same capitalist world
system but you know we will we'll have
some decoupling well you know I'm
hesitating because you know even those
emission reduction targets like the sort
of you know everybody is grieving
because
Trump left the Paris Accord but if you
look at what the Paris Accord actually
was it was it was the governments of the
world coming together and saying we need
to keep temperatures below 1.5 to 2
degrees Celsius warming and we're
willing to do exactly half that because
the Paris Accord was because it was
still sort of under neoliberal logic
there wasn't any who didn't include a
regulatory approach that was just a
space that would have said ok well this
is how much each country has to cut
emissions by if we are serious about
meeting those targets it just that every
country just bring us your best efforts
and and and and so you know Obama
brought his best efforts and Justin
Trudeau brought his best efforts we you
brought their best efforts and you if
you add up all those all those best
effort pledges it doesn't lead to to
emissions that are compatible with 1.5
to 2 degrees warming it leads to 3 to 4
degrees warming which like I said it
isn't compatible and and and then if you
look at what governments are actually
doing there's they're blowing those
terrible targets so Justin Trudeau you
know who this sort of liberal heartthrob
of a 5 minutes ago you know he bought an
oil pipeline for I think three billion
dollars or four billion dollars from
Kinder Morgan and he's blowing the
ridiculously inadequate initial
reductions he brought to Paris so it
really isn't a plan on the table that
that our existing model has been able to
produce that doesn't lead to truly
catastrophic outcomes it would help if
you stated the overall thesis of your
book and generally and how that relates
to not just the right or the status quo
but the other ideas of what should be
done right so I mean the reason why
white I published this book now and the
subtitle of the book is the burning case
for agreeing to deal is is arguing that
the kind of transformational approach
that the green New Deal are a truly
radical green New Deal and not you know
people are kind of taking that slogan
and making if what they want but I'll
talk about what I mean by a green new
deal and and and what I think we should
accept is it
mr. fur green New Deal but this is
actually the only way of meeting
anything like emission reduction targets
that that that could in any way be
compatible with a good life with a
decent life and I say that acknowledging
that that anything we do we are going to
be living with massive loss and massive
disruption where there's going to be
more disasters than we have now and
there's going to be a lot more migration
because it's too late to prevent a
warming of of anything like 1.5 is the
best we can we can achieve and even
achieving that would require you know I
mean it's a moonshot as aoc has said so
the book is an argument for for a green
new deal which is a way of reducing
emissions in line with what scientists
have told us we need to do to hit those
targets but doing it in a way that is
very deliberate about creating not just
any old green jobs but unionized
well-paying good jobs protecting the
salaries and benefits of people who are
moving from high carbon sectors to to
green sectors and also making sure that
jobs that are already low carbon like
caring for kids the elderly and the most
devalued work on our economy devalued
because it's overwhelmingly women's work
it's overwhelmingly immigrant women's
work actually pays a good salary also
has those protections and so that we can
expand those parts of our economy so the
green new deal is about centering
justice within our countries in between
our countries as we try to meet these
very tough emission reduction targets
what we're seeing is that if we forget
just if we if we say you know we don't
have time for justice we have to do this
as quickly as possible and we've heard
that argument from you know Thomas
Frieden we've even heard it from climate
scientists like Michael Mann who said
you know we just don't have time to
throw in the healthcare and and you know
we don't have time to make this about
racial justice and economic justice and
yet people are saying what's very
explicitly now
you know we just need to get ourselves a
good carbon tax or good carbon pricing
scheme look at what happened in France
look at what happened with the yellow
vests movement you know when you when
you when you introduce carbon pricing
schemes within a neoliberal framework
right which is already attacking
people's standard of living on multiple
fronts and that call is a great you know
stand in for this because he attacked
labor rights he imposed austerity he
handed out tax breaks to millionaires
and corporations and he said and I
really care about the planet let's make
the planet great again he had a very
popular meme and said in the way we're
going to do this is we're going to make
the price of gas it more expensive and
lo and behold you have a popular
uprising and cars burning on the streets
of Paris and we all because it is
rightly seen as yet another stress on
overstressed people who can't take it
anymore
and the slogan is you care about the end
of the world we care about the end of
the month
so you know the argument I'm making is
this this pathway that that pretends to
be serious and pragmatic right is
intensely uncracked and intensely
unserious because not only does it have
nothing to do with the climate science
because it won't lower emissions as in
any way near as quickly as we need to do
it it also is going to generate a huge
popular backlash and you'll have to undo
it which is what Michael did and which
has happened you know in different clip
places you know I'm in the US now I used
to live in Ontario I hope to return to
Canada in a couple years but nice and
more for you I'm here till 2020 and then
I'm leaving but you know in Ontario we
had a Liberal government that that that
introduced various carbon pricing
schemes that were seen as reasons why
people that energy prices were going up
and that was part of what has given us
you know our very own version of Donald
Trump which is our right-wing populist
government in Ontario it's the brother
of the crack smoking mayor
you probably remember him no friend of
the show Doug Ford it you know he
ran on a platform of repealing the
carbon price repealing the carbon
pricing giving people bucketeer and
rolling back sex education to 1992
levels anyone so you know this thing
that poses as pragmatic which is let's
divorce carbon from all of these other
failing structures and economic
inequality you know is a recipe for
getting less than nothing done right
right and that's so the the Thomas
Friedman idea of decoupling is that you
know we can have our cake and eat it too
will we will maintain the economic
growth we will just you know Pinker with
with some of the underlying structure
there swap out some fossil fuel
generators of electricity with clean
energy great so what decoupling right is
the it you know it's an economic term
let's talk about that says that actually
we are moving to a less material economy
and so while it was true in a more
industrial age that economic that
increases in economic growth were you
know happened in parallel to increases
in carbon emissions now because we are
in the Information Age and a and and
sort of in off in the cloud we can have
economic growth and we can have a
reduction in emissions that's the idea
behind decoupling and all of these guys
love it but it isn't serious because the
only the only thing that they can point
to is the most marginal decoupling so
like growth of one to two percent paired
with emission reduction of like one to
two percent but if you're serious about
meeting or 1.5 to 2 degree target you
actually need emission reductions of 15
percent so I have a massive gap ok so to
quote Kevin Anderson again you know it
is possible to have marginal emission
reductions with marginal levels of
economic growth but it is absolutely
impossible and there's not an economist
on the planet who can tell you how you
can have deep emission reduction with
economic growth which is why you have
this clash
I mean our economic model and what our
planet needs it's not actually a serious
position like they're not engaging with
the science I guess is what I'm saying
well this brings me to something that a
lot of people who resist the green New
Deal point out if they don't if they're
not totally nihilist and they do believe
it's real
they might point out I'd like for us to
change stuff but the reality is is that
it's not just up to the United States
that China is a huge emitter now of
surpassing us as an emitter and we'll
only do some more so as its economy
becomes more developed and becomes more
of a consumer society and as a consumer
economy that's also true of India Africa
how do we integrate this green New Deal
in the United States into a
international framework that would
actually lead to reduction of emissions
in other countries as well without
basically insisting no you have to
maintain your status as like pianists
like agriculture societies without the
advanced lifestyle that the West has
great so we have the framework in a way
which is the UN Convention on Climate
Change which which says that that
countries have common but differentiated
responsibilities which and what that
means is that every government on the
planet has a responsibility to to rise
to this challenge but there is a
differentiated responsibilities and the
differentiated responsibility has to do
with the fact that some countries have
been emitting carbon on an industrial
scale for several hundred years and so
and the countries that you mentioned
have been doing so for a few decades
right and so what it means is that the
countries that have been doing so for a
few centuries and building up the
benefits from that has to kind of do
more faster right which is why in
Alexandria Castillo Cortez and Ed
Marquis resolution about the green New
Deal it talks about decarbonization in
the United States for electricity in a
decade and everyone said why why are you
doing it so fast right and the IPCC said
that we had we had 12 years to cut
emissions in half globally and the
reason why you need to do it faster in
the United States and
faster in Europe and faster you know in
other you know it highly industrialized
countries is because of that historical
emissions the historical emissions but
the other thing that you need to do is
you need to pay your climate debt so you
need to help countries that have emitted
less carbon and whose people are still
living in dire poverty to leapfrog over
fossil fuels and create lots of good
jobs and leave their forests intact and
not dig up the carbon that they have
that they could dig up and sell and make
money and redistribute and pull people
out of poverty you need to provide real
climate financing and this has been the
biggest weakness of the green new deal
to be honest with you is that there
there was not an enough language about
the need for the u.s. to to provide to
live up to the commitment that it made
when it signed the UN climate convention
and provide climate financing there's
this idea that the u.s. is going to lead
just by doing like you know just this
idea that when the u.s. does things
people just naturally want to follow and
the fact is the US has just been enough
of an arson on the international stage
when it comes to climate change but
nobody's going to be inspired by the
u.s. doing some green things like what
is going to move the needle on this is
the u.s. actually living up to its
international commitments and the only
one who's talking about this is Bernie
and it's made a huge disappointment to
all of you but Bernie's green everybody
else's green a deal honestly stops at
the border of the US and that's not
climate justice it you can't call your
plan you know a justice based transition
if you're only talking about it in a
national context or even a National List
contract context which is what Elizabeth
Warren is doing she talks about economic
patriotism and how there's going to be
you know this huge manufacturing in
solar panels and the way the u.s. is
going to be a climate leader on the
world stage is essentially by dumping
cheap solar panels on the developing
world which is actually economic
imperialism it's not you know it's about
leadership and it will be understood as
such so Bernie it
about about mobilizing 200 billion
dollars which is not a number he pulled
out of the air he works has worked with
the leading thinkers on this who have
been blocking out what the u.s. his
actual historical responsibility is and
and and this is this would this is what
would actually move the needle this is
what would empower people in India and
China who want their government to also
lead on this because they're the ones
choking on an impossibly polluted air in
Delhi at you know and inch engine and
and you know it's they have their own
reasons for wanting this to move but
when the US does not live up to its
historical responsibilities it really
emboldened this sort of fake
anti-imperialism that you get from a lot
of governments in the global self who
say you know this is there they're
trying to keep us from having the
benefits that they had right and you
know really what they're trying to do is
just protect corrupt coal contracts so
that's much feel about it it's not I'm
not saying it's going to be easy but I
think it's really really important for
people to understand this idea that the
u.s. is just going to lead within its
own borders and renege on its
responsibilities to help finance the
global transition is a complete fantasy
we have to we have to do a couple of
things we've got to put real money on
the table Bernie is the only one talking
about it and we also have to open our
borders to many many more migrants and
refugees because they have a right to
asylum at least as it pertains to the
the green new deal as a movement or a
series of policies being proposed in
America that has caught on and become
sort of a stand-in for this idea that we
need to do something serious we can't
just you know nibble around the edges of
this problem but as you've mentioned
there are a lot of people talking about
the green new deal and it's always not
it's not always so clear what they're
actually referring to it's sort of like
Medicare for all it's become a popular
slogan but not all the people that are
using it are using it to describe the
things that you or I or serious
advocates for these things would have in
mind what are some of the things that
individual citizens voters whatever you
want to call them should be on the
lookout for when they hear a politician
or an organization talking about the
green New Deal - you know discern
whether what they're talking about is
the real McCoy or something that is more
of one of these yet nibbling efforts
well look this this framework doesn't
come from nowhere like this this phrase
agreeing ideal has been around for a
while and it's been used and misused and
Thomas Friedman used it for a while so
you know like I don't think it's
possible to say that what is a real
renewed deal I think it's possible to
say what is real climate justice because
the framework comes from the climate
justice movement it comes from the it
comes from countries like Ecuador and
Bolivia who have been calling for a
Marshall Plan for planet Earth for more
than a decade and it comes from
frontline communities that have had the
dirtiest industries in their backyards
overwhelmingly communities of color and
have borne the toxic burden of our
addiction to fossil fuels so are the
core principles of a just transition
away from fossil fuels are that the
people who got the worst deal under the
old extractive economy need to benefit
and help design this transition so
that's a core principle another core
principle of just transition is that no
worker should be left behind so we need
to have trade unions involved in this
process
democratically designing the transitions
we need to have workers salaries
protected and this is a big mistake that
the environmental movement has made over
the years is treating all jobs as kind
of interchangeable so they say like oh
don't worry you're losing your your you
know your your your your family
supporting job in the fossil fuel sector
but you can have a $13 an hour job
putting up in turbines and not
understanding why people aren't excited
about that right so there have to be
real real union protections real labor
protections and there also has to be a
polluter pays
in it right which means that the people
most responsible for this have to bear
the economic cost of the transition it
justice has to be baked in on all of
these fronts and justice can't stop at
the border that's another really key
element to it you know I mentioned
earlier that the reasons why you know
health care has to be recognized in this
is that we are going to be dealing with
shocks and stresses and one of the
stupidest responses to the green New
Deal has been this idea that health care
is somehow an add-on right that it's
kind of making it harder and why are you
like making it everything in the kitchen
sink if you look at what actually
happens in the aftermath of disasters
I'll use Hurricane Maria as an example
because it is the most lethal disaster
in the in recent years more than 3,000
people died in Puerto Rico after
Hurricane Maria but what killed people
was not falling debris what killed
people was decades of austerity that and
that had starved the electricity grid
prepared it for privatization at decades
of attacks on the health care system
privatization of the healthcare system
so that when you had this storm that the
infrastructure was so brittle the public
infrastructure was so brittle that it
was just completely wiped out and so
thousands of people weren't able to plug
in their oxygen machines their dialysis
machines and all the research shows this
that it was actually a healthcare crisis
in the aftermath of Maria that took
those thousands of lives so and that is
why Medicare for all has to be part of
this and you know I could go on and on
there's a lot there are lots of lots of
parts of it that I think are my
criticisms of the green New Deal are I
actually think that it's not broad
enough and it you know it did we don't
we don't have enough discussion of
migrant rights with an agreeing to deal
we need more about the connection to the
military this is why we can have this
sort of I mean not to be so too hard on
Warren because I do think that there are
parts of her green ideal plan that are
very good but this idea that we can kind
of green the military as part of the
green new deal is you know real profound
absurdities
and really dangerous because we actually
need to get that money and move it over
because we aren't going to do this all
with MMP sorry you know this is
trillions and trillions of dollars one
of the more I want to go back to that
discussion about decoupling and what are
the more provocative ideas this isn't
something you're very often let's move
back to this really obscure everyone
turned off the last time one of the more
provocative ideas in your book it's
under the header ending the cult of
shopping and I'll just quote here the
bottom line is that an ecological crisis
that has its roots in the
overconsumption of natural resources
must be addressed not just by improving
the efficiency of our economies but also
by reducing the amount of material stuff
that the wealthiest 20% of the people of
people on the planet consume so in terms
of electoral politics politicians have
to promise growth but the contention is
that growth always correlates with
increased consumption which will
necessarily correlate with increased
emissions yes great so that is a problem
that politicians feel that they have to
always promise growth but there there is
there is going to be growth in parts of
our economy if we do this and if we're
not careful in how we design a green new
deal you could actually end up having a
pretty serious emission increase right
because if we are talking about
transforming housing transportation
electricity agriculture and this is what
this is what a serious green New Deal is
talking about a huge building boom and
it is necessary to do but when you have
an economy that right now is intensely
reliant on fossil fuels as you roll out
this huge infrastructure project you're
actually going to burn a lot of fossil
fuels it you may eventually get to a 100
percent renewable economy at the end of
it but in the short term you're going to
burn a lot of carbon that is that that's
the trap that we have to be aware of the
other piece of it is that if we are
going to pay workers a living wage and
we should and if we're going to provide
a jobs guarantee and I think that we
should then we also have to be aware
that within our current economic model
a lot of that is going to be turned into
carbon like a lot of that is just going
to end up being spent shopping on
disposable products that burn a lot of
carbon so what we need is to figure out
which parts of our economy we can afford
to grow in which parts of our economy we
have to contract so if you turn on Fox
you hear that this is all about taking
things away right it's all about taking
way your hamburgers and and and and
grounding you and telling you you can't
do anything and this is now part of
Trump's stump speech right because it's
a very effective fear tactic that
equating climate action with suffering
and this is this is why I think that you
know the concept of sir private
restraint and public luxury is a really
important one because there are all
kinds of ways that we can invest in the
things that actually increase quality of
life we can invest in public
infrastructure like parks and and we can
fund the arts and not in an elite way
but actually give people the right to
nature the right to participate in the
arts as they did during the original New
Deal where you had a renaissance in
public funding for the Arts and he was
intensely Democratic whether it was
theater or mural projects you know to me
is one of the most exciting parts of the
original New Deal was this idea of a
sort of democratic revolution and who
has the right to make art and access art
that's low carbon that's more low carbon
work we can invest in schools we can
invest in the infrastructure of care
which is also what saves lives during
disasters um so you know I'm not in the
degrowth crowd we're all aware I think
that the most important thing is that we
understand that we can't grow I think
that's like not helpful framing I think
we need though I think we need to be
much more deliberate about the areas
where we can afford to have abundance
and the areas where we can't afford to
have abundance and it does require much
more a designed economy than we have
right now and if some of this is not
particularly compatible with the sort of
sort of communication that happens
during election campaigns
but I think one of the really important
things we need to do if we're serious
about a green new deal is I think we
need to build in a kind of a regular
carbon audit to keep ourselves honest
right so if we end up end up in a
situation where Trump loses we have a
president and administration that ran on
introducing a green new deal and they
actually start introducing it I think
one of the really important thing we
need to do is have some sort of
independent carbon audit making sure
that we don't end up in this really
really bizarre situation of mobilizing
huge resources to introduce a green new
deal and ending up with a carbon
emission spike growth that isn't
predicated on consumption essentially
yeah I think look when you have an
infrastructure project like this you're
going to have it is true that you will
have economic growth and the question is
how do you keep that from turning into
carbon like how do you keep that from
just turning into more shopping and
that's very tricky it's very very tricky
to do speaking to the issue of
consumption particularly among you know
our listeners beneficiaries of a you
know developed Western nations and a you
know highly consumptive lifestyle like
even you know people who know that this
is all a problem but feel like their
individual actions and like the attempts
made to Hector them in terms of their
you know individual consumer choices not
really matter like how do you how do you
approach that problem in terms of like
the need for collective action when
people feel perhaps you know not
irrationally that whether they use a
paper or plastic straw isn't gonna tip
the balance one way or another but at
the same time probably should just use
the paper straw you see what I'm saying
like yeah I wasn't looking at you verso
are you having a debate about paper
straw I mean like it's just the idea
that like the the the you know not
totally irrational despair people feel
about the fact that yeah they're
beneficiaries of this very easy nice
consumer lifestyle but like you know
thinking that my individual consumer
choice
is our not really gonna make a
difference here and I'm you know I have
to use the paper straw like maybe it
pisses me off maybe it doesn't but like
I feel trapped in like the only thing I
have power over is are these consumer
choices versus a broader state project
of collective action like what like what
is the right tone to set there in terms
of how we individually can be consuming
less or being less wasteful with what we
really really dot we need to in dire
need of is a grand state project to
confront this problem yeah I mean I
think I think we really need to
emphasize the collective over the
individual because I think the main
reason why people immediately turn to
their shopping habits and try to sort of
you know when you talk about these huge
global scale crises and the immediate
question is what should I buy what
should I eat what can i as an individual
do it's just because people have been
trained to think that that is their only
sphere of influence that they that met
activism is for other people and you
know you often often not like when I get
that question is sort of predicated on
this idea like well I'm too busy to do
any of the kind of organizing stuff
you're talking about so what is the one
thing I can do as a consumer to help you
know and I'm just really honest about it
I'm like nothing like you can't do
anything as a consumer that's going to
stop climate change and the idea that
you as a consumer alone are going to do
this or that we're going to voluntarily
get enough people to stop eating meat
altogether to get emissions down by 15%
a year I mean that's just ridiculous I
think there are reasons for us to change
our lifestyle that more have to do with
debunking this idea that we've been fed
that if we do do the things that are
necessary to lower emissions on our
lives we'll be terrible when the truth
is that a lot of the things will make us
healthier you know it's I know there's
been a new study but generally it is
agreed that eating less meat makes you
healthier
and and riding your bike instead of
driving and a lot of the things that are
equated with the good life actually are
making people miserable and unhealthy
you know in this country and so if you
do those things and realize oh my life
didn't end and in some ways it's better
than you know you'll be in a better
position to win an argument with
somebody who tells you that it's all
apocalyptic but you know if you make
your lifestyle into a fetish then you're
going to have less time to spend doing
the political organizing that we need to
do to stand up to really really powerful
forces that really want us to lose so
you know I guess that's how I try to
thread it like sure do those things
don't mistake them for what it's going
to take to to avert catastrophic warming
understand that this idea that that our
primary sphere of power is is through
our shopping is part of a 50-year
campaign to wage war on the other
aspects of life from which we used to
draw collective identity and now we try
to build our identity as shopping and
that's too bad you know generally one of
the benefits of joining a movement is
that you actually get other ways of
building identity through that and you
also have less time for shopping so that
helps I mean honestly I think it's a
pretty huge distraction and I and I'm
getting less of it to be honest I used
to get a lot more of it you know ever
since I wrote no logo people have been
asking me how they can change the world
through shopping and now that this you
know the service sunrise generation of
activists really get that you know a lot
of them are vegans and a lot of them you
know ride bikes and use transit but they
don't mistake that for what it's
actually going to take to to win a
habitable future
um just a senior for a little bit like
in thinking about all this I remember
when I was a kid you know in the 90s
I'll shout out all the 90s kids out
there like the biggest the biggest you
know public health
thing and imagination was cigarettes and
the biggest villain like the biggest
corporate villain in American public the
imagination was the tobacco companies
and they were so villainous because they
knew as you know early is like the 1970s
or even before that the link between
smoking cigarettes and lung cancer and
various other you know illness and death
caused by their product and they covered
it up and they let a generation of
people smoke cigarettes be unaware of
the consequences of it and you know
there's a big effort to you know stop
smoking and vilify and rightly so these
tobacco companies but think about it now
we know for certain that like Exxon knew
for sure what putting fossil fuels into
the atmosphere was doing to our climate
in the 70s they saw all the graphs that
everybody knows now and everyone's
familiar with and they did the same
thing as the tobacco companies and if
you think about the scale of the evil
involved in that as compared to
cigarettes it vastly outstrips it in
terms of like the loss of life and
damage that it has done and is going to
do is there any way like thinking beyond
the parameters of the green New Deal is
there any way we're going to make a
difference without basically euthanizing
the fossil fuel industry as it currently
exists through nationalization or
whatever else means that are at our
disposal
no they have a business model that
requires that they have as much in
production in much as much in reserve as
they have in production so fossil fuels
that they have in their back pocket but
they haven't yet begun digging up they
have to constantly be able to tell their
investors that they have a 100% what's
called a reserve replacement ratio as
much in reserve as they have in in
production now what we know is that if
we want to keep temperatures below two
degrees warming below two degrees
Celsius let alone 1.5 we need to start
winding down the fossil fuel extraction
projects that are currently in
production
that means the fossil fuel frontier is
closed now
as soon as Exxon admits that their stock
price collapses right because what
they're saying is we have no future and
what they have to constantly say is no
no even though these governments are
claiming they care about climate change
and you know fewer of them are right
because we have more Trump's and also
nos and so on but what they have to say
is even the government's that claim
they're going to do something about it
don't really mean it because they're
non-binding and they look at what
they're doing they're buying pipelines
they don't really mean it so our demand
for our product is going to is going to
continue well into the future so know
that that is not compatible with
anything that we need to do in the face
of the climate crisis and I believe what
you know we what we really need to do is
we need to get the remaining profits of
a left in this you know murderous sector
and we need to use them to pay for the
transition to pay for the damage that
they've done which is you know why we
need somebody you know as president who
has a track record of standing up to
very very powerful players because there
isn't a way to bring them along and you
know I think that that's in a really
really dangerous fantasy for a long time
but I mean what aback Oh analogy is
really it's really important for a
couple of reasons you know for what one
thing it points to is the fact that
people start changing their behavior on
a large scale when you have laws that
tell them to as opposed to just you know
voluntary changes in lifestyle of the
kind that you know people who are just
saying no everybody's just so vegan as
if people are just going to voluntarily
do that right I mean I used to smoke I
knew smoking would kill me you know well
past the point that tobacco companies
were suppressing the science we all knew
and I you know I did eventually quit
smoking but only when you know there was
nowhere left for me to smoke you know I
I it was banned in restaurants that bars
and I you know I come from a cold
climate I was shivering
you know in the in the Canadian Tundra
and I just started feeling really
foolish having a cigarette and then
eventually quit you know yeah a nose
right there trying to do that with
vaping now too but I think we'll win
this fight you're the wrong audience for
this anecdote but you know I I do think
we have to start being honest because
regulation has gotten such a bad name
that sometimes you know we do things
that we know are bad until people make
it really really really hard for us to
keep doing them some of us need that we
just you know some of us sure so one
thing that is often brought up by
speaking of the fossil fuel industry
those sort of industry leaders and
politicians who are scared of the New
Deal is the idea that we should be
investing in carbon capture technology
and then the way out of this is we don't
need to really stop producing carbon in
the atmosphere we can create technology
that will take it out immediately so
that the effect doesn't exist and I know
that that is scorned that obviously is
an opinion that's scorned by most people
among climate activists for the very
simple reason that's pretty clearly a
attempt to muddy the waters and um
create a distraction and an easy-out
that lets people out of the real dilemma
of dealing with this but when we talk
about how much climate change has
already locked into the amount of co2 in
the atmosphere how much is coming right
on the horizon one should we be talking
in some way about carbon capture if it
is viable or is it just too dangerous
because it can to easily be taken by the
existing corporate polluters and used to
their advantage to fend off the new
Green a new green new deal
right so the codes there's two kinds of
of carbon capture technology that get
talked about there's a kind that are
sort of like attached to a coal-fired
power plant that said yeah let's them
continue to increase pollution but the
idea that they're going to capture it
and bury it deep underground in a rock
formation and then there's this and then
and then there's the car
draw down technologies right which are
saying no this is not about this is not
about the coal-fired power plant this is
about the fact that we already have too
much carbon in the atmosphere of safe
levels or you know around 350 350 parts
per million meter or lower and we're
well over 450 now so we have to pull
carbon out of out of the atmosphere out
of the air right so even so so this
would be assuming that we get our energy
to a hundred percent renewable that we
get our economy running on zero emission
technologies and we still have this
problem of the fact that we need to draw
carbon out of out of the atmosphere I
think the idea that that we stay with
fossil fuel technologies and and use
these really untested dodgy and
expensive technologies tacked on to them
to bury the carbon underground I think
that should be a non-starter they've
been talking about this for decades the
the projects that they have gotten off
the ground have been boondoggles we have
the technology to get to 100% renewable
energy there are so many health benefits
to doing it it means you don't have
sacrifice zones where communities that
have to have these industries in their
backyards and have to have their air
poisoned by them and the benefits of of
renewables is that it creates this great
opportunity also for a more democratic
economy because you can you can shift to
other ownership models because the
inputs are are ubiquitous right wherever
the air wherever the wind wind blows
wherever the Sun shines you could have
renewable energy there much cheaper
technologies than these very very
cumbersome fossil fuel technologies
especially when you add on carbon
capture to them so you can have more
distributed ownership you can have
energy co-ops you can have me really an
escalation and you can use the profits
from renewables to pay for services and
so on
so that's why I think I mean we also
know that it just doesn't work now let's
talk about the ones that are just about
drawing the carbon down from
the air I you know these are really
onion largely untested technology it's
not to say that it's not theoretically
possible but we haven't seen any
anything like it they're kind of metal
trees is what's being proposed and
there's another technology that draws
carbon out of the atmosphere as well and
that's trees they are tested we've seen
this happen we also have a crisis would
it wouldn't readings on that a lot
because we have a you know climate
change is the only psychological crisis
we face girls that we also have a an
extinction crisis and so assuming we
don't want to be the only species left
on earth one of the best things we can
do is have a reforestation and
revegetation projects that that draw
carbon out of the atmosphere and also
restore habitats for wildlife that are
facing extinction and I think marrying
those two projects those two imperatives
is one of the most exciting ways that we
can respond to the climate crisis so you
know one of you know when we think about
what FDR did under the original New Deal
wanted one of the most popular programs
was the Civilian Conservation Corps
which was a response to a deforestation
crisis in the 1930s and also to the Dust
Bowl so you had under the Civilian
Conservation Corps you had more than two
million young men from cities coming
from families that were getting relief
so they were poor families and these
young men were sent to forests across
the country and to farms to plant trees
they planted 2.3 billion trees which is
more than half the trees that have ever
been planted in the United States and so
you know it would be interesting to
think about what a modern-day Civilian
Conservation Corps could look like how
we could learn from the mistakes that
were made how it could Center indigenous
knowledge and indigenous land rights how
it could be designed to to protect
wildlife habitat
same time you know that's the kind of
carbon capture that I'm more interested
in I mean when you think I mean we do we
have to be honest that when you when you
talk about rolling out renewable energy
on a huge scale we are talking about
having having to mine a lot of metal
right for the wind turbines for the
solar panels so to add on top of that
all of these metal trees right which
would be sucking carbon out of the air
and burying it underground I mean one of
the problems is it's a whole hell of a
lot more mining that we would be doing I
want to spend the balance of our time
talking about the right and the
generational change that's happening
you mentioned and wrote about in your
book going to the Heartland Institute a
couple years ago and it seems that the
the climate denialists message has
changed rapidly in the past couple years
and gone from it's not happening to it's
happening but it's not man-made - it's
happening and there's nothing we can do
about it or it's happening and look at
this awful child from Europe what is
what is right now the what is the denial
is good it's happening but look at this
awful child who wants to take away your
hamburgers and your plastic lawn chairs
right what is what's the denials endgame
right now because maybe that's the
messaging for the dum-dums but you know
surely policymakers even at elite levels
have to you know they can see the
writing on the ball so what's the like I
said I think what will end up being
nostalgic about the age of climate
change denial because I think the only
thing scarier you know than somebody
with an intensely hierarchical worldview
and what all the social science shows is
that if that climate change denial
correlates very closely with people who
have a what's called a hierarchical
worldview which is just a way of saying
that they're racist that they think that
people who you know who are poor are
poor because they deserve it because
they're somehow lesser and people who
are rich are are rich because they're
just better people and you know if they
if they overwhelming
we happen to be white man that's just
because they happen to just be better
right this is the hierarchical world
view and and and so overwhelmingly it is
the people who have the most hardened
hierarchical world views who have denied
the reality of climate change and now
we're seeing a generational shift on the
right where young right-wingers are not
denying climate change it nearly it's
nearly the same levels as their parents
did but it's not because they no longer
have an intensely hierarchical worldview
it's because they've found a way to
reconcile that intensely hierarchical
worldview with the reality of climate
change and that's even scarier right
because what what because what that
looks like is let them die in the desert
let them get them drown in the
Mediterranean
because we have ranked human life and
you know we and we are okay with that so
you know that's the endgame
and this is why I like this idea we have
to convince the climate change deniers
with like the right science based
argument has to me always been you know
a little bit of a fantasy because I know
I'm actually scared of what happens when
they stop denying it seems to me what
you talk about eco fascism in your book
that seems to me what is about to be the
explicit mass electoral message that yes
it's happening but we have the resources
and we have the military we'll be fine
and you won't have to change your life
yeah yeah I mean I don't know if Trump
will ever make it explicit but you know
when he talks about the invaders right
um he's invoking it he doesn't have to
explicitly say why they are invading
it's all subtext right I think that some
of the European uh
fascist parties are explicit about it
and in the end and they don't deny the
reality of climate change and they do
use the fact that they know that more
people will be on the move in the
context of ecological disruption to
harden their their white
premises project and I think this is
true the ten what should the mass left
response be because it it seems like
what you're calling for overall in the
balance of your book is a essentially
it's it's it's it's the left
revolutionary project and it is undoing
30 years 30-plus years of austerity of
neoliberalism and something that's
cooked into people's minds what's going
to disrupt that equilibrium before you
know before the sea walls burst you know
I think that I'll just give it just tell
you a short story I hope it's short
because I feel like I've been rambling
but I was recently in Chico California
and and went to Paradise California
which now it it's just a really really
really spooky place because fourteen
thousand buildings were buildings burned
and it was part of the largest wildfire
in California's history almost exactly a
year ago now and but they've cleared
away the debris most of the debris in
Paradise has been cleared away and so it
sort of looks kind of tidy and you have
all these empty plots and it looks
almost they almost look like camp sites
you know what I mean because you see the
individual plots but there's nothing
there and down the road from paradise is
Chico and and when the those when the
fire started spreading so quickly right
I mean it happened so fast I mean this
is what everybody's still kind of just
in shock about it's just how quickly it
happened that it started you know in the
morning and by noon the whole thing was
over right people got in their cars they
drove and they drove to Paradise and
sorry they drove to Chico and a lot of
people ended up in the parking lot of
Walmart and in that parking lot it
turned into this kind of amazing mutual
aid center
where people came together and they they
probably home-cooked food and they
brought each other clothes and they made
databases who had an extra room and who
would welcome a family that had just
been displaced and you know you really
saw and I've seen this again and again
in disaster zones like this incredible
you know just deep desire for people to
help each other help total strangers and
you know and really be their best selves
and and now a year has passed and and
the distress is the structural stresses
of living with the increased the
increased burdens of a climate disrupted
community where they have you know I
think they have more than ten thousand
new people in their community at one
point it was twenty thousand additional
people we're living in Chico which is
not a big place right and they have all
the traffic accidents that go with that
and everybody is stressed out or they
don't have a mental health supports that
they need and there's a spike in
domestic violence and then everyone's
rents are going up because there's
nowhere to rent and that's what
capitalism does it hikes the rent hikes
the utilities and people are under all
of this stress and on these families who
open their homes to two strangers in
need they start getting on each other's
nerves right because everybody is so
stressed out and and and it just is like
everyone's on edge and it just mean you
really think that we your be the
investments that we make in universal
programs right if we say everybody has
the right to health care and it has to
be free we need free public transit to
just take the pressure off of our
infrastructure with the guarantee people
housing it has to be green housing all
of this is going to be the difference
between whether or not we respond to the
shocks that are coming with as much
grace as we humans are able to muster
and I have to say that people of Chico
did as well as we can do they've really
really tried but everything is working
against them right they don't have any
of the structural
or that they need so you know that those
market forces bear down and they bring
out those other parts of ourselves right
which you know that short-termism that
that you know that that tendency to to
turn on each other in times of scarcity
so you know though with investments in
non market Universal programs that
people say are you know an add-on to the
green ideal why are you talking about it
this is going to be the difference
between whether or not we are monsters
in the future or whether or not we're
able to hold on to some kind of humanity
so I you know I feel like that's the
most important message we need to absorb
right now Noemi Klein I think that is a
perfect place to leave this conversation
but I want to thank you so much for
joining us again once again Naomi Klein
the book is on fire the burning case for
a green new deal in stores now do not
order on Amazon don't order the pants on
I just want to make that clear I know
previous comments in the show might have
led you to believe otherwise but yeah do
not buy the book on Amazon
once again Naomi Klein thank you so much
for talking to us this is one consumer
choice that will change
[Music]
[Music]
