hey everybody we got a double shot of
interviews for you this week first up is
our boy Marcus Barnett reporting from
the UK on what the [ __ ] hell is going
on over there
Glasgow and all short answer is nobody
really knows not even our guests not us
not any of the ones in charge something
might happen soon or maybe it won't but
we don't know what that thing will be or
will not be regardless Marcus always a
joy to talk to you in his clever mink
accent always a joy to hear and then
following him we've got a returning
champ
Osito an AVO to talk about the recent
intellectual mind warrior event between
David French and sohrab Amari at
American Catholic University a debate
that will define the future of being an
insufferable nerd in this country well
into the future he was there live
covering it I heard him are I cheated by
bringing out the power glove yet a ba ba
bee so I can start before the for the
debate all right so first up is Marcus
Barnett
[Music]
we're gonna kick things off this week
talking a bit about goings-on
internationally with our friends across
the pond question of the day what the
ruddy hell is going on in the UK with
the bloody brexit masks and to talk
about it it's our old friend that big
girl's blouse it's Marcus Barnett back
again our official choppa UK
correspondent at this point yeah I'd say
so Marcus last time we saw you is when
we were over in your neck of the woods
at the UK hanging out yeah yeah and I
gotta say you know up until then our
European tour or UK tour rather I gotta
say I was a moderate on the the England
issue but now that I spent some time
there
I've been read pilled and Marcus we we
got it we got to get rid of England it's
guys see the need to destroy it now
right yeah Marcus had this sort of naive
cosmopolitan attitude where I was just
like oh the English you know we hear a
language sort of a shared cultural
history they've made so many of the
wonderful television programs I like
they can still go on existing as a
country right but no no sorry broken
people now I've seen it close up with my
own eyes I'm fine with that as long as
the north can break off and we can have
a people's Socialist Republic of
Manchester
amber you you read my mind and I'm sorry
and Marcus let me pitch this to you so
here's a way so it'll work the nor the
north part of England will retain it'll
be like Italy be like Hong Kong it'll
retain like certain form all Persia
liberties and the sort of a semblance of
Democratic liberties but then like the
Midlands and south and all of that
just pure one party just state rule just
pure to solitary anism
oh that sounds about right to me I mean
you know most of the North West is
already a one-party state for labour
every time I have a local election
you just got Lib Dems or conservatives
just
screaming about how you know like the
Soviet state of Manchester or you know
red Liverpool is you know untouchable
and free from any democratic
accountability you know and so on and so
forth well very soon they will be free
of any democratic accountability once
once we take over parlament going on at
the moment okay Marcus like you know we
we were talking like we wanted to talk
about like what was just what the [ __ ]
is going on with with Johnson with
brexit and all of these machinations and
shenanigans and we were trying to sort
of prepare ourselves just say okay so
Johnson wants to have a no-confidence
vote on it himself so there's an
election before the 31st and we just
kept tripping ourselves up over it
because like I feel like I'm checkmated
at every turn trying to understand
what's going on do you have any idea
it's very very hard to understand what's
going on because something new is
happening every few minutes I've just
got in front to be now something that
happened in the past hour which is the
MPs have voted by 311 to 302 votes to
force Dominic Cummings you know kind of
you know Boris's Steve Berman to release
all of his texts emails
what's up messages and all of the
private communications detailing the
decision to prorogue Parliament it's
gonna be so much inappropriate reverse
sexting that you have to wait
rice pretty much of parliament like
ordered you to show you what's up
messages to people and the prorogue in
Parliament that would be the thing where
they literally just there's like okay
the Queen is in charge now or passes it
without any yeah actually the probation
is a way to pass through legislation
very very you know swiftly and
aggressively Clement at least government
did it in I think 1948 to put through a
steel legislation to nationalize the
steel industry because they just wanted
to basically push it to all processes
but pretty boring and the arcade way to
push through your policy against and
Trump entrenched opposition so she can
explain it like what has happened since
a big big mad Boris has has become PM
like
what does he want to what is he trying
to achieve here I think that he
recognizes the poor state the
Conservative Party is in and what he's
it's in a really perilous state you know
really you know people said the Labour
Party's in a pitiful way but God look at
their side and I think that what he's
trying to do is try and uh he's trying
to sort of get the enthusiasm and the
sort of insurgent nature if you like of
the brexit campaign in 2016 and kind of
like apply that into the Conservative
Party like I sort of my radical entries
I'm into the Tories and that is why he
is wandering around Scotland and petting
cows well it's going really badly this
isn't this is why I'm quite surprised
you know the cows look unimpressed you
know into it no one's into this so so
like it's so there's this October 31st
deadline right and there's been so many
of these deadlines in the past with
brexit like just kicking it down it's
this is what's really harsh me
understand is like what whether you are
Pro remain Pro brexit Pro No Deal brexit
you know soft consent Briggs a
negotiated King Briggs I don't over the
UK like what bargaining chips did they
have with this brexit thing because like
what did the brexit the EU like Brussels
or whatever are just like okay you're
gonna do it right so like is how can
they back out or negotiate anything at
this point well it's completely broken
and it's really unclear what you know
Europe is saying for a very long time
people at Michele Barney egg they were
interested in having a sort of change in
the political climate and there was a
school of thought that he was interested
in negotiating with a Gerry Corbin led
Britain but obviously things haven't
gone particularly well since then and
not necessarily for the Labor Party but
things have reached fever pitch to be
honest in terms of the direction of
practically everybody wants the country
to go in and it's essentially ended up
meaning the only people who have any
form of insurgency now are people want
to know deal brags and people want to
revoke article 50 which would
effectively mean we wouldn't believe in
the European Union politics has become
really really polarized incredibly
quickly over the past four or five
months
what like a No Deal brexit like what
would that mean for the UK what why is
this such a scary
or if you are Boris Johnson like a
preferable thing well there's a lot of
widespread fear the lots of medicine you
know which is made in your appearance of
the say you know people need insulin
they might not be able to get their
insulin which is obviously absolutely
terrifying for people who were
particularly vulnerable in British
society
ya know imagine living in a country
where people couldn't get their insulin
that's [ __ ] this you know there was
this big outcry in the from the British
public about the Boris Johnson and
Donald Trump like trade deal and a lot
of people worried that the NHS was gonna
be on the table and lots of big pharma
was gonna come over to the United
Kingdom and effectively just absolutely
like wreck our NHS and you know put a
wrecking ball through it and this Trust
one of our ministers she she said you
know she tried to reassure people by
saying you know look we're never gonna
touch the NHS this is just you know this
is not on the table but Donald Trump you
know your mum Trump he was absolutely
right and he said look you know
everything is on the table there's so
much privatize parts of the NHS already
there's no way you can effectively say
it's a state asset you know so in
effects like you have to when you're
discussing with you know say you know
America the you know some aspects of the
NHS which is currently not privatized
may have to be or may have to fall in
the hands of American corporations in
exchange for other stuff than we want
right and we've been actually trying to
sort of wedge our way and we being
American pharmaceutical companies which
I personally represent we've been trying
to wedge our way into the NHS since like
the 60s like you can find big you know
the representative for bath would like
to denounce the efforts by American
pharmaceutical company you find that
[ __ ] in the minutes from like the 60s
yes it's over that's all I mean equation
NHS is such a really you know
astonishing and unique thing you know
this like centralized state system which
just provides health care at the point
of a point of need like it is
extraordinary and nine Bevan he said you
have to stuff their mouths with gold
referring to the pharmaceutical
companies look you think you like it you
think you think you like your NHS but
you have not experienced a health
savings account
[Laughter]
give you flexibility I'm sure I might be
experiencing one soon health savings
accounts you get the big sodas again yes
it's fine it's like a game you get to
learn a lot of new rules and if you
don't follow them exactly you die that's
great well you got to give me some tips
mm with life thanks
literally I guess I guess my big
question is what is our boy
Jezza how is Corben and the good part of
the Labour Party what what is their
strategy in all this because from what I
see it just seems like Corbin's playing
it kind of cool he's waiting in the
wings but like what what is their
strategy here so the current strategy of
the leadership is to push for a general
election currently we're all geared for
really really going hard on the general
election lots and lots of things are
being planned in terms of like math
strategies involving like you know the
half a million strong membership that we
have utilizing the power of the trade
union movement using stuff like momentum
to start pushing on social media and
developing a lot more sort of like
easily easily accessible viral content
particularly focused on stuff around the
manifesto and particularly demands of
the manifesto which are never have
recovered in mainstream discourse but
you know are things that you know are
hugely hugely pop through the public's
which is that rail nationalization
taking the water back into public
ownership you know things like this and
everyone's kind of geared for that but
at the moment yeah there's quite a lot
of confusion about the strategy we make
what our strategy recently was that we
don't want to call for a general
election and so we Rule No Deal as
illegal which happened today so that did
happen today yeah and there's gonna be a
vote in Parliament today about whether
whether or not to have a general
election what's expected to be rejected
so why is Corbin a chicken why like why
is he a chicken man him dressed up as a
chicken man they were handing out
broiled chicken to reporters or
something incredibly British
look this here's a shire it's a little
humorous didn't it was disgusting it was
in America try to stunt like that it
would be like Popeyes or something
something appetizing yeah that [ __ ]
idiot that kind of like he's like a
British alt right guy and he really just
wants to be American and he like yeah
yeah yes the one yeah yeah Watson and
yeah the thing you know the rights are
getting better at humor so why is he why
is he a chicken now what do they want
him to do that he was the actual like my
text that the chicken came with it says
something on the lines of move over
colonel there's a new big chicken in
town is he chicken for not calling a
general election before the October 31st
dead Laura see chicken for not accepting
a No Deal move over colonel jeremy
corbyn's the new biggest chicken in town
well i guess it's because he didn't call
a general election when a when
immediately wanted him to which would
have been stupid since the whole
strategy is to rule owed no deal breaks
out of order so make it legal so boris
johnson's strategy when that theory of
oh maybe they'll call maybe they'll
forget their entire strategy and call it
election early and then they don't fall
for that
well i'll just call him a chicken and
then the he'll do it then to be fair he
does forget things it's like the stains
chicken : Wow yeah country that's not a
bad for someone who like literally
forgets what he's saying as he's saying
and he's just assuming that like his
enemies will just sort of like lose the
thread I've got a question for you guys
what do you guys make of Boris compared
to Trump because I think I don't think
he owns in the so maybe he's a little
fuzzier I disagree with Matt I said he's
not as hot as trunk
I feel like cuz Trump does the thing
where he leans forward like he's on the
bow of a ship and I just feel like Boris
is more solid like he stays over a
center of gravity so you can imagine a
rest you can stand yeah exactly you can
imagine like wrestling to the ground
footage of him not gonna kid over
playing exactly solid more like mentally
put together than Trump but then there
was that thing in front of the policeman
we just sort of couldn't figure out what
he was saying and it's like why are all
world leaders senile right now that's
great I love to see Marcus Maya my
favorite thing with Boris Johnson that
I've seen recently is like when he when
it was the the Tory leadership race and
he was in the front runner but he was
doing a lot of media trying to
distinguish himself and there was an
interviewer her asked him like you know
Boris what what do you do in your free
time you know just to relax and you
could see the he was like pause mouth a
gate for a second like as you see the
gears in his head turning and he's just
thinking don't say drink all the time
don't say drink all the time
don't say drink all this I don't say get
drunk every [ __ ] night and then he
just what he came up with he says I like
to paint buses on the crates of wine
that I have in my house so I didn't say
like I have so many crates of what empty
crates of wine in my house that I paint
them for fun it's just like the funniest
way of saying like I just I'm an
alcoholic in my spare time and he was
describing the the people that he paints
on the bus ride he makes people on the
bus well it's like what Margaret
Thatcher said if you're you know over 25
and taking a bus you're you're a loser
yeah you're a loser you want to be able
making the buses but Marcus so what are
the other I guess entertaining aspects
of this whole story is this whole thing
with Boris had the vote in parliament
and then he had I guess all these
defections from his own party where they
voted against him and walked off the
floor of the Parliament yeah this is
this is this is really good so this guy
Phillip Lee he is this
[ __ ] I guess he's quite like an
American style of nasty polity he's very
he's really really really hostile
towards uh you know you know like
refugees he's very very hostile towards
refugees but he considers himself to be
like liberal but he did this felt really
stupid thing where he said that in a
parliamentary hearing the all immigrants
should be all immigrants and refugees
sorry should be tested to see if they
have hepatitis B or C or HIV AIDS and he
said they should be tested and obviously
like people just immediately said how
utterly [ __ ] inhumane nice and his
response to it was ah you know actually
this is a this is actually really good
thing for the gay community because it
means that they won't get HIV AIDS it's
really really American and obviously he
liked it doors the European Union
because it's this you know just like
monolithic neoliberal trade bloc that
regulates capital and he's all about
that actually if he's a good guy or a
bad guy so that would that would that
essentially is the nature of the split
within the Tory Party between the vote
that Boris Johnson lost from his own
party with like those defections of
those people walking out though these
are people who are conservative with
like Pro you conservative like kind of
but also I think that Dominic Cummings
is a kind of he got called a career
psychopath by David Cameron and this
it's quite a curse or common thing to
hear him referred to as a Leninist
because he's a little bit like Bannen
he's a very very direct very tactical
he's very serious about what he wants
well you know there's a few
eccentricities about him so he's never
been like a Conservative Party member he
did loads of really like madcap you know
strange sort of business dealings in the
East including I think trying to
organize a sort of railways ISM I think
he might gonna go and like a flight like
a flight path from one power of Siberia
to Ukraine or something like that and
this was like just during perestroika
and I think I the KGB shut the operation
down
he's got this very eccentric past he's
got met
he's got madcap plans for trade with the
Far East what
selling opium to China to be interested
in 19th century like opioid addict isn't
he I think one of the things that
confuses people too in America about
this stuff is that there are left-wing
anti Brooks it's years and there are
left-wing brexit ears and there are also
right-wing anti brexit and right-wing
prorack said what is the division in the
Tories do you think between like sort of
the kind of protectionist or nationalist
type like you know Pro brexit and the
you know what we would recognize more of
the capitalist pro-eu kind of Tory Party
like was it like half and half or what
well it's there's a very small group of
Tory MPs called the ERG who will you
know they've always been like very very
the cult European research group and
they've always been like very very
staunch Euroskeptics always been very
very hostile to the European Union and
European ISM in general and their whole
thing is interesting because although
they've been the kind of main standard
bearers of your skepticism on the you
know kind of a hard ride to British
politics
Dominic Cummings who spearheaded the
vote leave campaign he had this
extraordinary diatribe leaked about how
much he hates them yeah like he doesn't
really stand with them he thinks they're
all just a bunch of kind of dunderheaded
fools from the past who just want to
remove British imperial glory and so
that people don't really help well
Dominic Cummings doesn't really have a
lot of time for the ERG but they're the
ones that are really kind of like you
know looking looking towards the past
basically and thinking you can break
away from Europe and you know rebuild
like a strong Imperial Britain but then
most of the conservative MPs are just
interested in the very smooth running of
capitalism and and they're therefore you
know pretty fine with the European Union
none of these people seem to like each
other which I'm enjoying a lot I mean it
does absolutely hate each other the
unity that they show is extraordinary by
the opportunity I mean if we have the
unity of that class it is extraordinary
you know it's extraordinary they can
deliver do you get there's some some
families
I fear Boris his own brother got what
like kicked out of the party and Winston
Churchill's grandson yeah how [ __ ]
good is that they like deselected him or
something which means it like he can't
stand and then if there is a general
election or something yeah I mean one is
so good
Nick Sir Nicholas Oh miss Churchill's
grandson and like he was like he was in
tears when he was you know doing his
final statement in Parliament it was so
funny but like I don't know it's the way
that Briggs it is it's created these
these situations where these these are
really guilty men have been able to sort
of like like reinvigorate and revived
their own like sort of public integrity
by sort of declaring their opposed and
too nasty Boris and you know like the
calamity of brexit but Phillip Lee guys
he's [ __ ] scum of the earth
and I was like reinventing with some
like saying liberal who wants to bring
Britain back from the brink okay this is
very familiar over here I mean so
Winston Churchill's grandson the only
thing he was really known for in
Parliament was like about maybe like 15
years ago about six female in a
collective complaint against him the
sexual harassment and they they they
also mentioned when one of them was
briefed into the to just a newspaper at
the time about it they mentioned that
they used to respond to his sexual
advances by shouting click which was in
reference to a book though his ex-wife
wrote in which she said that having sex
with him was like a double cabinet
falling on you with a key still inside
of it he kept running for office after
that he didn't [ __ ] kill him
Jesus Christ no [ __ ] is freaks have Wow
I'm sure she's evil too but that's just
a great [ __ ] line yeah he was making
like a whooping noise oh no no actually
actually there was a really good one as
well so you know I was the Campbell like
the old Blair right spin-doctor Malcolm
Tucker famous character yeah that's the
one so like he apparently like called
the palace that Campbell about ten years
ago and just I was kind of like trying
to abuse him over the phone and was
screaming stuff that on the phone I'm
like are you sex God you were Donais
move the greatest of all great men and
then I went or the person answered like
actually spoke back to him it was like I
was the youngest son [ __ ] dirty now
mr. Campbell's son oh my god Tori
behavior oh my god yes just repulsive
people you know and like honestly so say
John Burke oh the Speaker of the House
resigned today you know because he was
like a little bit quirky and he was kind
of known as been privately a little bit
of a liberal and the bit skeptical
towards brexit and Boris Johnson you
know he's just faced all of these really
really like glowing you know comments
from all sides of the house to be honest
about how good he is basically like this
is some fella who you know he was gonna
face an investigation over some like
really really serious bullying
allegations from his former staff you
know well I he would be very very you
know condemning about the way you talk
to people you knowing this this included
some staff members saying that they know
they had like you know PTSD as a result
of I dealing with him because he was
just so aggressive this was the guy that
was in that clip I saw going around
where I watched it I was like again how
the [ __ ] is this a real country like
what the what the [ __ ] is going on here
to the right honorable gentleman with
your dropping off your kids it's not the
school that our children go to together
your daughter dorky boy like this and I
was just like what what is going what is
this shed
it's [ __ ] it's been a stupid country
was so long and it's fun it's just been
catching up with us as well you know the
thing the game's up wait till these
people start dying by the way because
then you'll get like if you're lucky
like a weird McCain funeral where all
the liberals will just start like you
know saying like this is when the
Conservatives were good people they were
honorable men and then you'll just spend
the whole day vomiting Marcus I mean
like you mentioned how like all of these
these you know absolute ghouls are now
sort of rebranding themselves is like
you know putting country over party and
standing up to you know breaks it and
mean nasty Boris I mean this is a
phenomenon where we're well-acquainted
with here in America with Trump and the
sort of respectable right if you want to
call them that yeah I mean like another
kind of parallel we were talking about
I'm interested in your thoughts on it is
how this idea of like ever since the
brexit vote passed like remain has
become like the same kind of fixation
that liberals have in this country with
like Russia gate and then Donald Trump
and it's just like oh they blame Russia
for breakfast yeah like it's this idea
that like this something happened that
they never thought was possible of
happening and it's like sort of frozen
them all in amber and they they just
sort of can't you know but yeah
amber frozen no but like you know what I
mean like it's become kind of an
identity in a fixation and that like no
politics can move forward until they
just get would get their way or just go
back in time and and sort of undo the
thing that happened that they can't deal
with yeah I mean they really a lot of
people who kind of brand themselves as a
you know like you know at hashtag fppe
you're really remaini people there's
this really really big sort of thing of
them to solve just imagine anything that
happened before 2016 has been like you
know like really really solid in just a
different world you know and everything
just changed in June 2016 and that was
that and the they love talking about
things like the 2012 Olympics you know
that well you know Daniel Craig big
thing for them you know like the opening
ceremony would you just like you
but it was [ __ ] you know real and
those loyal directed it right there's no
people kill it was like you know War
veterans killing themselves over the
bedroom tax and you know like really
punitive benefits measures and you know
like hundreds of people getting made
homeless every single year you know it's
a really really unpleasant society in
twenty twelve it's just letting care it
really is this like parallel think
though where it's like you know for us
it's the Obama years and all of the
liberals just want to go back to when
they were able to ignore the misery and
chaos and now that like you know their
man isn't in the White House suddenly
these problems are more visible and they
don't know how to deal with it they
can't deal with it politically they're
just in denial they're just completely
they're trying to just you know it
completely overturn the democratic
process anything they can possibly do to
make it go back before they knew how bad
things were completely agree it's just
you know the crisis years have finally
caught up to them and they have no
meaningful a productive solution you
know or like way out of this so the only
answer is just the retreat into like a
very recent past which wasn't real
anyway what like overall like a Corbin
has gotten a lot of [ __ ] for not being
like you know Pro remain enough like
what is the labor part of Corbin's Labor
Party what is like their current stance
on as it comes to brexit well so I mean
it is a little incoherent it's kind of
being ripped a lot because I think
currently we undergo in the process
where like the whole of the party is
trying to work out what we're really
gonna do because it looks like on the
cusp of power and even is it's one of
those things where so you don't be
complacent but the the way that the
media is shaped against us even if we're
just ten points behind now I mean we
were eighteen points behind when the
general election was called in 2017 and
we received a hung parliament now I
think if we put you know lots of the
polling of saying were between seven and
ten points behind although in the past
week as this might even change by the
time the show comes out but in the past
week we've been about two percent ahead
of Boris and the Tories so I think that
we are
if we just basically lead a general
election charge by talking about brexit
as little as possible and talking about
the things that really matter in this
country you know the the whole
infrastructure of British society is
completely crumbling this report came
out today about like uh teachers talking
about how upset they are because there's
been like a record number of teachers
reporting that there are their five year
old 6 year olds and 7 year olds are
openly discussing killing themselves in
classrooms you know it like it's a it's
a society like a really profound like
crisis and there needs to be some sort
of positive reform of the whole country
or else it's just gonna get worse and
worse and worse and more and more and
more dilapidated I think if we let the
campaign based around this and based
around positive light solutions to very
very real problems that millions of
people are facing and I think we
probably will win it on a you know like
a minority government book but currently
that the you know what we get caught out
on is that we are gonna win the election
we're gonna go to the European Union
negotiate a much better brexit deal
which prioritizes workers rights
environmental protections and so on and
then we're going to put it back to the
public on a sort of confirmatory vote
now there's a huge debate over whether
that is gonna be a you know like a labor
deal or a No Deal I believe that was the
that was what unites the Union which is
a very influential laughing trade union
I believe that's what they wanted but
currently the strategy seems to be it's
going is going to be adding the labor
deal or remain volt so you can you see
why third cool-cool
so it's just no idea yeah I mean yeah I
you know comes across as incoherent
because it is it's a it's a balance
because it's completely split Labor's
political coalition half this you know
when you're talking about 55 of Labor 75
target seeds for the next election voted
leave and something like 61% and our
constituents who voted leave but over
you know two out of third of our
membership voted to remain you know it's
created a huge you know like Oh
chasms in the the party itself so it is
like a very very complex situation to
manage I understand well to me it's all
about moving away from the whole
argument and emphasizing how completely
broken this country is and I need to be
positively restricted right so final
question what is Ireland what's what's
going on with that we were just actually
I have had to explain the backstop like
ten times and I've never gotten better
at it and I think that it's also like
the the approach to it has changed like
in the last like five days anyway so
that's I have no idea
can you like sort of walk us through
like in Northern Ireland and the
backstop so what do you know because
it's a very very ugly topic are the
troubles gonna kick off again that's
what I want to know are they are we
gonna bring back New Wave music and pub
bombings
well when Britain was fun I think the
big thing is is it's just you know
what's the backstop and what would
violate the backstop and what kind of a
deal wouldn't also the backstop which is
the kind of it's just a name given to a
very very sort of like slack drafted
agreement between Britain and the
European Union that just stops a hard
border in Ireland you know which means
that there won't be like military
checkpoints or you know the gut the
Irish police checking you or whatever if
you're crossing into the north or
vice-versa that means that it means it
probably means keeping Northern Ireland
in some aspects of a single market it's
obviously a huge political football
because I think like Leo vodka the Irish
Prime Minister said yesterday that
basically the removal of the border will
just effectively in a no deal brags it
because the major stakeholders mind and
then no lunch won't accept this and
European Union Worlds except to either
cool
I mean it's taxing topic is a dimension
I maybe just like
justic topic it's just that there's no
solution like with this there's no
prediction we could possibly make at
this point I mean I won't make a
prediction just a comment more so it
just recently came out that Lord
Mountbatten was a pedo so I are a most
effective sicko hunters in history let's
get him back on the case detective
season 4 let's go did you see that new
book about Lord Mountbatten just they
just showed up batshit insane he was
like.he in 1968 he was interested in
plotting a coup against Harold Wilson he
was a kind of like center-left prime
minister at the time just because he
nationalized a few things and you know
set up the Open University people
thought that he was a Soviet agent and
uh yeah and Lord Mountbatten really did
think that and he was interested in a
like implementing a plan which would
mean they're like this little block of
generals like industrialists and you
know various captains of industry will
be like propelled into a new government
which the poses Harold Wilson and people
around them were really interested in
having a sir Oswald Mosley they wanted
him to lead this national government all
right well this office thing like Harold
Wilson who's yeah again like not a very
threatening figure they were like let's
bring in Mosley there's never been a
Soviet agent named Harold I'm sorry it's
just I'll check a list of my my dad's
uncles I mean this does tell you that if
Corby gets in there he's gonna have to
arm the chaps immediately that's the
Internet yeah this is like means Marcus
I got I got one more question for you
another thing I don't understand who are
the Lib Dems and what are they what are
the typical Lib Dem voter and politician
how would you how could you describe
them I don't know it's kind of like you
can't read you can't read to find the
Lib Dems by anything particularly
all right that's like their deal now
they're the remainders yes yeah I mean
yeah they are but they basically just
like change to fit whatever whatever
sort of like major you know soft you
know soft but serious like outcry and
society there was at the time you know
they were really into a you know get rid
of tuition fees if that infamously they
were really interested in getting rid of
tuition fees and that meant that you had
a huge huge kind of insurgent campaign
in 2010 with Nick Clegg where they got
millions of student boats no it never it
never ever received them before and
within about nine months because they
got enough votes to actually form a
coalition with the Conservative Party
with about nine months of being in power
they'd already like voted to triple
tuition fees so Lakers led the load of
student riots and so on and my
impression or at least what I suspected
is that they were just like sort of
liberals that might have been
playwrights but we're like two
unsuccessful to get there to work their
way into the Labor Party like there's
also these I don't know it's kind of
like a good after corner by Salomon
Hughes he's a really good British
investigative journalist it's on Jacobin
it's called the Lib Dems his new friends
and he sort of like goes through them a
bit because they've always tried to
posture themselves as being you know
like economically competent but kind of
socially progressive and for thinking
and so on but like you couldn't release
a that but I'm now I mean like Tim
Farron their former leader was like an
obsessive homophobe it was you know
really really really angry o far more
angry than any like sane individual can
ever be about equal marriage and you
know you you know you stop stain and all
sorts of a just generic progressive
legislation that would just you know
help lgbtq+ people you know what loads
and loads of the people that took her a
muna they're interested in a you know
all sorts of politics and he flirted
with quite hard right labor politics for
a while quite socially conservative
politics I mean truck or a moon or
himself I remember him saying about two
years ago that we should we should just
basically make an agreement of the
European Union where we keep all the
economic benefits of the European
Union but we didn't ban immigrants from
coming into the country looking horrible
that's a great position so I like the
rapacious capitalism part I don't like
the part where we get to you know help
refugees it's it's like I yeah you know
there's sort of like the regulation of
neoliberalism across the UK
give me that but like I would never like
to live next to a Polish person
[Laughter]
thank you that's a big aspect in Liberal
Democrats to I think the only consistent
thing that you can say about them in
terms of policy and character is they're
all but you know for their own
particular reasons obsessed with
preventing the Labour government from
getting into power hmm well Marcus I
want to thank you so much for your time
and for filling us in on all that like I
said hopefully you will be you know the
northern Viceroy when America does our
regime change style invasion of the UK I
can't wait to call myself a Donald yeah
no it's uh yeah great to talk to you
again Marcus you have anything anything
to plug the Labour Party oh how about
this we keep it let us know when you
guys call a general election and we'll
come over there and do like a sort of a
whistle-stop Rat Pack style tour 100% of
the Midlands and just boost it for
Corbett we'll just be out there be like
don't know what this town is don't know
anything about Briggs we could cut
rallies with you we'd be great at it
yeah we could sing high hopes
[Laughter]
Hillary t-shirt absolutely Marcus once
again man really great to talk to you hi
YouTube thanks men I take everyone see
you soon
oh very rude the members order order but
okay I think the Chancellor of the Duchy
when he turns up at our children's
school as a parent
he's a very well-behaved fellow he
wouldn't dare behave like that in front
of Colleen all and neither would i
danger sticky late dead rant spare us
the theatrics behave yourself
[Applause]
boy boys Ivana mystery in Rockford
okay we are back with the second of our
DoubleDown episode of interviews but
very happy to say we got another
all-star for you
it's heceta when a voting us again
making his chick getting his two-time
Chapo appearance challenge coin o Sita
is now at the New Republic and I'm very
excited to be talking to you Oh Sita
because you just did some you know on
the ground
sports reporting from the wide world of
intellectual combat I'm talking of
course about David French versus versus
versus so rap a Mary Ameria moderated by
Ross doubt that doubt that doubt that
the American Catholic University versity
adversity you covered a intellectual
debate that has been rolling the
intellectual side of the conservative
movement in America for the New Republic
to piece up right now called the rights
culture war is a drag I'm sorry the
right wing's cultural Civil War is a
drag so OCD could you give us some
background here on the lead up to this
this Clash of the Titans yes so I was
very thrilled to be at the sort of
ali-frazier of conservative posters last
week yeah so the basic background is
that for several months now a number of
conservatives have been really terrified
by phenomenon called drag queens story
our this is a I guess it's a group
although it's not really formally
organized as a single group but some
folks who basically invite drag queens
to public libraries across the country
have them read to children make arts and
crafts same songs this kind of thing in
May
Sarada Laurie who is the up IDI editor
at the New York Post saw an ad for one
of these events that was going to take
place in Sacramento and posted it to
Twitter saying that this was an evidence
of the new demonic fronts in the culture
wars that should be noted of course
Marmara Williams in New York City was
sufficiently threatened by this events
a gazillion miles away in Sacramento to
make it post about it and I would have
just stayed you know an odd tweet well
not for the fact that he continued in a
thread and said that one of the people
preventing the right from aggregate
addressing the threat posed by drag
queen story hour was David French David
French I'm sure you know everyone knows
this a friend of the show one of the
most prominent never Trump conservatives
on the right Ana Mari says in a tweet
that mentions French that French is too
polite and too naive about the threat
that progressives posed to conservative
values to really be an effective warrior
for the right French sees this tweets
writes his response in national reviews
saying that for all of his I guess
politeness and nice kindness he's been a
fighter for conservative causes and the
courtroom he's been an advocate for
conservative causes in National Review
and this sort of creates a
back-and-forth and and during this
back-and-forth that emerges basically
that maari's main beef against French
and in the establishment conservative
movements is that he thinks that they're
too respectful of what I guess people
call the classical devices embodying
classical liberalism sort of like free
speech freedom the pastor expression of
all these things and we sort of
understand as part of the bill of rights
and all of this stuff he thinks that the
American conservative movement as we
come to respectful of those values to
really fight an effective battle against
progressives and the left who he sees as
won't up ends all those values in in
there that brazen attempt to force
people to to watch in to attend drag
queen story our you you quote the
original tweet and in the piece again
about drag queen story hour in
Sacramento California the tweet was this
is demonic
to hell with liberal order sometimes
reactionary politics are the only
salutary path so yeah that this was the
the the
some there I guess start this right-wing
civil war between him and David French
and I guess like yet David I guess like
David French represents the traditional
kind of like evangelical right-wing
Christian who also civility and
appearing as a nice guy is very
important to him whereas Arab represents
a kind of more I don't know Francoist
Catholic right who yeah for whom culture
war is not really a metaphor but like
you know something quite literal yeah
yeah I mean the world around with Marius
integralists and people sort of think
that he might be sort of a new vanguard
of Catholic Catholic integralists who
think that the country should basically
become a theocracy enthralled a certain
set of Catholic social values this is up
against frenches more traditional
evangelical protestant Protestantism so
I mean I basically think that and I say
this in a piece that for all of that I
sort of talked that French and Damari
and I've had about the extent to which
they differ on liberal values and the
extent to which French or other
conservatives are aren't nice enough to
fight the battles that are the things
worth fighting there is a substantial
amount of overlap between the two of
them in the way that they talk about the
left and the way that they talk about
progressives and in their willingness
both of them even though French calls
himself a classical liberal their
willingness to both use government's
power to impose certain cultural values
on people they disagree with the most
obvious example of this would be
abortion rights large swaths of the
country it is now effectively impossible
again an abortion French supports this
French is in fact so pro-life that he
voiced basically unreserved support for
that Alabama bill earlier this year that
basically been nearly all abortions a
bill that was so extreme that even pros
life conservatives and even the
editorial board of the national review
said that you know this is this is way
out there that is going to be
comfortable doctor movement French
actually wrote a piece saying no this is
good this is in fact the central part of
that movement but what we need to sort
of bond to final assault on on Roe
versus Wade so for all the talk about
classical liberalism and then fringes
defenses of individual liberty they're
still both you know familiarly cultural
concern there's no way but I think
people their same-old same-old in love
ways and you know you mentioned that I
mean the really the probably the
funniest part about all this is what
kicked it off is this idea that this
drag queen story our
phenomenon and you begin your piece by
you know listing a number of the you
know
insane acts of mass murder that have
happened in America just over the last
couple of weeks the fact that now ninety
six percent of all American
schoolchildren
undergo active shooter drills like the
same way we did you know fire drills at
school which you know I'm sure won't
warp their minds in any way but you know
you like you go down this list of like
genuinely like terrifying and bizarre
things that have we've now come to
accept in American culture and then you
write take full measure of liberal alarm
and consternation over gun violence and
its impact on our youngest and you might
come to understand the terror inspired
within a particular corner of the
conservative world this year by drag
queens story hours and you know getting
into the debate itself
you said basically you were shocked to
find out how much of this debate at
American Catholic University still was
talking about drag queen story our yeah
and that shouldn't have been but you
know I really went there expecting a
mother to say look you know I got made
fun of first focusing initially on drag
queen story out but really I was using
as an entry point to say baa-baa-baa but
really like the first 30 to 40 minutes
of this exchange was amah right just
like detailing different parts of drag
queen story already found of
objectionable he cited a video in
England's not even in this country
there's there is a drag queen story I
were apparently one of the drag queens
was teaching kids how to twerk and he
quoted from from I guess captioned in
the video just sort of describing this
person teaching yeah
mr. dance move and you said that this
was you know evidence and how demonic it
was he said at one point that there are
35 chapters across the country and this
is evidence that this is a corona
movement that's going to subdue all of
our children and French I think you know
was himself also surprised by this
he sort of scoffed at the idea that 35
chapters of this thing was a real threat
to in a conservative order and in
America but one of the things like it
and the piece is that French and I think
the establishment conservatives who have
aligned themselves with him in this
debate don't really have a right to be
surprised as they are that AM re I is
sort of abandoning the liberal project I
mean he French has also been somebody
who is framed the progressive left as
being overweening overly draconian and
it's imposition of certain social values
one of the questions for me I've always
had at the conservative movement is how
can you hear somebody like David French
right every other week about how
supposedly there's this sort of mass
slaughter of infants an abortion that
takes place in this country every year
by the millions and then sort of leave
that and say well you know we still sort
of we still want to respect our
interlocutors and we still think that
they are not necessarily bad people and
they deserve rights all right it just
shows that they don't really believe it
exactly and then suddenly like a margin
that really comes along and says well
wait a minute like if we do believe that
these people are mass murderers then why
would we extend them the sort of rights
and privileges of a liberal society why
wouldn't we wage an actual war against
them and and sort of defeat this
immorality and I think that's ultimately
like the more coherent position if you
believe what conservatives claim to
actually believe and I think that's why
Oh Marius attacks on French had been so
compiling the rock so much of the
conservative world I think that there
are a lot of you know I went to Catholic
University I saw a lot of young people
there we were traditionalist Catholics
and other young people from across
different
you know weird quarters like encircle it
but we were very into the sort of new
war footing that Amari is trying to get
people from reading your article and you
know the other accounts of this debate
that that I've seen my sort of
conception of the the difference between
like what they're actually arguing over
and you do and again in your article you
do a very good job of showing how you
know the David French position is not
like the nice liberal position by by any
means so we shouldn't be giving him too
much credit but from what I can identify
it seems that the difference between
them is that David French and those like
him basically take for granted that the
Christian right wing point of view
culturally has lost and is now a moral
minority in this country and that
essentially they would like to use the
state to sort of preserve the rights of
their alternate lifestyle
whereas amare is just like no we should
impose a Catholic social order it
overrides the Bill of Rights and the
Constitution yeah I think that's right I
mean we've seen over the past couple of
years sort of the various ways that
traditional social conservatives have
tried to deal with the reality cultural
political reality of their situation
Roger got a lot of attention for his
book on the bend adoption which is sort
of a model for conservatives retreating
into particular communities where they
can sort of live the lives that they
want to away from the nefarious
machinations of people who run directly
the story our and things like it but
Amari is just sort of fundamentally not
willing to make that compromise he still
believes in the form of Christian
Dominion that by all rights should
should control this country I think it's
very similar I wrote I went not long ago
to the national conservative conference
also here in DC where you had people
like Omar but people who I guess were
less less explicit religious and talked
about some of these cultural issues but
you had there also the sort of sense
that people were willing to throw away
certain Austrians and certain norms that
social conservatives had
revered for so long because they believe
that by doing that there could secure
for themselves the amount of power that
even though they are a minority in the
country even though they're never going
to be able to get people to agree with
him on you know how bad I could store
EAJA is I'm not going to win back the
public's opinion on gay rights they
still believe that by abandoning liberal
values they can secure for themselves
enough political power to at the very
least make other people's lives as
miserable as they can and that's
something they can do because this is a
country that has county majoritarian
institutions that disproportionately
power in the American conservative
movement so even if it's the case that
no marios never can convince people like
us that transgender people are terrible
that drag queens are demonic certainly
at the state level and in places where
conservatives have a lot of power they
can do a lot of damage to LGBT rights to
reproductive rights for women and still
at the federal level of course you know
because of the way that power is
allocated conservatives are going to
enjoy a seat at the table federal policy
making for a long long time if they
don't enjoys the support of the mark
majority the American people
I just I'm curious of like where someone
like this ends up on kind of an economic
spectrum because it seems to me like if
you're spending all this time on drag
queens story hour even people who are
sort of generally what we would consider
kind of just culturally conservative in
America are not hardened reactionaries
like they might be like I don't know
about that but they don't really care
like it doesn't seem like drag queens
story hour is even like enough of a
platform to even show up on those
people's radar even as a novelty like is
there some kind of you know implicit
sort of like economic program or is it I
mean the Catholic thing goes a lot of
different directions like national
conservative conferences that there is
definitely a real willingness
in this corner of the right to rethink
market fundamentalism to make the
government's establish a larger role for
government in providing people health
care and beating back some of the
machinery producing inequality because
conservatives cultural conservatives
think the capitalism has been bad for
the family in all kinds of ways but a
great social right there's obviously
there's been a lot of social dislocation
the Conservatives think it's been caused
by capitalism but also at the very least
they see that social dislocation being
caused by some the economic patterns and
pests for decades if they even if they
don't connect that necessarily with
capitalism as a system and they see you
know industrial ruin as something that
leads to socialism and these are things
that I think have created a real
willingness to think very fuzzy about
the extent to which you can certainly
the lights have an interest in moving
upward on certain questions but it's
still very hazy in the way that like
some of trumps sort of Lewis talk during
the primary about health care and trade
policy was hazy but the thing I think
people should understand about that is
that when you have these conservatives
then derailed by talk about drag queen
story hour and by omaree sort of
demonization of the left and then sort
of tales of cultural ruin and preserve
progressives trying to force whatever
agenda ideology they imagine progressive
wonder force on everyday people and when
when that enters the conversation and
all of that sort of productive
rethinking of conservative economics can
get derailed and I think that's what the
left should really pay attention to in
the conversations that there is in sort
of right-wing populism something of a
kernel of economic awareness that if the
cultural conservatives succeed in
[Music]
burying under all of this nonsense is
gonna go away and I think that you know
that's something that people should
really pay attention to and understand
about this like that there is something
happening but they could evaporate very
quickly see the the the fascinating
thing to me about amare and not just him
but as sort of a figurehead for I don't
know yeah like you said whether they
want to be called integralists tread
cats or you know I would prefer just
classic hard right Catholic fascism like
you know Carlists yeah all these Amari
converted to Catholicism in 2006 like I
said my cat is older than his religious
made like literally this entire
phenomenon I don't know a single trad
person who was cradle Catholic they're
all like young too late in life converts
to Catholicism and our friend no
Catholics there they're loud tacky
people who go to Mass once every couple
of months because their grandmother
yells at them they're not these people
no they're not the Nerds they're not
that I know where this is the Tweed cape
where you know and now they are the
guinea teaware but um our friend EV
agent Napoleon had a really good point
about this where it was just like hey
everybody I just found out about this
group two weeks ago
they're so good in fact that I'd like
them to have dictatorial control over
the entire country and it's just like
could you be maybe a little bit more
humble about this [ __ ] like you just
discovered this like yeah like a couple
weeks ago dude but but also to me like
but going off of that and like in
reading the both your write-up of it and
some of the people who were live
tweeting this debate and when I've
encountered interviews of the Mauri in
the past I think journalists of New York
Magazine did one and what it always
comes down to is this question of like
okay like you're you're hinting around
the you're nibbling around the outside
of this like okay liberal culture is
demonic and needs to be destroyed but
like what are you actually going to do
like if we just gave you that power like
what would our society actually
look like and when pressed on that I
think either they don't know themselves
or more likely are being purposefully
very cagey about what they're actually
thinking about did that come across in
the debate to you it definitely did I
mean I didn't really offer any solutions
for example for drag queen story hour
beyond wanted to bring the head of
something called the Modern Library
Association which doesn't exist before
Congress you mean those really nice
books yes with the king librarian to
stand trial he said that and also
passing local ordinances might be
sufficient enough to mind your business
and the local you know if that's what
you believe yeah the people of
Sacramento or fine with it then like a
conservative you don't you you you
believe in like these fractured local
politics say no but like for him it's
not so it like yeah that only good that
that door only swings both ways as far
as I can tell the people of Sacramento
couldn't careful and that there's a drag
queen story hour at one public library
like everyone yeah well I think I think
that cultural conservatives like him
have this sort of like hazy and the sky
vision of what the jury in America might
be but if they were ever to get the
amount of power that they think that
they want I think it sort of be like you
know the dog that chases the car this is
annoy the damn Joker I mean III think I
think that they depend so so much
rhetorically and not just sort of
spiritually also on this idea of
Perpetual martyrdom that they're always
losing the left is always a sentence
that the right is always the underdog
that is so fundamental to who they are
their whole political existence that I
don't know that they would even be
equipped to relate to magically in the
way that they they would certainly do a
lot of damage to people that they
dislike but I don't think that there's
any kind of real comprehensive program
for Ritu in America Omega Mario's gonna
run up one the next 11 months but it's
not something that we've seen it's just
sort of a constant list of
it's doing I mean six months he might be
a Scientologist like also we like I do
think it is worth also considering the
possibility that this just might be like
a weird kind of trend that's festering
in this liminal political state where
all of the traditional institutions are
fake [ __ ] parties anyway for the
right and the left ostensibly aren't
doing anything for any of their
constituencies and so like this is this
is the this is the things that are like
you know this is the algae bloom after
the hurricane yeah a suit of like it
drives me crazy whenever whenever I read
these debates or like these they try to
like lay out their point of view yes
drag queens are demonic liberal culture
literal actual demons the influence of
Satan I would like doubt that or Dreier
or Amar'e or any of these people just
ask point-blank gay people in American
society what are you gonna do with them
if you're gay in America under your
ideal Society what does your life look
like yeah what is your interactions of
the state like is is that illegal now if
so how is that going to be policed are
you are you gonna say yes I think people
should be put in jail for being gay
we're having gay sir I never want to
jump to the point of policy because
basically they have to as we have
figured out on this show admit that
either they don't really believe what
they're saying or they would impose
draconian horrifying policies on people
because they do believe it so either you
don't believe that there's like a you
know a baby Holocaust happening all the
time and you just say it because you're
a cynic and a careerist or you know you
do believe it and you want to put women
in jail and so you you have to say that
like you have to say that and I think
that's why French is more realistic
because he's like these aren't these
aren't popular positions these aren't
gonna mobilize people but no one likes
us yes whereas Amar'e has this fantasy
that he's gonna like [ __ ] organize
these [ __ ] requite a is out of like
the the the the the humble American like
you know lump in American Christians who
are all gonna just get triggered by
you story our even though it's pretty
clear just by watching American culture
that these things have the way the
Conservatives were worried would become
accepted over time and we say that's
good and they think it's horrible but
the fact of it is unavoidable and like
where he's gonna get these guys who are
gonna get the snap to this stuff who
have now like pretty much shown by their
support of Trump and stuff they don't
really give a [ __ ] about any of that
moral [ __ ] when it comes to politics
it's really just a kind of a set
dressing then you know I guess I think
it's cuz it's so he's so new to it he
has not literally gotten the message on
how things work in this country and so
he ki thinks no we'll just we'll tell
everybody we'll go town to town tell
everybody about the drag scene story our
they'll pick up their pitchforks and
they'll follow us like [ __ ] like the
Vaughn day rebels during the French
Revolution I like the idea of like him
trying to hold a rally in some place
where they had like drag queens story
hour and someone's screaming you don't
even go there but what I'll say about
French I mean I think it's true that he
is more in touch with the objective
reality on the ground but I'll say that
it's often in the case that being
panicked ends being out of touch with
reality is actually serve the
conservative movement really well and I
mentioned this and that in the piece I
mean for example we conservatively has
this idea that the media in this country
is extremely left-wing terribly biased
towards conservatives and their
certainty of that convinced them to
create a separate media infrastructure
that was just as biased as they imagined
the liberal media to be and that the
infrastructure Fox's a trip proven to be
tremendously important institutionally
for your conservative movements you can
look at the same thing happening with
how the conservative university is that
conservatives were supported because
they believe academia is really bias
like there are all of these waves in
which conservatives do exactly what they
imagine the evil left is do it and
actually wind up as a consequence of
that doing or creating really really
important institutions because they're
this warped sense of how out of power
they are and once again what they fear
isn't even like an ascendant left it's
just like a malaise of liberal hegemony
how about like the the the room itself
you know I mean this as you said this
was built they even had some dumb name
for it like thrilla in manilla
but not clever or rhyming at all
so this let's do like a Harold Lederman
you know Teddy Atlas style tail of the
tape let's get ready to bumble out of
all like again I've read the the
write-ups of this in the you know the
the right-wing press of the intellectual
right-wing press I guess and they all
seem pretty unanimous in declaring David
French the victor of this debate what
was it like in the room tomorrow got
most of the applause lines that I
noticed like David French with multiple
points large enter this sort of like
very sort of like well stated textbook
defense of classical liberalism well you
have to respect the rights from your
enemy because you don't know when you're
gonna be out of power and you're gonna
want those right to yourself and oh wow
and and I would just say well they're
aborting a lot of black babies in New
York and we don't care about that and
they've got replies you know like a you
you just sort of like flatly reject the
entire edifice I've liberal norms and
that was compelling to at least half the
people in that room on a consistent
basis and again I'll say that there were
a lot of young people there was a mix of
sort of like older and his profes soil
types but also a lot of younger
Catholics a lot of sweaters anyone has
sex any walking sticks I'm sure there's
also a couple of monks there I saw David
Brooks there actually actually you know
in the room was getting a lot of support
even though he wasn't you know I was
quick on his feet as as French was
because like again I think that there
are people who substantively are with
him I thought just in reading the live
tweets of it I thought Amar'e actually
got the burn of the debate when David
French was like you spike jonze voice
was like you talk to me about courage
but we do you put your boots on the
ground in Iraq at risk your life and
then Amari said weren't you in jag which
was a great line because yeah he was
he was a fob --it but at the same time I
watched the actual video clip of it and
Amari spits it out very shamefacedly
like he doesn't deliver it in like like
you know live as good as it read in the
thing like he sent it under his breath
he is a nerd and probably grew up online
yeah he's not gonna be able to talk to
the peasants in the world Holt I don't
think tomorrow is just like a very
soft-spoken person and and that really
came through
across the debate led be times where
you'd say something that I think he
intended to be really acidic but like he
would say it kind of quietly like that
line about French being and Jack but one
of the things I didn't get in the room
because I was sort of off to this side
of the stage and wasn't really looking
people up front
it wasn't until I watched the video when
they posted it when I got back home
that's not just how this really
uncomfortable everybody on that stage
was especially rough stuff it rough
stuff it looked like he wanted to fold
into himself that entire day and he was
just like very earnestly trying to get
them to find common ground especially at
the end and that is exactly when things
went off the rails the thing that
actually prompted that insult from from
Mario's were like Amari was going back
to the common ah hearings and sort of
making the claim based on what I don't
know that David French and establishment
conservatives were not adamant enough in
their defense of red carpet nominee
after he was accused of rape and and and
French got very indignant at that's the
idea he had not sufficiently defended
however he comes out from multiple
assaults I work to your point about the
Kavanaugh thing or he was like I I
wouldn't trust you to go to bat for
incredibly accused rapist Brett
Kavanaugh I was like he said I didn't
Murray said I don't think a president
Jeb Bush would have gone to bat for
Cavanaugh the way Trump did and then
French quite rightly said his dad went
to bat for Clarence Thomas like what are
you talking about and I don't exactly
what you said that somebody who was next
to me next to the stage yelled out no
Bush actually went to Camp David during
Clarence Thomas and that that was
evidence that Bush had not been
sufficiently
behind him I think javi cyclope dick
memories of every single thing these
hearings and a really fanatical about it
and I guess I think they're people that
really really think there's their sexual
assault trial enthusiasts actually he
was a Camp David I will say I kind of
agree that that jab wouldn't because he
does not have the spine of his of his
father of anyone of a spine it always
gonna have a spine he has a
cartilaginous you know rich yeah this is
not a very high bar to clear for the
conservative movement which is why which
is what makes a Mars conference so
substantively odd I be weirded out too
if I were friends because French really
did what someone defending record low
the entire time like the rest of the
conservative movement so I think what's
interesting about this is like despite
the fact that you know the the online
nerds who have scored this debate said
that French was the clear winner Omari
you know made a fool of himself and was
shown to be a sort of petulant nasty man
however I II I gotta say I agree with
you and and and your piece is that like
maybe he lost the room or if anyone who
watched it on YouTube but it is the
Amari side of this split in the right
that I think is in ascendance and you
right here it is the amorous not the
French us who will be posed poised to
inherit the movement and do the slaying
from here on out not only because there
are more openly a liberal attitude sit
better with the rights new populism but
because ironically those attitudes
spring from conservatism deepest
sturdiest roots the defenses of old
hierarchies that led early conservative
thinkers like Edmund Burke to regard the
then woolly and new ideals underpinning
classical liberalism and its
revolutionary proponents with deep
caution and often open suspicions
yeah and Martin is a true conservative I
mean classical liberalism and and sort
of laissez-faire economics is what we
sort of have all come to believe within
sort of conventional
take Simmons recent times of being
definitive of what conservatism is but
all of that stuff was sort of grafted on
after the fact to conservative
traditionalism that was really just
about making sure that the people who
were already at the top the aristocracy
and their values were maintained in
society but that is fundamentally what
conservatism is laissez-faire capitalism
became a means to that end
and now that people have seen and
cultural conservatives have seeing that
well you know capitalism can actually be
very low and people that they don't like
can sort of like achieve levels of
influence within this system that they
didn't anticipate I think it's only as a
consequence of that but they're sort of
like now well I guess I said earlier
there's reckoning with economic
realities but I think for a lot of
people it is the fact that culturally
capitalism has created choices that they
didn't want people to have that is sort
of produced this this shift away from
that fusion ISM but but omaree it is
sort of a throwback and a traditionalist
conservative and those are the people
who've always been at the crux of the
movement those are the people who have
always been its sole reason why I'm
always gonna win is that a French
already agrees with him on half of this
stuff anyway he agrees with him on
restricting abortion rights he agrees
with them on imposing restrictions on
pornography there are all kinds of ways
and the French were all he talked about
that liberal values across equilibria is
willing to subsume those values under
his own sort of cultural and religious
conferences so I think that Amara is
already basically won the argument the
fact that you have all of these but
enough conservatives gathered in a place
like Catholic University to take a more
seriously is evidence that he is in fact
and sort of the catbird seat here and
just as the inside which mean
conservative movement is was bewildered
by the rather Donald Trump and didn't
get it I think that within its more
intellectual circles there are things
happening that have also caught the old
guard flat-footed that shouldn't be
cashing them flat-footed because
I think the people to to attach to
classical liberalism to understand that
it's it's not fundamentally what
conservatism is about I mean I think
what we're seeing here and this is
something we've talked about on the show
before is that the classical liberal
model or our sort of our constitutional
model which as you mentioned is already
anti majoritarian they've you know used
you know quite a Blee to basically put
themselves in the driver's seat of all
three branches of government quite a
plea but what they can't do is that
those same sort of bourgeois freedoms
and and marked you know market choices
have created a a culture that is
completely now beyond their grasp like I
think they have now like almost
lobotomize themselves out of any ability
to create culture at all and like it is
completely passed them by and there and
it's like their success politically is
taste like ashes to them because people
are okay with people other people being
gay or don't go to church every Sunday
or you know horror of all Horrors there
are drag queens at our libraries and if
they're like well [ __ ] if if the Bill of
Rights has led to this then like let's
just get rid of that too right there's a
complete inability most people in the
Morris camp to recognize any like
meaningful political victories that the
right as one I think or the past decade
and there's a point during the debate
where trench straight-up says you know
if you actually look at the number of
abortions they're happening in this
country they peaked in 1981 and there
are fewer now than there were when
abortion is illegal on the eve of Roe
this is the astonishing fact and it
means absolutely nothing to Amari means
nothing as long as you can see a gay
person on TV as long as they're drag
queens at the library they're losing it
doesn't matter that conservatives can
wound and presidency multiple times
without morality of the people
supporting the election of a
conservative president or that they
control a number of states in the
country totally but they're throwing
people off the voting rolls that none of
that means anything because the cultural
power that they believe that the left
has is so total that nothing
that they can actually achieve in a
political sphere really holds a candle
to what they imagine we can sort of to
in in the cultural space you know on TV
and movies at the library all of that is
more important to them it had like a
monkey's paw success because what's the
point of ruling the country if no one
likes you and they think you're uncool
but meanwhile it doesn't matter because
they still are able to terrorize us from
that throne and meanwhile the libs are
still in charge of culture and they're
just mashing every button to get people
to be good now yeah we got to make all
the movies and TV shows good so that the
people will not vote for these guys
anymore and it's like yeah you're just
making a Marvel Universe Gramsci and and
it's like this is just beating this is
making everyone want to just kill
themselves just it's all bad yeah it's
just both sides just bashing you in the
head from one or the other from culture
politics into until you're just a little
beaten nub last question here asita I
got to ask about our boy freeway freeway
Ross doubt that how did he do as a
moderator did he ask any interesting
questions or were there any any standout
moments from Ross in your view he really
tried to get them to sort of find common
ground he sort of like would not not
literally but what kind of like nudge
friends to be like well you also think
women should have reproductive freedom
right like you all you all should be
happy together but I mean it was really
towards the end of this looking beat
like there's a point when that actual
spat happened between French and and
Omarion you know French cards or MRI he
said to him the French was a Jag that I
was talking to like the host of the
event being like look you asked me to
come come do this I'm doing the best I
can here this is like out of my hands
like he was really kind of a passive
moderator looking very tired throughout
and I don't know that he would enjoy
doing something like this yeah well I
think he did get them both to agree that
pornography should be made illegal yeah
the most important part for him I think
so again I would I would really like
here I'm just I would really like to
hear from them like how they plan on
carrying that out at this point well I
mean there's like stuff happening in the
Senate with Josh Holley in social media
and I think that people see that as sort
of like a vehicle for beginning to
explore content restrictions online
functionally I don't know that actually
gets anywhere at one point French during
the debate joke like look if you if you
think that banning pornography is
something that we ought to do I don't
think Donald Trump's gonna be your man
on that sorry and I think he's probably
probably right not just that trumpet a
lot of people on the right who are not
going to be as willing to give that up
as they might pretend to be for
appearance's well I'm sure they'll find
a way to yeah demonize and actively
punish you know the women involved in it
but everyone else there will still be
jacking off with impunity you'll take it
from my cold dead hand well I think your
hands will be pretty warm
all right well asita thanks so much for
joining us thank you for covering this
interminable [ __ ] debate I mean yeah
this is real high level mind combat that
I honestly though nonetheless I think
does point to like an interesting schism
in the right that I think I think is
gonna is probably not gonna go away I
think it's gonna be it's gonna be
interesting to see how this plays out
and if more people just become yes
integralists now or amber nerds now
whether they will become even more
insufferable nurse yeah whether they
become even even more angry and violent
nerds than they already are already so
heceta the pieces up at the New Republic
we will link to it in the show
description thanks so much for joining
us again thanks thank you
alright everybody that's our show for
this week I hope you had a good time we
will talk to you
