greetings friends it's your chapo for
the midweek you know what let's just
kick things off right away I'm really
excited about this this is a major coup
for us we've got on the line now ted
cruz to talk about a bit of the twitter
kerfuffle he's gotten into this week
joining us now u.s. senator ted cruz I
mean yeah you you have a consistent
clear conservative vision you know
anyone who's followed your career is
aware of that
but what I want to ask you about you
know you've had a bit of a you know I
guess controversy or little thing this
week on Twitter where it seemed like
your Twitter account social networking
micro blogging platform
happy to reach members of the
faith-based community across this
beautiful land well one of the things
you reached across this beautiful land
this week was its it seemed like you
faved
or liked on twitter.com something from
an account called sexual posts which was
a two minute video clip of a stepmother
coming home to see her stepdaughter
getting railed yeah being of engaging in
fornication and then um pleasuring
herself manually watching senator how to
respond to charges from Breitbart
calling you senator bangbus said that I
look like melted discarded [ __ ] from
the remnants of the Alabama it just as
people have made note of the fact that
that that the the actress in the sexual
post does bear a certain resemblance to
Heidi why
hate heterosexuals okay I know I don't
hate heterosexuals I asked you that
directly why do you hate heterosexuals
sounds like maybe I've been trapped into
some kind of liberal liberal far-left
interrogation here and I would just have
you know that this can all be addressed
in my upcoming filibuster on this sit on
the Senate floor we're gonna make
everything quite clear Heidi's gonna
join me couple of nice ladies from my
office it's gonna be if you want to
stream it it's not gonna be on c-span
you have to go and you're gonna have to
go to Ted Cruz calm and you're gonna
need a download code and you're gonna
it's gonna be $4.99 for the live stream
or if you want to pay you can subscribe
for six months do you think I'm here
[Music]
we don't need a gay cake we're gonna
make a constitutional we're gonna make a
cake constitutional principles with
Heidi and the staffers there it sounds
like you're making a constitutional
sandwich I like the new senator Ted
hardcore yeah I think he's cool now Ted
what about those of us who are into
Family Values but we have let's say
divorced parents and were really into
step Family Values I tell you what
dismiss the man and send the woman on
down
[Music]
[Music]
well Ted I think thanks so much for
joining us and clearing all that up and
premiering on the show Ted Cruz calm
everybody's oh absolutely senator from
Alexis Texas senator Cruz we wish you
the best of that and please give your
best our best to to both Heidi and and
your staff or Janet
[Music]
some imaginary
