pressing play now but the Home Depot
store yeah that's pretty cool
I mean Home Depot and here honey honey
this is the guy I was talking about you
know this guy was talking about and the
story that he was recounting was this
okay a black head Houseman a Red Dog had
just verbally accosted some newbies and
you know what it was kind of over and
above and out of line but you know what
you could get away with it and then he
turned around and did the same thing to
a group of guys and I was included and I
said are you talking to me like that and
he says who the [ __ ] do you think I'm
talking to like that
and I walked up and I said well then
check this out [ __ ] say it one more
[ __ ] time and know this I bet you
before [ __ ] escapes your lips that
you're knocked out [ __ ] cold on floor
okay and someone's gonna be [ __ ] step
and he did his [ __ ] and I said that's
what I thought and I walked to my bunk
and I'm in order to read and he came up
and he said roll your [ __ ] up like you
know go to the fish ball you're in
trouble and I said [ __ ] you meant I'm
not doing that
he said roll it up or I'll look there
for you and I said go do that okay while
you're out there keep this in mind man
when you get out I'm gonna find you in
whatever car both Washington and i'ma
kill you he was gone all the brothers
that heard me say that didn't like that
name started talking a hell of [ __ ] you
know any loud about what they're gonna
do and what they could do and I had
enough of it man and so I pulled the
Cool Hand [ __ ] Luke [ __ ] I
stood up and I walked out into the
center of the [ __ ] floor and I slowly
pulled my shirt up and tells me my eyes
and boot is past and then I slowly took
it down and I knew what was going on and
I said this I said it's any [ __ ]
in this building has a problem with me
okay then step the [ __ ] up and I waited
and no one did and I said either step
the [ __ ] up or I'm gonna go back to my
bunk and start reading and you better
shut the [ __ ] up okay or maybe I said it
smooth yeah it was a big deal because
babe Rob came back to my bunk and he
said
what you know you can your book and all
streamline and it's like okay I'll stand
my sandbox I might get the [ __ ] out of
here okay I told you to be gone all
right I didn't say that the whole
dynamics of how whites conducted
themselves you know I mean not trying to
get over but you know what they can
actually hold their head up okay and you
let the [ __ ] look down okay it like
they're [ __ ] and yeah not every white
boy was like that but too many right you
know what I'm saying and it's like this
the Home Depot yeah I just told you okay
how about the four pounds and 3 ounces
story I learned a lot and I learned that
it makes a difference
this was the diving board area and I was
one of the guards and they weren't
allowed to through the three meter board
and you fell off sideways you landed on
the damps the darn cement over there and
corn pop was a bad dude and he ran a
bunch of bad boys things have changed
one of the things had to use if you use
pomade in your hair you had to wear a
baby cap I said hey Esther you off the
board or I'll come up and drag you off
well he came off and he said I'll meet
you outside my car this was mostly these
were all public housing behind it my car
there was a gate out here I parked my
car outside the gate and I said I'll be
waiting for you his weight burns three
guys and straight razors not a joke
there's a guy named Bill right-mouse the
only white guy and he did all the pools
he was the mechanic and I said what am I
going to do he said come down here in
the basement where mechanics were all
the pool builder is you know the chain
used to be chained and went across the
deep end and he cut off a 6-foot length
of chain you fold up he said you walk
out with that chain and you walked out
of car and say you may cut me man but
I'm gonna wrap this chain around your
head
I said you kidding me he said no if you
don't don't come back and he was
right so I walked out with the chain and
I walked up to my car and they had step
those days used to remember the street
raise you and bang them on the curb get
him rusty put him in a rain barrel get
him rusty and I looked at him but I was
smart then I said first of all I said
well I tell you get off the board you
get off the board and I'll kick you out
again but I shouldn't have called you
Esther Williams I apologize for that
I apologize but I didn't know that
polish is going to work he said you
apologize to me I said I apologize but
I'm not for throwing you out but I
apologize to what I said he said okay
close the straight razor than my heart
began to beat again
[Music]
okay there you have it the corn pop saga
yeah it's the same story
the first thing I thought what I heard
this like obviously Dan Quinn has like
more flourish and Jill Biden I would say
like probably a better performer but the
thematic similarity of you know wait
till you see what this white boy does
right incredible yeah but his story
doesn't have pomade rusty straight
razors a guy named corn pop a guy named
mouse I am a little bit like I
understand that Joe Biden is old but is
he lying and actually much older like
pomade Esther Williams like how old is
Joe Biden and I'm trying to do the math
and it seems like his his his references
would have even been dated then yeah he
must me pointing the knife at my ID said
I'm gonna make you like Lachine Andaluz
I mean that all sounded very early 50s
like Blackboard Jungle yeah and I don't
think he would have been old enough to
even been a lifeguard at that point if
his given age is accurate I my favorite
detail the story is when he just says
remember how you take the straight
razors and bang them on the curb and
leave them in the rain barrel overnight
so they get rusty yeah you remember that
everybody remembers taking the factory
owners daughter for a long walk and you
dip an apple in the local barrel of
molasses this Biden story has been
really funny to me because the response
to it by like you know serious political
media is like oh actually did corn pop
was a real guy and people Wilmington say
this happened it's like yeah no I'm not
the funny thing isn't really that I
thought he was lying it's that like why
would you tell this story like that
there's a difference between this and
like the Cory Booker T Bone story which
is just like pulled out of pure fabulous
yeah
that like i 100% believed that some
version of this happened but if we were
to make kind of a Rashomon of the event
and get maybe like onlookers telling of
the story where he screamed at a guy and
called him by a woman's name for not
wearing a swim cap because of pomade
like i think maybe the story would seem
a little bit different I do like though
that it does prove once and for all just
how senile Joe Biden is because there is
nothing that signals rapid late-stage
cognitive decline like the fact that Joe
Biden cannot remember the name of the
president he served under for eight
years but he remembers corn pop that is
whether that's a dying brain that's what
a dying brain does it goes backward he
that's gonna be his rosebud yeah he
remembers corn pop more than any
conversation he ever had with Obama in
eight years more than his children
absolutely yeah clarify for those of you
who don't know for those of our
listeners who were born in like 2010 and
the the first audio we played was Dan
Quinn who is a insane man from YouTube
right watching for ten years a legendary
dad known for his his tall tales and
purple texts and we just we thought he
sounded a lot like Vice President Joe
Biden there yeah it was recounting his
most fond memory of screaming at a black
man from a very high chair you know I'm
uh I'm taken by this story because
obviously everyone in the media is
talking about corn pop they've
investigated the story and given it zero
Pinocchio's the highest rating of
truthfulness
imaginable everyone on Twitter they want
to hear about corn pop corn popcorn pop
I want to talk about popcorn I want to
talk about our beautiful boy popcorn and
how he's eligible for parole in December
4th of this year
this is his second stint in jail
I think it's second-degree robbery
charges he has to do 20% of his full
sentence but he I looked at Palma sent
me the Kentucky Board of Corrections
website you can look it up all the
people who are incarcerated and popcorn
is eligible for parole in December on
December 4th so I just want to send out
good positive vibes to popcorn currently
doing a stretch in Kentucky for I don't
know yeah aggravated battery in
second-degree robbery but I just wish
him the best
I want him out and I want him blowing
gas again sometime soon I don't know
about the gas because didn't he get
popped last time corn pot or popcorn
last time for parole violation I don't
think that they're probably gonna be
testing his piss well yeah he's gonna be
teas gonna have to I don't know let me
get on that CBD [ __ ] popcorns got a pop
he's got a pop I don't know I mean if it
again for those of you wondering who the
[ __ ] popcorn is I would go back to I
think the first time Adam Freedland was
on the show and we discussed the legend
of King pop just again another just
dynamite figure everyone in the media
should know about him they should be
talking about him he is just like he's a
young savage that's all you can say like
he's he's he's if he's a god he's he's a
real gang [ __ ] right gang [ __ ] so yeah
free popcorn I guess uh officially
introduced the show
it's your chapo it's uh me Matt amber
and Felix calling in but yeah Joe Biden
um he's had a hell of a stretch of a
couple days yeah I'd like to go back to
the debate from Thursday last week and
talk just just read for you now the
transcript of probably his most I don't
know memorable moment yeah when he was
asked by one of the moderators what
responsibility do you think that
Americans need to take to repair the
lake legacy of slavery in our country
I'm this is a pure transcript this is
totally verbatim what he said to in
reply to this question well
they have to deal with the look there's
there's institutional segregation in
this country from the time I got
involved I started dealing with that
redlining banks making sure we are in a
position where look you talk about
education stops himself and goes look
education look you talk about education
I propose is we take the very poor
schools triple the amount of money we
spend from fifteen to forty five billion
dollars a year give every single teacher
or raise to the $60,000 level number to
make sure that we bring in help bring in
to help the teachers deal with the
problems that come from home the
problems that come from home we have one
school psychologist for every 1,500 kids
in America today it's crazy
the teachers are I'm married to a
teacher my deceased wife is a teacher
they have every problem coming to them
make sure that every single child does
in fact have three four and
five-year-olds go to school not daycare
school three-year-olds at school that is
literally by the way like one of the
huge things that like education
advocates and teachers unions are
fighting against is the
professionalization of childhood they're
like they can't read you can't train
them little job is write rule they have
the hope their whole job at that point
is playing with blocks it's literally
the best thing for them at the end
naptime and animal crackers just let
them do that in fact have three four and
five-year-olds go to school not daycare
school factories three-year-old got held
back his [ __ ] paintings through
[ __ ]
you have a three year old Good Will
Hunting and arranges the talk of blocks
in a perfect way he's like it's your
fault who did this who colored in inside
the lines in this entire continuing on
social workers help parents deal with
how to raise their children it's not
that they don't want to help they don't
know what to play the radio again it's
not that they don't want the help they
don't know what to play the radio make
sure the television excuse me make sure
that you have the record player on at
night the
make sure that make sure your wax
cylinders of Thomas Edison reciting the
alphabet make sure the kids hear words a
kid coming from a very poor school a
very for background will hear four
million words fewer spoken by the time
we get there moderator Thank You mr.
vice president and then he goes on no
I'm going to go like the rest of them do
twice over here's the deal the deal is
we've got this a little backwards by the
way in Venezuela we should be allowing
people to come here from Venezuela
I know Maduro I've confronted Maduro you
talk about the need to do something in
Latin America I'm the guy that came up
with seven hundred forty million to see
it those three countries in fact changed
their system two people don't have
chance to leave you're acting like we
just discovered this yesterday
thank you very much before but I feel
like like seeing him on the debate stage
is actually like a little like
disturbing and sad until you actually
read this transcript and then it's
charming
but seeing him kind of riff is great
because I think he's the kind of senile
where you're having like a really good
time and like that's the good part and
so he's like two weeks away from just
like reciting an old Amos and Andy
routine believing that it happened to
him the the first part of this is just
like oh he just doesn't know what the
[ __ ] he's talking about and then in the
last like I'd say two minutes stretch
like it would be two minutes of real
time on the debate stage it's like oh I
see we've called on a character who's
dying of old age to the Terrence Malick
film I guess like before you started
talking about Venezuela okay make sure
that you leave the record player on
earth and then he corrects himself says
the television and he said oh he doesn't
the other way around yeah now he
connects he says radio this is
television then he says record player
make sure you have the record player on
all night so what he seems to be getting
out here is that poor kids need just
constant like an assault of like noise
and chatter at them all day long like a
really neurotic animal that needs to
have like
talk to talk TV on all day long or they
start barking and driving the neighbors
insane and he's referencing uh basically
is reffering this he says like you know
poor children will hear four million
fewer words by the time they reach
school age and this is like one of these
sort of factoids you sort of Gladwell
like statistics that I see quoted a lot
yeah that like you know sounds plausible
in some way but you know since the
debate I've found out that this is
actually very dubious but it's one of
those statistics that are they they have
like Romanian orphanages in here well
once again it's one of those one of
those social science things that's never
been repeated which is like half of or
more of all social science research it's
just people here and they're like ah now
I understand this issue and then it
turns out yeah this thing is just a
[ __ ] piece of data that never got
replicated and has no real basis to it
but it's something guys like that would
grab on to because it's a perfect
technocratic solution what do we do
about poverty well just leave the radio
on perfect boom you don't have to stay
to intervene at all just hire if you
hire a few more social workers to go
around ago did you leave the radio on
and you're set yeah little banjo listens
to Terry Gross okay I will say this like
one of the solutions one of the
technical solutions that people had for
this during like 70s and 80s and I'm
generally opposed to technocratic
solutions was actually a public
television like boring ask mr. Rogers
and me straight we're actually very good
they are incredibly good for people who
had maybe one parent who was working or
two parents that were always working
like the idea that kids are just locked
in a white room even like relatively
deprived kids it's like a deranged idea
like I'm also like I'm very like sort of
anti screen but Mister Rogers and his
boring ass trainers and cardigans is
actually incredibly good for children
yeah I mean it's just like the thing
about like you know poor parents don't
talk to their kids as much as rich Paris
I think the idea is that they're not
around yeah I mean yeah is that they're
there at [ __ ] work right you know but
it's just again it's like one of these
factoids that's heavily touted by people
that are really in select
you know education reform and right well
they're also just like this middle-class
myth that like middle class like PMC
people are the only people that really
love their children right they really
believe that cuz they talk to them all
day yeah
they talked to their neurotic you know
like hypochondriacal eight-year-old all
[ __ ] day until until he has like 12
different types of diagnoses and you
know I mean just let your kids watch
good television mr. Rogers Sopranos the
early Tarantino it's fine yeah so the
that's Joe Biden let's go back to the
Thursday night debate though because
there's weird is boring we got yeah yeah
they're all boring Matt amber and I
watched all of it and it was
interminable and it was like as we said
at the time it was it was touting
someone's parents talk to them
interminable a it was touted as the
first time that all the frontrunners
would be on the same stage together and
there was you know hopefully would be
some fireworks but there was none of
that and despite the fact that you had
like the top four all standing next to
each other it seemed like most of the
debate it was the the losers and the
nobodies we got most of the burn from
the moderators it was very patient it
wasn't that good it was I mean it was
really boring I actually I mean they're
all kind of boring but I thought this
one would be less boring specifically
because we had a Biden Bernie thing
Elizabeth Warren and Sanders would go
like 20 or 30 minutes stretches or just
not saying anything and then the whole
first half of the debate Bernie was very
hoarse and then when they went to the
first commercial break I think he got
like hauls or like some tea with honey
and like nothing Ricola yeah yeah Bernie
Bernie sustained temporarily he
temporarily sustained a cancer from
eating [ __ ] too close serious as a
candidate he'll stop doing this
it's called Michael Douglas syndrome
yeah how the other thing I mean just
like you know not really much to talk
about it other than like you do see
Biden
not just when he's making a single
statement and answer to a question he
can hold it together for like the first
half and then like you know his brain
will just start buffering he can hold it
together long enough for every [ __ ]
media stooge to say Oh Biden looked
vibrant because they just say well
people are only watching for the first
half hour so when his body started
falling apart they had weren't even
checked in anymore but in either
individual responses he sort of like
labs out he starts clipping halfway
through but then over all over the
course of the debate itself like it was
towards like it was in the last third of
the debate that he gave the Victrola
child-rearing answer have been switched
to talking about Venezuela yeah the
other thing that again whenever I
watched these things and I'm like I try
to give my you know dime-store pundit
analysis of like you know who won who's
up who's down who had a moment it just
shows how like completely out of synch I
am with everything else that goes on in
the media or like how they metabolize
these things because I thought the
nobody who you know had the best moment
of the debate was Julian Castro because
he went it by it in and had a couple
pops at him but then I well I read yeah
I read all of the analysis of it and it
said that like Castro was the big loser
because he looked mean you know one of
the people who said he looked mean was
Rama [ __ ] Emmanuel the guy whose
entire careers
being a public piece of [ __ ] because
that was cool also a man that like looks
like a vicious skeleton yeah well that's
because they're all doing he looks nice
they're all doing Biden defense squad
yeah like that's what they care about
yeah I do have to say like you know hoe
people bring up like the point of
Kavanagh nominating such a mediocrity
was to was cruelty was showing like look
how little it matters we can push this
piece of [ __ ] through you won't do
anything about it we're gonna get them
through and yeah I know how battlefield
when he gets in there that's kind of
what it feels like when you stick Rahm
Emmanuel on TV yeah I'll get a thousand
other pieces of [ __ ] with the exact same
opinions but they didn't cover up a
murder they're not as hated as this guy
now we're gonna put him on MSNBC what
the [ __ ] are you gonna do about it
ya know and look he's gonna call people
mean yeah and Matt to you like Rahm
Emmanuel's entire public persona like
reason Obama made him his chief of staff
was due to the fact that like he's like
him and his whole family are abusive
[ __ ] to everyone around a cop yeah
like he literally needed a bad cop and
Oh Manuel was [ __ ] mean and scary
yeah he like as Felix oh you said he
helped the police cover up a murder I
mean there's like politics mean which is
just like doing epic compound swears and
maybe being like 7% less afraid of
direct confrontation and the other
[ __ ] who are working with you and
then there is actual monstrous zero
empathy person which is what Rahm
Emanuel is and no like this expectation
and and [ __ ] oh god that little
chipmunk Buddha judge God like he he had
this thing where like after you know
Castro was like what Joe did you forget
what you said like a minute ago or
something like that was he was like you
know this is why people are tuning off a
debates they don't like these you know
they don't like to see attacks or
whatever and as like we said so it's a
[ __ ] it's a debate like you're supposed
to go at each other not only is it the
debate it's a primer it's a contest
between these people you know I would
like basketball but I don't like it when
the other team takes the ball from 13
yeah you shouldn't be allowed to steal
we did have Matt and I both had like a
little bit of a deep moment of
Midwestern shame at that point because
it was like God he really is like his
idea of politics is conflict aversion
and like he was the like he just showed
his like pink Midwestern ass there just
being like you know if we could all just
be nice everything would be fine
oh now that Tim Ryan is out and Tim Ryan
exhibited a very low cunning
he's a very rat-like person who is
probably only up there to like get an
unsecured loan for like a chain of yoga
studios that are for some reason caught
by a glumpy Oh fish on shape and man but
people to judge is the most cynical
person on that stage by a [ __ ] mile
now like he doesn't think he can win he
can read the graphs that's what he spent
his entire [ __ ] life doing and he's
just up there preening for the adults
watching going uh can we you know can we
stop disagreeing
each other so much we talk about what
unites us I am I'm somewhat gratifying
to see people finally turn in tune into
what is [ __ ] cynical piece of [ __ ] he
is I do like the fight between him and
bado the the slacker versus the Apple
polisher both pulling negative for some
reason yeah do research followed that up
by going on one of the the Sunday
political talk shows and he said that
what I don't like about Sanders and
Warren's approach to politics and policy
is that he said we can achieve the same
goals without dividing the country
family I mean the thing is it's not a
divide it's a light shade that is what
it is you're knocking off the very top
it's not a split it's not a divide it's
a nice clean shave and what you're doing
is you're shaving off this hyper elite
allegorical super-rich interest group
and you're leaving everyone else like
the vast majority of people yeah I mean
there's this idea that that people are
turned off by political polarization and
put like an election by its very nature
is political polarization you know like
non polarized country like everyone
would vote for the same candidate yeah
and that's ideal we'll get there someday
when when the bath party run rises out
of the ashes you want to return to Joe
Biden for a second and the the the corn
pop saga because you know this this is a
story that was covered by the Washington
Post in July of this year in a very
fawning profile of Biden titled what a
lifeguarding job on the black side of
Wilmington taught Joe Biden about race
and this was this is I think is the
first appearance of the the corn pop
saga that I guess he's you know leaning
on now but it just begins here it says
the furor about Joe Biden's race
politics started as soon as he decided
to run for office as a candidate for the
Newcastle County Council in 1970 he made
expanding public housing central to his
campaign angry white residents worried
that poor black
had become their neighbors gave Biden a
derisive nickname the first time the
phone rang and someone said you were a
lover you want them living next to you I
was shocked by it and told the
Wilmington News Journal at the time on
the black side of Wilmington residents
weren't surprised they had been using
that provocative phrase to describe
Biden for years but as a term of
affection Joe was one of us were called
Richard Smith 71 a black resident whom
everyone here knows his mouse we helped
make him who he was as Biden makes his
third president run for presidency he is
once again trying to navigate the tricky
terrain of race his Democratic opponents
have accused some very tricky race it's
very confusing it's full of trickery his
Democratic opponents have accused him of
being on the wrong side of busing and
crime legislation as well as Oh being
overly accommodating to segregationist
senators he was his effort to personally
wrangle with matters of race began even
before his controversial turn on the
City Council on the county council back
when he was a 19 year old teenager
trying to figure out what he could do to
bridge the racial divide his solution
was to become a lifeguard in a
predominantly african-american pool and
wilmington green and black people for
his tall chair that's where he met mouse
and others with nicknames such as corn
pop the Puerto Rican and Marty Marty is
not a nickname that's just a name that's
just poor Rican also not a nickname
well no it's actually funny they they go
down the story an adjective you find out
that the Puerto Rican actually was a
nickname and everyone called him the
Puerto Rican because he was
light-skinned okay so these are these
you know corn pop the Puerto Rican and
Marty are friends who which would become
friends who would shape his life and
provide his formative experience in
understanding black America I was not
out marching I was not down in Selma or
anywhere else Biden once said I was a
suburbanite kid who got exposure to
black America in my own City Smith can
still visualize the first time he saw
Biden a skinny 19 year old with big
sunglasses and brown hair sporting
sporting a big smile and a whistle
around his neck trying to discipline
teenagers like Smith who were bouncing
on the diving boards the pool had back
then had become overrun by neighborhood
gangs like the 13th Street stompers the
whole
and the Romans this is New York
they were snapping and doing step ball
changes on what I've ignored the the
speaking of these gangs they said they
loved pranking Biden the cost to enter
the hole they're one of those really
dangerous gangs that do pranks the cost
to enter the pool was ten cents but a
tiny smack-talking teenager known as
corn pop wanted to try de way to get try
wanted to try away to get his friends in
free distract he did not mention that
this was a teenager he was screaming at
a teenager I mean he was me fair he was
also like yeah ager at the time that's
just good old teenager on teenager
yelling yeah I mean like it's fine I'm
not saying that there's some like
necessary like old man yelling at
teenager but it like wasn't like this
person was like like somebody with
recourse somebody with like a job and
it's like how dare you I'm an adult so
it says yeah corn pop wanted to try way
to get his friends in for free distract
the white lifeguard corn pop got Biden's
attention by talking about his mother
Smith recalled Biden blew his whistle
and demanded Corn Pops show him some
respect meanwhile Corn Pops friends
jumped the fence hopped into the water
and laughed over their declared victory
they were testing him recalled Maurice
Pritchard Pritchett known as Marty who
served as a lifeguard on the shift with
Biden he had to earn their respect that
isn't testing someone that's completely
insane this is like the most cop
mentality where it's like oh they're
testing me and I'm gonna get through
this and then I'll earn their respect
it's like no they're trying to get into
the pool for free that hay has nothing
to do with you you are an obstacle to
swimming in the swimming pool
eventually Pritchett said he earned
their respect by continuing to show up
he learned some witty cutdowns to master
the art of playing the dozens
discovering that some good yo mama jokes
could be more disarming than blowing a
whistle I would really really like
someone to ask Joe Biden if he could
remember any of the yo mama jokes that
he laid out to you know do the dozens
was glass yeah the black kids and earned
their respect by just
I was that I was at the first player
haters international convention I was
there before Chappell you could ask him
so soon he was playing basketball with
the Romans when his shift ended and
another meaning the actual I'm a
Highlander I'm the strongest one okay I
had to earlier Mike my great friend
Ramirez he was a Spaniard who was
Egyptian
these were complicated back then okay I
had my my wife most beautiful girl I had
ever seen in my life okay
and believe me girls back then in the
Scottish Highlands they weren't too keen
on watching this one was I'll play this
one was and I had to watch her die of
old age and that was tragic and that's
the reason that the reason I'm out here
I want I want the quickening gas I want
to live like a mortal okay and I want to
quicken your kids learning inside these
schools okay I am gonna fight the kurgan
I'm gonna fight the Kirk good for you a
lot of people say Joe don't fight the
Kirk it he's aged people he's stronger
than you
nah that's a bunch of crap all due
respect that's the but I'm gonna beat
the Kurgan okay and I will die a mortal
man I won't March with everything okay
there we go oh my god uh he's got the
Highlander did also have a deceased wife
but am I remembering really didn't the
Kurgan kill her or did she die of old
age I think he died of old age
ameri-ghen assaulted her oh okay all
right
[Laughter]
respect it to the God Clancy Brown
though that's the sorry God that boy
Clancy Brown wait Oh ma'am he's the best
drill instructors him yeah come on um
yeah no I just said uh yeah he ended up
yet to earn the respect of the Romans by
you know playing with them and learning
and learning how to do the Tetsuo
formation and the fame
I just see like I feel like when
Dangerous Minds came out like Biden
fantasized about like you know wearing
the cornrows and sitting the wrong way
on the chair across from Coolio in the
video it's it's like this this is a
long-standing kind of weird liberal
fantasy or it's like look I'm going to
learn to get along with black people by
like telling them how they're living
their lives wrong I'm going I'm going to
Dom them into friendship it's like this
really weird bully mentality it's
similar to how he got his passion for
rail transport from watching train
arrives at station [ __ ] old um
once he was out with us Miss said he
never wanted to leave you just have to
imagine it at the time per typical white
people just weren't listening to
anything we had to say and Biden you
could see it in his eyes he wanted to
know about us as the kids in the
neighborhood became more comfortable
with Biden they shared stories about
being black in America
a fellow lifeguard told him he didn't
want to stop for gas on a trip to North
Carolina because of what dangers might
lurk for a black man at a station they
asked whether white girls were any
different from black girls they told him
about the indignity of being forced to
sit in the balcony of a movie theater
Biden took a special liking to Smith a
reform school student who was around six
years his junior
Smith had a temper and a stutter and
found it difficult to control either but
Biden had a solution I used to get
bullied for having a study stutter he
recalled Biden telling him he's still
our buddy look into the mirror and
practice talking that's how I got rid of
mine going on here it says I talked
about the the the riots that happened in
Wilmington after Martin Luther King jr.
was assassinated and it says um months
after the rioting quell the officers
were still patrolling the black
neighborhoods with guns residents were
forced to adhere to curfew for Biden it
was yet another example of the unfair
treatment of black residents that he
learned about at the pool and unlike the
protests in the south this situation was
happening right
Biden has at times faced criticism for
exaggerating his involvement in the
civil rights movement during his first
president during his first presidential
run he told voters that he was one of
those guys that sat in and marched and
all that stuff
face pointed questions about those
statements a few months later he then
pulled back during the riots he had
chosen a different way to get involved
fresher fresh out of Syracuse University
College of Law
Biden tried to help by working as a
public defender he quit after about a
year the part-time job wasn't very
lucrative and according to at least one
of his old clients Biden wasn't very
successful nice guy but he couldn't
convince a judge recall Errol Mad Dog
Larkin 73 in a phone interview with The
Washington Post Larkin ended up serving
five years on a robbery conviction the
jail had a lot of people who had him as
their lawyer yeah so any then after
being a public defender he tried to
become a politician and he went to a
mouse for some advice about you know how
to reach out to the black community so
it says here mouse you work in Biden s
Smith one day button wanted to campaign
in the projects and asked Smith to be
his bodyguard Smith saw his role though
as more of an ambassador he coached
Biden on how to make a good impression
if you sit on a couch and a spring digs
into your butt don't move Smith said he
told them if a roach climbs on your
shirt sleeves keep talking if a mouse
comes over your feet absolutely don't
move if that is absolutely insane poor
people don't sit around with roaches
crawling all over them and just not
respond that is the most insane [ __ ]
thing I've ever heard I have a feeling
that any support that Joe Biden ever got
from black voters had to do with the
fact that like dude this guy was just
covered in rat killer I was fighting for
me you know yeah if a if a large spider
crawls across your face while you're
talking don't register any reaction just
keep talking it's [ __ ] insane
the crawls in your mouth just hold your
mouth open
okay so that it can just say sit there
and just just be silent I respect you I
I will say I think like it's pretty
clear that Joe Biden particularly
locally has black supporters and I think
Joe Biden has black friends I think Joe
Biden really doesn't offend people when
he talks to them in person he's just
like a political [ __ ] and has like bad
politics so like this idea that
absolutely everything is a lie isn't
even that useful like there are plenty
of people who have black friends who are
morons it doesn't make you smart to have
a few black friend I just think what
we're seeing with with Biden and this
stuff I think it's just it's just I
don't know like a general or
generational gap that like people over
the age of 50 just relate and find all
this stuff very charming and if you're
like under 40 it makes absolutely no
sense to you or it just seems bizarre
and like yeah I mean it's multiple
generational gaps yeah to like people in
their seventies yeah they like Joe Biden
he was probably literally way less
racist than everyone in every other
white person that they were around last
bit of advice that Mouse gives him is if
you get offered kool-aid in an old
mayonnaise jar drink it which is like
you know not that weird a lot people use
jars for glasses but it would be odd if
there was old man is still in the jar
though that would be pretty gross I
wouldn't drink that kool-aid similar to
the philosophy you use with a cast-iron
skillet yeah they get passed down
exactly in the story though Biden showed
a moderation that his opponents and some
of his supporters did not expect after
he campaigned on a civil rights agenda
Biden told the reporter he would not be
a quote crusading rabbit who would make
excuses for african-americans because of
systemic racism he used two hypothetical
examples to make his case I have some
friends on the far left and they can
justify to me the murder of a white
deaf-mute for a nickel by five colored
guys he told the Wilmington News Journal
in 1970 hey I like every
word in that sentence a white deaf-mute
for a nickel by coloreds that's great so
his love is let his far left-wing
friends would say of this you know
deaf-mute murderer they would say the
black man had been oppressed and so on
but they can't justify some Alabama
farmers tar and feathering an old
colored woman I suspect the ACLU would
leap to defend the five black guys but
no one would go down to defend the
rednecks they are both products of an
environment the truth is somewhere
between the two poles he spent more than
30 years in the Senate trying to find
the in-between just like st. Matthews so
he goes on here to talk about busing and
he says the concept of busing is a
rejection of the whole movement of black
pride Biden said in a 1975 NPR
interviewed recently unearthed by the
Washington Examiner a rejection of the
entire black awareness concept that
black is beautiful and black culture
should be studied and the cultural
awareness of the importance of their own
identity their own individuality and I
think that's a self healthy solid
proposal I will absolutely say that he
is acting in accordance with every sort
of liberal think tank that has existed
since the Ford Foundation there's a
really good book called top-down about
how the Ford Foundation did this amazing
bait-and-switch when people are like oh
well black people particularly urban
black people are incredibly deprived
what if we told them that actually you
have community control it's not that
we're not giving you the same resources
as everyone else it's that you're in
charge of your own thing and they sold
that entire like [ __ ] proposition to
tons of sort of aspiring PMC like black
self-appointed leadership class and it
resulted in increased segregation like
what he's talking about is [ __ ] but
it is literally the [ __ ] that has
carried on since like sort of Ford
Foundation liberalism said that like oh
no we don't need to integrate they can
do their own thing what it was like
where did the Ford Foundation come from
what was their deal Henry Henry Henry
Ford
[Laughter]
both guys the car people they were I
think until I think until but how did
they because but like Henry Ford was
like a you know a fascist and a
fanatical right-wing or how did it how
do they become the you know as you the
PMC liberal touchy-feely think-tank we
should by the way I can I can't talk to
you all day about that we should do a
whole episode on the Ford Foundation
okay because they are essentially like
that the NGOs like the post the post
kind of 1900s NGOs have done at least as
much to influence the trajectory of this
country as like any one wing of
government it's been entirely massive I
mean like they did everything from sort
of establishing you know things like
women's studies and African American
Studies departments in universities so
long as they could stack the deck with
anti-communists deep dive into the Ford
Foundation TK yeah anyway what what what
he's talking about is 100% out of his
brain like yes he's speaking from a
certain yeah he can't remember what who
he's referencing but he's definitely
referencing like a party line of kind of
Buchwald liberal reformers finishing up
the joe biden article it says here he
pulled his car in front of an old
friend's house and began to gingerly
walk up the stairs he rang the bell and
Dennis Williams 66 came to the door back
in the pool dais Williams often got into
fights after being made fun of because
of his light complexion they called him
the Puerto Rican mouse how you doing
Williams said I'm just thinking about
Joe Smith said oh man you remember that
day Joe kicked me out of the pool that
led to the familiar swapping of old
stories of pranking Joe being
disciplined by Joe of fights and gangs
and all that teenage bravado the guy
they called poor corn pop grew up to be
a security guard and recently died
Pritchett who shared the lifeguard shift
with Biden became a state principal of
the year Smith became a union president
and his foreign
is a former head of the state
n-double-a-cp Williams became a
detective a Wilmington mayor and a state
representative Animal House maybe in
today's climate Biden's typical folksy
anecdotes about life at the pool might
not be enough to persuade voters after
the debate Smith sent text to everyone
he knew on Biden's campaign the
candidate needed to be better speak to
the language on race he told them please
tell Joe to read the souls of black folk
by W EB do boy or where do we go from
here by Martin Luther King said one text
that Smith read to William do not let my
friend go out there unprepared about
another don't worry he'll be fine
Williams assured it will all blow over
ya be fine he and Kamala will hug it out
we have to protect him Smith said
because that's what we do you know he
was the best man at my wedding do you
know he helped me with my stutter do you
know do you know do you see here I am
with corn pop at the pool do you see me
and corn pop changing do you see corn
pop changed do you see this is that
really brought me down that really
depressed me that end because it's like
I feel like Joe biases some like I've
never really considered this angle
someone who is politically corrupt but
in their lives has like pre senility of
course maybe even post Millett has an
incredible charm and effect on people
and someone has to not only see them go
out there and just like to be a complete
corrupt [ __ ] as a politician but like as
a person feels like they know their
heart and then after decades of doing
that after yes three failed presidential
campaigns is finally supposed to be his
time and he just goes out there and
everyone sees the rot inside of his
heart and everyone sees his decaying
rotting [ __ ] brain like someone like
rahm emanuel i don't think there are any
stories of people who have been charmed
by him I've had like real human moments
of them because where Emmanuel has no
friends Joe Biden 100% has actual
authentic friendships and it's yeah
just this is sort of sad for literally
everyone because I do believe there's
like a part of Joe Biden's soul that's
good I really do like I you can't deny
like his real connection with people
that he had one time in his life and I
think we hand deny that for a lot of
people yeah I think that's why he's a
successful politician like people always
talk about you know the way he talks to
people on the campaign trail and does
the Bill Clinton thing of you know
feeling their pain and things like yeah
well it's certainly not his wit
intelligence or articulate nature yeah
like he does I was like kind of radiates
a human thing and what I've said before
is like look if like Jill Biden or my
next-door neighbor I bet he would throw
like good barbecues and like you know
like shovel my walk or whatever he just
shouldn't be in charge of absolutely
anything but like that like I that is
absolutely that sense that he'd be a
good neighbor and would have a good
fourth of July party and shovel your
walk I really think for like a large
chunk of the electorate like that's what
they're looking for in a politician
that's all they can hope for yeah it's
the ultimate in making you feel normal
again isn't it yeah look this person is
human this person is recognizably human
to me he's more recognizably human than
Hillary Clinton certainly oh that's true
yeah he's one of the most recognizable
human people on that stage which is what
makes his lifetime of [ __ ] [ __ ]
policy
honestly his annuity is humanizing we
know that he's not doing adrenochrome
sacrifices you yeah so that's I said
that closes out Joe Biden again we'll
see we'll see how all this plays out
would you guys like to shift topics from
the election and do a little bit of a
faux paux oh yeah there's some things
that are doing in doin's are transpiring
things are doing in the faux paux world
right now and I'm speaking of course
about the drone attack on Saudi oil
infrastructure what do they do blow up
uh with the refinery
took a big chunk out of Saudis ability
to ship oil precious beautiful oil and
now this is being blamed on the Houthis
and by proxy Iran yeah I didn't know the
Houthis had drones but like that's
[ __ ] cool no their net drones for a
while they've been doing a number of
strikes they've been attacking airports
a lot with mixed results and this is
they're definitely the most successful
drone strike if it's a drone strike
because that's the other weird thing
it's the same thing as that attack on
the oil tanker on the oil tankers is
that there's no consistent story as to
what even happened because like they're
the the they're they seem like they're
bigger than a drone strike should
potentially be in terms of how much
damage they caused but also apparently
there's video of guards like firing guns
which makes sense if they see a drone as
opposed to a missile coming in so nobody
really knows but the story yeah the
story that kind of confirms with other
things that have happened in the region
is Houthi drones but nobody actually
knows how big a drone do these have so I
was like to blow up an oil refinery like
you would need like one of those
predators that can actually fire like a
missile or something well from what I
understand they have reconnaissance
drones that they rigged with explosives
so ok all jerry-rigged all right so they
just fly drone into it and then it blows
I think so but once again I'm not
certain um but yeah I mean this is
obviously being to beat the drums for
for war right Trump was going and saying
about oil and you know again like
anything that threatens you know the
orderly shipment of oil from Saudi
Arabia to the rest of the world is like
that's u.s. foreign policy in a nutshell
I mean again as I'm sure you'll be aware
of the backdrop to this is the now four
or five years of a completely Jenna
Seidel war that Saudi Arabia has been
waging on Yemen we just literally it is
caused the largest ongoing famine in the
world right now contra Jack Ryan Yemen
is actually the world's worst
humanitarian crisis not Venezuela I
don't know man office Jim
he's pretty convincing yeah but like as
soon as our yeah our precious oil is
threatened and like I'm sorry Saudi
Arabia has it coming for a million
[ __ ] reasons even if it wasn't again
their genocide or war in Yemen but we're
now treated to the spectacle of what is
it
Democrat Chris Coons going on Fox News
Sunday to say this is something that
would necessitate military intervention
if that's quote what military
intelligence decides oh we're back to
this this is fine i trial i know is i
have no reason to distrust anything any
of them say about why or what happened i
just feel bad for poor john bolton the
guy spent all that time trying to get a
war with iraq iran going and it happen
if it happens and he isn't able to go
and watch the bombs drop in the
Situation Room and jackoff he's gonna be
so do it is like Jason Street watching
from the wheelchair as they win state
yeah no it's not it's a bummer for him
if we do you know in like two years
all the people who were in the National
Security Council are gonna have to take
a vote to see whether they give a Bolton
one of their Iran the US War runner-up
rings that they're having there like a
bet going with a friend it's like when
all of this stuff comes out as to
whether or not Trump told boat and he
was fired before he tweeted it or not if
I just feel like that's what he does now
no he tells he does not tell that's the
another thing about Trump is that he is
a coward and it has no ability to look
people in the eye that's why he's the
perfect online person is because in
person he's a [ __ ] absolutely he has no
virtues he doesn't even have the virtues
of cruelty completely dim your [ __ ] in
real life who is like never fired anyone
unless it directly unless it was for a
TV unless it was Little John or Tom
Arnold I don't know you talking about
what what's more alpha than going on
Twitter and saying will attack Iran if
Saudi Arabia tells us to that's Alpha
posture I don't know say what you will
about other places but having like
having your senator and having your
president go
directly on TV and just be like ya know
I mean once you find out everything I
will set we will send American troops to
just fight for these this inbred royal
family's oil tankers that will happen if
that's that is what happened we will
allocate our resources to fight with
this place that has less to do with your
life than any hypothetical I could
imagine I know that other countries
support the Saudis and do things like
that but to put it that directly if
someone put it back directly on TV like
the French wouldn't stand that we really
are very beaten down in this country
it just isn't like just saying it that
straight up is insane to me when you
break it down that way and just the
president going out there like that
like [ __ ] Christ that's depressing
they can just be put that flatly and
people just accept it back to Bolton
though Matt was it you told me that like
the speculation the Trump actually fired
Bolton because he thought he leaked what
was it yeah I said he's the one who told
everyone that he suggested nuking the
Hurricanes and I 100% like that that
that is more having it too because
what's so weird is all these people have
to like the people who want to argue the
Trump is some sort of closeted dove they
are there they always have to have this
narrative where he's secretly at war
with the people he appointed to these
Yash's know why did you hire them in the
first place message you see the latest
Ben garrison car yeah which involves
he's he's like its its muscular
beautiful macho Trump like kicking on
the ass out the door John Bolton and
he's like get out of here you deep state
war monger yeah Pompey who is his
Secretary of State and now apparently
Pompey it was going to be secretary of
state and national security adviser
oh that's cool actual he is one of the
real-life like Bush era type evangelical
end times guy yeah like the was it the
[ __ ] was that guy who was like we need
to he won't last
Jerry Boykin Boykin or there's another
guy doesn't matter they're all the just
branches gemstones yeah you Eli
gemstones yes that's what it is yeah who
thinks that we need to like go to war in
the Middle East on hey geez John Hagee
that's it that's it to bring about like
you know the Battle of apocalypse yeah
on the hill of what was it
mega do you like mega do ya yeah it it
it's [ __ ] ridiculous and yeah and
again if you're like if you're a trump
supporter who's against apparently us
war mongering or you're sick of US
imperialism like how do you square this
I guess you just like you just move on
you're like trumps he's kicking out the
bad guys that he hired in the first
place well he's got to hire them so that
he can confirm that they're bad and then
he fires them Oh looks like it's a
vetting process to find out who the
white hats are right whereas Bolton's
entire record in government and outside
you know like that's irrelevant I guess
yeah what the [ __ ] well that wraps it up
for this weeks episode do we have any
plugs or notices classified Felix does
missing count casual encounters oh yeah
yeah yeah okay that's a good plug are
Necronomicon call of cthulhu live role
playing session from the Columbus
theatre in Providence Rhode Island is
the video for it the entire event is now
up on YouTube this is our sort of Capone
speakeasy origins as Virgil states this
scenario is canon so everyone who is
asking how we're gonna get around the
the slight problem that Matan eyes
characters have been rendered completely
insane by the last scenario that we are
now like pretty much catatonic from our
deep exposure to the mythos aha I give
you a prequel a Capone easy prequel that
is now the full the full events is up on
YouTube right now it was a very fun live
show please check it out okay yeah so
the video is on YouTube but the audio
will you'll put that out on as an audio
episode as well but I would highly
recommend checking out the the live
version because there's a lot of fun you
get to see Chris play the theremin and
you can sweat off on the bear man now
it's now easier we told you to do your
[ __ ] plugs you were God we need your
plugs oh mine yeah oh right we're right
[ __ ] is in the toilet
oh yeah I was kind of on Thursday
September 26 at 6:30 John Boyce and I
will be doing a screening in QA of
fighting at the age of loneliness at
Brooklyn College will at the Fierstein
graduate school of cinema yeah we'll put
the Eventbrite in the episode
description also this week on the 20th
at the Kennedy Center live podcast with
yeah but still with of course for
instance the show Jack Wagner and
Brennan Wardell but also Andy hands and
Jamal Jamal Johnson uh this may be sold
out well we'll put the Eventbrite in
there just to make sure but yeah I will
be performing at the Kennedy Center I am
technically a documentarian and a
best-selling author
don't you feel [ __ ] owned [ __ ] this
isn't a plug for anything I'm doing but
just FYI
former VP Joe Biden senator Bernie
Sanders to attend the Democratic
presidential labor forum in Philadelphia
on Tuesday so I don't know if you if you
want to keep an eye on that that'll be
very interesting because it's a you know
it's it's it's Joe's turf but he'll be
surrounded by union thugs that hate him
so it should be very charming okay gang
be good will be weekend with you soon
bye bye bye right
