ring ring ring ring hello I'm sorry
please yeah well you're speaking to the
chaplet wrap house you're on air right
now mr. Chow's this is Sebastian Galka
wait Sebastian are you calling from the
White House please I can't I can't
disclose the location where I am but yes
I will put it this way I am dressed in a
sort of felt blue tourists come this way
don't touch that sort of beautiful
Sebastian why are you calling I mean I
know we discussed you on last night's
show just an absolute violation of Human
Rights about someone that way and not
even get into my origin story not even
the right of response or the right you
know of just a minor genocide lack to
something I think that in truth you are
being terrorists you are being
terrorists of the Internet and I don't
think it's fair
why wouldn't you just come down to the
White House instead of suggesting that I
have Gorger girls that's character
assassination and I think we're going to
do that if you're going to play this
game then sooner or later I'm going to
catch up to you mr. chop house and there
will be a drone strike I didn't know we
were invited to the White House I mean
we're certainly happy to to air your
grievances on the show to the White
House just pop on down to the White
House and say that Sebastian says why
would you want to assassinate my
character like why would you observe my
character drive through Dealey Plaza
with our teeny hub cover on his
limousine and then take his shot from
one side when it really came from the
other is
what happened at the White House take a
look at my first of all thank you for
your service we don't like to work at
beef on the pod we don't like to think
I've gotten here let me pull up my own
jewelery calendar
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Laughter]
goodbye all apologies apologies
[Laughter]
good-looking guy
[Music]
