[Music]
[Music]
okay we are here Aloha ladies and
gentlemen it's your chap Oh Matt amber
and myself are coming to you live from
the extremely chill vibes of Southern
California the City of Angels Los
Angeles will menopur of the what
hollywood california but we are joined
by a very special guest you know him as
the from The Young Turks and from twitch
a very popular streamer Hassan [ __ ]
welcome to that far well thank you I'm
also a huge chapo fan so this is like
kind of intimidating for me I'm not
gonna lie we're all about chill positive
vibes here where maryann mindset 24/7
we're so chilled there's no way you
could possibly you know [ __ ] this up
yeah we'll be chill like it's not it's
not my first rodeo well you're you're
hosting us in your apartment right now
thank you very much for that great yeah
wonderful dog oh hello
but before we get into today's episode
just got a stunt a little bit Matt amber
and I were gifted a trip to the Deadwood
movie premiere last night kissed by the
gods we are among the the Eloi the
select the few and I actually prevented
myself from leaning over doing that by
the way I've never seen the show but I
prevented myself from leaning over in
the middle and whispering there's dad
which I seriously considered doing
because been on a lot of edibles since
I've been here and that makes me laugh
and then we went to the the after party
you know no kapparino no spoilers
you know HBO will revoke my soul if I if
I if I divulged anything about the
Deadwood however I will say Matt and I
did get to bask in the aura of Ian
McShane I got to say one of the most
powerful auras we have ever experienced
yes this absolute power manlet little a
tiny little gentleman with an open
collar and slicked back
run in that whole room but yeah it was
like it was like our dream come true we
were at a party with the town of
Deadwood yeah they're all there all the
stars were there all of your favorite
cast members yes so once again huge
thank you to Patton Oswalt for making
that dream come true for us mm-hmm so I
said we're here in LA with Hassan things
are things are going great in the news
though we've um so we're sort of
insulated from because we're you know
cool California vibes everyone is chill
out here but the news sucks things
coming out pretty bad where do I start
our upcoming war with Iran or our
upcoming abortion being illegal in the
United States neither of those are very
Mary Ann well we're gonna start with
abortion okay let's start so Alabama is
now joined Georgia as the latest state
your us a Ohio - they're all in a
contest to see what the state's name
will be in the name of the historic
Supreme Court decision overturning Roe
versus Wade they want to be Smith versus
Alabama not Smith versus Ohio or
whatever the [ __ ]
so they're Klout chasers they literally
are that's a hundred percent correct
it's Klaus shit's funny dude yeah that's
fun it's like it's so not me
though at the movie premiere I was just
thinking there are so many fake la
[ __ ] here and this so is me so just
the Alabama you probably already know
about the Georgia one just real quick
here reading from the New York Times or
write-up of this just say what the
Alabama do the Builder the
republican-controlled legislature
overwhelmingly passed sought to prohibit
abortions at every stage of pregnancy it
includes an exemption in cases for cases
where a woman's health is at serious
risk but lawmakers rejected a proposal
to add exceptions for cases of rape or
incest women who have abortions will not
be prosecuted under the measure but if
the courts allow the law to stand
doctors could be charged with the felony
and face up to 99 years in prison for
performing the procedure so they're at
least holding the death penalty you know
very enlightened I guess how many
doctors that perform abortions RG do you
think are left in this state though in
Alabama yeah very very few this sounds
like it's it's a little misleading and
not that this isn't terrible but every
time one of these things happens it's
generally in a state where like the only
providers is like the one Planned
Parenthood or one doctor with like
bulletproof you know windows the issue
first of all roe v-- wade is not good
legal precedent to defend the right to
abortion second of all in addition to
like a firmer legal defense like we are
not going to ever have secure access to
abortion without socialized healthcare
we're just not and we can't rely on
Planned Parenthood cuz like you know God
bless and they certainly helped me out
in a pinch but like they are not they do
not have the long game in mind they are
truly a liberal institution with extreme
limits they're not good at defending
abortion they are being attacked though
because I mean the sort of like I feel
like you sort of forget how much the
anti-abortion people like what kind of
freaks they really are but they're
feeling it they're feeling themselves
now for sure and they're sharing some
very normal thoughts I just I just kept
this one courtesy of a wet faced fish
lipped freak Matt Walsh who says of the
new law if a twelve-year-old is raped by
her father and the father takes her to
get an abortion the evidence of the
crime will be destroyed and he will go
on molesting as a victim for years if
however the child is born his crime will
be discovered and she will be rescued
from the abuse so all she has to do is
bare her father's child
so like Matt Walsh is a father right cuz
he talks about yeah yeah yeah being a
father but this man is obviously never
[ __ ] because like if this is your
perspective like do you genuinely think
that the only way to prove that someone
raped you is if you carry the pregnancy
to term at the age of 12 well you have
to wait neither looks enough like you
did his children are the only way he can
prove to other people that he's had sex
so that's the terms he's thinking it
yeah like yeah there's no there's
absolutely no other
evidence forensic or otherwise even ever
used to prosecute testimony from a woman
that's why the rape kit backlog exists
because like these people got abortions
that's why there's a backlog and they
can't test them anymore because there's
no children there's no proof well Matt
wall seems to think that Planned
Parenthood his main goal is covering up
crime yeah like there's just sort of
like Harvey Keitel's character and pulp
fiction well if they were like actually
doing that if they were you know in the
dead of night you know running some sort
of like black-market abortion access
thing it would legitimately be far more
impressive than the fight that they're
able to put up as well but claim the
right wing claims that they sell the
baby organs to make impossible burgers
yes I think was a Leah banks said that
it's up there with the Pepsi has stem
cells in it I can't drink Pepsi is awful
yeah I mean you're you're Pro launder
your conscience that easily just the the
New York Times goes on to say a Senate
vote on Tuesday night move the proposal
to Governor kiv a Republican who signed
the legislation on Wednesday afternoon
to the bills many supporters this
legislation stands as a powerful
testament to Alabamians deeply held
belief that every life is precious and
that every life is a sacred gift from
God miss ivy said in a statement I mean
I know they you you can say that but for
states like Alabama and Georgia to say
it's a deeply held belief of this safe
that every life is sacred and precious
it's just like cuz you because you do a
better job of showing that maybe because
these states do have the highest infant
mortality rates in America yeah once you
know I don't know I like I don't know
how we're going to actually deal with
this I hope that this is like wrapped up
and smashed down really tidy because if
it gets drawn out
people will pay attention to nothing but
this I do not put it past Republicans to
like try to drum up so-called culture
wars at the last minute to distract
people from from the fact that like
suddenly like medicare-for-all
incredibly popular policy and people are
getting behind you know education
anti-poverty initiatives I think that
they could very easily just just keep
pulling this [ __ ] well into the election
so that we pay attention to that to the
exclusion of all other things that
everyone runs out of energy but don't
you guys think this is kind of a losing
battle in some sense because I mean
culture wars Republicans are really good
at it we already know this but abortion
is like that one issue that definitely
mobilizes a significant portion of the
Republican base but it's still not
something that IIIi don't know I feel
like it's not as popular as Republicans
make it out to be like in terms of the
prospect of making abortion illegal or
overt or overturning roe v-- wade
extremely um but also like we've lost so
much we whatever the Democrats have lost
so much political footing that I I think
it's very easy and again to like these
laws are awful and they shouldn't exist
and we need better you know legal
precedent than roe v-- wade but also the
biggest issue is that like no one can
afford health care of any kind and that
it's incredibly difficult to access any
of this stuff I mean the number of
doctors that even perform abortions at
this point is so low in America and it's
been steadily dropping ever since just
because it's like not worth it like they
can't they can't rationalize the risk to
it they can't find a place to [ __ ]
work like Planned Parenthood can barely
keep its head above water like in terms
of like keeping clinics and then like
everything else is like just death by a
thousand cuts it's like you know it's
it's austerity anti-abortion activism
you know like which is probably more
effective at this point than the legal
stuff I did see in terms of other normal
people sharing their normal thoughts
Ross Douthat today you know big big time
and he abhorred big big boss Ross he
seemed to make the case that like you
can't say that you know woman's full
political equality is you know it
depends on abortion because you know
there are other countries in the West
that made abortion illegal after roe v--
wade and you know women were fined in
those countries and the examples he used
were Ireland and Chile and Ireland you
know the mass grave countries of those
yeah Ireland where you go to jail if you
if you fly over to like the you not
anymore they just not even yeah yeah
very very recently but yeah like I mean
yeah at the land of Magdalene laundries
yeah women's like yeah like full
political and economic enfranchisement
and by the way in the Chile NC portion
was instituted by Pinochet by a
right-wing dictatorship yeah just
misunderstood you hate people of color
[Laughter]
oh sure we hate the Irish
yeah well actually uh you said the magic
word this is in my cue as well but you
want us I'll talk about it now from
Irish central.com Bernie Sanders says
Irish just fight and get drunk many
people think this is great and what's
his name Hillary Hillary man General Tom
Watson was like well I guess Bernie just
lost the Irish vote and I love the idea
that there's like the Irish but you saw
something in American politics and the
extent that it does exist they're all
Republican like blue lives matter
lunatics yeah Irish were slaves to
mother so what I mean beyond like you
know what group you marching for st.
Patrick's Day like does he think that
there's like a legitimate like Irish
American community at this point yeah
they're called the police and the city
of Boston yeah but no this is um they of
course we're digging into the the
archives of this the recently
rediscovered because you know everything
about their they're trying to find
anything about Bernie
and they discovered his public access
show from Vermont every time they come
for him he only becomes more powerful so
we I think the public access show is
wonderful oh it's so great it's adorable
my favorite is when he like talks to a
baby but like it's like a person it's
like hello my berries won't eat he's
talking like a group of like first
graders and he's like if any of you ever
seen the drug cocaine then one of them
was like do you mean coca-cola he was
like no the drug cocaine but apparently
all unique all the kids stupid I think
you're stupid
so I says Bernie and and they're making
it sound like he gave voice like the
opinion that the Irish are very drunken
opinion which is the real racism so
Bernie Sanders called Irish drunks and
fighters in an old television clip that
has resurfaced about stereotypes and one
of his old public-access TV shows which
have just been located presidential
candidate Bernie Sanders says the
typical view of the Irish is they get in
fights because they are drunks all the
Irish are drunks Bernie speaks of the
community is full of footage of Sanders
discussing relevant issues yeah like
Irish people being violent drunkards
look it's a problem and he's speaking
truth to power his remarks on the Irish
were part of a conversation about
stereotypes blacks Mel Sanders said he
was told as a kid Jews are greedy and
selfish Irish for drunks and the
Italians were mafia oh this is from that
part yeah I remember I remember the the
first expose that happened in America
when they they cut out the Irish barber
they only talked about the Jews and the
blacks that Bernie said well yeah he's
addressing school kids yeah it's the
same thing and he didn't talk about the
second part of the conversation who
knows broadly negative he was expressing
stereotypes to show that like he was
like this is what I was told and like
they are foolish picked up on it too and
of course they left it with like the
Irish thing and didn't mention the you
know whatever greedy Jews part and like
I what's up their ass what do they got
against Bernie well I think it's pretty
clear
like reading this from Irish central.com
that you know I mean whoever wrote it
you're just happy someone's talking
about well I mean I think you wrote it
probably wasn't drunk at the time
because I think it is pretty clear what
the context is here but ya know the
Irish vote Bernie come on you better yes
it'll be alright I don't what I don't
understand is like every time we find
old Bernie Sanders footage that gets an
earthen I mean he first of all he looks
exactly the same why'd he look like he's
75 when he was like supposed to be 40
well me never changed policies and never
changed looks mad now we're talking
about this that's sort of like the best
move you can do for a politician or like
character Oh early like they're they
don't look the same like ian mcshane
they show like lips before the thing
they showed these they showed a bunch of
while we were waiting we were sitting
down waiting for the show to start they
had this montage of pictures from
Deadwood and there were pictures from
the new movie and from the old show and
you can easily tell which it was with
every character except for McShane it
was like is that from now is that from
this movie is that from the original you
didn't know because he's at the exact
same face and we started Philip Baker
hall has had the same look for the old
it's a king moved to be an early old and
like you know you read that statistic
that when he filmed the movie cocoon
Wilford Brimley is like my age and you
know he still looks it's a boss move but
then the other thing that I get upset
about whenever I see these old Burnie
footage is like I feel like he was way
cooler back then like he would just come
out and say it like he would just say it
like whew like yeah I'm on I'm against
all US foreign intervention like across
the board I'm with the the USSR is not
that bad actually things like that where
I don't know I feel like he was way
cooler back then and now he's kind of
gotten a little bit softer with old age
president and also I think you're just
not allowed to call kids dumb anymore
they would be mad if a presidential
candidate did that and I think what we
expect of a presidential can't
it now is a softer kind of thing which
is to our detriment I would love it if
Bernie was one loud about Wars loud
about being anti imperialist and to just
calling kids dumb look at these little
[ __ ] whatever you seen Biden does it
they love it I say Biden is going around
saying like Millennials are stupid and
lazy and like you gotta break that you
know you you think your life is hard so
I don't know maybe you can get away with
that but then again like children and
Millennials are different because we
associate Millennials with like
ungrateful you know people in their 20s
or right you know versus the Zoomers who
are definitely much better well you know
some we're gonna talk to you a little
bit about about your contact with the
the zubur generation via sure fights
which but just the last thing i want to
talk about alabama and obviously this
sucks are like there's very little
that's a funny or entertaining about it
save for the names of some of these
alabama state legislators who voted for
to pass this abortion ban and i looked
at this and I swear to God I had to look
up the names to make sure this wasn't a
work like someone just photoshopped it
like the the teen roasting Rob Lisbon
did Chris tell Chris yeah her blurbs and
this is like a throwback because this
was like the classic tea cot era of
Twitter or you know one of the original
and greatest cush bomb bits were just
tea cot names or others live forever so
let's go through some like yeah we feel
like sort of called a lot of the current
world into existence in 2014 we've just
pulled these people out of the ether
alright let me go through some of the
highlights here I really shouldn't have
done all that tweeting from a Ouija
board all right Larry Stutz oh yeah
Larry's that's it on those Tim Nelson
Tim Mel and chez shell nut no you know
it's like these are the almost names
where it almost sounds like a real name
they're just uncanny shake em up this is
one of the best will Barfoot are photos
legal folks yeah Alabama bar foot is
legal but a pushin is not yeah and then
of course this is the best of them all
this is the most he cot name I could not
believe this is real
Garlan Gudger garland cutter no first of
all making an alliterative name is child
abuse
but both of those are fake garland I
feel like I I had some sort of
rendezvous with you in my head like five
years ago I saw you as a vision of
apocalypse coming towards me like
Randall Tex Cobb at raising Arizona and
then I gave you birth i birthed you into
existence with my incantation this is
the kind of western culture that we're
trying to preserve by making sure that
abortions are illegal so that everyone
has to carry their pregnancies the time
and then we can come up with more
creative white names like this yeah I
cannot wait for president Bunch Huggins
cleansing that we need reaming fortnight
right now on Twitch thinking about his
next move ya know the Antichrist is
alive right now and he is doing for
tonight on twitch right now he's on
chuggins near him yeah it's a 14 year
old girl Soph on YouTube who was like
you know calling Muslims the sand and
word and stuff yeah
well hopefully we'll take some of these
kids skills that they've learned playing
fortnight and apply them to our next war
which looks like it's gonna be with Iran
I really do feel like we could kill two
birds with one stone here grab there
some of these Zoomers just airdrop them
over to Ron as you know like the the
Iranians were always famous for their
child way soldier ways we could just do
something similar with our excess if
there's like no fear old zoo MERS yeah
this is otherwise I'm going to have to
like dance for them in the after escape
in exchange for like canned goods and a
thimble full of rusty water and they're
like no we're gonna [ __ ] I'm gonna
make an iPhone case out of your back
flesh I would rather we send them to us
Tehran they're not the ranks of it well
you may get your wish mat because this
like I just feel like it's it's evidence
of the time this is we live in now that
like we all know like we all remember
like the Iraq war and like how [ __ ]
that was but I really feel like they
tried as hard as possible to sell that
and with all that out full-court press
with like the UN presentation and the
media and everything like this I just
think like they're this is just lazy
this [ __ ] they've come out with this
like Saudi oil tanker they just said
were attacked by Iran with no visible
evidence of any kind of damage and it's
also just they know that they don't have
to they know they can phone it in we've
already resigned ourselves to the fact
that we're going to war all the time
everywhere in the world without any sort
of popular support I just want to read
from The Wall Street Journal account of
this and like you know the Wall Street
Journal I think is like a pretty good
paper of record and like if you read
through the lines you can just see what
US says Iran likely behind ship attacks
officials say to Saudi oil tankers and
vessels from Norway and the UAE were
damaged i someone else pointing this out
but like i feel like it was the USS
Maine and the gulf of tonkin at least we
pretend least they were our ships we
were pretending like you will not go
after my best friend Norway it's like
the [ __ ] UAE it [ __ ] it's like yeah I
volunteered to be just turned a human
hamburger to avenge some [ __ ] sheiks
slave yacht a Saudi oil tanker yeah yeah
actually full of all their pet falcons
the yacht from the end of taken and we
must we must get them we must pay them
back with blood even the people that
they're using are the same people
they're just plagiarizing the same
talking point yeah everything is
identical to Iraq it doesn't matter
anymore he's here they're in a problem
though is that in terms of the media
world and and and like the obstacles to
action yeah nothing matters anymore they
could go to war with Iran tomorrow with
and not feel like they have to build up
they don't have to manufacture consent
the way that the Bush administration did
problem is this is post Iraq so we're
not in any shape to take [ __ ]
Iranians
and they're like the thing pushing
against this I think about corridors of
power our actual military guys yes like
dude I'm gonna get my oh wait yeah yeah
we're gonna open up a two-front war
against Iran and Venezuela with the
current state and like totally that like
I I think we have it all done by drones
which we which will be driven by the
Zoomers that Hassan plays with all day
yeah I mean that's not gonna cut it
against Iran Rose well can you do like a
limited strike or something to try to
like knock out the nuclear program but
that's pretty clear that they don't give
a [ __ ] about the nuclear program the way
they tore up the [ __ ] agreement they
had that was working it's about causing
which is a soft ass move on behalf of
around by the way that's my take the
United States
oh yeah anything we agreed agreed to
could be canceled on a whim by the brain
damage sexual assaulted game show host
but you know amber to your point like I
feel like everyone is so beaten down
that they're not even trying to sell
this [ __ ]
however if it did happen unlike the Iraq
war war on terrorism I think it would
immediately be overwhelmingly unpopular
like ice especially considering what it
would entail wait well again we cared
more about those two very large
buildings than we do about a Norwegian
boat so far from 9/11 you just have this
ambient what we have left is an ambient
Islamophobia which we kind of never
dealt with but the the payback desire
has dissipated and now all it has is
this remorse about oh man we really
[ __ ] stepped into this I mean I just
want to read from this Wall Street
Journal piece to just like give you a
sense of like how lazy this [ __ ] is an
initial US assessment indicated Iran was
likely behind the attack on to Saudi
Arabian oil tankers and two other
vessels damaged over the weekend near
the Strait of Hormuz a US official said
a finding that if confirmed would
further inflame military tensions in the
Persian Gulf the assessment while not
conclusive was the first suggestion by
any nation that Iran was responsible for
the attack and comes after a series of
us warnings against aggression by Iran
or its allies and proxies against
military or commercial vessels in the
region
Oh convenient that we made that warning
right before this happened well it says
and they were they were citing they were
citing some sort of rising threat that
has there's been no actual proof of yet
they just totally made up at least the
wind comic got [ __ ] reported in the
New York Times as a Iranian of threats
in the region no question about where
the [ __ ] that idea came from and again I
went when when Colin Powell went before
the UN at least they had like an
artist's rendition of what his mobile
biological weapons labs would look like
yeah where's the concept sorry Alex J
Brady if you're out there please please
contribute but it just says here um the
US official who declined to be
identified okay didn't offer details
about what led to the assessment or its
implications for a possible US response
the US has said in the past week that it
was sending an aircraft carrier an
amphibious assault ship a bomber Task
Force and an anti-missile system to the
region after it alleged intelligence
showed Iran posed a threat to its troops
I think they just wanted an excuse to
take out the amphibious assault ship
first bin like first of all I don't even
know what that is
isn't that just a submarine no Ana
phineus assault ship is designed to take
troops from water to to a beach to a
beach I think it's like a giant version
of like the d-day yeah crap okay nice to
land on a beach very cool we have to we
have to make use of them some do you
just want to like test out toys that
aren't helicopters because we're not
gonna do this anymore I mean III wish
Felix is here cuz this moved to send
that the aircraft carrier group to the
Persian Gulf
like does strike me like a like a Felix
Ohio guy character kind of thing to do
you know is you feel like you know I'm
gonna drive my car in front of your
house and you buddy you better see what
the [ __ ] I'll do if you if you throw a
can at it well but the presence of US
vehicle there of US forces that
increases the likelihood of some sort of
contact which is what you want you want
them to I'm not hitting you yeah I'm
gonna close my eyes if you get hit
that's referral it's not even
sabre-rattling it's like baby rattle
rattling it's very immature there's a
top British general in the
us-led coalition that also contradicted
those claims as well but then the United
States was not very happy about that
where it's a the top British General in
the us-led coalition against Isis said
that there's no increased threat from
Iranian backed forces in Iraq or Syria
directly contradicting us assertions
used to justify military buildup in the
region so it's the wrong kind of expert
then yeah they're gonna just his his
career is over
yeah but unlike the US official you know
being quoted here I mean I'm sure that
guy put his name to that yeah
Major General Chris get guys for sure oh
yeah and then I saw today also um future
apocalypse starter Senator Tom cotton
yes was that sofa iie the guy who Joe
Biden will lose to 2024 against on the
White House you know he was on this PBS
show the new firing line with Margaret
Hoover and she was interviewing him
about a war with Iran and like it was so
bone-chilling because she was like do
you said like do you want to go to war
with Iran he was just like no you know
conflict with Iran be like and he's just
like only be two actions the first one
is the last one could we win a war with
Iran yes that didn't take you a second
to strikes the first strike in the last
strike to be to hit you and you hitting
all of our [ __ ] military bases with
Hezbollah car bomb attacks and causing a
[ __ ] civil society to collapse in two
weeks oh it's not even like at least
when we used to be horrific war hawks
like the machismo was believable they
didn't sound like Dermott from venture
brothers like arguing about how many
people he could potentially beat up like
just don't panic Hank I've handled this
kind of mess before why do you think
these two call me the wolf nobody calls
you that well they get back my old
neighborhood when they weren't calling
me psycho at least there was some kind
of conservative at the end of the day
Iran is too big
in tasks it's too big of a country it's
got too big of a military it's just it's
they would like to chew on and basically
all you have is this this schizophrenic
response because you have elements in
this in the government who truly believe
that we have to take out Iran for a
bunch of reasons and ones who believe no
that that would undermine our long-term
interest because of the difficulty of
the task given arm stretched military
I mean we're fighting seven [ __ ] wars
simultaneously and this would be a
bigger this would be a bigger project
than all of them put together invading
and holding Iran and absolutely what and
so they're like what the [ __ ] are you
talking about and that stalemate is why
we see [ __ ] like this because when you
get a chance you push on the lever and
see well maybe we can spot a
confrontation get something moving and
then all of a sudden all those
institutional roadblocks they fall away
because it's happening too fast
I just unless he says if they do
anything they will suffer greatly we'll
see what happens with Iran president
turns right while meeting with Hungary's
Prime Minister Viktor Orban at the White
House hole quote like if you listen to
it it's actually like they make him
sound less stupid and childish by
cutting out the things he said before
and after that because he's doing the
repetitive sundowning thing when he was
giving and when he talks about the
foreign policy that's when the press
that usually makes fun of him and
questions him and undermines all of his
claims and says he's a big dumb baby all
this time decides whoa this is serious
stuff we have to take him seriously and
we're not gonna undermine underline the
fact that he's a sundowning old clown
because all the institutions that the
press has to maintain are doing their
cost-benefit analysis right now just
like you said trying to figure out if
it's worth it to to do boots on the
ground military warfare with Iran which
it won't be yeah so you know that's why
there but but if push came to shove and
they realized that this would be
beneficial for the Altaria industrial
complex without a doubt they would do it
right now are the things stopping all
these any new Wars is all of our old
Wars that's basically it
it's the fact that we have all those
open accounts on the books is the only
thing stopping us for doing this that
and as Liz warns that climate change
[Laughter]
she's really trying to play both sides
it's amazing because it's such an easy
pitch not only is the military a
blood-soaked Imperial monster on the
world stage it is a huge financial
albatross around the neck of a country
they're trying to provide any kind of
social safety net because of how much it
[ __ ] cost and it's the world's number
one institutional carbon producer yeah
the number one force for climate change
it's in the world it's a death machine
both actively and passively so if the
pitch to say cutting it drastically it
reduces he may have violence in the
world it cuts it gives us money we can
send used to do other things like green
energy reinvestment and and and and
greening and decarbonizing
energy and all that stuff yeah it allows
us to do that uh and it [ __ ] cuts
greenhouse emissions hmm the degree to
which you cut the military and like shut
bases and stop / - stop it doing stuff
that's a degree of carbon that is not
being replaced no one else is putting in
carbon that you stop putting in you are
net reducing carbon it's a three for one
all you gotta say is cut the [ __ ]
thing and change it so it's more
effective and efficient what the [ __ ]
right now she's realizing she's come to
a conflict that will not change it's
just you know that video of turkeys just
circling a tree that's what's happening
in her brain right now yes it's like a
friend a friend of mine had that had
like the he laid out the logic in like a
formal proof or whatever and he said the
military is a massive part of the
problem the problem also has become a
problem for the military so I will use
the cause of the problem to solve the
problem so the problem doesn't get in
the way of the cause of the problem
doing the thing that it mostly is the
problem yes exactly and it's because and
this is the people on how do you do that
she's got like us she's got like a
tesseract brain a lot of focus the
Mobius strip oh I love to say well why
not
I like Warren she's got all these great
policies she's a woman I feel like I'm
not gonna get the Bernie bro thing come
on let me let me support Warren I want
to support Warren and what then there's
a lot there are differences in terms of
their policies but the real difference
comes down to the fact that there are
these increments their abilities at the
heart of American politics these genuine
conflicts that can't be overcome with
language and when and Bernie has an idea
what to do with them you can argue
whether it's possible or not but it's
the idea of the political revolution
where you have outside forces organized
American citizens putting pressure on
government to do what is best for the
American people that's the theory so
it's like if there's a conflict you
bulldoze it and you challenge it
outright you bring in people to help you
defeat it from outside if melissa thwart
believes in the old-fashioned idea of at
the center of this there are key
conflicts and then what do you do you
try to triangulate around them and so
but everybody every certainly every
Democrat who gets an office with that
rhetoric when it comes to the reality of
triangulating ends up always doing it in
the terms of how of yeah and traditional
politics and it all gets compromised
into oblivion she's trying to do the
Obama thing but obviously she's not
crafty enough exactly our substantial
policy differences but also Liz Warren
is shoe conflict averse and she's goofy
that was just dumb that was just
embarrassingly dumb Obama was I'm sure
he would try and do something similar
and you know in India speak in his
heyday but he wouldn't have sounded that
stupid doing it
Bernie has a theory of change and none
of the other ones do here's my idea all
of our aircraft carriers they're
wonderful beautiful beautiful ships
folks we take the giant decks they use
just launch air like fighter jets solar
panels make them giant floating solar
panels and the boat will go where the
Sun is I got all the time but they'll be
like trailing a giant cable or like a
USB cord or something look there's still
some kinks to be worked out but I think
there's right there's something there I
think there's some very liberal about
taking the military and like turning it
green as though that's the only problem
that we have with
legitimately that level of liberalism
you usually have to go to Israel to find
something like you know vegan IDF
soldiers find something that liberal and
in mindset you usually have to I usually
have to go to Israel there they're the
best at it but we're catching up with
this hold greening of the military yeah
so the military the military and they're
just green right there we're gonna paint
the tanks green okay I'm hearing the
tanks are already green going on moving
from potentially real Wars to you know
the the virtual Wars the combat that
takes place every day in our video game
systems a salon I wanted to talk to you
about your experiences you know a being
on Twitch and the kind of I don't know
like a sort of weird and very specific
culture of twitch that you know these
kids are into you know are our friends
are sort of the choppa satellite the FYM
boys they have their own a twitch stream
that that we love and they're doing a
lot of stuff of that I do like to get
training I try to get them to
participate in twitch culture as much as
possible but they've refused for some
weird reason so don't let them fool you
like they are the boomers of just
hopelessly gone yeah but also you are
about to get anthrax in the mail from
Felix for that comment no no he knows
you know I try to get him to get like
emotes and stuff like bttv most I'm not
gonna get too deep into it some of the
people that follow you already follow my
channel and in Chapo's well obviously I
mean I mean she's like the thing like I
know you you told me about this before
and I've talked about it with like with
Erin and Felix in them like you know my
my prejudice going into this like
thinking about what the culture and
community of twitch is like is you know
like the gamer stereotype of sort of
reactionary insell young man which is
why I joined the platform originally is
not a joke so when I first joined twitch
I was like this is relatively new
I need a place
to build habitual viewership anyway
because I'm on [ __ ] Facebook duty at
TYT and everyone that watches Facebook
news now is like 68 years old
so it's awful I mean they vote but
whatever they don't care for my left
istakes regardless I think I'm trying to
separate the party as a Kremlin agent so
so I got on Twitch because I knew that
like he's a young audience mostly male
probably prone to reactionary politics
but their political idols are a bunch of
idiots I mean they don't know anything
and and all the takes that they've heard
all the takes they've heard about like
leftist politics have been just straw
men from the likes of steven crowder and
and ben shapiro and and all these a
youtube yeah exactly to their own
devices and it's not good it's very Lord
of the Flies yeah but at the same time
twitch is this like huge phenomenon
that's like seems like seemingly
inaccessible to like someone like me but
like you know among the the Zoomers that
yeah it's super insular so most people
don't know what the hell's going on at
twitch but there's so they are so active
like they're so active they're young
they're constantly on the platform and
they watch I mean they watch my streams
for six hours on average which is insane
they're all needs so they all love and
reing they all go okay yeah so they've
all wanted thousand dollars they want
their neat books and you know so open
your third eyes this is money to you if
your soul is encumbered and and darkened
look into the light of Maryann mindsets
but uh but I sound like the other thing
that I was again like you know maybe
foolishly surprised to discover is that
I mean like like that kind of
reactionary thing that that's there on
Twitch but there's a big there is a big
big subculture on Twitch of like queer
and trans teenagers oh yeah and like
that's like a big part of the culture
like when we got here you were trying to
explain to Matt like they're weird remix
music videos feature sound effects from
gay porn yeah there's this gay porn
that's very famous in Japan and why is
it famous in Japan
skateboards Japan I don't know you know
about what happens every time someone
tries to explain this to me it only
raises more question
yeah that's what Japan is it's just this
horrifying onion of context so yeah
there's gay porn in Japan with this
white dude and another Japanese gay porn
star and they took sounds they took like
little sound bites from the gay porn of
like a slapping and men saying like oh
[ __ ] that's so tight things of that
nature
yeah they remakes every popular song
with those sounds and that's like a big
part of twitch culture for some reason I
don't know who started it I don't know
why they do it it's very weird cuz on
the one hand you know they're calling
everybody soy boys and whatever but on
the other hand they're like oh no but
we're all gay which is weird I don't
know what's I don't know what are they
doing Zoomers are hard to decipher what
are they doing it ironically they're
like just using soy as an insult because
it's just no I don't think so I think
that I think that the next generation is
way more open-minded about the fluidity
of sexuality but they still like they
still care about like white ethno state
stuff obviously but they're like oh no
you can be gay and a Nazi at the same
time okay Ernst röhm yeah but I'm like
in your interact it would be a fantastic
gay bar ask Ernst but in in your you
know in your streaming and interactions
with this community like coming from
like a left-wing perspective or point of
view like what do you find us like is
what what resonates to them or like you
find that you're convincing them or is
it oh yeah like silly like what what
about a point of view that you're
bringing yeah like what do they respond
to you about that the memes for the most
part and also here's the thing also do
they know what you look like yeah okay
so okay I guess we've understood why
queer teenager
don't hurt for sure that's definitely a
part of it but um the thing is like they
don't have a lot of access to proper
leftist representation that's why I love
Chapo because you guys do a great job of
representing leftist values by being
dirtbags but also talking about the
material things that are important right
and and they're definitely fed up with
all of the cultural elements that we
talked about the minutia that that don't
actually impact people's lives
especially if you're a political and
privileged in some respects so when
someone comes in and is like oh no both
parties are pretty bad and here's what
we should be doing like the rest of the
world and and this is why it's wrong
there and as a leftist I'm not similar
to the hysterical blue haired college
you know college SJW compilation video
of representative of the left they're
like oh this is a little different than
what I expected the left to be like
right but the same time like you get the
feeling that like in their social
context like offline like that these are
like sort of outcasts you know that the
outcasts of the communities that they're
in or just they don't feel like they fit
in oh for sure I mean literally does
anyone that age fit into anything
anymore I mean like these like they seem
really atomized like all young people
now seem really yeah well I really do
feel like and I try to resist this I
really do feel like computers are
fundamentally changing social
relationships because of the internet
not computers per se grandpa cartridges
he likes the computers because that's
where he watches his programs internet
because because as you say at that agent
nobody fits it anywhere but in the old
days you didn't have a choice
now if that pressure is too much and for
most of us it is at some point or
another you could opt out you can drop
out and go online and have a simulated
version of that life where there's much
less risk and danger and awkward special
Similac and yeah simulacra with only the
good stuff only dopamine and so a lot of
people making that choice oh that's a
choice previous Mis
didn't have and that made them sort of
push through it and now a lot of people
don't feel they can I have to push
through it because they could just go on
retreat shouldn't be there you maybe
need to be like bullied a little bit
just go through it psychiatrists that
was saying like the way to healthy
growth is a series of small to mid-sized
manageable traumas
yeah like too big and and it's like
you're gonna crack your brain like an
egg but nothing you just become
gelatinous you know yeah I think that's
why they're so malleable on YouTube and
and all that right-wing commentary gets
super popular there because it's a sense
of belonging if you feel like you're
pushed away and and disenfranchised is
like a a young boy living in Idaho or
whatever then you have a sense of
community of like-minded individuals who
also hate the sjw's and the and the Lib
tarts welcome to that these things are
so like that the YouTube video thing are
just like a guy talking into a screen I
mean that is I mean we joke about
podcast being friendship simulators or
whatever but this is like a conversation
simulator like there's no there they're
really low-quality they don't like light
anything they don't go to it for that
that's not what it's about there's not
even any interest in making it look you
know like a produced show half the time
these people want their dad Jordan
Peterson to give them a lecture like
that's literally what it is and they've
gotten to the point where they can only
recognize interactions that come that
way I mean I ensure that most of these
people who had their mind blown by
Jordan Peterson had been told by their
parents to [ __ ] clean the room about
five hundred never for a second
penetrated because it was in the
Internet is powerful meatspace that they
don't get that and it's only one
somebody get goes through like the
signifiers that tell them that there's
someone to listen to and they say have
you considered cleaning your room
they're like oh my god you're genius no
I but like there's there's a social
aspect to it but like you know the meat
and potatoes and tell me if I'm wrong is
still just playing video
games with your friends or watch yeah
that's changing too it's becoming more
of an open source just interact like
interaction of any kind or commentary
like what you're doing yeah and and
luckily and surprisingly they're not I
mean
they've only come down hard on me once
or twice one for watching a Michael
Moore documentary in there was gore so I
got banned didn't kill the rabbits
actually I was talking about Latin
American intervention I was like a part
from Bowling for Columbine and there was
gore like real dead body it was [ __ ]
man but yeah yeah but ultimately like I
mean what I was gonna say is like
they're they are pretty good at banning
hate speech and they're they're really
hands on so it's more and and there are
a lot of left wingers now on the
platform a lot of leftist like destiny
is another one who you guys share
members in your community with who
debates like all of these people on the
alright and also on the right and he
does a really good job and he has that
same like ben shapiro style of like
logic and reasoning and i'm gonna debate
you he's not a chud i swear he's cool
but he does a really good job of
converting a lot of these kids because
they all they care about is the is there
side winning or being on the winning
team and ownage and bloodshed i mean for
a certain age group of man like we kind
of like laugh about the idea of debate
because it's sort of a you know a prissy
school boys pursuit or whatever it's the
it's the masculinity of nerds but for a
certain age of young boys like that's
how they do things I remember like like
Angela was talking about when she taught
she said like you know young women are
and I think a lot of this has to do with
like just sort of being socialized in
kind of conformist ways where you're
more likely to be punished for a
dissident opinion if you're a girl and
guys she said sort of like really young
ones like you know 1718 start out by
just taking a position
and being like this is the thing I
believe and but that doesn't mean that
they're actually committed to it because
it's just like it's just the shoes
they're wearing that week or whatever
and so there are more receptive to like
it's like it's almost like a youthful
like stages development like debate or
something like that and we've kind of
eliminated the idea of conversation from
like political discourse but when you
are that age like especially if you're
maybe a guy and you sort of like are
just trying on an identity for the first
time like you kind of have to talk to
them there's no getting around talk the
thing is they love it because it's a
mental MMA they don't want to watch the
crude spectacle of the DOS jocks
punching each other but a mental combat
now that's that's entertained what also
makes sense is the why Ben Shapiro is so
popular by being a giant nerd and
incredibly boring and because you are
one and you relate to him yeah
it also makes him feel smart too Oh Sam
Harris and and all these other IDW guys
I mean who is like on his face an idiot
like a genuinely dumb guy yeah but he
what he does is a very good impression
of like an intelligent person ad hominem
by the way okay yeah but it's rusev like
another form of combat what do you like
what do you make of like the most
popular video games that people play
obviously like fortnight we've joked
about it before Oh God
like that kind of this battle right it's
like free right well it but spend a
shitload of money on it to dress a
different costume the materialist
explanation is like a low price point
for entry yeah you might not take the
leap on some very complicated game like
that charged I paid 50 bucks for that's
why they don't the other games don't
actually succeed as well as fort and I
did because they charge like call of
duty black ops is not as popular as for
tonight because it's not free yeah and
there are a lot of people who just
simply say it's free but I still paid 50
bucks for my Steven patek skin my
opponents they're sushis calm but so is
it really is that is it really just
probably
because it's free why is it so hot part
of it well it's like because they
constantly reinvent themselves so the
game mechanics are pretty the game
mechanics are consistent right it's a
battle royale you get dropped in there's
an element of like randomness to it and
you're trying to accumulate as many
resources as possible so that's I think
Hagel blond had like a piece on I forget
you did yeah yeah so I think they do
play on that a little bit which is
interesting but the reason why it's so
successful is because they take feedback
like crazy from the fan base and they're
constantly tweaking it so the game
throughout the different seasons kind of
changes and it changes along with like
user feedback the the mechanics are the
same you're still shooting but there are
new guns the dynamic is different so
it's almost like it's a new game all the
time and it's free well it may be a new
game all the time and that might help
you get some new subscribers and keep
some but your bond the urge I'm not
talking to you about epic epic you're on
the verge of losing when I here are just
most dedicated customers because felix
has been playing fortnight 30 hours a
day for the past year is now on a
suicide watch because they stretched the
Reds is that way the fov slide they took
away the field of vision slider so it's
it's stuck now and and Felix was very
comfortable with this fuel division that
he slid it to I think there is something
to like obviously like you get him
hooked with the free sample
so like the free thing is a good thing
that would correct exactly no I did not
make that comparison lightly and then
the fact that you acquire things is like
very like it's like ID it does seem like
collecting resources like maybe appeals
to some kind of acquisitive thing
especially maybe for a generation that's
like completely hopeless about like you
know ever buying a house or getting
married or having children there's also
a lot of building in for tonight so you
can sort of build a little yeah you have
a little you have a little legacy for
that game
the little pine tack that you'll never
have yeah it goes away immediately the
shooter yeah but at least you you can
have an effect on the world I think
maybe it does like poke your brain and
special little primitive places but it's
just yeah it's like it's like the
concept is you know it's like 100 people
on an island you team up you go to war
with each other that sounds cool it's
the it's the Lego part that I feel like
that also I think you should be able to
either kill your opponent or seduce them
and then at the end of it you win either
by killing all your opponent's or
seducing them all other therefore they
thought like what are the other what are
the other hot games that the kids are
playing these days I mean the cool ones
so it just it comes it comes in waves
right so whenever whenever a new game
comes out if it's really cool like all
the streamers start playing it and
everyone wants you to play it as well
apex legends was a big one for a little
bit but I think this concept also a free
game but they didn't have like cool
characters or well it was every
character had like a different ability
which made it a little different than
4/9 there was no building and it was an
FPS game so we thought or everyone
thought that apex was going to be the
Fortnight killer but fort night became
too powerful I mean it's just it's to
consider nothing is nothing is gonna
knock for know you have League of
Legends and we're only talking about the
American marketplace because like China
and like the Asian market place is
entirely different
what are they what are they playing
they're all playing League they really
love League out there and I think they
play overwatch still too but still it's
like it's the same basically like team
up and like you always like there is no
part of these games in which you are
playing against the computer no yeah
these are all online like I guess this
is like this is the generational like
gap for me with like video games just
cuz like when I play video games now I I
don't like playing the ones where you
play against other human beings and
whatever single player yeah like I want
like a like a curated video game
experience it's kind of like like a
synod like the last video game I got
really into was the Resident Evil 2
remake on PlayStation yeah I mean they
still have that great game it's really
cool but like oh it just stresses me out
playing against other people because
they're all too [ __ ] good
and at this point in my life I'm not
gonna get good enough at video games no
we've had a very intense like Zelda
period intense it was the opposite of
intense very merry an experience and
like we had the thing where like we
liked wandering around in a sandbox and
having the option to do things on the
basis of like what we were up for that
day so it's like you were never gonna be
surprised with like a big boss you might
go do a little puzzle thing you might
catch all the chickens or whatever but
just silly horse a completely just
[ __ ] ride a horse across the map
whatever so like that was that's a
completely different like boutique
experience where you can pick what you
want to do in the game that day and it
seems like with four night you're
immediately thrown in and people are
trying to kill that is the only thing
that's happening is people trying to
kill you I played one time and it was
honestly a little upsetting it scared
you gunshots it's like ah what shooting
at me
you're nice which is kind of crazy
I mean games like they don't even have
tutorials anymore they just literally
drop you in like your drill are just
like three off the plane you're in there
you're your fighter in the edge of
tomorrow you die and you just start
another game the game yeah live die
repeat baby
yeah but single-player games still exist
by the way they just don't make it it
requires a tremendous amount of time to
put together like a story like though it
still takes like five to seven years to
make like a great triple-a title its
single-player and the payoff is not as
great as a multiplayer experience where
you just keep throwing in like [ __ ]
it's and they've no it's literally that
though in like loot boxes and another
master problem as well
everybody sure that it is five guys and
their burgers and fries but yeah like
now that I have PlayStation and you know
I'm waiting for this Kojima game I'm
waiting for death stranding and then I'm
like Felix what is this game coming out
and he's like oh you don't know what
it's like to wait for a Kojima game it's
gonna be seven years before you gets
done tweaking that but I like this sort
of like cinematic world that Kojima
create
it's in like like in the middle Gear
Solid games you know Felix has got me
fascinated in you know by default just
being around him so good
yeah they're they're great and like but
but the thing is like to write like a
script and create that world like takes
a lot of time and and labor whereas like
with fortnight and a it's like a sort of
a template that's infinitely repeatable
and and variable and also like the $60
like buying a game like that's like the
floor now whereas like instead of
spending $60 once to get like a disc or
to download it now it's like a thing
we're like you can get it for free but
you'll spend way over $60 for the course
of your lifetime playing this game yeah
getting things like the the loot crate's
but like is in the twitch community are
there sort of like a a gamer rebellion
against their exploitation of via loot
crate's and skins and things like that
so Jim sterling is a pretty decent
content creator on YouTube he's pretty
big he's the pure nerd was literally
telling me to watch Jim sterling yeah he
talks about that's why frequently I
think he's a social democrat or like
maybe he's a democratic but he talks
about the salaah he talks about like
unions in the gaming industry and and
all that but yeah it's there is a little
bit and I think it's actually a perfect
way to radicalize the youth I'm not
gonna lie to like because it immediately
impacts them everybody hates the LCS
DLCs makes DLCs make games awful DLCs
for what you guys if you don't know what
that is its downloadable content so
you're basically buying a $60 game and
then you're spending another $30 to
unlock additional parts in the
single-player I already paid for yeah
that you already paid for and and it's
not good enough it's not like an entire
game and EA and like these big giant
companies that merge with all these
other smaller companies have kind of
made this their business model and then
now we're moving away from that to the
online like battle royale style where
the games were free but then it's the
exact same game with like minor tweaks
every month or so making it like an
endless repeatable experience but also
you product like the labor issues like I
keep hearing about these these games
like the new Mortal Kombat or wherever
where it's like to meet a deadline
they're just like making people work
like a hundred hours a week oh yeah like
they're like
they're really like like these
programmers and people working for these
videogame companies it's like really
like hardcore exploitation and like
there is you know no union for these
people or whatever like they're just
being like runs like a multi-billion
dollar industry like yeah and and like
Ubisoft for example will show record
profits and then and I think they've
recently laid off like a quarter of
their staff or something like crazy so
everything that's happening in in all
these other industries you're seeing in
the gaming world as well and you know
with automation they're also suffering
like the coders are also suffering as
well with the more the more efficient
the process is and the less like the
less they need artists and writers and
story editors and whatnot the more
people are getting fired for no reason
but yeah like another like you know very
easy to understand object lesson for
like you know young inquisitive minds
about like oh these companies are making
um insane profits off these video games
what do they do immediately with it lay
people off that I could like yeah
reinvested the people who created the
game or anything yeah yeah video games
it's a way that you sure and you know
I'm playing you know I'm playing now and
I I do agree with Emperor though breath
of the wild was like my favorite yeah
yeah so uh to close out today I've got a
very funny a very funny story about
probably one of our you know one of our
favorite characters on the show
Sebastian Gorka it's too bad James isn't
here we just did I were too bad this
story didn't come out you know before we
talked to James but Sebastian Gorka is
very angry
yes credibly angry and his manners
usually he said she'll yeah
and Liam raid and this is from the
Washington Post a little mini reading
series here this is a war this is a war
for all culture sebastian Gorka english
by gay wedding on arthur yeah
that's not that's not the hook and
dudley moore of burt bacharach movie
this is the PBS show about an aardvark
long-running a children's cartoon show a
show that friend of the show steven
crowder
part of it was a voice on Arthur I
wonder what his take is well I can
imagine
Arthur also Besson for one of the bet
that the fist meme yeah one of my
favorite memes yeah getting tuned up yep
so Gorka it says here sebastian Gorka
the former Breitbart editor in White
House aide goes live every weekday from
3 p.m. to 6 p.m. Eastern Time on the
Salem radio network I don't know why the
Washington Post is just beginning this
article with a plug for his check it out
my man is killing it away from the White
House - it's an insightful in-depth
review of the news of the week what is
the Salem Network do you guys I'm sure
it's probably one of these like online
insane right-wing like yeah like like
this founded by Cotton Mather yeah what
happened is Sinclair fire hammers on
link is he I thought he had like a Giga
it sink sinclair broadcasting were Gorka
loves getting losing jobs loves getting
fired says here on tuesday he provided a
new raison d'être for america first the
title of his show and the slogan for
president Trump's approach to foreign
policy which was also used by
isolationists and nazi sympathizers
before the second world war again i
think to throw in there his grandfather
the reason the 22nd season of arthur the
animated children's series about an
anthropomorphic aardvark
Gorka who brandished the insignia of
historically nazi aligned hungarian
group called the Vitesse rand at an
inauguration ball in January 2007 flew
into a rage because the seasons monday
premiere featured a gay wedding
arthur's third grade teacher 3rd grade
teacher Nigel Nigel Ratburn exchanged
his vows of the local well I mean that's
it's not the gay wedding it's just he
thought it was Jewish no no he actually
calls them rodents on the show I walk
yeah now he goes these rodents so
getting married he's wrote it like
figures yeah yeah
Nigel Ratburn is exchanging vows of the
local chocolatier an aardvark named
Patrick so not only is it a gay marriage
it's an interspecies marriage as well
see how their mind the brain
yeah you know a great replacement is
happening on authors well they passed
gay marriage and then people are gonna
be [ __ ] dogs they're gonna be [ __ ]
aardvarks yeah well they got that snout
yeah that's not in that tongue for any
gender it's the door like a sexy doctor
in urethra this is this is this is a war
for our culture and that's why we exist
here on America first on Salem radio
network I said too because uh Gorka who
briefly served as a spokesman for Trump
on national security matters before he
left the White House in the summer of
2007 2017 saw something we're talking
about the battle of Austerlitz saw
something insidious at work the
diversity showcased on arthur fit a
pattern of left-wing demagoguery he
identified in everything from the
Revolutionary reign of terror in France
to the administration of President
Barack Obama
the idea the ideology on display and mr.
ratburn's and ultra nuptials and the
rest was that quote civil society
doesn't exist friendship doesn't exist
family doesn't exist Gorka maintained
only permanent revolution again talking
about a children's cartoon show
featuring a gay marriage yeah the
similarities between the French
Revolution and Barack Obama is that they
both wanted to do gay [ __ ] like you do
they think that like if they hide the
truth that gay people exist from their
children as long as they possibly can
that they're just gonna be like confused
one day or something when they see a gay
person and yeah it doesn't make sense I
really there's just they're not I mean
it's being it's intolerance in that
literal sense that they cannot accept a
public sphere and which some people are
able to like you know just exist
outwardly but I think I think that train
has left the station
gays have been high-profile on
television since the 90s
ya know well if they have to know that
this is a useless fight it's just
something to get people riled up
Maggie's for children like they're like
oh it's a cartoon so it's the gauge its
propaganda they're like making your
children gay well which is not even true
but also I mean okay well gay people
exist in society what yeah yeah what do
you what do you think like how are you
gonna mask the truth from them that's
what's so weird about it I think it's
like it's the same attitude towards like
abstinence only sex education whether
like oh if kids learn about Filth this
filth yeah they're gonna do it yeah it's
just like yeah they're gonna do it I
mean like this is a part like yeah
nothing gets kids going like you're
[ __ ] sweaty gym teacher teaching you
about like had all of these old like
Tory freaks that weren't associated with
public health at all and the roundtable
trying to figure out what to do about
what was very quickly becoming like a
massive epidemic and she didn't want to
put any sexual practices on there
because she said they might it might
give them ideas because if it had never
occurred to her to do it like the whole
thing she thinks of sex is a discovery
or something and then someone else
brought up like well they should know
that also like oral sex can like you
know cuz people don't know that's
actually transmitted disease at this
point and like one of the Tory MPs goes
do we even know how many people are
doing this sort of thing like it would
never occur to them what if I put that
in my mouth you know yeah or what if the
word came out of my mouth
but no yeah but that faster thing she
didn't want to have like she's like the
PM cannot sign any document that has the
word sodomy in it and it just like you
think British people had to be told
about sodomy it's really coming from the
Thatcher administration come on wait
isn't that literally the reason why
Japan still censors penises though
because like no one wants to be the
brave legislator that comes out says
what are we doing with the censorship
yeah you don't want that to be your
issue yeah
I know who's gonna come out I'm to be
pixelate the port oh yeah that is not a
dignified it's amazing that these people
are almost all Christians because the
Christian understanding of sin is that
it is inherent to humanity we are all
sinners but this approach really does
say that no you were a perfect innocent
angel until you are solely by contact
with something from outside of you but
that's it goes against the entire
concept of original sin well we have
original sin but like you know we have
to also avoid the occasion of sin aka
the knowledge that gay people exist
that's not realistic folks I think it's
a it's partially like the Rick Perry
problem right like I don't know if you
guys remember but he used to say
something like oh you know avoiding
dicks is like alcohol I mean not know
I'm paraphrasing it but he's like you
know an alcoholic can't stop himself
from drinking alcohol but you gotta
fight it and and I remember thinking at
the time like no dude that's not I'm not
fighting my my need to have dick inside
of me like if I see it I mean I crave it
like two or three packs it takes a day
this is like similar to that a Rick
Warren the Saddleback Church guy who
[ __ ] Obama got to do his first and
their job yeah that should have been
[ __ ] a clue one about where Obama's
presidency was going but yeah he like he
was asked something about like you know
come on like you know if you're gay
you're gay like and he was just like
well you know I'm struggling my weight
I'm like I really like eating pizza but
sometimes I just gotta say no to that
pizza does that mean that he
occasionally sucks guy yeah like it's
like I got what is but I can have pizza
what if it was actually like they were
okay with homosexual sex in moderation
by the way that's not even a joke but
that's like actually what ben shapiro
said on the Joe Rogan show where he was
like oh well if you're Jewish and you're
gay you have to marry a woman and you
have to tell your wife that you're gay
but you still have to wear it marry
woman like you can't
you can't be Jewish and gay at the same
time like it was insane that he's still
trying to justify yeah yeah like that to
that are like okay you're gay it's not
choice and God loves you now get married
dude a nice heterosexual wedding just
woke I guess right isn't that what cuz
they're admitting that it's a thing that
you are definitely better than the
complete denial of the fact that like
people are gay I think more like
bareback ranch
did you see the the interview with a
[ __ ] [ __ ] another absolute [ __ ]
dave rubin and ben shapiro
will ease the work together oh yeah he
was on he he was on the young turks are
you a basketball with the boy every
sunday holy [ __ ] and after he left and
started talking [ __ ] and he would still
come to the sunday basketball sessions
he's actually pretty good
I mean he's not bad at basketball his
life yeah yeah and you know Dave Rubin
is like an openly gay guy who's now you
know [ __ ] caping for like the most
evil people on the planet sure assuring
them that like I'm cool with you and
their hey they're cool with me right and
it's like dude they will stuff you in a
[ __ ] camp like the first chance they
get do it like never learned yeah I will
be the favorite homo yeah like a Dennis
Prager yeah he really likes you dude but
are you sucking with a ben shapiro and
he was like you know been you know i
think um you know maybe like you know
you moved me a little bit on the
abortion issue you know like cuz this
whole thing is like gonna open debate
and he's like you know i think i could
uh you know move you on the issue of
like having dinner with me and my
husband and Ben was like I'll think
about it I'll think about it yeah and
he's like can you give me dignity I've
listened to you rant on about how yeah
he's like me and what Ben Shapiro said
to him was like you know well it just it
just a party you know with you and your
husband and it's not a gay party like
you know I could do that what does he
think parties are well he was like I
think it's a key party to or more gay
people in a room they immediately start
having said yeah oh God so uh just the
finish it i herewith Gorka here he says
um
the permanent revolution pursued by
Arthur Gore Christine had to do we those
were the same glasses systemic because
the permanent ready to his family he
said his issue with Arthur which began
in 1996 and Arizona PBS KIDS was
personal my children used to my children
used to watch a Thorens like creature
that lived and had fun in his cartoon
world first of all aardvarks are nothing
like rodents you idiot yeah the the new
season of Arthur will have one of all
those teachers at school a male teacher
married to a fellow male roaded yeah
there he's creepy he just he just sees
things that are like rodent or Jewish
like he made his children launch
Arthur's so that they were like less
anti-semitic as he thought that was like
it's good it was woke for my time the
right-wing commentator and rabble rouser
you guys did you have any questions
about there being a culture war ladies
and gentlemen he asked his listeners did
you have any doubt in your mind it says
it's not it's not the first time that
themes in the anime to the universe have
drawn conservative ire in 2005 PBS chose
not to distribute an episode of
postcards from Buster a spinoff
following Arthur's rabbit confidant
which include that rabbits are rodents
by the way which included lesbian
mothers the decision came after Margaret
Spellings then Education Secretary on
president george w bush raised strong
and very serious concerns about the
episode many parents would not want
their young children exposed to the
lifestyles portrayed in this episode she
wrote the PBS executives okay okay like
it's basic like you know tipper gore
conservative kind of thing like I get
but why does Gorka have to talk about it
like he's delivering the tears in the
rain model this this particular culture
war issue and it is fine I'm fine
calling it a culture war issue like is
the purview of PTA moms like why are you
sounding like Bain when you talk about
it you can't make it cool I've seen
things you people wouldn't believe Road
aardvarks [ __ ] and sucking rats on a
PBS children's TV show and doctor a son
I think I think you get it right though
cuz it's like the Will and Grace ship
has passed I think it's just all about
like anything that has to do with
children like they think it's like
educating kids about things like it's
not even educating kids it's just like
what really drives them crazy they're
just there is this show is like it's not
making a big deal out of it it just
assumes that this is a reality that
these kids will encounter in their daily
lives so it's kids would ever go to
their teachers wedding that's weird
that's bizarre
sure but I don't know hasn't he been his
teacher for 25 years by the way how
[ __ ] stupid is Arthur come on you know
why cuz his teachers are gay I just I
just love that you know the the grand
conspiracy of the Frankfurt School and
all these cultural Marxist was to make
child shows like put gay character oh my
god yeah that's what it comes down to
like this was the entire this was the
shtick that's what they wanted and and
and they're finally winning they are I
guess this was the long march through
the institution's in the institution was
PBS
yeah but socialism that's yeah right
public broadcasting and disgusting Kubek
broadcast well I think that about does
it for this episode
I want to thank Hasan [ __ ] for hosting
us here today and then having us over
thank you having me guys and and all the
chillin good vibes of
state of California yeah and and move
and Ian McShane for bestowing his aura
power and energy on just by being in
proximity just sure osmosis yes I feel
like I have McShane energy oh man
such a swagger love you all right
goodbye everybody
[Music]
[Music]
