so you know there's a the incumbent
Liberal prime minister Justin Trudeau
obviously you've no doubt heard about
some of his recent exploits he said he's
a very theatrical fellow yeah very much
so he's kind of commits this arctor yeah
yeah very much he's a you know a kind of
international brand kind of walking
listicle who's been with us for the last
few years he won election in 2015 and
then you've got the Conservative Party
led by Andrew Shearer who is who was
kind of a compromise candidate they
wanted the wackier one but they had a
weird voting system so Andrew Shearer
one who was the wackier one we're gonna
get to him in a second
he he's also he's also leading a
political party why not also I remember
when this happened earlier there was a
chance that Canada was going to follow
in our footsteps of having a rich TV
reality show [ __ ] become a party
leader because the guy from Shark Tank
tried was made of made an attempt to be
the Conservative Party leader right mr.
wonderful that's right Kevin Kevin
O'Leary tried to run for leader of the
Conservative Party and actually it
seemed like he having declared his
candidacy he spent a lot of time just
like traveling around the United States
and not really campaigning at all so
because of the obvious Trump parallel
you know a lot of people freaked out in
Canada and they were like oh god it's
happening here and there were a bunch of
conservative candidates that tried to
kind of emulate Donald Trump style there
was one who started putting a like
exclamation marks at the end of her
tweets and she started talking about how
we're gonna drain the canal referring to
the Rideau Canal in Ottawa which is near
the Parliament Buildings but none of
that really not that really caught on
and Andrew Shearer ended up winning the
leadership he's about as interesting as
watching paint dry and he's he's he was
the Speaker of the House of Commons for
many years and when he stopped being
Speaker it turned out he was just like a
pretty run-of-the-mill
you know social and fiscal conservative
and you know the Conservatives are
running on kind of the usual suite of
like dueling tax credits that they have
with the with the Liberals not very
interesting but the guy who was kind of
the first choice of Conservative Party
members Maxine Bernier who is a former
foreign minister he is leading what's
now called the People's Party of Canada
this is the first election they've
contested and it's much more of the kind
of you know it's it's it's much more
obviously a kind of far-right formation
I think you know they've kind of
hemorrhaged some candidates they've had
trouble finding candidates I think a few
candidates left because they were like
oh god there seems there seem to be a
lot of racists here but so I he's in the
running it's not clear how much they're
catching on then you've got the Green
Party which is sort of you know as
Donald said and is intro they're kind of
a not left not right before they
sometimes get mistaken for a kind of
left-of-centre party and it's not that
they're cryptically right-wing they're
just kind of there's kind of not really
anything you know if in downtown Toronto
a lot of their candidates would be sort
of you know urban progressive you know
bicycle riding types and then they would
also have candidates that are the type
of people that like you know have made a
whole bunch of dodgy comments on
abortion and posts like 9/11 conspiracy
videos on Facebook and stuff like that
and they're kind of a leader centric
brand they've had the same leader for
quite some time her name's Elizabeth man
it is kind of the the Elizabeth May
party in some ways and then you've got
the the NDP which is kind of one of the
places I got my political start I guess
10 or 11 years ago when I was kind of
first getting involved in politics it's
Canada's social democratic party it
comes out of the Prairie populism and
the kind of radical Methodist
Christianity of kind of the early 20th
century you know it was kind of founded
as a coalition its predecessor the CCF
was kind of a coalition of farmers
industrial workers and socialist
intellectuals they merged with the
Canadian Labour Congress in the early
60s to create the NDP
and the NDP is kind of the the you know
social democratic option in Canada these
days so that's those are kind of the
play oh and then God there are so many
parties this election there's also the
bloc québécois who are the kind of
federal wing of the Quebec sovereignty
movement shouldn't leave them out I
guess like in thinking about all this
like Americans like sort of certainly
liberal Americans have a kind of
stereotype about Canada that it is the
nice country that we all wish we could
live in because people are polite and
you know there's some kind of decent
health care so yeah but like overall
that's not really the case I mean like
Canada is almost as reactionary as
[ __ ] as America is right yeah I mean
the thing the thing about the American
caricature right is that because
Canada's such a small country the way
that other countries see us is sort of
as important to our identity as any kind
of like organic identity that we might
have so you know a lot of people abroad
think of Canada as this sort of
post-racial Scandinavia or something
like that and that's kind of what a lot
of Canadians sink - you know our
official identity is very much that
we're this sort of progressive
multicultural utopia for multicultural
is policy yeah there is there's like
state you know it is it is state policy
as is as is bilingualism and I mean you
know I shouldn't you know downplay you
know they're obviously you know
multiculturalism in Canada I think has
been more successful than you know in in
many other countries there are
definitely strengths - making it kind of
a part of the civic identity but the
flipside is that I think Canadians are
not very good at introspecting about you
know the deficiencies and the problems
in their own society and so it can kind
of end up being a sort of you know
institutionalized complacency so it's a
Trudeau is is is the incumbent right and
I know Trudeau's a guy who came to power
after nearly a decade of role by a
right-wing government led by Stephen
Harper who I think he was described as
like the angry hockey dad vote like that
like that's his constituency that who
that's who he is and who he
right yeah very much so so the
Conservative Party I mean they have a
lot of rural support but you know
Stephen Harper's majority government in
2011 was kind of one on the backs of
suburban voters and you know especially
the Greater Toronto Area but yeah the
roots of Trudeau ISM definitely go back
to the Harper era and you know in
retrospect looking back at that time
like when when the Conservatives you
know when they'd just been in power for
a few years I was starting University
and I kind of saw the birth of the
political identity that I think ended up
blossoming into Trudeau ISM which you
know again in retrospect was kind of our
own sort of Meeker more provincial
version of what is now the you know anti
Trump resistance you know the heart the
Harper years they gave birth to this
this political identity that it was sort
of you know I guess you could say small
P progressive and it was very shrill and
kind of hyperbolic about the
Conservative Party so you know I
remember all these kind of memes circa
2007 2008 about like you know warning
signs of fascism or whatever that kind
of thing but there wasn't really there
you guys you guys know you guys know the
type so and it was it was ultimately
like very focused on all the norms and
the institutions whose dignity that
conservatives were supposedly insulting
it was very into using the language of
patriotism to talking about the
Constitution and all of it really was
just about being you know anti
conservative like ABC anything but
conservative was you know a label that
people actually used and which voters
actually kind of assigned to themselves
it didn't really have a program attached
to it you know it wasn't about replacing
Harper with anything in particular it
was just about you know replacing him
period so even though it's kind of
language was progressive I think
ultimately what the people who were
attracted to that wanted was a sort of
conservative restoration which is like
very much you know the case for like a
Joe Biden presidency I guess to that it
sounds like a kind of a woke Blair ism
it's funny you make that
to the sorts of figures we ever the
United States wine moms epic rant dads
the denizens of the anti-trump online
resistance and they love Trudeau they
idolized him in the way that they loved
macron because they you know whenever
Trudeau sits down with Trump they
analyze the footage for evidence of
shade that Trudeau is throwing at Trump
well look like I was gonna say like
another another huge parallel between a
Trudeau and these types of people or at
least stylistically is I'm the intense
holiness for him among a certain segment
of the population like it's just always
about like how suave and hot he is and
like I think that plays like a it's a
big part of his appeal especially like
with the contrast with Donald Trump
you're you're saying like that that
appeal is it's it's mostly cultural
adjust of the production of a reaction
against Harper but without any kind of
ideological content just sort of
worshipping of the image because at the
end of the day Justin Trudeau is just
the fail son of a former prime minister
he's just a celebrity yeah yeah so I
mean there's a few things at work here I
mean you think you know one of them is
yes you mentioned kind of the horniness
and like more broadly the like Trudeau
is just you know in some ways the
product of like an oversaturated you
know social media-driven and like
celebrity obsessive culture you know
he's like he's the political equivalent
you know he offers people twee uplift in
the way that like something like
upworthy did if you guys remember that
like awful website it was like you know
it's it's like you know upworthy plus
like traditional centrist politics so
that's part of it right like he was he
had viral potential and you know after
he got elected there were headlines you
know that were things like you know
Justin Trudeau's 7 secrets to being
extraordinarily charming or you know
meet meet the Prime Minister of Canada
our new man crush these are online
this was one this was one I liked
Canadian PM Justin Trudeau is really
really ridiculously good-looking and yes
it matters
you know as obsessed as you all are with
American politics with having Trump
meeting Trudeau is obviously a big event
and do you agree with the analysis from
our libs that uh you know Justin Trudeau
through some epic shade and make Donald
Trump look like a little boy is that how
you perceive meetings well not me
personally but I can tell you that lots
of people in Canada absolutely received
them that kind of way back in back in
2017 when Trudeau visited the White
House there was this hilarious moment
where I guess Trudeau and Trump had some
kind of press conference I guess in the
Oval Office or somewhere in the White
House and there is a still image where
it looked Trump is holding his
outstretched hand
I don't you guys have seen this but
Trump is holding his outstretched hand
and Trudeau is just kind of looking I
can't see Donald Trump's outstretched
hand unless I have a microscope ah yeah
yeah he's Orange too um but uh but but
yeah so you know in the still image
Trudeau is like you know looking like
he's just kind of you know caustically
gazing down at Trump's hand and sort of
in defiance not shaking it but of course
like seconds later he's just like
smiling for the cameras and shaking
Trump's hand this is like exactly the
same as you know when Nancy Pelosi
epically throws shade by you know kind
of cryptically sassing sassily clapping
at Trump during a state address and then
people have to do sort of alchemy and
divination to invent ways that this is
somehow like a brave act of defiance
that's very much what like you know the
the Trudeau brand as kind of a defier of
Trump is is about it's about things like
that so the big question I have is you
know we know the Trudeau demographic
both here in the United States and in
Canada you know what the the liberal
base is now is Trump standing among the
epic rant ads and the wine mom's hurt or
helped by doing blackface for his entire
life you know there were the reaction
the reactions to that you know it's not
exactly clear I mean I think it's an
indictment
of you know the electorate that it
hasn't instantly cut into you know the
the liberal numbers in the polls you
know it does seem to be hurting
Trudeau's personal ratings right I mean
it's the ultimate inversion of his brand
as the like ultimate performative woke
guy yeah but but I mean so far it does
not it has as of yet it is not like
really really hurt his the the you know
the liberal reelection campaign and
what's kind of what's amazing is that
he's basically trying to run a very
similar campaign to the one he ran in
2015 like post post blackface I mean I
guess they're they're they're making
less of an effort to pretend to be
progressive but they're running you know
he's still showing up at press
conferences like in a canoe like
paddling up to the shore in a canoe and
things like that he's still doing all
the same I mean how do they resolve this
cognitive cognitive dissonance when you
know very carefully originally
originally the dissonance was here's the
guy who's very performative leawo kid
who wears all the costumes and he feels
your pain and all that [ __ ] you know
pretends to care about indigenous people
or the you know plight of others
overseas while you selling arms to Saudi
Arabia and trampling over indigenous
land rights and so on and so forth you
know yeah you know the Ontarians the
what do we call them the Lacroix
Ontarians
[Laughter]
I guess that never troubled them but
surely now that it's an image that
that's maddening to them like surely
that will cause their brains to finally
explode that there's blackface Plus woke
guy it's it's I mean it's pretty
extraordinary like the the Trudeau brand
does have a remarkable capacity to
recover it because it turns out that I
mean I know it'll surprise you guys but
that a lot of people who talk endlessly
about social justice kind of Bend on it
pretty quickly as soon as their own
standards become inconvenient yeah
so I mean I mean the you know the the
the sort of media cycle after the the
scandal broke you know he came out and
he kind of did an apology and he and he
said like you know I didn't know that
this stuff hurt people and he was asked
by the media you know well did you do it
you know did you do it any more than
once and he said well there was a time
in a high school talent show when I did
it and I also sang Dayo and then I said
and I'm pretty sure at that press
conference he was also asked well you
know were there any other times and he
said no but then the next morning you
know Global News got another video
showing a third instance of him doing it
and you know after that he said I'm
weary of being definitive about this
because recent pictures that came out I
had not remembered and the question is
how can you not remember that he's done
it so many times the answer is that when
it happens he goes into a fugue state
it's sort of like the Incredible Hulk
and it's a woke version if not
criminally responsible photo that came
out this is the son of the former prime
minister and he's in full body blackface
like if he was in his 30s and he was a
teacher in his forties and I mean yeah
yeah I didn't even know that aleut Lee I
think we've just discovered our first
you know fracture between American and
Canadian politics because the idea that
in America you could be like
representing a liberal constituency of a
major political party running for the
leadership of the country after crassly
pretending to be like not another race
for most of your life and get away with
it is just unthinkable here yeah I mean
it's it's not really clear how this
didn't come out before because you know
there were lots of people at these
events I mean one of one of the videos
is you know dated from the early 90s so
it goes further back
but and you know all these things seem
to have happened before he got into
politics but it is kind of a wonder that
this didn't come out before and I mean
one of the things about Trudeau's brand
is that it's always been treated as sort
of too big to fail like whenever he's
kind of deviated from you know what his
images on paper which is like you know
the you know ultra performative guy
everyone just kind of ignores it right
so like in his big rolling stone
interview which I think came out in 2017
something like that he's talking about
this ridiculous charity boxing match
that was kind of one of the things that
as absurd as it sounds kind of elevated
him nationally and he was in politics at
this point and his opponent in that
match was this indigenous senator and he
says in the interview he just
straight-up says I wanted someone who
would be a good foil and we stumbled
upon the scrappy tough guy senator from
an indigenous indigenous community he
fit the bill and it was a very nice
counterpoint and so he was you know
raked over the coals by you know
indigenous activists over that but it
was just kind of ignored just like it
was ignored in the 2015 federal election
when in an interview he seemed to
account for violence against women by
blaming rap music you know people just
sort of always overlooked always
overlooked that kind of thing so nobody
knew about the blackface beforehand when
you're telling me he was you know this
was in the context of a class or a live
performance so theoretically hundreds of
people like just saw him in blackface
and just I don't forgot about it yeah I
guess so going further into Trudeau uh
you know you wrote a very good article
in our current affairs about Trudeau
called the Justin Trudeau and the
politics of spectacle but like you know
these parallels emerge again because you
know he he comes into office after you
know like a decade of like a right-wing
government like he's young he's
good-looking he seems to embody the the
the hopes of a younger generation and
the desire to sort of shift course right
and you know exactly like Oh
I did and everyone you know myself
included like you know felt positive at
that moment but then like you go into it
and like you know right off the bat like
you talked about like what are some of
the things he ran on that again as soon
as he got an office immediately backed
off on yeah so so it was very it was
very much like Obama in that a lot of
people who thought you know who voted
liberal thought that they were voting
for like you know a you know anti-war
you know tax the rich kind of kind of
government and needless to say that's
not what they got I guess
Trudeau's political scale insofar as he
had one was that you know he was able to
kind of adopt progressive language while
not really I mean he wasn't in retro
Bhama right like Obama was going around
in 2008 praising Ronald Reagan but none
of us kind of noticed or cared we all
thought that he was we all thought that
he was kind of a figure of the left in
some way and we know or that he was
doing it like to be politically canny
and like wage moderates instincts they
were like about that him is some sort of
wild a foreign radical or something like
that yeah that's right it was all part
of the twenty four dimensional game of
chess which I guess Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer have now taken up I don't
know what moved their on at this point
but um but yeah so it was you know it
was the liberal platform you know had
all this kind of I guess like softly
left language around you know taxing the
rich doing deficit spending you know on
around indigenous rights around climate
change and I mean if you actually looked
into the details there was nothing
particularly radical about it I mean
they're running to the right of the NDP
you know definitely but you know Trudeau
you know kind of ingeniously toed the
line and I think that you know Trudeau
himself is not a very interesting figure
because he's exactly as you as you see
him he's you know a trust-fund kid who
grew up rich and famous and then you
know kind of inherited political power
largely on the basis of his last name
but the Trudeau phenomenon I think is
interesting in some ways because in at a
tie
when you know liberalism was just kind
of taking l's everywhere when you know
populism particularly of the right-wing
variety was on the rise all over the
world you know the the Trudeau liberals
kind of found the perfect formula they
figured out how you could kind of you
could speak to the concerns of working
in middle-class people who were
concerned about inequality and climate
change and things like that but you
could also reassure the global elite the
people who are afraid of populism that
you weren't actually really gonna do
anything and yes I mean one of the one
of the reasons why Trudeau became an
international brand is because so many
you know traditional political actors
you know eccentrics and other countries
basically looked at this and they
thought god how do we copy this this is
absolute this is absolute genius and
Trudeau was just the you know the
perfect package for this because he had
the veneer of youth but I mean
essentially he was cashing in on sort of
you know baby boomer nostalgia for you
know the era of his dad which was like
Canada in the you know the swinging
sixties so it was you know it was the
perfect you know electoral brand it was
you know kind of a message that was
ultimately about a conservative
restoration but with sort of an aura of
novelty attached to it you know it was
it was they figured out a way to give
traditional political power of an ear of
social conscience at a time when
liberals everywhere else were you know
had completely lost it when it came to
doing that and winning elections I don't
like you know speaking to this I guess
like one of the most galling things both
for the perspective of his you know sort
of woke branding but also like actual
moral and political commitments is the
issue of like First Nations and like
indigenous lands land rights in Canada
like what's it like he had like some
proposal that would give the First
Nation the communities like total veto
power over likely 'click land leases and
like cultivation of like their like
their land basically what happened with
that yeah
that's right I mean so that was that was
abandoned because I guess the build
pipelines is just too important banded
when it was realized this little Oh this
will prevent the other thing we wanted
to yeah it was abandoned when they
realized oh they might exercise those
powers we might give yeah that's right
and you know there was another thing
they were going to implement the United
Nations declaration on the rights of
indigenous peoples they actually went to
the United Nations and announced that
and they were like you know the the time
is now you know and then a couple months
later they were like oh yeah no we're
we're not we're not doing that right he
like I believe the quote that you have
is that he said they said that this just
isn't working that's right yeah what a
sort of begs the question why did they
promise to do it in the first place the
pipelines didn't that [ __ ] March
in the class strike yes yeah okay he
marched against himself yeah Luke what
has the Liberal government done done one
of the I mean in so far as they actually
committed to do anything specific
they've flip-flopped on a lot of the big
like specific commitments so they were
also going to change Canada's electoral
system they just dropped that we have
like an archaic 19th century electoral
system where people that must suck it's
not as bad as yours admittedly but it's
it's pretty bad you can basically get
like 100% of the legislative power with
as little as like 34 or 35 percent of
the popular vote which maybe that could
benefit a left-wing party someday that
would be great but mostly it hasn't done
that but so yeah they abandon electoral
reform I mean they were also going to
raise taxes on the rich which I mean
officially they did do that they put
they created a new tax bracket for I
guess I think it was incomes above
$200,000 but then they also cut taxes
for the income tax bracket below so it's
actually a net tax cut and the the most
of the gains or the majority the gains
went to the top 10% of earners so it's
just a total like
sleight of hand it's the kind of thing
you can imagine like the Center for
American Progress coming up with or
something I mean they they did create a
child benefit which I guess is like a
means-tested grant that goes you know
disproportionately to low-income
families the problem with that was that
they advanced it kind of explicitly in
opposition to a universal child care
program the Liberals just like the
Democrats like love means testing what
about refugees and migration yeah so I
mean the rhetoric around refugees was
certainly I mean you know much better
than anything coming out of the United
States I mean they the the NDP in 2015
had a more ambitious program to admit
more refugees which you know the or the
Liberals attacked the NDP program and
then essentially ended up adopting it
I'm actually kind of forgetting the
details it's been a few years you know
so Trudeau you know at least did make a
kind of an effort to symbolically you
know embrace the refugee issue and you
know he tweeted a number of things that
I guess were cryptically interpreted as
condemnation of Trump but Canada took
you know I think a decent number of
refugees but like many fewer per capita
than you know other countries I think
particularly those in those in
Scandinavia and I mean when it comes to
actually you know updating border policy
I mean Canadian authorities are still
cooperating with you know your own
border authorities and and things like
that so I think very little is changed
there what you get out in the current
affairs piece is that like like Trudeau
as a political model like sort of
picking up the ball from Obama and
running with it like what's attractive
to you about it is that like a you you
have the look of a guy who's sort of
black yes who's not who's a POC
occasionally but um you know but also
like it like um you know it represents
kind of a a wholesome unthreatening
masculinity you
we have one article here when he was
first election Justin Trudeau's election
redefined politics of manliness study
suggests and this is you know an
academic stunner you wish for sickly and
it like you know Justin Trudeau's being
he's hot he's DS Jack but he also has
feelings and has a boyish sort of
demeanor but more importantly it's this
thing about like his politics are about
saying things in such a way that
reassures all involved that he's one of
you without actually saying or
committing to anything and really
reassuring yeah like party elites and
the wealthy that you know he like he's
not gonna rock the boat right and you
have yeah very much so
and there's one quote here again that
were like sometimes like you said like
the masks lips or like the the algorithm
breaks down a little bit and like too
much of what he's actually talking about
gets through so he says here this was in
response to a question you write about
how his government was navigating the
unpopularity of neoliberal globalization
at the present political moment and he
said this quote we were able to sign a
free trade agreement with Europe at a
time when people tend to be closing off
we're actually able to approve pipelines
at a time when everyone wants protection
of the environment
we're being able to show that we get
people's fears and there are
constructive ways of a laying them and
not just ways to lash out and give a big
kick to the system so what he's really
saying is like my politics is about a
laying people's fears about the things
that I'm doing that yeah that's right
and I mean as with Obama that was always
you know that was always clear that was
always something he made explicit from
the beginning you know there was an
op-ed that he published I can remember
in in which newspaper it was published I
think in 2013 2014 something like that
and this is when he was laying out what
was supposedly the liberals like anti
inequality agenda and he said national
business leaders and other wealthy
Canadians should draw the following
conclusion and do so urgently if we do
not solve
you know the problems facing the
middle-class and low-income earners and
these are Trudeau's words Canadians will
eventually withdraw their support for a
growth agenda we will all be worse off
as a consequence deepening anxiety
yields deepening divisions and people
will begin to vote for leaders who offer
comforting stories about who to blame
for our problems rather than how to
solve them so he's basically was
addressing he was basically addressing
you know business leaders and and people
like that and he was saying hey look I
get it you don't want to pay higher
taxes but we got to give you know we got
to give people something we gotta at
least show that you know we got at least
pretend to do something because
otherwise you know as he puts it
Canadians may withdraw their support for
a growth agenda which is another way of
saying you know they might vote for
people who will actually raise your
taxes and we can't we can't allow that
no yeah you have to allay people's fears
because if if they have all this fear
and anxiety like yeah then then they
won't sign on to the pro-growth so he's
just saying like go with me I'm gonna
relay the dumb-dumbs fears and we can
still get all the growth that we all
want very much so yeah
