um so guys just continue here he says
but do you know did you know that um
they actually had to use a prosthetic
dick for David Brooks I was like too big
it was distracting that's why New York
Times pivoted away from video dander
Gertz his huge [ __ ] was like too
distracting for people so yeah he's in a
funk but it says but Brooks picked
himself up he landed a gig where else
Yale teaching a class about what else
humility with the syllabus including
works by Edmund Burke Reinhold Niebuhr
and himself nothing humility were you
[ __ ] assign your own goddamn book his
emotionally arid existence bloomed again
thanks to the loving presence of a woman
and Schneider is researcher at the New
York Times and 23 years his junior
after years of chaste but charged email
exchanges on subjects such as dog yeah
in st. Augustine Snyder madness of
course Snyder agreed to go on a date
with Brooks in 2016 they married in 2017
love to see their sex who are you what
are you wearing right now I'm wearing
Gant
pleated pack khakis barb barber quilted
English hunting code seven seven layers
of collared shirts that's earth oh yeah
oh my god I'd love to put a [ __ ]
scarf on you make me you make me so
[ __ ] hard
just imagining going to a book fair with
you I would love I would I would love to
swap out your bookmark and replace it
with mine hey [ __ ] like did you know
that st. Augustine himself was horny at
one time or another no say uh
confessions is a is a great book I mean
I don't like it he stole the title from
Usher but because he's like he just
[ __ ] non-stop but the thing where he
thinks he's like furthest from God is
when he steals pears he steals Paris
yeah that wasn't the rosy gray piece
yeah
Katie McHugh para stealing thing and she
was like yeah this is like this is like
watching a guy try to throw a log
you know find a strip mall is the same
[ __ ] but Augustine yeah Augustine but
then star pill this imagining Brooks
setting up their first [ __ ] session at
like a Wyndham like Matthew Broderick
and election and they would be greeted
by the window with your first post
marriage sexual assignation [ __ ] I
need to go yes yes yes I'm fixing the
nut right now ba ba ba they married the
second mountain purporting this purports
to describe hyper individualism ba ba ba
ba ba it would not be hyperbole to say
that it is also both explicitly and
between the lines a gushing pan to run
all right they say gushing pants squirt
again to romance that's that's that's
peach yogurt I got the pan on me a
gushing pan to romance from a gobsmacked
man happily rediscovering sex and such
it is full of cringe-worthy aphorism oh
boy love writes brook writes Brooks
plows open the hard crust of our
personality and exposes the fertile soil
I love thinking about I absolutely think
of David Brooks taking the crust off his
dick he's just he's on a [ __ ] like
he's on one of those tucked in hotel
beds they haven't even taken the sheets
off and he's got the sock garters on and
just going to town on him I love the
idea of David Brooks taking his dick out
of his khakis and it talks to him like I
think the bullets and who frame is the
same wireframe glasses
[ __ ] I'm not gonna be able to think of
anything other than that for the rest of
my life isn't the one of the bullets
like a prospector yeah we're going in
there ghosts Marvin there's gold in that
our second Mountain
[Laughter]
