you know who is the guest on the view
this morning Oh Bob Iger what the CEO of
Disney he has a new book and would you
guess what the questions were they were
like yes it's amazing that you you came
from the mail rooms you're real serous
you're a self-made man what kind of
dedication did it take for you to rise
it seems like you know you're first but
so very humbled and very deni it was it
was like Lisa Simpson reading the thing
like your campaign has the momentum of a
runaway freight train
how is the view going I was a few you
know what it's been less traumatic than
I thought for one simple reason it's
divided into three segments three
five-minute talk segments and then three
five-minute commercials there's barely
any show it's mostly commercials yeah
and it's I've seen the view and your
observation that they preview segments
that never that's completely true like
they this is a TV show that they would
watch in the Harrison Bergeron world
yeah where you forget everything after
nine second its capital every every
segment is a broken play and football
it's just they are scrambling it's like
oh no we were gonna talk about
Democratic candidates but I guess
somebody found like a Dear Abby clipping
about giving your husband the silent
treatment so we're gonna talk about that
so when you started watching when you
started watching they had just come back
from a break and how you observed at the
beginning that Omegan she's not you know
she's not all fiery and mad right now
yeah and I thought oh well you know
she's well rested give it a little time
now it's about three weeks in and she's
uh she's peppery but the funny thing is
is what I've realized is that she
doesn't get mad really because the other
hosts are you know being libs and
rejecting her and you know like her big
first week she was like oh being
virtually signal too fast their first
week but the real thing she gets mad at
is that she herself is astoundingly
inarticulate yeah and cannot actually
make an argument or like a point and so
everyone else just kind of has to spend
the time
trying to like suss out what she means
and she and she gets frustrated she is
mad at herself for not being able to
speak English right she can't
communicate I could empathize with that
because that's like being in a k-hole
yeah no she's like [ __ ] she's like no
basically she's my chick a bag like the
LAT like the thing where she stormed off
because of Navaro what she was yelling
about was she was trying to relitigate
the the thing from the argument she had
owned by Pam Anderson and she was trying
to make some point about whistle blowers
but she wasn't like there were no there
was never an object and and a subject in
the sentence just she was saying so
nobody knew what she was actually trying
to get at and like Abby Huntsman is
someone point kind of like break in and
like tried to translate for her
and then she just like yelled over
everybody for their her to make a point
and her point was well I was clumsy and
how I said it well I'm sorry about live
television communication half of the
other hosts are already you know are
already making whatever stupid point she
wanted to make and I think that kind of
trips her up
when Abby Huntsman's already like I
think Julian Assange has put our
intelligence agents and we sure yeah
it's like Megan you were gonna say
something like that so you don't not but
she says it incoherently I Felix we got
Felix back yes sorry
okay people people want to know about
people want to know about your watch the
two daughters be friends oh they're
having not Alton Brown talk about
healthy lunch choices
[Music]
all right so uh we are guys going on in
the world what you want to really want
to start today like I feel like I the
way I've met it out for today is like
two examples is just sort of the short
and long term cycle of eternal
recurrence you want to go with the short
or long one first hmm well I certainly
don't want to talk about how the fact
that we the US military barbequed about
70 Afghan civilians in the last week
that's a bummer so let's go with the
short term okay short term there's
another totally inscrutable not really
inscrutable but like incredibly boring
Trump scandal that everyone has to
pretend to care about now involve yes
please
too far sir involving Ukraine and our
boy hunter Biden it's amazing how that
stupid and fake country has the nexus
for everything that has happened in this
country in the last two and a half to
three years as best I can understand it
it's like basically wall the Muller
investigation was going on or like the
day he even like testified in front of
Congress Donald Trump was just getting
on the phone to the president of Ukraine
being like we'll give you money if you
investigate bad Joe Biden's awful son
Hunter and I mean I don't know what came
in at all right no see there's two
versions oh god I always I already feel
like I'm getting leukemia injected
directly into my spinal cord just
thinking about trying to explain this
because this is some more [ __ ] that
liberals are gonna fixate on and say
this is what we all have to talk about
and it's further inscrutable crap that
no one else will care and if you say I
don't care or this is boring that you're
actively helping Trump so the deal is is
that when piden was and this is actually
referenced in the New York Times article
about Hunter we we read yeah that Hunter
was given a board job on a Ukrainian
energy company that sounds all
aboveboard D grand a year a month
there's a grand a month to be on the
board of this company because what is
what what we've read about under top 100
of Thompson hundred under five interests
Biden he knows what does he know he
knows doing crack
he knows buying crap
crying shirtless Lee he knows telling
people to [ __ ] you because you don't
understand him and you know what I'll
just go be an addict if that's what you
think I am
and also Ukrainian energy those are his
those are his bailiwick
yeah and so they hired him for this job
and while Biden was device press well
yes and uh and at some point the
Ukrainian like prosecutor was pressured
by Biden on behalf of the Obama
administration to be fired they said
we're not gonna give you a unless you
fire this prosecutor they claim because
he was not doing enough to halt
corruption in the Ukraine the Trump and
those guys are claiming it was because
he was getting too close to Biden and
his corruption and so what Trump was
alleged by this whistleblower who he
will not allow report to be released
which is actually pretty [ __ ] up and
illegal but whatever accorded a
whistleblower he was on the phone with
the Ukrainian for the new returned
president the one who became president
of Ukraine after playing the president
of Ukraine on a TV show that's a true
that's true saying and said look we got
this military aid for you like two
hundred fifty million dollars or
something and we will hold it we will
not give it to you until you investigate
this the idea that Biden pressured them
to fire this prosecutor right uh and
that's apparently like the big election
meddling thing is he was trying to use
his position as president to get the
Ukrainians to stitch up Joe Biden on a
false charge of trying to help his sign
it so that's the here stupid boring crap
that we have to care about now here's
what I mean about like this is an
example of a shorter term reoccurrence
because on the one level like this is
exactly like like I take i 100% believe
that everything Trump did in Ukraine is
totally corrupt oh god is just a
straight-up bribe to a foreign country
it's pretty bad it's some tin pot
autocrat [ __ ] was you know I believe it
was happened because this was a deal
yeah it's like active very bad hunter
Biden is very bad father doing very bad
things in Ukraine you hadn't even
imagined how bad they are I've got this
military aid for Ukraine well why would
I give it to you if you're not gonna
give me something in return
it's just a deal I just basically think
like anyone any American or doing
anything in Russia or Ukraine is bound
to be shady on some point but it's like
it's like the Hillary Clinton stuff all
over again it's like okay I'm sure what
Trump was doing in Russia and was you
know it was not above board but the
thing is what they exposed about Hillary
Clinton also kind of not aboveboard and
like here's the thing with the hunter
Biden stuff
it is super shady that he got that [ __ ]
yes and that what they're asking you to
do is they're ask you to say go into the
election with with Biden ready to spend
your time insisting to everybody who
isn't this obsessive psycho but paying
attention to politics that it's not
actually bad that his son got this
incredibly lucrative job on the board of
this company in in a Ukraine and Doctore
ously corrupt country because what real
the real scandal is what Trump did about
it oh wow that works so much so well the
last days are just like competing
gradations of the same general kind of
eruption yes and rot of our political
scuzz we certainly don't know enough
from experience that when people are
confronted with this they just say Oh
everybody's crooked and then they just
say that they cancel each other out
which is exactly what happened with
Clinton and Trump I've got some thoughts
on this like the the main storyline is
quite boring it's just it's like
slightly more interesting than the usual
thing but like shitty sons and daughters
of whoever have been given lucrative
contracts forever joe Manchin's big
daughter famously has some [ __ ]
pharmaceutical job Meghan McCain's on
the view everyone there is a universal
jobs program for people like this but
the angle that I find interesting is
like just the breathlessness brian
schatz who's like the poster senator
yeah sort of the senatorial equivalent
of Ted Lou because he has some more
upper brow like up I guess we're in hell
world now sort of like generalized media
[ __ ] [ __ ] style of posting so he's
endeared himself to a lot of like
crooked media type accolades he had some
big breathless post about how this is
serious is zero hour for democracy and
what
[ __ ] are you doing and it like it's sort
of ear it made me almost violate Terms
of Service for multiple reasons one of
them being like you're a [ __ ] senator
what am I supposed to do should I reply
to try like what am I supposed to what
do you it's your job you [ __ ] [ __ ]
but anyway it also like it made me have
a flashback of every time this has
happened of every time as Senator to her
or someone infinitely higher up on the
totem pole than me has said this is the
biggest crisis ever and then their next
tweet is like uh controversial opinion
Reese's peanut butter cups are trash
what is what is the effect what is the
effect of constantly telling me that
democracy is ending that this is the
most important election ever just like
the last one was just like the one
before that one that we need to hold
this guy accountable now not me the
senator me the congressman me whatever
my brain don't say it you you the reader
you the girl reading this what does he
effect of that and then just life goes
on because you have the same dreary
depression you have from your you're
alienated shitty life going on as usual
this thing that Trump did that's
supposedly unprecedented which by the
way you know what some of my earliest
political memories are there of random
Arab guys who the [ __ ] army detained
and tortured who had nothing to do with
al-qaeda suing the government because
they were citizens who were tortured for
years on end and then told oh no sorry
you can't even sue his national security
because like if what Trump is doing
these last four or five times are
supposed to supposedly democracy ending
if those are the moves of a tin-pot
dictator which they are what was that
last thing what was that last thing
because I swear to god you're [ __ ]
posting pictures of the guy who did that
giving Werther's Originals to Michelle
Obama so it all seems very [ __ ]
meaningless when you say that but the
effect it has on like the regular
liberal who does buy into all that is
just a continued psychosis they're real
the phrase on the edges but their lives
are just as dull and shitty as always it
creates this sort of vocal minority in
this country of people who feel like
their reality is falling apart but their
lives are pretty much the same which
further alienates them from normal
people even though that's a very
dispersed and undefinable term who also
feel insane an alienated because that's
just their condition meanwhile there
will be four or five things like this
Trump does that are supposedly beyond
the pale more beyond the pale than the
last thing he did be on the panel even
though I said the exact same [ __ ] last
time and then within two weeks it's
moved on you're correct that you're
trying to give him epic Pinocchio's
because he said he [ __ ] the girl in
the song centerfold nothing ever gets
better or it only gets worse but it
stays the same somehow I mean yeah I
mean I just go more insane forever
awesome we love it I mean me again I
don't know what more to say about the
Ukraine story other than like I said
you're gonna be cajoled into you know
you're gonna be beaten over the head
into like yeah that this is the most
important thing ever until it's not but
like all the people who are telling you
it's the worst most horrible you know
breach of our democratic norms and
government of all time are still not
going to impeach him they're gonna say
stuff like very strongly considering you
know our options regarding his you know
truthfulness you know blah blah blah but
they're not going to impeach him they're
gonna try to they're gonna try to elect
to Joe Biden or Elizabeth Warren
president and that's gonna be but the
function of this is like it's the thing
that we used to make fun of like Bush
supporters for in the mid-2000s oh you
like being afraid all the time that's
everybody now that's just became if I
had to pick like a single like the most
underrated effect of Bush politics it
was that everyone adopted it that you
should just make your voters and
constant [ __ ] terror all the time
there's so much to be afraid of just in
your life in the world even as an
American but the things that make you
precarious and you should be afraid of
aren't the things that they want you to
be afraid of but I mean like we vetoed
talking about it just because it's so
boring and I feel like I personally feel
like she gets a lot of
layout of just like left liberals sort
of talking about her but that Barry
Weiss was book is just a perfect example
of how widespread this is that just
everyone is a potential enemy if you're
an American Jew just any anyone is a
Nazi be they like women's March people
are out to kill you everyone is out to
destroy your perfect democracy the
things that don't actually affect your
life are existential threats to you you
should be in pure [ __ ] terror all the
time and we're the only ones who can fix
this we're all just different shades of
the most die-hard Bush supporters in
2004 now and it's very depressing well
maybe this will cheer you up here's my
second example of the eternal
reoccurrence that we're all living in
this one's a little bit more interesting
to me I think a little bit more meteor
meteor for our discussion the Working
Families Party endorsement of Elizabeth
Warren and the subsequent fallout over
it so basically um what happened is the
the Working Families Party I've
continued their long tradition of
endorsing Joe Crowley over Alexandria
Kazuya Cortes and endorsing Andrew Cuomo
over Cynthia Nixon and endorsed
Elizabeth Warren over
Bernice Ames orthocenter Cynthia next
they did into her said they were taking
of his effort to see never teach out
that's what I'm thinking of um okay so
they endorsed Warren over Sanders right
and immediately there became a
controversy about you know how was this
vote done and they immediately clammed
up and said that we're not going to
release any of the you know we're not
gonna be transparent at all about how
this boat was conducted and basically
what it comes down to is that they
instituted for the first time a kind of
super delegate system when it comes to
their party's endorsement of a candidate
where it basically weighted the votes of
about 56 of the party leaders ship of
the Working Families Party equally with
their rank-and-file members and that is
basically how you ended up with a Warren
endorsement over Sanders and you know
obviously like people are you know
rightly a little bit annoyed at the you
know rather Craven as' of this but then
like after that
you know there's another fallout where a
basically there's a good open letter
done by a group of progressive activists
in support of the Working Families Party
leadership that um basically stated that
they are beam may not basically say that
it stated that they were being subjected
to quote white terror on the left and
the right as it comes to angry Sanders
supporters in their mentions um none of
these emails or tweets were ever again
made public so people could see you know
the again the type of harassment or you
know suppose the death threats that are
going on here but again what I mean
about eternal recurrence is that every
single thing that happened in 2016 as
regards Bernie Sanders and his
supporters and the way we argue about
politics and a public sphere is
happening again right now 100% and like
we've seen it all before and we're
living it now again
Sanders missed a the candidates forum on
LGBTQ issues this week because he was
scheduled had a prior engagement to
speak at a historically black University
um and the executive editor of Out
magazine said that Sanders and Trump
supporters are basically the same in
that they hate you know gay people and
black women in particular uh again it's
just like and then and then in that
article if you look at the the they
actually do provide tweets about you
know what what is this supposed
harassment that's the the same as it is
on the left and the right or among
Sanders supporters and Trump supporters
is basically people disagreeing with her
take that you know Sanders is anti LGBTQ
or is simply providing you know evidence
to the fact that he has been you know at
a time when I'm sorry Elizabeth Warren
was a [ __ ] it was a Republican
Sanders was in favor of you know gay
rights and gay marriage Obama was
against gay marriage until 2009 he
hasn't had to evolve 1012 2012 I mean I
remember cuz Biden about ran the
coverage on that and he kind of made
them have to be in favor of it because
he kind of just went [ __ ] weird favor
of gay marriage and and then they had to
kick play catch-up
he absolutely campaigned on the whole
civil unions but not a marriage thing um
but the you know is actually Katherine
who broke that story for splinter about
the this leaked open letter that was
done again in support of the leadership
of the Working Families Party and their
endorsement of Warren but I mean I guess
like what we're seeing right now is like
look I know like Warren is not exactly
the same candidate is hillary clinton
like their politics are different they
are running a different campaign
technically however she's being cast in
exactly the same role and I'm sorry the
people who by and large support her in
the media or now her biggest boosters
are the same people the exact same
people who did this to Bernie Sanders in
2016 for Hillary Clinton I just think
we're seeing the exact same narrative
play out in front of our eyes all over
again oh yeah and I mean I don't know I
mess with the [ __ ] winner you know in
their minds that help Hillary win why
wouldn't you do it again and like you're
gonna have to sort of like what what do
you do about it
like you can argue your point you can
you know make a base or like no well
yeah exactly like you have to realize
that if you if you argue a point if you
disagree with anyone you're gonna be
accused of doing harassment or worse or
literal white terror against you know
yeah like in minority populations so I
mean what do you do do you just only
talk about Bernie Sanders or do you like
not engage at all with the actual
political debate and contest that's
going on I don't know but like the one
thing I do know is that you can't
pretend like this isn't happening or
that there's not a real now here's what
you do so all the people who try to make
hey about Bernie Sanders supporters
being misogynistic and doing harassment
and all that crap if you use Twitter
search function and go back on their
timeline to like 2013 every single one
of them has tweets from 2013 that are
like I'm sick of all these [ __ ]
Asians at Taco John's just search their
name and Asian and use a search
parameter before 2013 before 2014 so
just find those tweets and report them
as racism and to hopefully get the been
this is all I'm sure for most people
very horrifying you're getting
flashbacks
you're getting sweats you got the giant
from twin peak saying it's happening
again I understand that and it is
horrifying
and it's very disheartening and you see
this and you're like what why do I am i
trapped in this hell that can never
change why am i in a Nietzsche and
eternal occurrence but there's hope and
this is really what I've been trying to
tell myself over the past few months to
sort of a chain a Zen detachment from
all of this and this is the simple fact
that this time around the entire Bernie
campaign and the Bernie theory have
changed not just to win the primary but
to win the general and then to actually
do anything when you're in power is
predicated on the notion of activating
people who don't usually vote who are
not politically engaged by definition
people who don't go on Twitter and don't
watch MSNBC for four hours a day until
their brain has the consistency of KY
jelly and and that we can't know that
for sure like that's a thing that might
not work it's the thing that you're not
even gonna see reflected in polls
because polls are weighted against
people who don't vote that much by
definition and you could argue very
reasonably that they shouldn't do that
because you're trying to predict
something you want to go by who's most
likely to show up but the fact is is
that the people who vote in presidential
primaries in the Democratic on the
Democratic side are a fraction of a
fraction of the population of people who
actually vote in general in this country
they are attached to the Democratic
Party in some way might it be some sort
of like that are either part of the
apparatus they're adjacent to the
apparatus they have some sort of a
emotional or personal attachment to one
a apparatchik or a politician or they
just watch TV they watch MSNBC with a
little Democrat and it and they root for
the Democrats any of that means they're
invested in the Democratic Party and the
Democratic Party is deeply invested as
is in the media in not having Bernie win
they don't want him to win because he's
the only one who's actually a threat to
anything and so they're going to do this
[ __ ] they're gonna do [ __ ] like this on
Twitter they're absolutely gonna do [ __ ]
like this on on TV I mean there was one
bad poll out of Iowa and MSNBC was
having a
Table about whether Bernie should drop
out well that's going to happen but the
thing is is that if if the people were
gonna vote and determine this thing are
that set number of people who vote in
Democratic primaries he's not gonna win
because between Warren's appeal to like
technocracy that urban liberals love and
Biden's appeal to elect electability
which people who are like lower down on
the economic totem pole and more
traumatized by the idea of Republican
governance because it affects them more
directly are also persuaded by one of
them is gonna win he's not gonna win
unless his message is able to engage
people who aren't outside of this
process and those people are paying
attention to any of this stuff it's also
the only way he's going to be able to
make anning majority or press forward to
change anything when he's in office and
overcome the obstacles put there by
things like the Constitution so keep
that in mind I mean do what you're gonna
do
posts are you gonna post but just know
it's out of the hands of anyone who you
can think of directly who is a
politically engaged citizen to two
things on that like III overwhelmingly
agree with you about that like there is
a sort of a bliss in surrender that it's
it's all just kind of madness however I
do think like as far as the media goes
for people who are a little bit older
and still look to things outside of like
the internet for their sort of space of
consensual reality I think the things
the media do and how they cover Bernie
Sanders which is largely either
negatively or just not covering him or
just pretending like he's not the number
a the number one strategy tackling him
just pretending is just pretending he's
not there and making it seem like it's a
two-person race team Barnard and Warren
even though Sanders is invoked by most
accounts strongly in the number two
position I'm just pretending that he's
not there I think for a lot of people
who do really like Bernie I think it and
then look I like I said look to the
media for their space of kind of
consensual reality I think it's it's not
just a moralizing but I just think it
gives them the impression that he has no
chance so like why bother yeah but like
your second point I think this is more
important
it's not out of your hands it's not out
of your hands but like just understand
that all of this it's gonna be even
harder and dirtier than it wasn't 2016
but if it's if you're on the internet if
it's on Twitter if it's a media
conversation or it's like this should we
talk about the show in the show like
yeah it is out of your hands
however donating money to Sanders is not
out of your yes volunteering your time
yeah no matter what state you live in
talking to people who aren't politically
engaged because that's how it's gonna
happen it's gonna go around these
structures that's how you're gonna
engage the people who are not already
kind of brainwashed frankly by the
political parameters created by the
parties and by the media what I mean is
like yeah like no matter what state you
live in or if you live in a state that's
that's close by to a very important
state it you know Iowa New Hampshire
Nevada etc you can find you can
volunteer you can find a group you can
find people who are volunteering and
working with the campaign and then then
it's not out of your hands and like that
I think is the only real antidote to
being driven insane by this drivel and
by like the onslaught on your sense of
your common sense and rationality that
you see take place every day is - yeah
give up on that and like take an active
measure - to actually take it in your
hands and do something yes it does
matter
yes and and so that that way you don't
feel the sense of complete hopelessness
and alienation that the rest of this is
intended to inculcate in you but just
understand that like it's not going to
be easy it's going to be even harder
than it was in 2016 but at the same time
I think for a lot of reasons it's harder
but I think he says maybe even a better
chance than he did in 2016 forever his
number of reasons yes I mean going on -
like Warren in general and like I said
like regardless of you know there are
real political differences between her
Hillary Clinton but like it really does
seem like she's who bring up all the
people that were embarrassed to vote for
Hillary Clinton in 2016 and just don't
want to vote for Bernie because then
that's like a bridge that that's a
hurdle that they can't clear yeah just
sort of like embarrassed
upper middle class white liberal
professionals why don't what they want
to vote for Bernie Sanders because
they're not socialist politics I still
blame him for Donald Trump being
president they think he's just an old
white man or like
eh I mean why do you thought they had an
end - I mean it's your you've your
category you you bringing this up
category people who did not support
Hillary last time around they did voted
for it they voted for the vote last time
around but they they're like embarrassed
about it in retrospect and they're
looking to cover their ass in a way or
they realize their error but like
they're not willing to go all the way
but what's there so what that what are
they uneasy what were they uneasy about
about Hillary was it that she only only
in Hinds Act but otherwise they were you
know they were on board yeah yeah Oh
exactly that's what I mean you know and
it's like here's the thing like in the
you know left-of-centre progressive part
of the media the line that you hear over
and over again is that there's no
difference politically between Sanders
and Warren and like that they want the
same things their policies are the same
like they're they're it's just they're
both equally good so why not just
support Warren is the you know unstated
part of that equation there but my
response to that is if Sanders and
Warren represent the same politics the
same policies and the same political
vision for this country what in you're
like what in your opinion would account
for the vast difference in the way
they're covered by the media because
like okay I was thinking about this last
week has Elizabeth Warren outside of The
Breakfast Club had a bad media hit at
all I mean you can talk about the
23andme like the this inflicted but that
was an entirely and unforced error on
her part yeah and it was covered by the
media because they had to but like
overwhelmingly outs again outside of The
Breakfast Club and Charlamagne tha God
who kind of embarrassed her Elizabeth
Warren has not had a single negative
media and if you look at the way she's
covered in the New York Times it's like
Elizabeth Warren lessons in leadership
it's never like outside of the outside
of conservative media which you know
tends to write her in the same column as
Bernie as you know all the candidates
are all going too far left you know the
the the concern trolling type pieces
from the Bret Stevens types yes
notice that when she was first kind of
stuck at like 5% there was all this talk
about how dire net Elizabeth Warren
she's got some
great plans why isn't she doing better
and now she's doing better but then
Bernie dropped all of the the fire stuff
like in a month he's dropping
revolutionary [ __ ] concepts in labor
and and criminal justice reform health
care housing and all of a sudden nobody
cares about plans
where'd the plans go no nobody I don't
hear anything talking about Hillary
we're about to Hillary about Warren in
terms of plans anymore
it's like that was there to like keep
her viable and now that she's got her
own momentum and it's no longer a thing
they criticize compared to Bernie I
think that's still part of her appeal
that's still central to it is the plans
think I just had a stray thought are you
on Twitter
yeah yeah I could go to the Twitter
search Oh a the total straight thought
total shot in the dark can you search
maybe it's better on YouTube oh it's war
and then the N word can you search
warrants rap maybe you should go on
YouTube for this is a rap oh no I died
really I mean maybe our rocky god
[ __ ] god
maybe I'm sure our Eagle eared listeners
will turn something up but like on first
his first glance there you go that's an
indication that she's not the
front-runner so I wouldn't be overly
concerned about it I like can't bring
myself to post about any of this because
it's the most insane [ __ ] I've ever seen
like this is no one care that she
pretended like until she was like seven
D was like yeah I'm Cherokee care I
don't care I think it's funny I think
yeah I think it's funny and I think more
I don't care isn't like oh she needs to
[ __ ] have dinner with WOC or
something I don't know but I mean does
anyone care what they just talk about
how racist Bernie is yeah literally just
three years straight and just until she
was 65 and like one of the John's was
like beep boop spit in my hand so I
to determine your haplogroup she found
out that she was like late like less
like less Native American than anyone
like this is no one care that she just
did this forever like that's so late
like it's just it makes it makes you
insane
I I'm sympathetic to like the people on
my timeline who I like you a lot of the
time who are like engaging in arguments
with Warren surrogates I mean like I'm
sympathetic to it because like I want to
do it too I want to yell out those
people too but it just drives me to its
aid it just like
puts me in too bad of a mental space no
this guy there's no end game to it you
know ya know there's zero and there's no
use recognizing there's no impact on
reality whatsoever all it does is make
you it all doesn't make me like feel bad
and hopeless so I try not to engage with
it but it is like yeah if you do that
all day I [ __ ] get it I [ __ ] get
it because just like the only time I
really engage with this is whatever we
talk about it on the show and that's
what I'm like she was a [ __ ]
Republican until she could get Medicare
like there's no one giving a [ __ ] they
don't give a [ __ ] because they don't
think anyone will check out it and if
you do bring it up it'll be like oh so
people can't grow like fine I think she
has like you know in my ideal world my
ideal compromise world were like Bernie
as president she has a bright future in
the Senate you know [ __ ] regulating
financial body keep it - well you don't
keep in mind that a substantial part of
the Democratic coalition now is suburban
i'ts who have left the Republican Party
since the Bush administration ya know
they got exactly what they [ __ ] wanted
with that oh you know if we're if we are
catering to upper-class you know white
suburban i'ts who are essentially
conservative in their outlook if they
are going to be the ones who determine
the winner of the primaries then yeah
Bernie Sanders can't possibly win I mean
yeah again I I don't think that's I mean
I mad so yeah yeah you know and like
what I'm saying is like you know it's
like none of this is gonna be a cakewalk
like there's like you can take nothing
for granted in that like the everything
is stacked against Bernie Sanders others
other than the overwhelming popularity
of his actual bully other think it's
like you know like like Felix I've also
been ignoring what people say online but
you've all muted me as well yeah I've
muted everyone you know I log on and
it's just it's just promoted tweet and
Donald Trump that's the only stuff that
I want to interact with anymore and but
but but what I've noticed which you know
like I get through osmosis the the media
coverage in the conversations about the
primaries is you know everyone's
sounding the alarm about Bernie Sanders
right now out of the eight last national
polls polls conducted within the past
two weeks
unless eight Biden led all eight of them
Boren led Bernie Sanders in four of
those Bernie Sanders led Elizabeth
Warren in four of those this race has
been consisted it's been they been in
these positions for the first several
months now so I kind of think there's it
needs to be another explanation for the
Bernie panic narrative and the Warren
ascendance narrative than that the way I
view it as I think it this serves a
function to be the off ramp for squishes
basically for
Bernie supporters who are not actually
socialists or really even actually
critical of capitalism who are not
really opposed to private profit yeah
absolutely
and that's like there was this thing the
socialist movement after after Bernie
won because our choices were just this
absolutely decrepit neoliberalism
embodied by Hillary Clinton and Bernie
and a lot of people went with Bernie
just because of how untenable the
Clinton consist Clinton consensus was
but now and but now that the choice
doesn't exist anymore now there's this
perfect person who can embody the best
of technocratic liberalism and identity
politics and also a a a challenge to the
way
things are done that does not
fundamentally undermine a political and
economic structure that they at the end
of the day are we're always down with
and and that's why I'm saying that the
that that if Bernie's gonna win it's not
gonna be because he's won over some
chunk of the political engaged American
public or the political media yeah
because they're just not their class
interest will be hostile to him no
matter what I mean we have feel about
this is like III go back to like when I
we were talking about well it's a Corbin
stuff in the UK and again like the just
mind-numbing inanity and just unreality
of the fact that like everyone now
everyone has just agreed that like he's
an anti-semite and like that's something
you have to deal with and when I said to
our you know British listeners and
supporters it's like look you can either
support Corbin and be called an
anti-semite and just like deal with that
forget about it write it off and keep
going like you would otherwise
or you can knuckle under it but like you
know either wait like just toughen up if
you if you're in it for the long haul
yeah and what I'll say about you know
with sander is this time around is like
you can be positive and only talk about
the things you like about Sanders you
can engage critically with the you know
his political rivals or opponents or
critics in the media but guess what like
you're gonna be treated the same way and
guess what if you're not a white guy
you're gonna be in still support Sanders
you're gonna be treated to even worse
so it's like you're just gonna have to
deal with it just fine I mean I just
find it very suspicious the motivations
of all of these people who will
prevaricate in order to smear someone
running to be the first Jewish president
of the United States I think that's a
milestone that we should all hope for
and we should all support there you go
but here's the other thing though and I
guess like if you're looking to engage
on this issue like I I can't like if you
supported Sanders in 2016 or consider
yourself left of liberal and like they
were progressive or even just liberal in
any way how could you in a very much
still ongoing primary possibly choosing
Warren over Sanders look I've already
made my piece of the prospect of like
voting for her in the general and that's
something for everyone else no matter
who the candidate is is gonna have to a
decision that they have to come to on
yourself based on your own moral
calculus but as long as Sanders is still
in the race why not go with the person
who has unqualified support for Medicare
for all which you cannot say of
Elizabeth Warren and I'll even give
credit to that Vox guy Dylan Matthews
for being honest and just outright
saying I don't believe Warren supports
Medicare for all and that's good because
it's like a pie it's you know it won't
happen it's an unrealistic health care
plan that we shouldn't expend political
capital on beats because Warren decently
aligns with their class interests and
for them things like Medicare for all
are about as meaningful as what the mag
of challenge wrappers were talking about
whatever and I believe I listened to the
raps and I'm trying to suss out okay
this is a young person what their exact
affinity to Trump is like what are they
getting out of this and it's it's
nothing material whatsoever it's nothing
that they could ever possibly hope to
explain it's just me azzam of signifiers
that they've adopted because the mass
media environment I think that goes for
the mirror image of that is on the
Democratic side of everyone who logs on
every day and is immersed in the news
which as Felix points out correctly is
not healthy or useful you can't do
anything about the news all it does is
increase your anxiety because you're not
moored to any greater movement or or or
thing or community anything anything
greater than yourself and your personal
consumer choices so to them supporting a
presidential candidate is just
another consumer choice another
signifier that will will help them you
know piece together a personality and
maybe some affinity with another
supporter of that candidate and again to
just underscore what I said earlier
there is a way out of it the way out of
it is not to like just stop consuming
the news or even going on Twitter but
again understanding that it's why you're
not gonna stop posting I'm so like it's
like a drug it's like you know manage
your drug habits like we do everything
else but the point is like though you
know is to take action and in it as part
of a political group or an organization
larger than yourself
joining the Sanders campaign
volunteering your time even just just
sending money whatever but just
understand that you will be called no
matter like you're gonna have to toughen
up because no matter what you're gonna
be called a racist the misogynist you're
gonna be slandered as everything that is
vile about Donald Trump and the people
who support but you know I don't worry
about it that much because I'm sure you
saw the video outside I want to say this
was New Hampshire I don't know it was
some cattle call it was either New
Hampshire or Iowa recently and when the
candidates show up to these events they
bring their teams you know all wearing
the candidates holding signs and then
they have a chant leader oh yeah it's
like it's like it's it's like it's in
Iowa by the way that was that that was I
okay yeah I was at the steak fries yeah
it was a steak party yes and you know
it's it's you they have like a
cheerleader for the candidate and
they're all singing their version of the
maggot and I don't even know what they
rhyme Buddha judge with gettin head yes
yeah
and of course like famously Bernie does
not do that he has his volunteers go out
in canvas that area instead of you know
performing for the media but anyway I
bring that because I'm sure you saw the
most recent video with that right yeah I
see you know a person there who's
probably working for the campaign but
might be a volunteer might might just be
a support
order and I think okay I'm not worried
about what that individual believes and
I don't have I can't really devote any
time to convincing that person of one
thing or another or even just bothering
myself with trying to understand what's
happening in their brain because that's
a waste of time
I think Matt you had it exactly right
the clip that I'm thinking of with
Klobuchar and her supporters yeah she
was doing the David Byrne yeah hearing
words like I'm not making sense
oh no no I don't have one runner is
running one where he's like on the on
the in line we just hear a little clip
of a life during wartime yeah let me go
that's a banger
[Music]
I just want to say amy klobuchar you
could tell that her my guard genetics
had interacted with Turkic conquerors
getting her a natural sense of rhythm
let's go baby again I would just
underscore it's not totally out of your
hands and again don't allow yourself to
be intimidated or be like you know let
someone convince you out of your own
moral sense because Bernie Sanders both
in 2016 and even more so now represents
about a once every hundred year
opportunity that's not gonna come around
again it's it's it's in your hands like
to do as much as you possibly can and
once again it's five months out from the
very first votes in the primaries if
you're looking for the exits you know
here it is that's the door number two
you can pick it right now if you want
but that's your decision well we're
talking about eternal recurrence I had
just one thought of the future eternal
recurrence linking together these two
stories and you know to to Virgil and
Felix you know your point about a whole
is both warrants you know Native
American kerfuffle I've been seeing more
and more people like bringing that back
up and also this Biden corruption thing
I can just see in a few months how
people critiquing Biden for being
intimately linked with this corruption
scandal or Elizabeth Warren having her
bad hits from her past drug up and did
the absolutely foolish Native American
thing or you know I saw the other day an
old story about how Elizabeth Warren
profited off of flipping foreclosed
homes during the scandal I didn't look
into that enough or during the collapse
I don't know I didn't look into that
enough to see if it's real or not but I
can imagine the Future past of how
people bringing up these hits against
them as things of down the the
rhetorical line of hey wonder if we
didn't nominated somebody who wasn't
just surrounded by economic and
political scandals being a used against
Bernie supporters as being like well now
you're just dupe being Trump well you're
you're echoing all the same
criticisms that the Mogga hat [ __ ]
lob at these people to the point of
being like well yes you're eventually
going to have to run against Trump these
things will be brought up they are
legitimate weaknesses and you know the
the maintainer z' of these candidates
you know presences saying like yes but
to bring them up now in support of
another candidate in support of Bernie
Sanders it's playing right into the
hands of the conservative people who
attack them later and I I don't know
where to go with that other than to
wonder what you guys think about that
and just know that we'll certainly well
with with the Biden thing I know I've
seen a number of people say you know how
dare you even suggest that there's
anything to this Biden story nobody
should be looking into any of this
instead we should be focused on Trump
and his impeachable offense and
certainly a sitting president using the
powers of that office in order to
materially benefit is re-election
prospects and a quid pro quo like yes
that is a peaceful that's something you
should remove him from office go ahead
at at the list its number you know four
thousand seventy one but the second part
of that that oh okay well because Trump
did this agus had to say then we can't
talk about a hunter Biden we can't talk
about the endemic corruption at the
highest levels that the you know
children of the wealthy and
well-connected no matter what party
they're a member of they always get paid
off in some fashion to say that you you
can't investigate that that that's now
you know well we cleared that it's fine
just because you've said it that's
obviously not that's not a winning
strategy and we of course we live
through this once before when the media
refused to look into things like the
Clinton Foundation be critical of the
practices the the investigate the donors
of the Clintons in the 2016 election
when because you know all that plays
into Trump's hands and Trump is you know
he is a unique threat to democracy that
didn't kill the story
and that just pushed the story to
right-wing media which obviously has
fewer scruples and less competence and
means that the story will mutate and be
manifested as the mixtures of things
that are true or not true but are
nevertheless lurid and convincing to
your average person that happened before
and people are demanding now that it
happens again because they think that's
smart yes good strategy and uh just
having recent history as your guide
shows that no that is a very very bad
idea to let Biden off the hook just
because the president yes should be
impeached should be behind bars like
there all this [ __ ] is gonna come up as
soon as it's a general and it also
becomes central to Donald Trump's a
relativistic argument his pointing
fingers at the opposition saying oh well
you know I owe the Democrats accused me
of being corrupt you know what about
what about Joe's son hanging out in
Ukraine it's and that creates enough
ambiguity to the average person whether
like oh well I guess they're both crooks
huh and what's so good about that and
you're 100% right that like the
overwhelming consensus seems to be that
it's ghosts or bad form to talk about
any of those things or that like
basically everyone needs to like with a
wink and a nod just kind of get on board
and you know not and I'm not saying I
understand it yeah but people are
explicitly saying oh and by the way
there's absolutely nothing to the Jill
Biden story and saying how do you know
well it's what all those people say
about Sanders and why there's terrified
that if he gets the nomination it'll be
a disaster in the general because
they're like oh could you imagine Donald
Trump telling everyone that he's a
socialist who wants everyone to have
free health care it's like Godfather had
just even a partisan Democrat I'd rather
have that [ __ ] debate in the general
than Elizabeth Warren having to try to
explain again why she said she was a
Cherokee oh absolutely it would be a
redux of the Republican messaging
against Alexandria Kasich Cortes which
just makes her more popular and shows
her positions to be sensible and as well
would enable us to have a general
election that is about a substantive
point
which is whether neoliberalism is
working or whether we need to
drastically change course drastically
realign our economy like I said this is
a once in a hundred year opportunity and
it's not it's not coming around again
anytime soon
so he probably coming I mean I'm around
a few more cycles but you know I mean
things are just gonna be worse by then
so you know who knows anyway let's have
some fun guys let's have some damn fun
switch it up now I have been waiting for
this story to drop for probably a year
now we all have and it's finally here
and boy oh boy does it deliver an
eagle-eyed listener sent us this right
hot off the presses I you know I usually
I pay pretty close attention to him but
I'm glad someone scope this out I'm
talking of course about Rod Dreher we're
back to one of our absolute Reading
Series favorites and rod does not
disappoint I almost feel like you know
we've done it so many times but I feel
like there should be a special sting for
Rod Dreher 'he's like oh my god is that
Dreier's music I know yeah yeah it
should be like um rap airhorn and that
like reggaeton airhorn and been like
Gregorian chants second chance is good
the dramatic squirrel music also could
be good news he is a very traumatic
squirrel like the organ music from
Dracula like yeah I think that's Kevin
Williams okay yeah well we'll play
around with it
but yeah like dropped out dropped out
Roger I repeat okay
[Music]
damn son where'd you find this
alright listeners a show remember it was
back in our Pittsburgh live show we did
what I think like what I would consider
actually I think maybe my favorite
reading series we've ever done on the
show yeah I mean it like it this one had
everything and it like took up pretty
much the entire second half of our live
show in Pittsburgh you can go back and
listen to that now we should help you to
give you some background for this story
but you might remember that in the in
that episode Roger air wrote a lengthy
article about a young couple from New
York City that he is close friends with
who is dealing with you know a problem
that many many marriages face infidelity
no demonic possession he had a line who
hasn't our slash relationship advice
my wife has Pazuzu with it and this is
all about how a young wife had become
possessed by like probably eight
different demons that would manifest you
know in very you know she would make
strange sounds at night that sounded
like buzzing coming from the bathroom at
DTMF a and forever I just kept saying
rod when are we gonna get the follow up
let us know how the exercise exorcism
went just I need to know more about the
Exorcist couple folks he done it in the
pages of the American Conservative I
bring you rod rares Devils of Manhattan
I guess he's like a Ken Russell fan or
something this is the follow-up to the I
think the most legendary reading series
of all time
rod rares The Exorcist okay lames so he
begins you might remember this post of
mine from about a year ago pause go back
listen to the second half of our
pittsburgh live show I guess just like
I'll give you a few quick hits just to
remind you of what that what that was
like Nathan told me the story of how
things came to this point I won't give
you too many details haven't up out of
an abundance of caution it turns out
that his wife had an eating disorder as
a teenager and try
to kill herself twice back then now in
the middle of her life depression
returned but with certain strange
characteristics that seemed off she
began to despise religious things in an
inexplicable way she'd be got to hate my
like yeah the the strictures of her you
know awful trad cath life if she starts
otally inexplicable way started
listening to anti-flag when she went to
a healing Mass there was a manifestation
that indicated that something dark and
alien was at work with her oh you know
those classic manifestations we all know
he told me that eight different spirits
manifested themselves through his wife
eight different Pilates teachers had
manifested themselves in his wife going
on he told me other detailed stories
including accounts of bizarre of ultra
guy see things happening in their
apartment and his wife being unable to
stand the presence of blessed objects
again readers if you knew these people
Nathan and his wife he would be even
more shocked by all of this than you
know okay again we did that story and I
was just like I need to know about Jason
and Elizabeth honestly [ __ ] up he left
us hanging hard okay cuz wasn't that
last but here it was last year but come
on man again spoiler alert would it
surprise you to know that there's
absolutely no resolution to this
follow-up whatsoever [ __ ] traitor
but he does give you an update on it
okay it worth its weight in gold so here
we go
The Devil's of Manhattan Nathan is his
wife I'll call her Emma
live in New York City when I was in the
city this week I went to see them I
write what follows with Nathan's
permission emma has completed the formal
catholic process to have a ritual
exorcism this as distinct from the
deliverance prayer is that the Exorcist
Exorcist had been saying over her to
limited effect that didn't work so yeah
no sense it's time to get a bit more
deliberate part of that process was a
psychiatric evaluation by a psychiatrist
to rule out mental illness or any other
natural cause for this behavior hi
everybody
she's praying for buona sera she mr. mr.
Dreier Busey was fred is suffering from
several Tufts of demons she passed that
I want to emphasize and this is rods
boldface here she has been formally
examined by a psychiatrist who has
certified that there is no known medical
or natural cause for the things that she
is suffering and that manifests
themselves through her they are still
waiting on the Cardinals approval this
is the worst psychiatrist because never
diagnosis anyone just rights boy that's
weird vibes but she goes okay so the
psychiatrist has ruled out any other
explanation for why this woman is like I
don't know demonically unhappy in this
awful marriage
because they are still waiting on the
Cardinals approval in the Catholic
Church no formal ritual exorcism can
happen without express permission of the
local bishop a fan which in this case is
the Cardinal New York City Catholic
Church can you maybe like I don't know
put a move on this [ __ ] this woman is
being haunted by eight different [ __ ]
demons there's you know what this kind
of red tape and bureaucracy this is what
Bernie Sanders wants to bring to the
healthcare system I try to sign up for a
[ __ ] exorcism and the websites down
this was a year ago that we read this
presumably this guy has been living in
an apartment the body woman who is
possessed by a demon ate David's eight
different demons they're like [ __ ] is
moving in their living room without
anyone touching it I don't know I think
like I was her I am on my lunch break go
to go to like go to a country or a place
where like there's Catholics and maybe
less rigorous like overseas approval
from the for the see maybe Diocese of
the Cayman Islands yeah something like
that
okay I paid a call on Nathan and Emma at
their apartment mo was even more
beautiful than I remembered her in
person but she looked pale and tired
well
no Rob's type we sat and began to talk
Nathan began our talk with a prayer her
face betrayed signs of an internal
struggle yeah [ __ ] bet it did having
hit you over dinner dude suddenly okay
sorry I got a Nathan began our talk with
a prayer her face betrayed signs of an
internal struggle suddenly her head
swung back into the left her face
creased and a deep voice said through
her [ __ ] [ __ ] she was instantly back
to herself and said weakly That's not me
we established this in the Pittsburgh
reading series go back and listen value
this wife is 100 percent having it on
and this is like her only source of joy
and entertainment yeah is winding up her
awful grad Kath husband and his idiot
friends by just like honey we're having
rod over for dinner
rod sits down he's like [ __ ] you both
[ __ ] [ __ ] it was okay I mean it's
okay I was a remedial writer who
benefits from the conservative welfare
circuit oh my god I'm so embarrassed
it's the demon again rods next sentence
she didn't really have to say that it so
clearly wasn't her sure if I mean again
all of this demon [ __ ] all of her
strange behavior 100% cover for her
various affairs and you know just any
means of escape from this boring
drudgery of being married to this
absolute boring prick and having to go
to Mass like every [ __ ] day so it
goes it clear it so clearly wasn't her
if you didn't know her you would think
that she was suffering from Tourette's
but again she has been examined in
detail by a psychiatrist I mean do
psychiatrists make those kinds of
diagnosis and yeah of all the thousands
of possible of mental disorders you have
none of them checked all the boxes but
again she 100% sane she doesn't have
Tourette's later when Nathan brought out
elack that someone had given them what's
the rate later when old mother mother
[ __ ] like finger-bone I need to know
later when Nathan brought out a relic
that someone had given them she reacted
instantly like a normal person would if
someone had presented a poisonous Viper
the deep why do you have the severed
dick of saint jerome that's a normal
reaction she did not in fact react how a
normal person would when they're
presented with a relic they just got
through Friday I love you so much here's
Christ's foreskin this is the real the
deep voice demanded that Mason get that
thing away from it [ __ ] your [ __ ] ass I
don't own any relics is that normal
I be naive I thought relic doesn't that
usually mean like a part of the physical
body of us yeah yeah so he's he's
talking about like a horror personal
effect I guess maybe like like a piece
of the true cross yeah a nail from the
cross something like he's got one of
those God I went I went to Kay Jewelers
and I got my wife a piece of the spear
of destiny and she [ __ ] flipped out
and assumed I was cheating thoughts
there was more I have never seen
anything like this in person the sense
of malice and destruction was intense
they intend to destroy Emma and to take
down as many people as they can
she told me that these evil spirits are
constantly telling her to kill herself
Nathan told me later that one of the
demons that uses that particular
language when Emma is about to share
practical wisdom that she has gained
from this awful experience indeed that's
what Emma subsequently did despite all
the scary stuff I came away from this
meeting profoundly inspired and more
inspired than unsettled let me emphasize
okay
rhod believes all of this like literally
how could you experience something like
that and walk away be like actually let
me inspired I'm quite hopeful about this
woman who ate demons are shredding apart
on a daily well as well the Holy Mother
Church is like well we got a few more
forms you got a five yeah so he goes let
me amp let me emphasize why because I
don't know that I have ever seen such
strong faith both Nathan and Emma are so
thoroughly committed to Jesus Christ
they know how this evil came into their
lives
it started with Emma's off a toilet it
started with Emma's grandfather who was
a high-level freemason yes yes yes
Emma's grandfather was a freemason which
is why she's being riven by demonic
forces now this is normal this is good
you nobody's required by this show right
this is also glue the Shriners like if
your grandpa was driving around in a
little car with the Fez does that mean
you have at least one demon inside of
you driving a tiny little car around in
your head like grandpa grandpa like make
the cars horn honk much duel ogre
Display of power okay so it goes uh when
Nathan and Mo were at Emma's father's
deathbed last year and called the priest
in to do the last rites
the voices began coming out of him and
the growls and the same curses he
probably just was pissed off that like
his granddaughter's [ __ ] husband was
murdered Oh priests in there to put you
know a pinkie bone on his forehead as he
was trying to like get the DMT hit and
then just exit so he goes here uh what
their grandfather brought onto their
family has been handed down through two
generations and destroyed the family in
a number of ways Nathan and Emma know
that she will be liberated eventually
this is their conviction but that for
some mysterious reason God is allowing
her to suffer a while longer that that
wacky pray here are the lessons for me
and for you readers and I've gotten
Nathan's permission to post so I'm just
gonna briefly go run this is a lot going
here I'm gonna briefly
hit these important lessons about
demonic possession number one we are all
engaged in spiritual warfare it's not
just a metaphor it's happening all
around us okay number two one of the
basic markers of it is unforgiveness
Emma said that's how these entities take
root in a person's soul
you know unforgiveness of her just awful
marriage and terrible husband and his
idiot friends who are slowly driving her
to you know madness and I'm session I'm
gonna keep watching that movie it's East
was best three their evens got nothing
to do with three there is no substitute
for prayers
these entities absolutely hate it I mean
not that bad we've had a priest praying
over her ass for a year and still
possess she's still possessed no it's
clearly not that big a deal to that
number for embrace total humility be
willing to suffer anything for the sake
of Christ I would say Nathan should
embrace that instinct and just like yeah
suffer in the terms of letting his wife
leave this marriage and family that
would be a humble thing for him to do
not continuing this idiotic charade and
finally five along those lines Emma said
keep your eyes locked on the cross she
explained that these demons will do
their best to play on your weaknesses
they will tempt you to self-pity or
failing that they will exploit your own
weaknesses sending thoughts of
depression anxiety rage self-hatred and
anger towards your husband's friends no
that's a editorialized at the end okay
finally goes on here
as I was leaving their place I thought
about the profound truth of that cliche
be kind for everyone you know is
fighting a great battle if you saw this
couple walking down the street you would
barely notice them except the same maybe
what a nice looking pair yet there's a
war for her soul going on inside Emma
and Nathan is fighting this battle too
in their home and in their marriage as I
told you it was incredibly impressive to
see the faith present in this suffering
couple Emma told me believe me when I
say that this is a blessing for us all
for this to come out for so many years
I've been fighting depression and I
thought that's all it was when these
things the demons she means came to the
surface it
been a horrible thing to deal with but
at least finally I could know what I was
up again up against and get help
the overwhelming impression I had was
not one of fright but of hope of
hard-won hope I came away both extremely
sobered about the times in the nature of
life but also inspired to get my own
spiritual life in order following their
advice it is not possible to stand on
the sidelines from a position of
neutrality they say we are all in this
fight whether we know it or not it is
better to know it when this ordeal is
finally over
got one another ten years from now the
[ __ ] I believe Nathan and Emma are going
to write a book about it oh my god I
need it I need it now
there's nothing that that really helps
your credibility like writing a book the
warrants any credibility at all they
would have Carl called into art bell
when he was still alive that is the only
credible thing you do if you have a
supernatural encounter is coast to coast
I am when I wrote to Nathan to share
this part of the post and ask permission
to publish it he responded in part I
would also add that God has supplied all
the graces needed if you had told me two
years ago that I would have been in this
current situation I would have run in
the other direction I have completely
yeah but dear Catholic Church forum I
never thought it would happen to me but
my wife has a demon several of them
actually because I have complete
confidence that as long as I remain
close to the sacraments and free of
mortal sin God will supply all of the
grace and assistance needed it sounds
like a locker room conversation for your
wife's demonic possession we know we
came here do we got to go out there now
reader believe this or not it doesn't
hurt my feelings if you don't believe it
I'm telling you though if you had sat
there with me and saw and heard the
things I saw and heard you would find it
hard to see the world in the same way
there are some of you who need to read
this and who need the hope in Nathan and
Emma's story rod if you would like to
convince people of the necessity
of this kind of spiritual warfare or
that like you know maybe anyone who's
skeptical about this you do realize that
basically everyone has a video camera in
their pocket now and that like anytime
you could visit Nathan or Emma and just
maybe like interview Emma and see if you
can get a little little dirty language
out of her little dirty talk yeah a
little spark and then I think I would
like to judge for myself how authentic
these demonic encounters are I mean it's
it's the watchword of all of all
paranormal skeptics pics or it did not
happen so there you go and what I love
about this story is I've been dying for
a fall out because I need to know how it
worked out with this exorcism what the
[ __ ] is going on what does it tell you
about how seriously the Catholic Church
which you supposedly have placed all
your faith and belief in they don't even
take this [ __ ] seriously if they did
they would have been sort of this [ __ ]
out there's eight demons in a house on
the Upper West Side let's get a little
bit hanger out for a year well you
expect them to just rubber-stamp every
exorcism through the process it should
have been approved by there's procedures
I gotta say this is a strong argument
for Protestantism because if you feel
like you're possessed there you just go
to like an abandoned Foot Locker and
like a guy in track pants hits you in
the head with a pie yeah you're cured
you don't have to wait around and fill
out a bunch of forms no people you have
relatives just lay hands on ya talking
tongues and [ __ ] favorite part of that
article is you go into the comment
section and there's a lot of people
arguing about the nature of demons and
some people say like no no you know it's
very rare that demons possess people and
said their whole mo is coming to earth
and tempting you to sin maybe sometimes
they want to come here just to hang out
in the here and now but otherwise you
know they're just all about tempting you
and I'm just reading that I'm thinking a
bunch of [ __ ] is that all you do oh
why me they're demons
there's other things you could do
they're pricks you could do other things
I mean if you lived in a hell I mean
presumably it sucks by definition it's
hell it's not great for anybody even if
you're a demon and like hanging out
hanging out in a nice apartment in the
Upper West Side like trolling some
[ __ ] trad Kappa house not so bad
because you can control this lady well
no that's the demons you know be a demon
to someone says don't get the PA yeah
you don't have to pat that power those
are fallen angels okay let's get that
straight I'm just looking at one of the
comments here maybe the demons are real
but lying I don't rule out generational
phenomenon in or out nor do I rule out
real possession where the demons give a
mixture of true and false information I
mean anyone who's seen the Exorcist
knows that okay why even is a liar why
do the demons get out of doing this just
Energy's all they got a soul they're
working what do they do with the soul
put it in hell rack it up and then what
is it oh it's a quota this is one Gary
Glen Ross these are the Glengarry leads
you gotta go and get this many souls by
the end of the month or you're fired
I know you've got a job well that's like
entertainment for them to like you know
if you've seen the Exorcist it's like to
corrupt something as pure as you know a
teenage girl or a bored housewife from
the Upper West Side like that's fun to
them they all want to get down on it but
I like that the mixture of true and
false information the true information
here is that rod is a bitch-ass
[ __ ] that's a hundred percent
real ya know I detected on that diamond
truth table Rod Dreher
oh my god rod in the comments says my
father and grandfather were masons as
were many of the Protestant white men in
my hometown there was a black Lodge -
interesting none of them should have
been part of that organization in my
view I think it is spiritually dangerous
but two things European Freemasonry an
American Freemasonry are rather
different USA USA - USA
Nathan and Emily do not claim that every
person who enters Freemasonry will
therefore become demon-possessed would
you say that because not everyone who
smokes crack becomes a crack addict
proves that the story that you've been
told about a crack addict whose
addiction destroyed his family is untrue
and crack is therefore harmless yeah
it's harmless I mean you do crack once
in a while you're fine yeah
don't do it every day yeah don't do
freemasonry every day and that you won't
pass out a generational demonic
possession that's why you need ritual
because otherwise you would just smoke
crack every day you have to limit that
to a certain period once a fortnight or
something and that that's something you
look forward to kind of like a festival
a st. stay the same oh yeah you know I
know we have our laughs at a rod and his
friends predicament but I I got to say I
admire them because they are there
living a fund like the contrast is
between them and say the people who
worship the news yeah and are really
obsessed with the whole Ukraine thing
and about impeaching Trump and they're
just making themselves anxious and
lunatics thinking that oh okay well we
got it you're right senator schatz we
got to do something about it I'm gonna
add Katie Turner and the van she get the
truth and I mean that is exactly as
Apple Trebek is whatever the [ __ ] Rawdon
is no it's mail thing your your your
life a movie but you have to choose
whether that movie is the post or is a
way better booby I mean just think about
that you're watching TV on a skin
you're watching MTM TV or you're
watching MSNBC you're tweeting just
absolutely sterile meaningless spectacle
if you thought there was a demon in your
house and every day was a war with the
demons so that didn't kill you or your
family members that is a level of of
drama and and and just excitement and
and you genuinely believe you that
there's an etheric plane that you're
gonna be rewarded for this band you also
and they have cooler relics see they
have a [ __ ] nail from the true cross
yeah they're using the ward off the
demon and if you're a lip you have a
[ __ ] $200 pod save America sweatshirt
one of the John's just you got you got
one of those [ __ ] safety pins from
the safety pin pot flooring not as good
no you're exactly right do you want to
make yourself insane with fright from
things you see on MSNBC
or do you want to watch like a dinner
plate push itself off the table on its
own yeah in a totally empty room yeah
that is [ __ ] cool
I would love there to be a demon in my
life so they live I'm inviting a demon
into my life right now I'm saying I've
tried I take astrology seriously I mean
I tried to open that door as wide as it
would [ __ ] go but I got nothing I
don't know should we like get a Ouija
board or something because I would love
to have a demon in her there are a team
if you if you guys really want my mom
knows Mammon well they don't like
calling in family favors like that it's
kind of gross honestly I think there are
demons here in this apartment I know I
think it's awesome it's you I mean it's
you you are a Jesus you're a literal
okay
are you demon or you baby he's a demon
baby real thing all right this is just
like this is like when you're like in
this is like when you're like third
grade and you're like I'm dark Vador and
also a Superman no you have to be one
now he's a demon baby
oh my Azazel I call Azazel okay I'm
gonna go I'm gonna go ultra pretentious
and old school methis Tov Elise is the
one very cool no not not from cats
the guy who tempted Faust that guy's
cool I will be Lestat oh I'm gonna be
the most classic demon character ever
Dante from Devil May Cry Chris do you
have a demon that you want to be I'll go
with Gremory oh you should be Dante from
Corey embassy can we stop talking about
these [ __ ] Dearest for one day
there you go the I mean sort of similar
to the actual sequel to The Exorcist
kind of [ __ ] but I'm hoping yeah pretty
dog [ __ ] I'm hoping for Nate and Emma
part three Legion which is one of the
best horse yes all yes time that's it
bye William Peter Blatty Exorcist
revenge
incredible movie following on Exorcist
choo dog one of the shittiest films ever
made
yes no if the pattern holds the next
update we might not get a free year it's
gonna be amazing
oh you know what you know would be kind
of sick what are the what are the guys
in [ __ ] hell arrays are called
cinemas
yeah if ha rod becomes sort of the only
humans to defeat of Seto bytes are not
demons they are Beyond Good and Evil
they're simply in a realm of pleasure
and expiry in the film associated with
the traditional Christian hell if you
are if you're out there if you're a
listener in New York City and you happen
to know this cop yes you know please get
in touch with us with any information
but you know don't interfere with what's
happening of course then you're putting
your soul at hazard should we should
become paranormal investigators that
were seized to it I think we'd be good
at who you gonna call yeah the chapel
Buster goes there so there's got to be
there's got to be a haunted thing in
Brooklyn right let's go there's a lot of
haunted let's go let's go find one let's
go find oh oh is it gonna be a haunted
latte machine [ __ ] selfie stick is it
you're gonna go to Starbucks in there
Lucic the [ __ ] goes Justin Bieber
coffee flavored coffee anyway if you've
had any demonic experiences I'd like to
like yeah hit us up because I think of
living in this horrible material hell
I'd like to imagine that there is a
transcendent realm somewhere also if you
have a line on a real relic I think that
that would be a valuable and yeah we
will buy you oh wow yeah yes if we could
get like the crown of thorns or like a
plank from the ark yeah yeah anything
you've got the spear of Longinus yeah
the spear Lodge there's something to to
to put before us and destroy our enemies
with your like if you have an ancient
immortal relic like the lunch ticket
that's all Olinsky lied about
if you add the shoe that fell off of
Hillary Clinton's foot on September 11
2016 we would carry it in front of our
army all right he'll boys and girls that
does it for this week we'll see you
again soon bye bye bye bye Walker
