I've got a very funny a very funny story
about probably one of our you know one
of our favorite characters on the show
Sebastian Gorka it's too bad James isn't
here we just did I'm too bad this story
didn't come out you know before we
talked to James but Sebastian Gorkha is
very angry incredibly angry and his
manners usually he said shell yeah and
this is from the Washington Post a
little mini reading series here this is
a war this is a war for all culture
sebastian Gorka anguished by gay wedding
on Arthur yeah that's not that's not the
hook and Dudley Moore of Burt Bacharach
movie this is the PBS show about an
aardvark long-running a children's
cartoon show a show that friend of the
show steven crowder i wonder what his
take is well I can imagine Arthur I'll
also Besson for one of the bet that the
fist meme yeah one of my favorite memes
yeah getting tuned up yep so Gorka it
says here Sebastian corker the former
Breitbart editor in White House aide
goes live every weekday from 3 p.m. to 6
p.m. Eastern Time on the Salem radio
network I don't know why the Washington
Post is just beginning this article with
a plug for his you check it out my maids
killing it away from the White House -
it's an insightful in-depth review of
the news of the week
what is the Salem Network do you guys
I'm sure it's probably one of these like
online insane right-wing like yeah like
like this founded by Cotton Mather yeah
what happened is Sinclair fire hammers
on link is the I thought he had like a
Giga it sink
Sinclair broadcasting were Gorka loves
getting losing jobs loves getting fired
says here on Tuesday he provided a new
raison d'être for America first the
title of his show and the slogan for
president Trump's approach to foreign
policy which was also used by
isolationists and Nazi sympathizers
before the Second World War
again I think to throw in there his
grandfather his family
in the 22nd season of Arthur the
animated children's series about an
anthropomorphic aardvark
Gorka who brandished the insignia of
historically Nazi aligned Hungarian
group called the Vita's ear and at an
inauguration ball in January 2007 flew
into a rage because the seasons Monday
premiere featured a gay wedding Arthur's
third grade teacher third grade teacher
Nigel Nigel Ratburn exchanged his vows
at the local well I mean that's it's not
the gay wedding it's just he thought it
was Jewish no no he actually calls them
rodents on the show I walk now he goes
these rodents are getting married he's
wrote it like figures yeah
Nigel Ratburn is exchanging vows of the
local chocolatier an aardvark named
Patrick so not only is it a gay marriage
it's an interspecies marriage as well
see how their minds are brainwashing our
children yeah you know great replacement
is happening on authors what they passed
gay marriage and then people are gonna
be [ __ ] dog there could be [ __ ]
aardvarks yeah well they got that snout
yeah that snout in that tongue for any
gender it's the dog like a sexy doctor
in your urethra this is uh this is a
this is a war for our culture and that's
why we exist here on America first on
Salem radio network I said too because
uh Gorka who briefly served as a
spokesman for Trump on national security
matters before he left the White House
in the summer of 2007 2017 saw something
by talking about the battle of
Austerlitz saw something insidious at
work the diversity showcased on Arthur
fit a pattern of left-wing demagoguery
he identified in everything from the
Revolutionary reign of terror in France
to the administration of President
Barack Obama the idea the ideology on
display and mr. ratburn's an ultra
nuptials and the rest was that quote
civil society doesn't exist friendship
doesn't exist family doesn't exist Gorka
maintained only permanent revolution
again talking about a children's cartoon
show if we
during a gay marriage yeah the
similarities between the French
Revolution and Barack Obama is that they
both wanted they both wanted to do gay
[ __ ] like you do they think that like if
they hide the truth that gay people
exist from their children as long as
they possibly can that they're just
gonna be like confused one day or
something when they see a gay person and
yeah I it doesn't make sense I really
there's just they're not I mean it's
being it's intolerance in the literal
sense that they cannot accept a public
sphere and which some people are able to
like you know just exist outwardly but I
think I think that train has left the
station gays have been high-profile on
television since the 90s
ya know well if they have to know that
this is a useless fight it's just
something to get people riled up there's
magazines for children like they're like
oh it's a cartoon so it's the gay agenda
it's propaganda they're like making your
children gay well which is not even true
but also I mean okay well gay people
exist in society what exactly yeah what
do you what do you think like how are
you gonna mask the truth from that
that's what's so weird about it I think
it's like it's the same attitude towards
like abstinence only sex education with
they're like oh if kids learn about
filth this filth yeah they're gonna do
it yeah it's just like yeah they're
gonna do it I mean like this is a party
like nothing gets kids going like you're
[ __ ] sweaty gym teacher teaching you
about had all of these old like Tory
freaks that weren't associated with
public health at all and the roundtable
trying to figure out what to do about
what was very quickly becoming like a
massive epidemic and she didn't want to
put any sexual practices on there
because she said they might it might
give them ideas because if it had never
occurred to her to do it like the whole
thing she thinks of sex is a discovery
or something and then someone else
brought up like well they should know
that also like oral sex can like you
know because people don't know that's
actually transmitted disease at this
point
and like one of the Tory MPs goes do we
even know how many people are doing this
sort of thing about it you know it'll be
like like it would never occur to them
what if I put that in my mouth you know
I got or what if the word came out of my
mouth but yeah but that that's your
thing she didn't want to have like she's
like the PM cannot sign any document
that has the word sodomy in it and it's
just like you think British people had
to be told about sodomy especially
coming from the Thatcher administration
come on wait isn't that literally the
reason why Japan still censors penises
though because like no one wants to be
the brave legislator that comes out says
what are we doing with the censorship
yeah you don't want that to be your
issue yeah I know who's gonna come I'm
the deep insulate the poor no that is
not a dignified it's amazing that these
people are almost all Christians because
the Christian understanding of sin is
that it is inherent to humanity we are
all sinners but this approach really
does say that no you were a perfect
innocent angel until you are sullied by
contact with something from outside of
you but that's it goes against the
entire concept of original sin well we
have original sin but like you know we
have to also avoid the occasion of sin
aka the knowledge that gay people exist
that's not realistic folks I think it's
a it's partially like the Rick Perry
problem right like I don't know if you
guys remember but he used to say
something like oh you know avoiding
dicks is like alcohol I mean not no I'm
paraphrasing it but he's like you know
an alcoholic can't stop himself from
drinking alcohol but you gotta fight it
and and I remember thinking at the time
like no dude that's not I'm not fighting
my my need to have dick inside of me
everyday I think partially like if I see
it I mean I crave it these are delicious
I two or three packs it takes a day this
is like similar to that a Rick Warren
the Saddleback Church guy who [ __ ]
Obama got to do his first and their
pastor job yeah that should have been
[ __ ] a clue
and about where Obama's presidency was
going but yeah he like he was asked
something about like you know come on
like you know if you're gay you're gay
like and he was just like well you know
I've struggled with my weight I'm like I
really like eating pizza but sometimes I
just gotta say no to that pizza does
that mean he occasionally yeah like it's
like I got what is but I can have pizza
what if it was actually like they were
okay with homosexual sex in moderation
that's not even a joke but that's like
actually what ben shapiro said on the
Joe Rogan show where he was like oh well
if you're Jewish and you're gay you have
to marry a woman and you have to tell
your wife that you're gay but you still
have to wear it marry woman like you
can't you can't be Jewish and gay at the
same time like it was insane that he's
still trying to justify yeah like that
too that are like okay you're gay it's
not choice and God loves you now get
married to a nice heterosexual what a
just woke I guess right isn't that well
cuz they're admitting that it's a thing
thank you definitely better than the
complete denial of the fact that like
people are gay I think more like
bareback ranch
[Music]
did you see the the interview with the
[ __ ] [ __ ] of another absolute
[ __ ] dave rubin and ben shapiro widow
needs to work together oh yeah yeah he
was on The Young Turks are you a
basketball with the boy every Sunday
holy [ __ ] and after he left and started
talking [ __ ] and he would still come to
the Sunday basketball sessions he's
actually pretty good
I mean he's not bad at basketball his
life yeah yeah and you know Dave Rubin
is like an openly gay guy who's now you
know [ __ ] caping for like the most
evil people on the planet sure assuring
them that like I'm cool with you and
they're hey they're cool with me right
and it's like they will stuff you in a
[ __ ] camp like the first chance they
get dude like there's no never learned
yeah I will be the favorite homo yeah
like a Dennis Prager yeah he really
likes you dude but are you sucking with
a ben shapiro he was like you know Ben
you know I think um you know maybe like
you know you move me a little bit on the
abortion issue you know
because this whole thing is like you
know open debate and he's like you know
I could uh you know move you on the
issue of like having dinner with me and
my husband and Ben was like I'll think
about it I'll think about it yeah and
he's like can you give me dignity I've
listened to you rant on about how about
[ __ ] yeah he's like me and what Ben
Shapiro said to him was like you know
well it's just just a party you know
with you and your husband and it's not a
gay party I can you know I could do that
what does he think parties are well he
was like I think it's a key party to or
more gay people in a room they
immediately start having said yeah oh
god so uh just the fiduciary Gorka here
he says the permanent revolution pursued
by arthur gore Christine had to do we
those were the same glasses systemic
because the permanent read you do with
family he said his issue with Arthur
which began in 1996 and Arizona PBS Kids
was personal My Children news to my
children used to watch author or 15
years ago about her rodents like
creature that lived and had fun in his
cartoon world
first of all art marks are nothing like
rodents you idiot yeah [ __ ] together the
the new season of Arthur will have one
of all those teachers at school a male
teacher married to a fellow male rodent
yeah there he's creepy he just he just
sees things that are like rodent or
Jewish like rodents
he made his children watch Arthur's so
that they were like less anti-semitic as
he thought that that was the repetition
yeah I think it's good it was woke for
my time the right-wing commentator and
rabble rouser you guys did you have any
questions about there being a culture
war ladies and gentlemen he asked his
listeners did you have any doubt in your
mind it says it's not it's not the first
time that themes in the animate of the
universe have drawn conservative ire in
2005 PBS chose not to distribute an
episode of postcards from Buster a
spinoff
following Arthur's rabbit confidant
which include that rabbits are rodents
by the way which included lesbian
mothers
decision came after Margaret Spellings
then Education Secretary on president
george w bush raised strong and very
serious concerns about the episode many
parents would not want their young
children exposed to the lifestyles
portrayed in this episode she wrote the
PBS executives okay okay like its basic
like you know tipper gore conservative
kind of thing like I get but why does
Gorka have to talk about it like he's
delivering the tears in the rain this
this particular culture war issue and it
is fine I'm fine calling it a culture
war issue like is the purview of PTA
moms like why is Marcia why are you
sounding like Bain when you talk about
it you can't make it cool take control
of your super I've seen things you
people wouldn't believe Road aardvarks
[ __ ] and sucking rats on a CBS
children's TV show and doctor a son I
think I think you get a right though
because it's like the Will and Grace
ship has passed I think it's just all
about like anything that has to do with
children like that yeah like they think
it's like educating kids about things
like it's not even educating kids it's
just like what really drives them crazy
they're just there is the show is like
it's not making a big deal out of it it
just assumes that this is a reality that
these kids will encounter in their daily
lives so kids would ever go to their
teachers wedding that's weird that's
bizarre sure but I don't know hasn't he
been is teaching for 25 years in this
loop by the way how [ __ ] stupid is
Arthur come on you know why cuz his
teachers are gay I just I just love that
you know the the grand conspiracy of the
Frankfurt School and all these cultural
Marxist was to make child shows like put
gay character oh my god yeah
Arthur yeah that's what it comes down to
like this was the entire this was the
stick that's what they wanted and and
and they're finally winning they are I
guess this was the long march through
the institutions and the institution was
PBS yeah but socialism that's yeah right
public broadcasting and disgusting Kubek
broadcast
