I'd like to I'd like to transition into
sort of a longer set up the the reading
series for this week the reading series
for this week is something that it's one
of these things I've found on Twitter a
while ago and I've been waiting for like
sort of like the rust youth that
sailboats story or the Rod Dreher can
and I've been waiting to introduce this
character and like this person this
particular story line into the reading
series and I think today's is the right
time to do it and that storyline is the
saga of Boston Globe colonist jeff
jacoby and his teenage son now this one
is very obscure because jeff jacoby is
like a d-list David Brooks like I said
he's been writing for the The Boston
Globe and he's like sort of your
bog-standard like sort of square-ass
like nerd conservative he's like he's
like David Brooks except he writes for
the Boston Globe and I'm just gonna give
you like I'm just went to his like at
the Boston Globe and just clicked on
jeff jacoby and I want to give you like
the taste of like what his most recent
articles were just the headlines here a
sad spectacle in st. Louis
if character matters electing Clinton or
Trump would be a moral disaster why
Boston can learn from Houston's
non-existent zoning code campaign so
they just you know this is just boring
conservative dad pundit stuff I do like
that one I see it
the one you were gonna start saying
campaigns as long so long they make
children cry this is gonna wake up the
children this is what this is going when
murder is punished with death
fewer criminals will murder just based
on match nap yeah bull your math get rid
of more of them
now the reason holy [ __ ] Jeff Jackie
wait wait wait wait I got a drop if you
like this is looking over my shoulder
here but the reason that jeff jacoby
makes a perfect entry into the chapo
canon because for years now jeff jacoby
has been doing a thing where he writes
an annual column that is an open letter
to his son his son is named Caleb which
is like it's like Cody
it's like Colby like this is like it's
right
some real Karl Diggler chapo [ __ ] like
this is this is right in our mythology I
just want to point out like if we scroll
back up to Jeff Jacobi's picture he
looks like white Arthur like he is one
of these like news cartoon avatars or
whatever that looks like dr. Walker that
looks nothing like the real person like
member when Jennifer Rubin at the
Washington Post had that like almost Al
Hirschfeld style poor this is this is
jeff jacoby writing in the Boston Globe
reading open letters to his own [ __ ]
son and just imagine that you're this
kid alright there's there's gonna be a
turn to this story but like here's the
setup this is primo jeff jacoby hours in
his annual open column to his son the
title of this is from from 2005 the
title of which is where did our sweet
boy go in parentheses underneath the
headline it says jeff jacoby writes an
annual column in the form of a letter to
his son Caleb bear with him fight I like
that it's applied like we can't stop
them this contract you don't have to
read it it begins my beloved Caleb I
used to think that I had this fatherhood
thing down pat for your first five or
six years you were such a charming and
lovable kid friendly bright cheerful
affectionate that I imagine mama and I
must be doing everything right I figured
we were natural-born parents the way our
people other people are natural-born
pianists or natural-born first basemen
but then quite to my surprise the sweet
and lively Caleb we were so pleased to
take all the credit for was abducted by
aliens and replaced with a sulky
sarcastic grouch
we didn't recognize it over the course
of the past year mama and I have
repeatedly found ourselves wondering who
are you and what have you done with our
son dissolved in a great start a [ __ ]
great start okay maybe that's putting it
a little strongly you're still a
terrific
child and most of the time it's a joy to
be your father
I'm delighted by your interests and
enthusiasms enthusiasm because we having
it a caleb becomes preeminent he's
expected to have enthusiasm he says from
your voracious reading to your strength
as a swimmer it's great that you're
still innocent enough to enjoy a we need
the Pooh movie yet sophisticated enough
to play chess and makeup crossword
puzzles I guarantee you those crossword
puzzles slightly making out crossword
puzzles with the answers to every one of
them are like bone kill me Dad he
praises his son for another paragraph
but then he says but as splendid as you
so often are Caleb you can also be quite
awful at times your manner is shockingly
disrespectful you mimic mama and make
faces when I scold you you respond you
respond to criticism by laughing or
rolling your eyes or you mutter whatever
with all the disdain that your command
you get surly or angry and snap at us
rudely you've even written poison pencil
notes and left them for us to find quote
I hate you you're a bad hard Jesus if
you are Caleb Jacoby [ __ ] get in
touch with us please later view you on
the show here's a [ __ ] turn if I
didn't know you had just turned 8 I
think you were going on eight year old
writing I hate you you're a bad mother
the fact that there is a strange wolf
like dog that follows you everywhere and
barks at people it's very disturbing to
me I sometimes you're a great kid other
times your eyes turn black and you say
the true name of God today
he's like Caleb let's not forget our
disastrous trip to the baboon sanctuary
[Laughter]
the nanny kill herself he's okay you
guys uh When I was your age
discipline consisted mostly of spanking
and the threat of being spanked and on
the whole I'd say that my siblings and I
turned out all right but I just fairly a
great parent but I don't really like
hitting as a form of punishment
so I'll just [ __ ] own you in the
national newspaper but mama and I do
want you to learn that bad behavior
leads to bad consequences just as often
as we use incentives and rewards to
teach you that good behavior leads to
good consequences when you insult a
teacher or babysitter we make you write
a letter of apology when you act crudely
at mealtime we send you away from the
table for other offenses you've had to
write punishment sentences or lost the
use of a toy he goes on he says you know
all my love Papa okay so that was in
2000 I'm gonna say if I would gonna say
absolutely a hundred percent that if
you're all denied a choice after being
bad do you want your dad to spank you or
do you want your dad to write an open
letter to you in the local newspaper
about how you're a shitty kid I would
take the spanking okay so that was in in
2005 so let's let's follow up with
another one in 2009 like I said he's
still doing this is an annual now this
one he opens talking about Passover the
Jewish festival of freedom and he goes
on describing a lot of the Seder rituals
and quoting from Exodus bah-bah-bah four
cups of wine four terms of redemption
for questions the number for certainly
plays a prominent role blah blah blah
band thinking about another quartet the
four sons in the Bible four types of
shows Ninja Turtle so he goes on in any
answer uh
you know one son is wise one wicked one
simple and one doesn't know how to ask
which son are you the other the headline
of this column is which son are you
Kayla holy this is literally like the
Kliq article like which one of my
garbage are you the dread Laramie Kayla
yeah look look at the illustration he
actually has an option of which four
sons just like the Hebrew Bible or some
holy Sh
cravings by Abraham Ben Jacob 1695 which
one of these trash sons are you guys in
a way you have been all of them
you were once a bright and lively
toddler too young for questions taking
everything on faith with speech came
simple curiosity along with an endless
train of ingenious questions about
everything now at age 12
okay he's growing up now he's almost
like he's about to go through puberty at
age 12 you're becoming quite the
adolescent with a streak of wicked
obstinacy quick to challenge your
parents views and ask why their opinion
should carry greater weight than yours
is this AJ soprano this is dick Doug dad
which is the real you Caleb are you the
budding philosopher who has taken to
insisting lately that nothing really
matters last December you came with me
to Washington and a reception at the
White House loved the woman now I smile
at the recollection of how engaging you
were how pleasant your company 424
delightful hours nothing provoked an
argument or spoiled your amiability not
even when you hungrily forked a mouthful
of what we thought you thought was LOX
only to discover standing there in the
state dining room buffet line that you
were chewing on a mouthful of
excruciating Lee sharp ginger like life
is sometimes like that it feeds you raw
ginger when you think you're getting
smoked LOX I'm pretty sure that's that's
a line from ironic right that's actually
from the book of Ecclesiastes there's a
time for Locke yeah there's the time to
be my fat stupid wicked over son if
you're like a fan of [ __ ] Kevin
Jacobi or Jeff Jovi I don't care
what your jeff jacoby you're like yeah I
like what he says about black people
pulling up their pants but that weird
letter you writes about how shitty son
is every year he says no one escapes
occasional disappointments or unwelcome
surprises and one aspect of maturity is
being able to meet them with equanimity
I can't say you always manage it but
just as you're just as your 12 year old
body increasingly prefigures the man
you're becoming your behavior and
temperament today even with the storms
and stresses of adolescents are
gradually resolving resolving themselves
into the good upright character that I'm
confident will be your hallmark tomorrow
like holy [ __ ] I can't wait to hear what
happened I have a prediction
dear Caleb stop jerking off in the guest
bath earlier but I did love in the all
these columns or he refers to his wife
as mama mama-mama and I very
psychosexual it's very Texas Chainsaw
Massacre okay so those are two actually
we should link to like there's a whole
[ __ ] archive of these letters to
Caleb and you can like sort of
participate with Jeff watching Caleb
they're gonna fail son grow up okay
oh yeah yeah it's like it's like a fail
son boyhood yeah okay I can't I
mentioned that there was a turn to this
story no this is for 2014 so this is
after he's been a teen for a while it
looks like I'm reading here this is from
mass live this is from Massachusetts
website I'm reading for the headline now
missing teen Caleb Jacobi son of Boston
Globe colonist jeff jacoby found safe in
new york why would he want to run away
missing teenager Caleb Jacobi is safe he
was found in Times Square in New York
the Brookline police said there's a male
someplace to go it's like Midnight
Cowboy
the Brookline Police announced via
Twitter just before 9 p.m.
Caleb Jacobi has been found safe and
well the Brookline Police Department
posted on its website around
45 that the Brookline police working
with other agencies were able to provide
information to the New York City Police
Department that Jacobi may be in the
area of Times Square Jacoby 16 of
Brookline had been missing since 12:30
p.m. on Monday he is an 11th grader at
the Maimonides school a Jewish day
school in Brookline Jacobi is the son of
Boston Globe colonist jeff jacoby of
course in this article they don't
mention the fact that you've been
written about his father a year jeff
jacoby said via twitter our prayers have
been answered we are thrilled to hear
from the Brookline police and our
beloved son caleb has been found in a
safe words can express our gratitude for
the extraordinary outpouring of kindness
and support we have received from so
many people all we can think of at this
moment is how wonderful it will be to
see Caleb again and shower him with love
can you imagine Caleb in the back of
that car being driven from New York City
[ __ ] hate to be Caleb he was he was
sleeping in the Bubba Gump shrimp
bathroom again perfect ending to a a
perfect story I mean who could have
predicted that he would have run away
from home yeah it does make me want to
know the I want an update I want to know
what what he's up to these days you
think he ran away like he couldn't have
accomplished much when he ran away like
he ran away just so he could like play
iphone games in a Uniqlo on 42nd Street
oh I see my son literally flees because
I humiliate him ritually in a national
that I want to find the one thing where
he addresses just give me a second I
want to find where he addresses his sons
disappear the I can't believe you kept
this from us for so long this is so good
okay now this is from the foreword yeah
[Music]
jeff jacoby breaks silence on teenage
son Caleb's disappearance he says in his
latest column of panic and anxiety upon
discovering that his son was missing
what are you supposed to do when your
teenager has been gone for hours six
hours 12 hours 24 hours when you've
called the police and
the information all the information you
can think of what I like about in all of
these things are like the outpouring of
support he's so happy to really they're
really skirting the fact that this kid
just ran away during the worst ordeal of
our lives my family experienced the best
that human beings are capable of he
wrote that was a blessing I'll never
forget or ever cease to be grateful for
you know he was so pissed at Caleb for
this Caleb you made me look like a
[ __ ] [ __ ] he wrote like a 5,000
word article about our shitty kids but
he couldn't publish it
he couldn't like edit it down so he's
just like he puts it in he put it in his
desk and like when he gets really mad he
reads it and like see more it likes it
was too explosive for a Boston Globe and
Seymour Hirsch was like IIIi think I
could get the manuscript about how
shitty caleb is in the laundry room
review a book side I get you know you
know like I talked to the judge you know
my general flames ended caleb is even
shittier now that he was age 12 he was a
horrible horrible office child at 12 and
he is a massive piece of [ __ ] at 16 and
the people have to know he's a complete
[ __ ] listeners if you know Caleb Jacobi
or are Caleb please reach out to us I
want to know about your lot your your
few days of freedom in the city
what you did walking around Times Square
there's a few precious moments and you
were away from your yeah how did that
slice the sbarro taste did it tastes
like freedom
oh yeah you know the daddy's League
makes them eat shitty kosher food so
excited to get like Hawaiian pizzas
oh my god oh man so I don't know if we
can I mean like I said there's a [ __ ]
ton of these letters - Caleb maybe we
can dip back to them
I'm so glad jeff jacoby is now in jeff
jacoby and his bail son caleb is now
officially in the chapo canon and their
characters i hope they will live forever
I'm getting the I'm getting all those
columns tattooed on my back full sleeve
of them momento yeah I do not trust
Caleb don't believe his lies he didn't
just go to soccer practice he's in New
York he ran away
