hello do you have a letter of marque to
enter my residence yeah hey ran does
your neighbor just notice that you've
been eating a large ditch between our
property lines and I don't think that's
covered by any easements with the city
wondering what's going on buddy a ditch
is only a moat when it's not fully grown
now I'm building a moat
because in the Articles of Confederation
they enumerated all right to put sea
monsters that demarcated our property
between us and hip hop gangs jackbooted
thugs and planned parenthood oh well I
mean I understand that totally ran but
you know my grandkids have come over
here sometimes I don't want them falling
into a moat especially if there's gonna
be sea monsters and I really need to
know more about that if I'm gonna sign
off on any of this
well according to maps of the Orient
they have a new type of alligator over
there the likes of which those of us in
the West have not seen but your your
your grant your grandkids they don't
have a right not to be eaten out right
to have a moat you don't have a right to
not enjoy my moat yeah I'm not gonna
enjoy your Beltran I'm gonna need you to
fill in these holes before someone gets
hurt please the only thing that's
getting hurt is the Fourth Amendment
you've illegally entered my property and
tried to enforce your personal
preferences on my right to have river
dragons tributary creatures in all
variety of slimy slimy crustacean tops
that will prevent outsiders from
entering my domicile and harming me this
is it this is your last chance Rand I've
been a good guy about this I sent you a
bunch of letters you've got to fill this
[ __ ] hall I consider myself a
gentleman but you've left me with no
choice I challenge you to a debate okay
how about your ass debates my [ __ ]
foot how about that well since
those can emit words I fail to see how
that is gonna happen I could see why you
you're so your objection to the mote is
so great because you can only understand
force oh oh oh this Oh argument happened
absurdum all core ad hominem Oh God Oh
God Jesus you know you you hear a perma
ban from now residence
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
fighting Rand Paul Rand Paul's in the
senators no pain don't hurt it's not in
the Constitution
mind over matter if it's not in the
Constitution it doesn't matter you're
telling me I know come food no Rand you
just get your ass kicked all the time
he's like if you had allowed me to dress
like the matrix-12 then this maybe if I
would have turned differently I have
dreadlocks but they're not only white
gentleman but albino one could say it
makes you think makes you scared it
makes you excited so out of every US
Senator to get justice in a fight
Rand is definitely the funniest oh I was
thinking about this like Ted Cruz would
be the most psychically satisfied for
just have that awful nose just pushed
into his head mom cogs giraffe neck
flying its [ __ ] song there are people
that probably deserve it more than his
easily the faux yeah I'm just squawking
about the NDP na P while they're
stomping on his head
oh yeah he's like it's all things go
back to Eminem this is the scene an
eight-mile where he gets jumped by the
free world on stage a debate he's like I
did get jumped by all six six of you
argument ad absurdum z-- yeah you went
to Cranbrook that's a public school
public schools are not as good
I saw Rand Paul speak at the Kentucky
annual gun day however because it is
Kentucky it is actually biannual and it
is a three-day weekend
I'm not joking but they still call it
Kentucky annual gun day they just it was
just extremely popular but he was like
the keynote speaker I guess and he got
on stage and literally no one gave a
[ __ ] at all because these are like
Keagan people to just want to look at
like oh oh like a you know a civil war
[ __ ] musket or some [ __ ] yeah they're
nerds they're nerds and not the correct
cut type of nerd nice Constitution yes
you should nerds they're just the second
of my like tattooed on their back
yeah guns for the same reasons like the
good reason like guns they look cool and
you're cool when you hold one and no one
can ever tell you what to do ever again
boring reason I don't know how you come
back from getting nearly killed people
have need to remember this he got five
ribs broken and having punctures that
could have killed him by a [ __ ]
retired what kind of doctor is he he
invented some anesthesia an
anesthesiologist is the hardest rival
ophthalmology I've got a real [ __ ]
degree by the way [ __ ] that
community is incredibly violent hold on
can you read this sign he puts it up
it's just a fist yeah but I got a
retired anesthesiologist who invented
some sort of like back back pain vests
that like helps you with lumbar support
and he just nearly murders you in your
own home well he has an amazing lumbar
core could he speared him like Goldberg
problem is like if his neighbor was
Brian Dawkins a 20-yard running start
like how many more ribs who's exactly as
tall as him six to five eight it's just
squared off see it's confusing because I
would have thought that the
unpasteurized milky drinks would have
more calcium but apparently less well no
I I mean he needs I mean he's not the
libertarian his data says that is
drinking collodial silver he probably
has metallic ribs you could never do
that
he's like Wolverine like it confirms
everything I've ever felt about Rand
Paul is that he's just never had respect
from anyone ever no that's true
literally like he said something - he
said something like criticizing Trump at
the debate Trump was like why are you
even here
and it's like
and it ended his campaign literally
ended it he is the Jeb Bush of
libertarianism yeah like he is the fail
son who's just gonna let the family
heritage go to ruin by being just
pathetic and charisma list oh oh hello
hello listeners you're joining us just
sitting in on this conversation we've
been having all our marks and we have
our news friends
