what I want people to take away from
this is that you should be able to talk
to almost anyone about Bernie maybe not
exactly anyone but almost anyone and
it's actually pretty easy I've been a
socialist for 10 years like a
dues-paying one and in that time I've
done all kinds of things and I didn't
plan Parenthood work and I did like
Occupy Wall Street hated every minute of
it
um and I did political campaigns and all
kinds of social movements I can honestly
say that Bernie Sanders is the greatest
political opportunity of my lifetime
they don't happen that frequently and we
have a real shot we're going to have to
thread the needle and we might not win
but if we don't I don't want it to be
because I didn't do everything in my
power possible I maxed out on donations
and I'm gonna donate a bunch of my time
and I hope you'll join me in some way so
I wonder if you could just sort of talk
to us about what we can do to help
Bernie sure and I appreciate that
because there's a difference between
saying I support somebody and being
willing to do what's necessary now
here's the bad news
I don't have any magic bullet there's no
one thing I'm gonna say that's like oh
that that's the one thing I gotta do and
that'll just fix everything
politics is winning politics is
ultimately can be a real grind it's not
I wouldn't call it boring but it's not
tedious at times yeah right I mean it's
a grind it's a slog right so a schlep
right there you go like like the idea is
that you have to talk to as many people
as you can and ideally you're talking to
as many persuadable people to bring them
out to vote I mean I can tell you this
last year when my wife ran for state
legislature in Colorado I mean a race
like that it was sort of in Colorado was
just kind of a big primary I mean sort
of small mean of teeny version of
the Burnie primary and ultimately it
came down to you got a knock on as
iliyan doors right you got a knock on
the right doors like you you ideally
want to knock on everyone's doors but
like you can't knock on every one source
you gotta talk to knock we're not doing
like with the overly deterministic
Hillary thing where we're like we're
gonna knock on the same three doors ten
thousand times but there's better doors
than others right so all of that is to
say how do you communicate with the
right people so the first thing that we
have is is the app burn know if you've
seen the app it's pretty amazing okay I
know that yeah so everybody can go to
app Bernie Sanders calm which will
basically help you know the people in
your communities who you can work with
to canvas your neighborhood and then you
basically take down the feedback that
you get from canvassing which helps the
campaign in an ongoing way communicate
with those potentially persuadable
voters you can also check out map Bernie
Sanders calm to find events in your
community that are happening organizing
events phone banking events and like a
lot of the events are actually pretty
fun you know like phone baking parties
are really fun I'm gonna have one they
are and then there's soon gonna be on
our website I'm told it's not there just
yet but we'll be there very soon which
is that the phone dialer where it will
basically help you mate like connect you
with the calls of the voters that we
need to get out people who have either
been open to the campaign or or our
potential volunteers of the campaign and
I want to be clear this is not like
super sexy stuff this is like you know a
real slog I would also say this I would
encourage people to make them fun I mean
when we did phone banking for my wife I
mean it was like you know we had beer
and pizza was you know pretty fun time
but then again you're calling like a
zillion people and just talking to
strangers and sure it's not raising the
red flag at the Reichstag that'll be
later but so let's hear phone banking
right door-knocking right we've got the
apps
right and every little dollar helps yes
absolutely I should have said that yes
obviously contributing you can do it
become a monthly contributor at the
website Bernie Sanders comm you can do a
one-time donation I mean look
he's not I'm sure everybody knows this
he is not relying on big-money voters
I mean he's not doing these huge you
know fundraisers for you know with large
donors so he needs as many people to
give as possible and and by the way I
should I should mention if you can give
that's great if you know five other
people who you can each throw in five
ten fifteen bucks that's great right I
mean you can hold a small dollar
fundraiser for Bernie I mean there's you
know you can get in touch with the
campaign about you know surrogates and
organizing these events and then again
those events are available on on map
that Bernie Sanders calm right well like
whether it's time or money or both
everyone can help in some way and like I
said we have a real shot here I'm going
to be doing everything I can and I hope
you'll join me will include all of those
links on the episode description if they
fit uh-huh and what I would do that
about one last thing I want to say which
is the the idea of us having a real shot
I mean this campaign really does have a
real shot and your point about it a real
shot for the kind of candidate bernie is
coming around so infrequently I mean I
don't wanna I don't want to say it's a
once every hundred year for Naaman on it
is pretty rare I mean it's we if you
really look back on history it is really
rare that a candidate with his politics
who is building an a grassroots movement
that is independent from the power
structure I mean I don't know if there's
a lot of exam I don't think there's a
lot of examples of that in history that
has a real shot to actually win a
national life they're not particularly
in America and I gotta say I just I
didn't really see Bernie coming I it's
not my sort of political socialist
tradition I believe that you know what
people like Bernie won't bring socialism
well no he won't
I firmly believe very traditional
Marxist that only an invigorated trade
union movement will bring socialism
but a birdie could really help out
getting the boots off of the union's
neck and to me that is going to be
absolutely essential it's a big deal
it's a presidential election that might
actually make a difference usually they
don't it's huge it's you
[Music]
