[Music]
hello everybody happy Monday it's your
chocolate half house for the week
sitting in with me is Amber and Matt and
we've got uh producer Chris grabbing a
mic as well for you oh hello and it was
an Phyllis and and the we that we waited
little ghost Phyllis I hope you guys did
a good weekend thanks again to everyone
who came out to see us in Providence on
Friday that was a blast thanks again to
Necronomicon I'd like to kick things off
this week this little news item that
confirms once again Matt Chrisman our
own prophet of doom needs to be more
responsible with his powers I was
speaking of course about news that
President Trump suggested multiple times
to senior homeland security and national
security officials that they explore
using nuclear bombs to stop hurricanes
from hitting the United States according
to sources who have heard the
president's private marks and been
briefed on a National Security Council
memorandum that recorded those comments
Matt would you like to take
responsibility for why you made this
happen well the and the funny thing is
this every time every single time this
happens I do not remember it first of
all yeah not his fault he's more like
the Oracle of Delphi it's just like he
has a bunch of diet cokes and maybe like
half a tab of acid and it just comes to
and it's involuntary like oh he's drunk
he's drugged up and controlled by like a
cadra I know pre that's right you were
the one buying me one adult human being
on in Brooklyn that still drinks regular
coke that's right that's why I'm gonna
be dead soon no somebody had to point
this out I don't know how they found it
I don't know how this happened but some
random hero online said hey lol look at
this after that story came out and it
was from August 25th 1917 two years to
the day from when this story was
released where I tweeted no matter what
the squawking libs and the media say
launching a nukes at hurricane Harvey is
a ashtag Alpha move Thank You president
Trump
hashtag mega and I had of course just
tweeted that and then totally forgot
about it and somebody reminded me of it
and people like oh my god your powers
are too great but people need to realize
I'm not making these things happen I am
merely closing my eyes opening my third
eye and then asking what is the
stupidest thing that could happen and I
just because her hurricane Harvey was
coming it was headed towards Houston and
I thought Donald Trump's president he is
the stupidest man on earth
what would the stupidest man on earth
was also president United States do
about a hurricane and I remember stories
from a different hurricane when it was
gonna hit Florida about local public
health officials having to tell people
don't shoot at it and I just thought
well what did you shoot all your
problems exactly but what would be the
US President version of shooting a
hurricane launching a new cabin so I
just surmise well he would think that
and it turns out yes that's exactly what
he thought because he is the dumbest man
on earth and all you got to do is just
get into that mind space just go out of
your brain and remove all of your
critical thinking skills all of your
knowledge of anything and just become us
just a like a star child and just
imagine you're the horniest angriest
stupidest star child with unlimited
power what would you do and then you end
up predicting not making predicting
what's going to happen so this is a
Jonathan Swan and Axios says here asked
how the briefer reacted the sorcerer
called he said something to the effect
of sir we'll look into that Trump also
raised the idea in another conversation
with a senior administration official a
2017 NSC memo describes that second
conversation in which Trump asked
whether the administration should bomb
hurricanes to stop them from hitting the
homeland a source briefed on the NSC
memo said it did not contain the word
nuclear it just said the president was
talking about bombing hurricanes some
conventional Patriot missile battery
into the eye of a storm that is more
reasonable because if it doesn't work
nothing is alright we we tried whereas
if the nuke doesn't work then you just
have a radioactive
which seems like it's gonna be the worst
yeah that's a sci-fi original movie yeah
atomic hurricane yeah I love what I love
about the sir we'll look into it line is
we'll look into it is also the thing
Trump says when he has no idea you're
talking about and so it makes me imagine
a White House that is just this constant
circular motion of looking into it it's
like the Malkovich scene were they
talking Malkovich is it's just people
constantly opening doors being like well
we can do it we'll look into it we'll
look into it
well sir we're looking into it it's just
everyone bluffing either their
unwillingness to go along with your
insane scheme or their total non
knowledge what you're talking about
yeah either way the only response is
looking looking into it really into it
very strongly because sir is what's the
only thing he's looking for truly just
want someone to call him Sir you can
probably just get away with nodding and
saying that's a great idea sir and then
never following up on anything and it
would never need to go anywhere which I
assume is like 90% of how his team oh my
when it come with us when it comes out
after he's done and people are like
hawking books the number of things that
he will have suggested that people just
said we'll talk about that and then they
just never follow up on he forgot is
gonna be astounding like let's do
Jurassic Park why already that we'd make
so much tax money it's charged people to
see the dinosaurs which is what they're
doing in knew him or knew him yeah yeah
yeah the Saudi yeah Saudi a city of
tomorrow I'm surprised that he didn't
hear about that story and go why can't
we get a Jurassic Park I mean I would
like Rob Lee did I'm telling you I would
like to get on the record I think I said
this on the show before I am pro doing
Jurassic Park okay yeah like you know we
can make it happen we can make it safe
we can make it affordable and make it
quality make the cute we can make the
cute ones which is the most important
thing we want a plesiosaur we want a
cute little brontosaurus with a
dangerous ones too just asking for
trouble
yeah great the great bovine lizard cows
yeah you got this right you said the
lesson is your asset park is not don't
clone dinosaurs it's pay dentistry
exactly the guy programmed your entire
[ __ ] park
one like a [ __ ] lot of Apple to your
you're gonna be a skinflint pay the man
what he's owed yeah you're Bart's gonna
be fine another eccentric Scottish
billionaire ruining the world through
contracting practices I like though in
Axios because it is you know news for
smart people they always include the big
picture section which sort of like you
know let's zoom out it just says here
Trump didn't invent this idea the notion
that detonating a nuclear bomb over the
eye of a hurricane could be used to
counteract convection currents dates to
the Eisenhower era when it was floated
by a government scientist that
government scientist dr. strange like
right after they admitted it where they
were like maybe we could use these
things to dig no everyone keeps trying
to defend bad ideas with like hey people
thought that this was a good idea 60
years ago like that's not a defense that
means we decided against it no but there
was shortly yeah in the in the 50s right
after we developed the bomb and we're
like well what can this thing do well we
use the bomb right because we realized
very quickly especially after the
Soviets got it oh we can never really
use this cuz that would end all life on
Earth so we're just gonna use it as a
deterrent is there anything we could use
peacefully is there a peaceful time
useful easy weapon we can use it to
relocate island population yeah but
there was a whole field of crackpot
science of what I think there was talked
about using them to like it's like a
fast way to like level brush and stuff
yeah like like like farming you could
just nuke someplace and then clear the
land and you won't be like send people
if it's great for serious you can you'll
clear the land for the next 50 thousand
years yeah it's great being in DC once
at the Smithsonian and seeing some kind
of like talk or like it's basically when
they do like their equivalent of the the
water world extreme stunt right at you
know for some Sony and science and they
the scientists come out and he was
talking about in the 50s oh he was old
as [ __ ] he was talking about in the 50s
he was working at like Los Alamos or
something at applied nuclear physics lab
and he was like yeah we had this
high-powered on point radiation
generator and during our lunch breaks we
would just take
sucker outside and putting in a trash
can and throw some hotdogs in the bottom
and heat and heat him up for lunch and I
was thinking like that sounds like a
terrible idea and then he was like and
that's how we got the microwave and it's
just like them you being like what else
can we do with radiation hot dogs great
now that's a consumer product
it's true you guys are everyone thinking
too small it's pathetic but my favorite
quotes from that Axios article because
they asked a bunch of people and
apparently none of them could deny it
cuz he actually did say it but the spin
was so good this one guy says a senior
administration official had been briefed
on the president's bombing suggestion
defended Trump's idea and said it was no
cause for alarm his goal to keep a
catastrophic hurricane from hitting the
mainland is not bad his objective is not
bad so he was about the road to you know
things being great and fine and okay
being paved with good intentions true
and let me go and let me just really
thought she was pretty
her hair was really shiny and he just
wanted to pet it and then this other
person says what people need here when
people needed the president do is they
say I love the president who asked
questions like that who's going to ask
tough questions it takes strong people
to respond to him in the right way when
stuff like this comes up for me alarm
alarm bells weren't going off when I
heard about it because but I did feel
somebody is going to use this to feed
into the crazy president the president
is crazy narrative I just like he's
asking the big questions ok this is like
you know like like like business mindset
book so they're just like successful
executives just create a space for like
you know no idea is too out of the box
yeah let's just have a rap session just
throw it out there throw some ideas out
there or it sounds like like a preschool
or kindergarten teacher trying to in a
parent-teacher conference trying to
level with the parent that their kid has
ADHD the gentlest way of being like well
let's start off and say he's got a very
inquisitive mind so uh when you put the
class hamster in the blender and he said
he wanted to see what it looked like the
myth has been so persistent the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric
administration publish an online fat she
fact sheet under the heading tropical
cyclone myths page let's say it's apart
from the fact that this might not even
alter the storm
this approach neglects the problem that
the release radioactive fallout would
fairly quickly move with the trade winds
to affect land areas and caused
devastating environmental problems
needless to say this is not a good idea
I mean yeah that that is the problem
with nuclear weapons essentially really
it's also the problem with hurricanes
they don't hold still if we could just
get them to hold still it would be fine
we're gonna build a wall around the
Hurricanes yes
you know what he's so into walls why
isn't he going that direction
don't you imagine if they did that and
then like it not only did it not affect
the past of the hurricane it just made
it like a category 5 radiation storm
this made landfall and just created just
carve this swath of like totally like
Chernobyl uninhabitable for ten thousand
years
gotta kill all the dogs sorry no that
wouldn't happen if they were
conventional nukes I don't think it
would be that long but you might get
some mutants out of it that'd be cool
still gonna Connecticut the dogs yes see
mutants you know no we're gonna create
the MER race well the point is you know
thankfully we won't have to worry about
that
that nightmare atomic hurricane
situation because Donald Trump is being
challenged in the Republican primary
he's done he's not gonna be president
anymore because a sane rational
reasonable conservative has stepped up
to the plate to be the lonely warrior
the lone Spartan they sent one man for
this mission and that man is Joe Walsh
you guys remembered Joe Walsh oh yeah
life's been good to him
uh he's you know been a a punchline on
Twitter for basically as long as I've
been using it and as Felix said it's
funny because they've managed to find
the one guy who's a worse father than
Donald Trump to you know take him out
this this utterly quixotic presidential
campaign is of course being sponsored by
Bill Kristol so you know with that guy's
track record of success
this should go pretty good it should be
a cakewalk mission accomplished
well I don't understand this because
he's already been challenged bill weld
is already running against him he was in
Iowa we missed him he was at the soapbox
one of the days we were there but it was
in the morning and it was raining sir
like [ __ ] that but he was there yeah
challenge so what the [ __ ] here's a
problem bill weld though does not have
conservative bona fides he like bill
weld is aim classic northeastern
moderate Republican joe walsh is a guy
who is every bit as paranoid deluded and
racist as donald trump so he he is the
man who has authenticity what's the
problem with trump again then if this
guy's joe walsh
his probably trump is that trump is
crazy and he is probably the only
right-wing yaker who believes everything
about the russia stuff and literally
thinks like trump is an agent of russia
and our national security has been
compromised by his presidency so he's
just a full spectrum delusions he's got
he's got everything
he's mr. burns is you want a variety
yeah yeah you want a potpourri of
political it makes it that makes him
seem like he has the the psychological
profile of a classic undecided voter who
is not actually a political moderate but
just believes that yes birthright
citizenship be ended tomorrow and trump
is absolutely an agent of the kremlin
mm-hmm you know just a total grab like i
sort of you know what he's kind of a
right-wing tulsi little grab bag
probably not worth going into you know
each one of Joe Walsh's thoughts but
suffice to say he has a lot of things to
say about black and Latino crime rates
the ungratefulness of black people in
general and specifically Michelle Obama
and why you can say things like redneck
but not on national radio program he
also tweeted right before the election
2016 he said no ever eighth I'm voting
for Trump on November 9th Trump loses
I'm grabbing my musket who's with me
which one that's insane and to what are
you going to do with them
skidooed I mean I don't think you're
gonna really scare anybody with a with a
muzzle looking rifle at least he's at
least he's staying consistent with the
founders principles yeah those are the
arms come on he's a Ren Faire Republican
you see he's the only good one come on
Don Henley awful Glenn Frey that's the
[ __ ] pizza actually I like a good
Glenn Frey song lyin eyes right that's
okay it's a good start the funny thing
about Joe Walsh though is that the this
news of his you know totally fraudulent
and pointless I you just gonna try to
replace Joe Scarborough more pointless
yeah nothing absolutely nothing is of
course being heralded as a brave and
necessary by some of the brightest minds
in the Democratic Party I'm thinking
specifically of Neera tanden
who said something along the lines of
you know we always tell Republicans it's
time for them to fix the crazy in their
own party and stand up for you know
what's right even if we don't agree with
them politically and then when one does
we just you know make fun of him and
it's just like there's no [ __ ]
difference in Joe Walsh and Donald Trump
no at all right that's the truth that
we've been trying to pound in people's
heads and this is like a lifeline to try
that well yeah no it's not the case also
specifically joe walsh who seems to have
a weird hang-ups in different ways than
Trump and it would probably if he were
to say be magically become president
have just as insane and incompetent of a
administration as Donald Trump would
have the moment I'm kind of averse to
like the I think the left kind of
resists sort of you know doing kind of
field work on the right which does have
like diversity in it so I avoid things
like oh there's no difference between
them but there would be no difference
between like I think their
administration's like I think that's
more accurate to say the difference
would be would you rather your dad show
up to take you to the Yankees game and
punch you because you weren't wearing a
suit or you wait for him to show up any
numbers
which one's better he says yeah to your
average Republican voter that's a major
distinction he appeared on this week
with George Stephanopoulos who said and
he said here I helped create Trump
there's no doubt about that he's nuts
he's erratic he's cruel he Stokes
bigotry that and that's my job
no and said that he says in a recent New
York Times op-ed that Trump inspires
imitators but he brought up his own
share of controversy at times I
expressed hate for my political
opponents we now see where this can lead
there was no place in our politics or
personal attacks like that and I regret
making them we'll see what happens when
Trump you know immediately starts making
personal attacks on him and just calls
him deadbeat Joe well I'm sure he'll
have to hold his fire now because he's
you know like you said auditioning for
joe scarborough's job well the one guy
actually who could run against Trump in
the primary and his threatened to do so
and would represent a distinctly
different type of because I think that
Joe Walsh
I mean his his hangups and his fetishes
and his his culture worship it's all
very similar to Trump's thing but Mark
Sanford old Appalachian Trail Mark
Sanford himself our homie from Ozzy Fez
he has threatened to run against tribal
areas because he couldn't even hold his
[ __ ] house seat but the thing about
Sanford is he everyone just keeps
failing up though I mean it's not a bad
it's not a bad leg well they fail they
they start like lunge upward as they're
falling we'll see if they get caught
they lurch to success yeah we'll see
it's gonna take back from Argentina no I
mean he's not gonna win but I'm just
saying like given the way that people
behave now like it does seem like it
doesn't matter how many times someone
fails I mean at least for Democrats we
know that to be true I mean look up
someone like bait oh yeah yeah this
Democratic primaries definitely opened
the door for people who [ __ ] up their
one job to try to attempt a much higher
job yeah but Sanford has a brand of
being like a actual real-life deficit
Hawk the kind that only exists when
Democrats are in charge and then they
disappear soon as Republicans are in
charge
and Trump is of course going hog-wild
spending like crazy doing all the stuff
that they horf we're horrified that
Obama did not a peep from literally
anyone except for Brave Little Toaster
Mark Sanford and I would like to see him
run because he wouldn't just be saying
some superficial [ __ ] like oh he's
too erratic or whatever or some fantasy
stuff about Russia you'd be saying he's
got a trillion dollar budget deficit
we're Republicans were supposed to be
horrified by that and then watch him get
0% across the board and just be a nice
final empirical reminder that that is
complete horseshit and none of them
actually believe in it yeah moving on to
a you know an actual political contest
the Democrat the Democratic side new
Monmouth poll out today has Bernard
Sanders in the number one spot for the
first time in any national poll or
basically tied with Warren but up more
than Warren for the last one um what is
I know I know it's exciting to think
about you know our boy in the number one
spot sitting in the catbird seat but
what is the correct way of thinking
about polls of Democratic primary at
this point well certainly you're talking
about a national poll yeah which is
pointless for the very simple reason
that there is not a national vote in the
primary there's only specific states at
specific times and all those polls are
gonna be shaped by the results in the
states that came before them so the very
premise of a national primary poll is
already kind of absurd and then you have
the fact that you're six months out of
the election and how must of it most of
it is name recognition it really is not
anything to put any stock into which
means that when there's a bad one for
Bernie and there have been a number of
very bad ones those are the ones from
Monmouth doesn't matter exactly because
like Axelrod was trying to own Bernie by
saying oh you're don't you're going down
yeah Bernie's gonna win no matter what
the polls say oh yeah just things like
that are nice for a moment's frisian but
they don't mean anything you know but
then they if you look at state polls
of Iowa and New Hampshire i think bernie
is currently leaving in New Hampshire
and very close in Iowa or like within
five or six points of Biden in Iowa and
I think like you know taking you know in
aggregate if you look like all of them
the ABC the thing where Sanders went on
David Axelrod show this weekend and
Axelrod tried to get slick with him and
talk about the polls and he was like now
you know in in the polls you know you're
you're holding steady at third or fourth
and he was just like nope let me stop
you there
I got a pull right here he pulled polls
out of his jacket I have them swept it
out I have the receipts right here sis
you will be sipping on that know and
like Axelrod isn't the only one who does
it like the way they talk about the
media like they always describe Bernie
is just sort of like third or fourth but
like almost every poll every single poll
shows him holding steady at number two
under Biden the guy who's currently his
brain is leaking out of his ears yeah
you can't even get he confused New
Hampshire with Vermont the other day
which that doesn't matter the people
people can answer don't care about being
that was really amazing because it's the
new [ __ ] Hampshire primary the only
reason any politician spent any time in
[ __ ] New England is because of one
thing the New Hampshire [ __ ] primary
the only primary in New England of any
consequence and this [ __ ]
calling it Vermont the other interesting
thing about this same poll is like you
know as you said like a national poll
don't it's like it's it's it's not too
ominous like just don't put too much
stock one way or the other in it at this
point however like the tabs or whatever
about like who likes who is very
interesting because you know it cuts
against the media's favorite narrative
about Bernie Sanders just really simply
among white voters Warren is at 27%
Biden at 18% tied with Sanders at 18
percent among non-white voters or voters
of color Sanders is leading at 22
percent Biden is at 19 and Warren is at
14 and then if you look at voters who
are between 18 and 49 Sanders blows away
the rest of them and Biden is it pulling
at 5%
is under the age of 50 so very
interesting I mean again you can't
project who's gonna win or not based on
that but what you can do is form a you
know a semi accurate you know portrayal
of who these peoples bases and support
are coming from I wanna go back to just
something you were just saying about the
media's like glossing over the Bernie
campaign because just on the way over
here I saw something from like out on a
news week or something that was like Joe
Biden has the popularity Ward has the
plans the Democratic primary is
narrowing down to its its top leaders
this is what they do though it's like
they they either like there's everyone
acknowledges that Biden is leading in
the polls but they were trying so hard
to make it seem like Warren is nipping
at his heels and as known as number two
why didn't that Warren or Harris yeah
and that is not the case Bernie solidly
at number two everyone else under trying
to Gaslight Bernie but they can't
because he is a strong woman and I you
know just as you uh you guys did the
dipstick on into Trump sprin you know
last episode I feel like partially my
role is doing the dipstick into the pot
save brain which I feel like my view
into liberal mindset and the thing that
I have been noticing most recently is
the hilarious extent to which they
casually don't mention Bernie it's like
they'll say stuff like you know we have
a great cheer of candidates all the
frontrunners are great
Biden great Warren great kamala great
bay Doge written like list everyone and
just not mentioned Bernie yeah or be
like who's got the ground game in Iowa
Iowa Tommy and Tommy well you know
Warren is obviously running a phenomenal
campaign and I hear who Harris is
ramping up a lot and oh yeah actually is
it at building or camp yeah that's funny
because I just heard in Iowa that Bernie
has more volunteers than basically every
other campaign together and that's and
just know just a little subtle no
mention and I honestly don't want to
attribute maliciousness I just think
that they don't even think about him as
a real force or a Democratic president I
bit somewhere in the middle
yeah like I think it's that they are
incredibly repressed yes like they are
repressing it so hard
yes
there yeah yeah in in there you know
secret lockbox in their brain they they
know but they try not to look at the
secret lockbox in their brain I do also
want to bring up a great unintentional
gag that I tweeted about last week that
was a Tommy referring to Bernie stump
speech as old you know he's been playing
the his same hits forever he's got to
get some new material like you wouldn't
want to go to a chance chance the rapper
show and have him played just all of
acid rap would you and the unintentional
Eris's of that is that the chances new
album is largely considered vastly
inferior to his old health material but
even more stupidly Bernie's been rolling
out hit after hit after hit over the
last two weeks the criminal justice plan
the grit did his fleshed out green New
Deal plan sounds like it's been on fire
whenever you go to see like any artists
any artists and they only play new
material you're furious ah you're
[ __ ] furious yeah I also when you go
to see chance the rapper perform
I'm also furious I like that no problem
with me song alright so let's talk about
yeah like the the the solid number 2
candidate and by that I mean Elizabeth
Warren who I'm looking at the cross tabs
here and she is just blowing it out of
the park with voters who have non-celiac
gluten allergies I remember like last
week we talked about how Kamala Harris
is backing away from Medicare for all
despite co-sponsoring the the damn bill
that Bernie wrote any time you hear a
Kamala's hair Kamala Harris asked about
the Medicare for all you can just hear
them of a truck backing up in the
background you can't even call it a heel
turn because she was never convincingly
a face for even a second you're just
waiting for this to happen now new york
times of course is covering Kamala's
comments to donors in the Hamptons in
Silicon Valley where she was again
distancing herself from Medicare for all
or my favorite saying we need to phase
it in over ten years
president it's like
love that that's considered political
savvy we're gonna build this incredibly
complicated huge system that is not
going to benefit anyone well I'm
potentially running for any office I
mean Matt you say that but it is
absolutely 100 percent savvy because
when it gets derailed it won't be on her
hand she's like look I tried but and
well right and and and they won't help
her get elected but at the end of the
day her her being president matters much
less than the health insurance industry
maintaining its profitability yeah so
yeah as you said Matt not much of a heel
turn for you know Kamala Harris cuz
didn't expect much of her to begin with
but sweet elizabeth warren you to what
say it so this is courtesy of the new
york times what Elizabeth Warren is
quietly telling Democratic insiders hmm
with phone calls texts and handwritten
notes the Massachusetts senator is
continuing an unusually determined
outreach effort to show party officials
she is aligned with them she leaves
little post-its in their lunch box by
Jonathan Martin says here when senator
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts
addressed a few hundred donors last week
at a fundraiser for the Democratic
National Committee she called for big
structural change and that that is the
name of her RV that was tooling around
Iowa as well hunk if you're ready for
big structural change the Connor
O'Malley immediately pulled it batshit
followed her to the fair I know you got
some graphs in there we seen those
papers your uh and hurled her familiar
populist lightning bolts at the forces
of concentrated wealth but MS Warren did
not attend the event just to respiring
but it just sounds like lightning bolt
lightning but MS Warren did not attend
the event just to recite her stump
speech he had another more tailored
message for the Democratic Chuck writers
state party leaders and committee
members who were gathered at the elegant
Ehrmann San Francisco last year I was
running for re-election but I didn't
hold back she said
reminding attendees that in the midterms
she had helped more than 160
congressional candidates and nearly 20
hopefuls in governor's races in fact I
raised or gave more than 11 million
helping get helping get Democrats
elected up and down the ballot around
the country and send contributions to
all 50 state parties the National
Committee's and the redistricting fight
her point was easy to grasp
while her liberal agenda may be further
left than some of the Democratic Party
establishment would prefer she is a team
player who is seeking to lead the party
not stage a hostile takeover it as MS
Warren steadily rises in the polls she
is working diligently to protect her
left flank lining up with progressives
on nearly every issue and trying to
defuse potential attacks from supporters
of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont
I'm with Bernie she responds when asked
about what is perhaps the most
contentious issue at the primary race
medicare-for-all drop out yet yeah
really good way to be with him
drop out an endorsement yet publicly and
even more in private she is signaling to
party leaders that far from wanting to
stage a political revolution in the
fashion of Mr Sanders she wants to
revive the beleaguered Democratic
National Committee and help recapture
the Senate while retaining the house in
2020 in phone calls text messages and
small gatherings before her rallies as
well as one-on-one meetings over hot tea
at her Washington condominium MS Warren
is simultaneously courting and assuring
Democratic town leaders statewide
officials and the Chiefs of the
country's largest unions so it's that
revived the DNC it's that Ben garrison
cartoon where Obama's defibrillating
marks except it's Liz Warren and Tom
Perez every time I see him I'm like that
[ __ ] could use a few [ __ ]
jolts yeah
it is though like they are just
acknowledging and boasting about the
fact that her campaign strategy is to
meet and reassure elites except for the
only people on there that she listed
that weren't was like union leaders
which like means nothing and is also
[ __ ] because like the head [ __ ] has
the most [ __ ] like I mean whatever
Warren might get like SEIU or some [ __ ]
like that but like Sanders has the
Sanders has the real Union support
Sanders has Sanders is the [ __ ]
nurses well Sanders has been campaign
like as as part of his every campaign
stop has been attending like strikes by
like with the the telecom workers
Sanders is the is the only friend of
Labor that's running so uh I think
what's interesting here is I I remember
reading them that you know Warren is
interns protect her left flank but also
separate herself from Sanders and an
angle I've seen her take at a recent
campaign event is where she talked about
she's like look I want a well fax I
don't support the wealth taxes I'm angry
at anyone I were because I'm grouchy and
like I think that's what we're seeing
like the the line of I'm not gonna say
attack but line of differentiation that
she's trying to draw between her and
Sanders here is that you know yeah I
don't want a revolution I want good
sound policies and cuz I'm mad at anyone
or I want to you know upset anyone or I
just want things the war on smoothly I
just want people I fear I just does do
like she's earnest I believe her she is
genuinely naive about this [ __ ] we can
spread enough of it around that we can
all be fat and giggly they could keep
her houses and everything will be fine
this is interesting you know we saw her
at an in Iowa say that you know she does
support Medicare for all however so
what's at this and I had to check see if
it was true if you go to Elizabeth
Warren's campaign website under the
issues tab Medicare for all is not
listed yeah that the most popular social
democratic reform which is so overdue
and you just don't mention it and like
health care in general is not listed
under any of the issues tabs and it's
all stuff like here like we go to the
website really the thing that people
care about the most I think one of the
major senses you get when you listen to
Elizabeth Warren speak a lot I think
this is one of the reasons that she
appeals to her specific base of like
basically well-educated though possibly
struggling you know upper middle class
people is this pitch that we can we can
make things better for everyone without
fundamentally changing any power
structure like no one is going to
fundamentally gain or lose their
relative level of powers we're just
gonna like switch the knobs you know and
and I think that that fun
she's a technocrat like I said she wants
like new brake pads on the sole harvest
yeah we're gonna pull the the margins
down a little and I think that that
constant reassurance that no fundamental
power relations will change is is
reassuring to the people who who are
smart enough to acknowledge that there's
something a fundamental imbalance that
cause something like Donald Trump to
happen but don't want to flip anything
over you know that and that pitch is
very reassuring to but who also believe
that the election of Donald Trump was
some sort of odd mistake yeah like some
sort of weird accident like some sort of
like just like someone was asleep at the
wheel this is all just it's all it's all
technocratic stuff that's like what Liz
Warren is she's a technical although I
will say that one of the things I took
away from Iowa's it was hearing
literally every candidate say here's my
pitch that's totally unique to me and
nobody else says Donald Trump is not an
aberration he or he is a symptom not the
disease like every that is the party
line everybody from [ __ ] SWA well to
C stack to Warren to Sanders now how
come they're like operating on these
like yeah interestingly though about
that pitch Chris is that they all say
the same thing he's a symptom not the
disease but they all have a different
disease that they're talking about
it's like divisive this yeah at the
incorrect number of boats in our we have
too many votes many votes that's why see
stack is a pimp
because he'll tell you his issue is both
I'm an admiral you think I'd want more
boats no there's too many boats that's
why he's an honest man and we should
support him when he doesn't go I think
that interview finally come out I mean I
think I think I think the thing with
warrant to keep in mind is like you know
if if you dear listener you know have
any you know relatives or friends who
are you know warren curious or leading
that way in the primary i would you know
encourage you to you know gently
confront them or at least try to you
know bring them around bring this this
knowledge you know to bear that there is
in fact the difference between her and
and sanders so that is is the important
and the reason it is is because like yes
i think like you know our policies if
you like go down the list it's hard to
find anything
there's outwardly objectionable and I
think he like you know has a point of
view that is broadly sympathetic to our
politics but like or your politics
rather the the idea is that like we've
seen what happens when like an affable
well-meaning person but without any
fundamental desire to fight or challenge
anyone gets in the White House and it's
eight years of Obama I mean she would
say no but the fact is is if you I mean
Obama I don't think had any actual
interest in changing anything he was an
absolute fraud from the get-go but even
if he'd wanted to he would have been I
am strong by the fact that he was
committed to working within these
structures and he was essentially
presented with a fait accompli of
bailing out these banks and without the
willingness to leverage his public
support to create a counter
countervailing force against that he had
to go along with it and the thing is if
Warren has the same idea of we're gonna
tinker with things you're gonna elect me
and then I'm gonna go to work then even
if she did have an earnest desire that
Obama never did to actually use a
economic collapse to restructure and
break the power of banks or whatever she
wouldn't have the wherewithal to make it
happen because she would be facing the
same structural forces Sanders is the
only one who is explicitly saying the
only way this is gonna work is I get in
there and I leverage a continuing
mobilized mass of voters and and and
unions people who are able to exert
power from outside government in order
to help me push forward any kind of
change and and Warren just doesn't have
clearly doesn't have the interest in
creating that sort of mass and politics
she [ __ ] she [ __ ] up went over a
picket line in Ella in Las Vegas for
Christ's sake every defense of Warren
and every sort of like boosterism here
from the media
boils down to this and if you read it
over and over you'll start to realize
you can almost like consolidate at all
it's like Elizabeth Warren sure is
running for president over and over
again if you just look at it they're
just like look at her she is running for
president look at her run for president
there she is
you can't say she's not running for
president like that's the entire thing
and that is supposed to be like a sort
of virtue in and of itself she's not the
only candidate with plans it's like they
all they all have plans and I think you
know like I said you're listener if you
if there are people in your orbit who
are you know Warren supporters I think
you can win them over to the this is the
right side of history with a little
gentle cajoling and seduction I mean if
they're a Biden or Harris supporter they
should just be harassed I see I disagree
entirely armed i disagree entirely okay
so you think you think they need to be
dumbed as well I honestly think that
you're going to have a better time
talking to like some Rando working-class
Biden supporter I was like I don't know
things under Obama seemed less like they
were on fire all the time then you are
like a liz warrants and who's like look
we need carbon credits for my Prius I
honestly believe that I think depending
on the type of Biden supporter yeah and
the type of war and supporter but again
there's like five Warren supporters well
not according to the polls well we all
know how much we put into polls I also
know is I mean I don't I don't think
we're going to get the the Prius crowd I
don't think we are I think we can get
the sort of passive Biden voters and
that is another thing about the those
that I think that Amber is probably is
probably right about that is that the
people who are really invested in Warren
are interested enough to like be aware
of like Bernie Sanders and his policies
and Warren in her policies but do
genuinely feel committed like no Bernie
Sanders goes too far he is too
compromised as a candidate candidate his
toxic 2016 campaign Barry Hillary
yeah exactly we need these Elizabeth
Warren specific set of going that far is
actually more desirable then but Bernie
that is going to and a lot of Biden
supporters are just kind of passive yeah
that's true I mean they did CNN did have
a big piece about how or like they begun
to start talking about how the DNC is
starting to worry that there's this
enthusiasm gap where like nobody really
wants to vote for Biden they just feel
they have to
I mean other than I think what you're
thinking of you're just thinking of like
media people who are apparently a deeply
cynical but like the average Biden
supporter that such a thing could even
exist in the current moment is just sort
of going with the flow what they think
is the path of least resistance or the
safest option Harris supporters on the
other hand is saying demons they've got
to be completely uh yeah El Diablo well
they have they are past help they have
they've looked into the the the black
sarcophagus and been infected with the I
Corps well everybody I've ever talked to
who seems like leader judge mainly just
says oh but he seems nice and smart he's
so smart
those people I think could be one
because you're like why well you what do
you like they get an exemption cuz we
literally got nothing going on yeah but
but if you're just committed to somebody
like I think body judges base is
primarily younger heterosexual women
that have their bachelorette parties at
gay bars all right you guys have
convinced me but I'd like to move on now
you know talking about the presidential
race to an issue that speaks to why
virtually every intractable political
environmental and social problem in
America is almost impossible to fix at
this point barring some sort of miracle
and I'm speaking of course about the
death of David Koch or IPE to a dead one
he sure is dead and you know what long I
would like this to be a gloating episode
that this piece of [ __ ] has finally
stopped breathing like you know John
McCain or whatever but I gotta be honest
with you there's not a lot to gloat
about right he died at 79 and the simple
fact of the matter is that the Koch
brothers Charles and David the political
machine and infrastructure that they
helped create oh well I mean almost
entirely on there I mean there are a lot
of other right-wing billionaires and
like there's a lot of moving parts in
this but there were a big chunk of it
the political infrastructure that they
created
that is the reason why taxes and
inequality taxes has never been lower on
the world the inequality has never been
a bigger why is a public public
transportation sucks ass everywhere why
100 percent continue without their
living yourself why in a way that like
John McCain dying means there's an end
of a certain kind of yes exactly and
worse than anything
they basically won oh yeah like they set
out to create a political movement that
would strangle any form of public good
in America you know hamstring any state
intervention and they're you know awful
attempts to cook the planet through
fossil fuels or whatever the [ __ ] else
they got their money into to avoid any
kind of tax liability or just
essentially make American society and
the world a more poisonous nasty place
to live for anyone but them and their
cronies has worked it has been an
incredibly successful political project
of which honestly they built a machine
and fundamentally like altered the way
politics
functions and I mean despite how evil
they are I mean I think there's a lot to
be learned from them in that if you
think about the way I guess I won't say
left-wing billionaires but you know
billionaires of the Democratic
persuasion spend their money it's like
on you know ticky tack [ __ ] that
comes to the million strings attached
you have to like jump through a thousand
hoops to pry 30,000 dollars out of them
to do like some you know nonprofit
effort to create street art and the you
know or raises the property values of
the buildings they just bought there or
they're like Tom stare and they get
divorced and decide [ __ ] it I'm gonna
run for president a lot of stuff to work
out and I'm gonna do that by going to
[ __ ] county fairs all over the
country I mean if anything the Koch
brothers in an insane way I've had a
hand in the creation of this show
because there wouldn't be so many
ludicrous right-wing columnists and
institutions to make fun of were it not
for their money and like yeah so this
this this vortex of dark money and
political influence that they've created
they
let someone like Jonah Goldberg have a
career and they don't give a [ __ ]
they'll they'll give they'll give
millions of dollars to outfits like the
National Review or the Federalists to
embarrass themselves every single day
they don't give a [ __ ] if it ever makes
money or if it's even coherent at all
they just want their guys out there
getting that message out and you know
what it worked you think you think the
Koch brothers gave a [ __ ]
did that Bennie Johnson clone that they
got to do a video about it give a [ __ ]
that they probably gave that group like
a half a million dollars to get 60 views
video 60 views from their natural
follower followers and 60,000 views from
it no they don't care because they know
the long money always wins out and like
the a million dollar a few 10 million
dollars here or there it's [ __ ] chump
change to them yeah I mean it's because
what matters is a political project -
yep limit the scope of the government's
ability to act on behalf of the public
good think of how many articles in the
federalists they paid for where it's
some Opus Dei psychopath writing about
how like the pernicious influence of the
Portuguese on America and they don't
care because it's also in there with all
the other [ __ ] that helps like just
spread Schaffer out and keep everybody
completely bamboozled at all times and
hilariously though you know when he died
I saw a lot of commentary from you know
people who receive checks from them and
by that I mean the entire libertarian
movement all 200 of them I had to show
him in to be like sorry to all the
ghouls celebrating the death of a human
being today but like David Koch did more
to cure cancer encourage immigration and
like fight war than you ever will that
is not what a ghoul is a ghoul is
someone who feasts on the dead so you
are the ghoul being like please don't
take my money away yeah and so like you
know Reason magazine loves to remind
people that the Koch brothers are not
conservatives they're libertarians and
they're actually they were against the
Warner
they're against restricting immigration
they're against you know ice they're
against cancer and for the Arts I guess
and I'm just like what's so fraudulent
about that it was exactly what his
fraudulent about libertarians in general
and it's like okay maybe the Koch
brothers were personally against the
Iraq war they still created a political
machine that did nothing but elect
Republicans who wanted the Iraq war and
you put and elect Donald Trump and put
people immigrants in our concentration
care no there was no worry they were
very unhappy with Trump they did not
want him to win they're right
oh no no no lately Fogg now in his
obituary for David Koch at the intercept
it's a very good piece David Koch's most
significant legacy is the election of
Donald Trump and it's all of them like
you know Americans for Prosperity which
is their outfit put more money into
Wisconsin and Michigan than the Clinton
campaign did I guess they got over it
they their initial displeasure with
Trump the funny thing is is that they
could have put more money in Wisconsin
and Michigan than Clinton did by
accident like a rounding error on a
check for them and they outspent the
Clinton campaign in those states right
quit me and I I believe it was David
Koch it was him or Charles Charles isn't
one with glass like the skinnier one
with like the the skinnier one and David
was the more lurch looking one okay I
think it was David I saw him with Frank
with me at an America's prosperity event
in 2015 in the Columbus Ohio where Jon
Taffer from bar rescue spy yes which is
the main reason we went we didn't care
about it you're just a forehead there
were also a bunch of presidential
candidates there there was Bobby Jindal
Jeb Bush I think Rick Perry showed up
they Ted Cruz all the winners know Trump
and Taffer of course blew the doors off
he was fantastic but Koch came out and
the one thing I remember from his speech
is at one point he like did a joke and
nobody laughed and he kind of pointed at
the crowd and said you're supposed to
laugh at that and then they did
he commanded his minions to laugh at his
humor here's a here's a good example
what I'm talking about this is you know
a reason magazine the libertarian life
and legacy of David Koch and he goes
here he was also among along with his
older brother Charles one of the one of
the Koch brothers who are regularly
invoked on the left as a primary cause
of all that is bad in American politics
such lazy demonization belies a life and
fortune spent trying to build a better
world through business politics and
culture one in which people are not only
more prosperous and tolerant but free to
run their own experiments in living in
1980 in 1980 Koch was the vice
presidential candidate of the
Libertarian Party whose platform that
year endorsed the then radical notions
of legalizing drugs ending penalties for
victimless crimes and full acceptance of
gays and lesbian the platform also
called for the abolition of the CIA and
FBI in the wake of the Church Committee
findings of widespread abuse and
including on blah blah blah always
against the critic of the Iraq war
another 21st century interventions none
of this [ __ ] means anything cuz all of
their money bought was an even more
insane right-wing party Republican Party
did I ever tell you guys about my idea
for a reality TV show
spit so I thought that we should take
the people from Reason magazine and film
them living in a house with the
libertarians that I grew up around so
you would get like George Washington
University brought a briefcase to high
school guys living with like those
people at the at the Bloomington farmers
market who walk around packing which by
the way has existed since I lived in
Bloomington like just those weird
libertarian nerds like actually it's
about liberty around like the gun-toting
quiver full freaks that live on
compounds in Indiana you do what did you
not actually pay to watch that show
compound house yes indeed I would you
yeah you do kid nation
[Laughter]
also my other favorite thing about the
the Koch family is like they mentioned
them
it's like brothers Charles and David and
the other two brothers one of whom owns
as we talked about dresses up like a
cowboy and lives in a ghost town of his
own creation Nevada
Reba tends to be a cowboy the other day
the other one Charles and David
conspired to blackmail out of the family
trust yes with not because he was a gay
yeah they had proof they had like they
used the private detective to get
evidence of his homosexuality and they
threatened to show it to their dad who
this you might expect there's a literal
Nazi his dad was I'm gonna say an
alleged literal Nazi but um no like
their dad Fred Koch helped found the
John Birch Society among other things he
was a co-founder the John Birch Society
and made the family fortune building oil
refineries for Hitler and Stalin
so got sides like a great capitalist he
was like look I'll build all the
refineries for anyone who wants to pay
me but he came away from that experience
returned to America with a deep-seated
fear and hatred of communism because he
did seen its horrors up close and a
deep-seated admiration for fascism
saying quote I think the only admirable
nations of the world today are Germany
Italy and Japan
he liked the Third Reich so much he
hired a fanatical Nazi governess to be
the nanny for Charles and David oh that
makes so much sense Annette had an Ilsa
yes they had a Frau for business was
there I was their nanny it explains so
much I bet they still suck their thumbs
in the jane mayer book on the cokes she
said that the the nazi nanny taught them
she toilet trained them to poop on
command she just like smell and they
would just be with defecate there are
various Catala djegal people Wow
and also not surprisingly look the
reason magazine in the libertarian
movement of which Charles and David were
you know
you know godfathers of its just about
freedom it's about social freedom free
to be you and me and like they said free
to pursue our various experiments in
living what they mean by that is taking
homeless people in the basement and like
sewing their body configurations to see
if they could still live it's it's all
just to create a society in which they
feel psychologically capable of pooping
when they want to rather than when a
stir and an older German woman tells
them to but um you know through this
intellectual network of complete cranks
and lunatics that which they fomented
and were a part of would it surprise you
to find out let's say they were quite
close to and published the work of a lot
of how shall I put this World War two
historians with a a novel take on a
story that we all know let's just say
they had some questions about what went
on in Central Europe in the nineteen for
you were talking about the ancient
aliens guy ya know ya Reason magazine is
published Holocaust deniers over and
over look anytime you have libertarians
you're going to have people who believe
the wrong side won world war two that's
just the fact that you know it's you
know yes they're apparently Pro gay
rights as well or in the words of Nick
it's not that there are Holocaust
deniers they're just bad at math was
just trying to do a attempt to brave
social experiment in personal freedoms
he had different experiments on the
living I'll just say it again like this
[ __ ] line about libertarians that
they love freedom so much yeah sure they
do but when like the rubber hits the
road when it comes down to am I going to
be taxed at a reasonable rate or can gay
people be alive we know where their
money is going to end up going and
supporting it's also just like a non
ideology like that's why that's why you
know Liberty House would be such a good
show because when you talk about people
who identify as libertarian you have a
bunch of like
incredible nerds and then weird crypto
Nazis and then you just have like a
bunch of weird like homesteaders like
there's nothing coherent about
libertarianism whatsoever the people who
sort of run the the historic
intellectual tradition of libertarianism
are like [ __ ] freaks are like weird
insane freaks and when they talk about
like look there's all kinds of people
that are libertarian someone yeah and
they would [ __ ] hate you too like you
would not want to like you would Purell
after shaking those people's hands
anyway like it just makes zero sense to
even like call it a thing when we talk
about libertarians on the show most of
what we're talking about is like a tiny
cabal of like weird George Mason
University professor exactly weird weird
media people and then like the the
academics that probably have like one or
two plates from the Third Reich yeah no
but when they talk about yeah we just
want everyone to be more free to pursue
their experiments and living what
they're really means is if a couple of
those individuals happen to be each
individually worth sixty billion dollars
their experiments in living could
technically involve owning you as
property it's an experiment or I know
libertarians like to say oh we're
totally against slavery you know but
like if you contract into it however
that's a fundamental thing that's that's
another experiment in living so yes
children want to experiment with
employment so yet David Koch not too
much to celebrate even though he's dead
because we are going to be living with
the consequences of the country that he
helped create probably for as long as
we're still alive but but on the plus
side Wyatt is really seeing a shirt with
a bunch of prostate you can wear it at
the boardroom or discuss that oh god
what that was the other thing they were
like this man has a family
yeah Wyatt I don't like how you're
talking why is nephew wife that's who
I'm supposed to feel bad for this
[ __ ] [ __ ] it was supposed to be a
fad for Francis Buxton [ __ ] Pee Wee's
babies guy wearing
[ __ ] pineapple shirt cowboy hat and
blue gaiters with a thumb shit-eating
grin on his face that just says I can do
whatever I want it doesn't matter yeah
follow my passion the most innocuous of
all oh yeah him in the ghost town guys
seem look if you're gonna be that that
rich and you want to let go build a be a
pretend to be a cowboy in a ghost town
sure guy though is a sleeper like Connor
from succession like oh god yeah yeah
he's apparently he's political he
donates but he does he's not at the
forefront wait for ya know for sure well
the good thing about the and he's
Wyatt's dad and the good thing about him
is that apparently he's incredibly easy
to scam he one time he brought ghosts he
bought he bought he buys a bunch of like
Western memorabilia easily easily for
counterfeit like Billy the kids he also
filing he also bought a bunch of like
Napoleon's you know he's based on that
guy yeah but he bought like a two
million dollar bottle of wine that was
supposed to be from Thomas Jefferson's
of cellars totally it was like [ __ ]
it was like Giulio Gallo or so scam him
like we're not gonna get if we're not
gonna get redistribution just make like
a gun and say that it was like Pat
Garrett and take it to him and form a
company that's like reverse Ghostbusters
that promises to put actual ghosts and
his ghost
we will populate your your fantasy
community with all kinds of spook
spirits and Walter Geist's well we'll
put John Astin from the frighteners yeah
yeah he's dead anymore but like I said I
guess I mean like the point is if you
have a political vision and are ruthless
like and you have billions of dollars
you can enact it and I think like there
are lessons that the left can learn from
even without the money maybe we can do
this on the cheap but the world they
created and the one we're living in now
is the one in which private wealth can
dominate all public concerns and any
democratic there is no democratic check
so ever anymore on it they are free to
amass as much wealth as possible through
the despoiling of the natural
environment and the corruption of our
politics at every single level so
congratulations
they won he's dead we unfortunately are
all still alive and then he'll come back
in a [ __ ] Mexican six months they
found out a way to like they found some
like Nazi scientists to use a [ __ ]
lightning rod to bring him back to life
all right well let's close out with a
more hopeful note with this week's
reading series which is a doozy that
comes to us from across the pond
courtesy of The Telegraph the bloody
Tory paper this one is really good it's
by a guy named Charles Moore and we just
take a look at Charles and more and just
tell me what how would you describe him
to our own I would like a little Charles
less pedophile a little bit of that
Trump thing where you can see the lines
from the from the spray tan like around
his eyelids ya know he has sort of a uh
yeah he has a like I sort of lurch like
quality to him that photo from the g7 of
all the leaders looking up that's
probably one of the best views of trumps
raccoon itan that I've ever seen I found
another picture recently where you could
see from that insane press conference
that he did that we talked about last
episode we're the line on the side of
his face where the tan really Ron's are
ends it's the years anything behind the
ear I've ever seen it I'll try to
remember to tweet it later it's really
thinking about what Trump's morning
routine must be is like making up a tit
image I mean why is it that all of these
like summits all these G summits they
make every world leader like pose in
them for a photo in the most
embarrassing way possible yeah they're
all like they're doing a [ __ ] rock
cats yeah they should do a rock that's
like I'll have cans and top hats I mean
at this point I'm just gonna assume it's
all some sort of a cult ritual that we
don't understand the meaning of I mean
I'm just glad though that like they all
get together and like they can just see
like how like sexy
and hot tub is and relay like easels
back right die we can't deny them so the
this article comes courtesy of the g7
this is Charles Moore writing the
Telegraph the headline is Boris has
brought a miraculous change to the
political weather as the remainder World
Order falls apart and of course the
photo that is illustrating this article
is Trump and Johnson sitting across the
table from each other both looking at
each other like Harpo and Groucho doing
the mirror routine from Duck Soup where
they like mirror each other's movements
and they can't tell who's who
they both look like absolute [ __ ] it's
just awful bellowing [ __ ] orangutangs
if this has been 2 years of the making
and I'm so happy it's finally happened
alright so the article is actually
basically not about it goes this article
goes to some strange places the next the
next the next item is the column is
called conservative faces we'd love to
see them last week I aired the idea that
there is such a thing as a left-wing
face I feared that Olivia Coleman's
possession of one might make her
unsuitable to play the Queen speaking of
course oscar-winning actress yeah
Coleman from Peep Show and the favorite
apparently if she's got a liberal face
which this guy she will not do this guy
means he won't be able to jack off while
watching no I mean when you look at like
he does have a point like when you look
at her character and flee back it's like
she's the most perfect that kind of
person she's a great actress you can
inhabit a character I'm just saying
maybe physiognomy is real here we go uh
it is quite different from a right-wing
one which tends to look severe in vain
think of Oswald Mosley
love to the conservative face takes many
forms but in general it is one in which
you rarely see among bureaucrats
television presenters or masters of
public relations but do find among
soldiers farmers or engineers so what
he's saying is like the liberal face is
the face you see on the people I don't
like and the conservative face is the
one you see on the purple I do well and
more generous not really bringing up the
fact that
white just say white like by the way
dancing around that one he says here you
rarely see conservative face among
television percenters I'm sorry jimmy
savile it tends to be what people used
to call an open countenance with a
suggestion of humor of being outdoors a
good deal and in men of liking whiskey
you mean just like blit like broken
blood vessels rosacea like evidence of
advanced ships amania you mean classic
conservative faces include mrs.
Thatcher's convivial deputy Willie white
law yeah I always said when I think of
the Thatcher cabinet I always have
convivial good-humoured people really
chill this guy's name is Willie white
law they did incredibly chill child
crimes and the late great WF deeds who
appeared on the page opposite female
examples would include Queen Elizabeth
and the Queen Mother
you mean deeply inbred there were just
like Barack horrifically inbred current
examples are worryingly rare among Big C
conservatives but one would be but one
would be the brexit er Owen Paterson
what about Boris Johnson himself it
looks like a conservative face but this
can only be confirmed after October okay
see no you either have the face or you
don't it's not like it's gonna change if
you like gets the [ __ ] brakes it
through look he's gonna throw a horn
we're all about you know race science
here but if you're gonna do it commit to
it you have to 100% lock it down just be
like it is a face or it isn't a face you
don't get to be like pitchfork and like
20 years later it'd be like in the
airplane over sea is a 10 star album is
it his argument here basically that the
faces of conservatives are not the faces
for people who would usually be paid to
appear as like a on television age yeah
like you would not want to see them yeah
you would not pay to look at them yes
soon white and inbred just that's what
they mean everything with every Tory in
the country ugh too ugly for TV about
Charles Moore is like he's one of these
colonists they just like let him riff
and he can have a three or four
different subjects and he
is this out with something called a
restaurant for ordinary people this
column's suggestion of a restaurant
chain working title Hobson's offering
absolutely no choice of food see how
witty that is housed very but that's how
I see I'm a man of letters this is
British wit at its finest so it's a
restaurant chain offering absolutely no
choice of food and therefore freeing the
customer from the agony of decision he's
gaining ground
a learned reader points out that such a
phenomenon existed in the 18th century
and was called the ordinary I had often
noticed the word in the writing of the
period but thought it just meant a basic
in in fact it means and I quote from
Johnson's diary a place of eating
established at a certain price customers
of my chain will be proudly known as
ordinary people is like is like crisps
sure your Venture Brothers fans this is
like Colonel gentleman's memoirs oh yes
Kevin a gentleman wishes he had when he
was alive but they weren't invented yet
maker or not Josh across whichwhich
Hungry Hungry Hippos smell see the pro
idea good idea the problem is you you
really have to you're taking a big risk
with what you pick you know because if
it's not good you're [ __ ]
well I could you know it's just we got
it's the food of the day here's we'll
have a plate of it yeah I mean it's
always gonna be British food so it's
gonna be you know slop not fit for hogs
well whatever pudding we have flavorless
gruel it is true like why do they even
have multiple things on a British menu
anyway it's the exact same ingredients
given but a bowl of you know mushy peas
and browns yeah that's it they really
love brawny I guess that's the point of
the full English breakfast is that is
basically like we're covered look we're
covering all your your bases everything
from from eggs to beans scabs yeah
literal scabs no choice required you get
it all no it's just all soggy yes just
ever just this it's the soggy restaurant
Wow Minh SOG well there you go a
conservative conservative faces you know
usually seen um just you know coming out
of a grey mean he basically makes the
same diagnosis that we have made over
and over on the show that there is
definitely a conservative face just
whether or not it is good or bad is the
difference I mean no it's just the faces
of people I hate looking at yes that's
it it forms a composite yeah exactly
they all just runs together alright one
last thing this breaking news while we
were recording the show Joe Walsh during
his campaign he's now going on TV trying
to push his campaign to defeat Trump
asked about his alarmingly racially
charged should we say tweets up by MSNBC
said quote I wouldn't call myself a
racist but I've said racist things on
Twitter and I feel like that's like the
biography of like a third of American
males boy
do you have any plugs I think for the
first time in like forever we are plug
free we're unplugged where we are
unplugged it we are smooth sailing
through the rest of fall the only thing
I will say is that there are a few
things that we have done that will be
forthcoming videos a video piece of our
Kafka through the live set I hope to be
getting online as soon as possible and
then a podcast version of that short to
follow and then also you keep your eyes
out for some more a more formalized
version of our dispatches from Iowa
coming up soon
definitely yeah that's it for this week
thanks for listening guys cheers right
how many people got a code to live by
anymore hey ordinary [ __ ] people I
hate them what are you doing - what do
you know - what are you doing - what do
you know - what are you doing - what are
you
