hi everyone Chris Wade here producer
Chris I just wanted to do a quick plug
before the show since this date is
quickly coming upon us we the Chapo
elections unit will be in Des Moines
Iowa
this Thursday through next Wednesday we
will be covering the Democratic primary
race as it winds through the Iowa State
Fair but more importantly we will be
doing a live show next Tuesday night
August 13th at vaudeville news in Des
Moines Iowa tickets are on sale now at a
link in the episode description to this
very episode we'd love to see any of you
who can make it out there and also if
you are in Iowa involved in the
campaigns and organizer a potential
caucus-goers soapbox Days junkie or even
just someone who knows what foods have
the best fried butter at the fair we'd
be interested in potentially talking to
you while we're out there so hit us up
okay with that on to our live show from
Traverse City Michigan featuring Michael
Moore alright on to the show
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
hey everyone hey Traverse City Michigan
TC Michigan taking care of Michigan I'm
Virgil Texas with me are Chris Wade Matt
Chrisman Brendan James and we are a
bastardized version of chapo traffic
yeah this is like when the two other
people from the Talking Heads went off
and toured Club and talked about called
rules ya know if this is gonna be good
how many geniuses of love do we have out
there it's do other people from the talk
how dare you
their names are Chris and Tina I'll take
my word for it will couldn't make it a
look kind of last minute to this trip
yeah so we brought shopping both
producers of the show which I feel like
if you combined us and divided us into
and then added a heaping dose of upper
Westside misanthropy you would get one
well I I often tell many times I subbed
for well people are their mistake me for
him because we both have beards and
we're white yeah and are roughly he's
actually way older than me Howard's a
little baby man hey there's some
similarities but uh so tonight I'll
visually represent well maybe you can
channel his you can have your head
bobble around like yeah yeah that must
be very frustrating for you guys oh yeah
don't you just want to strap his head
into like a like a neck brace I want to
make a cow feed harness that just holds
the mic in front of him so when only a
half-hour of wills words actually or end
up on the track driving in a car past
the microphone this isn't being streamed
right hijabs no he will hear it though
he's getting [ __ ] roasted oh yeah for
all of you who can that's what you get
for moving when we're in Traverse City
[ __ ] [ __ ] you get roasted and
we are very excited to do what I think
is the show we've done in the smallest
town yes far
our city absolutely uh it it is a small
bean this is real America there's a lake
that's a real American thing Nido
saltwater river yes the water does not
have salt in it that's how you know
you're in real America yeah we got in
earlier this wave of course for the film
festival and we have been enjoying that
local favorite what do they manufacture
here painkillers we have been enjoying
so many chair you haven't had the cherry
flavored fentanyl it's um
let's seem try to outsource that job
they probably already have by the by the
time we began this show yeah but it's
been lovely yeah it's it's so you have
the distinction of being or the smallest
place we've ever been in smallest being
smallest bean and and and I hope you've
all been enjoying the Film Festival as
well because they've been some good
stuff on but now we're here it's like
what like what oh I've seen know so much
I absolutely have not been just cooped
up in the hotel to only occasional leave
to go to Pizza Hut and then do this
so why don't you actually talk about
your favorite films yeah what were your
favorite films about Oh a taste of
Sandpiper
yeah what's that about that's a great
one yeah the Carpenters lament three
bells for aunt Marie did you catch that
Q&A with the director of three bells did
was very illuminating no we all have the
lanyards as well we'll walk down and it
says FileMaker on it it's like do we
they have to put something so that we're
not you know just like confusing if it
said podcaster people would throw bricks
at it rightly so
so we have FileMaker on and we have to
think very quickly to tell people and so
I've been telling you I just yeah I made
moonlight I'm saying and I'm doing the
sequel obviously there's moonlight too
or sunlight or whatever I would think of
it I just saw them I make those fancy
pornos with
walking I directed cars for and here's
how the cars deal with loss yeah this
does raise the question we were asking
earlier if we were to have a film here
to show what would it be like if we were
gonna make a movie what individually
would we want to make anybody having a
because we talked about that now oh yeah
lunch yeah yeah Oh Brendan oh I didn't
prepare any joke I'm sorry pathetic
that's why you're behind that damn
sticks it's hard thinking about I've got
well I'd probably do for a film festival
type film like it's something called
like wave form and it would be like a
documentary about an obscure synthesizer
pioneer that is also all told even
though it's a documentary like I shoot
and edit the whole thing and then
recreate the entire thing in claymation
for no discernable artists and Terry
yeah and then release the soundtrack on
vinyl and it's just like one note
slightly modulated for 45 minutes that's
why your that's why you're the producer
that's very smart I say this in for the
bottom of my heart that sounds terrible
I would hate to but it would play at
least three regional film festivals okay
mine is picture a restaurant and it's
called great American Escape and it's
you know got all kinds like flags and
stuff like that and all of the tables
there are fifty tables that all the
tables are in the shape of a state and
all the meal items are like Baked Alaska
I'm sorry this I also didn't think of
what I'm just using my restaurant idea
[Laughter]
there's only one food named after a
state though New York Strip that's
copyrighted sir you'll be hearing for
the Colonel's out there debate loss by
Mac Kristin we might there's not fifty
okay let's just stipulate that doesn't
have to be there's no food named after
South Dakota we might shoot a
documentary tomorrow cuz we're gonna
check out that's right Interlochen
nearby wait yeah I'm gonna try to be the
Alex like when Alex Jones what the
Bohemian Grove because interlocutors you
guys know it's very near here the very
prestigious art school for young gifted
children like Professor X's Academy but
in the 90s it had and for my my
knowledge and for people who have
connections there so it still has a
cabin that was sponsored by and I guess
the property of like he could access it
Jeffrey Epstein
so yeah it's real so I'm hoping tomorrow
to be able to infiltrate find the cabin
and then get inside maybe move some of
the books around on the shelf until one
of them causes the wall to turn around
maybe there's a loose floorboard maybe
there's just a black glowing obsidian
cube in the middle floor either way I
want to find out well we're gonna walk
by wall and then the portraits on the
wall their eyes will shift and then
they'll be real eyes looking it's
basically gonna be like a real wacky
episode of scooby-doo you all thought
you would get away with it but it took
us three days to discover the terrible
secret of Traverse City and we do this
every city we go like when we went to
Washington DC and realize laws are
[ __ ] we'll get o get Epstein we'll
find him in his lair and we'll rip off
the rubbery mass that he's wearing and
it's actually just Bill Clinton
you know say I would have gotten away
with it too for for those damn
podcasters and we're hoping that that
all happens exactly like that tomorrow
but for that that's not old matt has
been investigating in Traverse City he's
also discovered some delightful local
stores yeah I took some pictures of the
town put a few of them online but I was
very charmed by I don't even remember
the order so let's put the first one up
just to see what it is a slideshow by
Curia by Matt Crispin yeah okay I saw
this and I thought there's two types of
towns left in America right outside of
the knowledge economy you know
gentrified cities that are all the money
where the coastal population and and you
know a capital are flowing to and we're
you know the rents are all exist seem to
be but rest' fortress exact refuges of
the global yes the global knowledge
economy le yeah New York San Francisco
Chicago whatever every town in the
middle of the country there's two types
there's one where eat there aren't even
grocery stores anymore like the Kroger
is now just [ __ ] shooting gallery and
you have to like scrounge for scraps
behind the like one open Taco Bell
that's only open because that's where
people go to like actually buy drugs and
then there are towns that have still
open and supposedly thriving [ __ ]
fudge story that's it it's this insane
dual nature of America's exurban reality
is that because you're close enough to a
lake or you've got some sort of local
economy you've got a lot of cherries or
something you can maintain in a little
plot like glass jar this fifties Main
Street where everyone can enjoy treats
like the fudge store or the model train
store it's adorable you go down the you
know a few miles down the highway though
where you don't have any cherries or
flake front view and it's just like Oh
here's the combination gas station strip
club and that's it if you're feeling
like you might get scurvy just use some
of the lemons they give you in the
[ __ ] drinks that's as close as you're
getting to a nutrition I also want to
say real Pizza Hut here real oh yeah got
that combination Bulls the kiosk in New
York New York oh I'm a big Pizza Hut
head I'm an original pizza guy because I
grew up in Washington Pennsylvania South
West southwestern Pennsylvania and right
around the corner for my Nana's house
there's a pizza sit-down Pizza Hut and
honest Pizza a good hard working
people's piece of HUD and we go there
all the time and that was my idea of a
night out and so in New York you can't
find those enough as you said the taco
bell/pizza hut like a closet that you
walk into and it's an Express and
everything's frozen
it's terrible it's here it's Thunderdome
yeah the breadsticks and they're gonna
come in a tortilla you don't know why
he's not the real Red Roof you guys
probably know this but in the 90s pizza
was the number one purchaser in America
of kale but they didn't use them in the
salad bar they used them as decoration
around this and then some enterprising
health guru was at a Pizza Hut and said
wait a minute what are we just naan this
[ __ ] what do we take this to but I have
a young nerd I have an extra connection
to it because I was a very proud and
enthusiastic user of the Bukit program
where you could read a book they would
give you a free personal pan and this is
sort of like if you imagine America's
like policy for different issues as like
whack-a-mole like that book it was
trying to whack like youth literacy and
they hit it but then you throw pieces
you just popped up next to it
can we see the next slide please
yeah we stumbled it to a fundraiser for
Ferris University you know I'm very
proud of mr. Bueller for all of his work
went on to us found an educational
facility because in that movie he was so
anti education yeah irony but anyway one
of the things that they have there
apparently is the Jim Crow QC app of
racist memorabilia for audience look I
understand that the guy donated a lot of
money
[Laughter]
James Crow James Crow is a name but says
here the Jim Crow Museum is an
international leader in the anti racism
movement also the International irony
movement and the nation's largest public
collection of artifacts spanning the
segregation era from reconstruction
until the civil rights movement and
beyond the movement serves as a base for
quality scholarship this includes but
not limited to producing original
research planning and hosting tours and
conferences and conducting anti-racism
training sessions so if anyone ever asks
you where the racism factory is you can
tell them it's at Ferris University and
like obviously the mission of this place
is good and fine but at the freeze
memorabilia is so funny to me because
I'm just like imagine going in here and
being like oh do come over here they got
a George Wallace rookie card yeah this
is from when he was first in states and
really getting the racism points on the
board now when you visit the Jim Crow
Museum definitely check out the NIC
Mullen wing alright let's do the next
one
oh yeah this is you oh my god it's not a
cool ass [ __ ] you could buy so this is a
t-shirt and it says yes I do have a
beautiful daughter I also have a gun a
shovel and an alibi you get that for me
because I genuinely want that I didn't
know you saw this I don't know is he
saying he's going to kill his daughter
I'm the shirt like who's the target it's
like who is the applied audience to this
it's like dear mr. police before I kill
again alright next one alright this is
last one and this is just to say so you
know like I said Traverse City one of
the good towns that means they've got a
lot of relatively new building and one
of the new buildings you got downtown is
this thing where they have put on the
windows
this totally superfluous metal grate and
it I looked at it and it just pissed me
off so [ __ ] much because what the
[ __ ] is that supposed to be there for is
it just to make it harder to clean the
windows I mean I guess the idea is like
we won't we don't we're not gonna shell
out for a balcony but we wanted to kind
of look like a balcony for like a half a
second until you realize no that's not
balcony it's just a totally pointless
piece of [ __ ] metal one of the eerie
ating one of the babies main experiences
of traveling with Matt is uh is walking
around with him in various new places
and like pointing out [ __ ] like that and
being like look that's kind of dumb and
then having to stand there for five and
a half minutes while he screams at a
building pushing with children and
strollers like them you should have the
experience of war either a strange town
with statues with math that's use of
Civil War guys you notice a guy from the
9th bearded infantry that he will just
stop and just have again like a Ferris
Bueller moment staring at him and then
just explode in a tirade about what a
piece of [ __ ] he was that only happened
once no that is a lie these two statues
I've seen Matt you know the other one
what I will admit to one we were
Providence for an island and there was a
statue of Ambrose Burnside here we go
Islander of the Civil War but also one
of the most incompetent generals the
Union ad just led the army to slaughter
at Fredericksburg and I got mad that
they would think to commemorate such an
oath but that's the only time we were in
Amsterdam I vaguely remember you
stopping by every other statute at yell
am I gonna yell
there but in London there is a in London
there is a a square right outside of
Parliament that has statues of every
single Prime Minister well he would -
every second every single statue why
they suck to ask every single what did
you everyone Pitt the Younger I prefer
the elder I'm sorry before we get to our
special guest tonight I have to ask who
here was at our debate livestream a
couple nights ago bless you bless you
all that's who really had our loyal
bannermen the kneel heads here did you
have a good time at the debate
livestream it was it was prime us being
drunk and screaming yeah a lot of
screaming not everyone did have a good
time and the organizers of this festival
got an email oh yeah I don't know if
perhaps when you were in the audience
you noticed some people leaving here's
the email about it we're just going to
directly read it cuz you know why not I
had a terrible experience at the debate
airing at the festival the podcast
announcers made mockery of the debates
by the wait wait wait so you didn't say
this the podcast is two words
you need the key that really tells you
all you need to know about who wrote
this and I would not say we made mockery
of the debate I would say we treated the
debate with the the intellectual respect
that it deserves indeed and that it's
giving us yes we tried to watch an old
town theatre basement but the sound did
not wait at this place as far as I can
tell these people that what the [ __ ] cut
his mic as far as I can tell they so
they went down to some utility area
escaped us next to the pizza boxes it
was suggested we go home and watch we
work it's suggestive you [ __ ] off
we were this is what's going on and I
will find another place we were camping
for the film festival I was all measured
by the way I was almost in tears because
I am a patriot
[Laughter]
[Applause]
are you are you in the audience right
now that's right yeah we have a t-shirt
it was free that's a pretty ticket a
refund [ __ ] okay I think our
guests is ready oh great really yes okay
so I think Godot is here all right
he is a he's a traitor to America hates
capitalism and he he was a director of
Fahrenheit 9/11 yes Fahrenheit 11 nine
cavil is a love story sicko boiling for
Colorado and me Bowling for Columbine
and he also wrote a video machine sleep
now in the fire Michael Moore
[Applause]
[Music]
why it's an honor to be here with you
guys well thank you for the invites my
is the reason why we are in northern
Michigan right that's true yes have you
ever been here before I have not but uh
I lived in Ann Arbor for a year whoa I
did yeah think of this as the Ann Arbor
of the North yeah no definitely get that
vibe we were on tour not too long ago we
did a show in Detroit where of course we
all stood it we all did not leave the
hotel because of the Sharia law Dozo
surrounding the area we did not amber as
an unmarried woman we didn't know
trouble there right did you so were you
right downtown Detroit we were near des
jacent to down to Jason did you see the
big fist the Joe Lewis I've seen the
fist yes that is you know that is art
here in Michigan a giant a giant fist
it's like anything else we want to do
any kind of Public Arts like that's fine
but could it be punching so well we saw
at the what is that installation called
with the clocks and the the form piece a
Heidelberg Heidelberg project Heidelberg
project right right we also got when we
were there we got taken on a cart or by
a local of I guess photojournalist photo
blogger yes yes he took us on a tour
around just like the totally desecrated
dessicated areas of the detroit
residential neighborhoods were just
blocks and blocks and blocks of blasted
empty landscape and my favorite detail
from it was the land boats which there
is like a dumping regulation about boats
in the Detroit area I mean please stop
me if I'm butchering this story so it
makes more sense for people to just
drive their boats that they want to sell
into the middle of the city of Detroit
decouple them and abandon them in
downtown Detroit so you just like
driving around through these empty
blocks and they'll just be an decaying
boat in the middle of the street not
tethered to any kind of access to water
very unnerving it's a I think Detroit is
still a surreal experience Oh me
remember if your
from here but like the idea of a boat
graveyard yes uh that's very possible
America does not seem well America
really give a [ __ ] about Detroit really
no it doesn't no not really
so likewise Detroit really doesn't give
a [ __ ] about America here's the example
of how true that is
in the 2016 election 90,000 Michiganders
many of them in Detroit 90,000 student
line for over two hours to vote and went
in and voted for every candidate mostly
obviously Democrats Congress state
Senate State House all the way down to
drain commissioner which is our lowest
office we don't have dogcatcher but the
person in charge of the sewage you have
to vote for that person and they voted
for all those offices and left the top
box blank didn't vote for president
90,000 Michiganders stood in line and
waited that long just to say [ __ ] you it
was it was like wow that is a commitment
that is a serious commitment
Hillary lost the stay by a bottle I
think 11,000 vote who is the brain
Commissioner actually beat Hillary
[Laughter]
aggressive drain values in Michigan you
know the weird thing about that is too
is that Bernie won the primary Michigan
yeah yeah
hey silver gave him a 0% chance to win
that primary yeah yeah that's what they
gave him no no right that morning I
remember that morning on channel 2 in
Detroit they the the forecasters of this
day's election this primary election I
think they said Hillary was going to win
by 60 or 70% it was some outrageous
number and and even Bernie believed it
because he had left the state halfway
through the day went to Florida went to
bed if you remember when he won Michigan
they had to wake him up in his motel 6
and he comes out in a I don't know what
that was he was it was either his
pajamas or the motel 6 bathrobe but it
was seriously you could look you could
go online and watch this it was the most
amazing thing in this city that you're
sitting in now when I I used the word
city loosely and it's called Traverse
City there's only 14,000 people that
live here year-round classic irony Bros
so in this city
Hillary beat Bernie 70 to 30 percent 70
percent Bernie 30% Hillary and that was
a higher percentage Bernie got here that
he got in Ann Arbor so yeah where you're
located in this particular city in a
very very progressive left socialist
oasis yeah Mike you know I definitely
want to talk to you about 2016 Michigan
and and your thoughts on 2020 lecture
before that I want to talk a bit about
your early career because Chris and I
were talking about this earlier and he
suggested that in some ways you
prefigured the what is now called the
dirtbag left which is a I mean look look
come on just look what are you saying
what are you talking about
and in the 80s you 10 Ecology dropped
out and then from there you became and
it worked out for the right reason if
you are of the I would say I was of the
sloppy left I don't know which is the
precursor this is a precursor to the
dirtbag left but I dropped out I went
for
stay up my sophomore year into a
commuter campus in Flint and I couldn't
find a parking space over on our that
from your book and after an hour I just
had to [ __ ] it I'm done with college and
I've never been back so sorry so how did
you go from there to being editor Mother
Jones that's what I was wondering yeah
you know they I was putting out my
alternative newspaper in Flint called
the Flint voice and it was the sort of
the the opposition to General Motors
Flint is the hometown of General Motors
at that time it was the world's richest
company and we thought this you know all
we've been done is we've been fed
force-fed all this [ __ ] about
corporate America
General Motors etc so we need and we
need some opposition to this you know
and and in Flint there was a tradition a
historic tradition of this in 1908
General Motors was founded in Flint
after a year of this conglomerate
because they had bought Chevrolet and
Buick and Cadillac and all these
companies together the people of Flint
freaked out that this mega corporation
something I've never really been seen
before was taken over the town so in the
next election in 1910 the people of
Flint elected a socialist mayor to stop
General Motors
from you know essentially taking over
the town
this freaked out the people of General
Motors so they in the next election
decided to run one of their founders
Charles Stewart Mott you might have
heard the name the mop Foundation funds
shows on PBS or MPI or whatever and they
ran him and they ran in the local
newspaper all these scandalous articles
about the socialist mayor and convinced
the town that he was you know up to no
good and and so this head of General
Motors essentially took over his mayor
and then really ran really turned it
into a company town so our newspaper the
Flint voice was to go back to that
tradition of taking on the powers to be
at General Motors somebody Mother Jones
saw the paper they were losing their
editor they called me up and
asked me to come out and talk to them
and I did and then they offered me the
job and I was so excited that I could do
what I was doing in Flint on a national
level I took the job and I wasn't there
a month when just I realized oh my god I
made a horrible mistake the magazine was
owned by a very rich man and he wanted
me basically to be his to do his work
mr. Jones
yeah mr. Jones yeah well just go call
mr. Jones
and and I didn't want to run the
articles they wanted to run it was a
kind of liberal mushy stuff and I I what
I had done is I gave a monthly column to
an auto worker on the assembly line in
Flint and I started doing articles about
the Sandinistas and all this and they
were like whoa and then they wanted me
to run an anti sandanista article and
then you know the staff was unionized
and I kept taking the side of the staff
basically and I got called in and was
told I was management and I can't take
the side of the Union and I said well
the union's right and this is supposedly
a magazine named after a socialist you
know you'll be happy to know Mother
Jones is back to its progressive they're
so good these it's not at all a complete
fake mouthpiece for the initial and also
listen I I know you had your reasons for
cutting that anti sandanista piece but
Elliott Abrams has been a pretty good
column in Jones the past few years a man
can turn a phrase yeah so you got you
you've got New York media point taken
from big left they have they fired me
they fired me four months into the job
appropriately on Labor Day by the way so
I was without a job and I didn't know
what to do and I was stuck in San
Francisco and then one day I I saw on
the TV that Roger Smith the chairman of
General Motors was eliminating another
30,000 jobs nationwide and I thought you
know I should make a movie about this
and I'd have any idea to make a movie I
didn't go to film school I only had a
year College in me
but you know I'd seen a lot of movies
and somebody who's gone to film school
we've seen a lot of movies too and
that's what encouraged us to become
political and social comedy school or
you did oh yeah my best experience in
film school was running the radio
station and so you were I mean you were
basically like a suburban kid right like
you were the product of the middle-class
like the the deal working well I was I
was born in the city of flint but my my
my dad was from the city and he married
my mom my mom lived in a in a what was
of essentially of her family moved there
in the 1830s and so they were like the
the first six families that started the
Catholic parish there and they were very
early settlers in that area of Michigan
and and it was just a small little
village at the time so so my family had
actually been there and in Genesee
County for ever since before Michigan
was a state and but yes my dad worked on
the assembly line at AC sparkplug
General Motors and and my mom was a
secretary of clerk in a Township office
and nobody in their generation of their
family had ever been to college and but
we had yes we had a working class life
but by then the Union had fought for so
many things I mean we had completely
free health care no co-pays no
deductibles free dental free eye care
free lawyers if you needed a lawyer for
you know a will or sending a kind of
civil matter the Union provided free
attorneys there was four weeks paid
vacation every summer and then a week
paid at Christmas time and that was five
weeks paid vacation
the UAW integrated the assembly lines
back in the 40s and so our parents
worked beside you know everybody you
know it wasn't just in the old days you
know african-americans had to work in
the foundry and the worst jobs yeah and
by the time you know my dad my uncle was
in the sit-down strike in 1936-37 that
founded the UAW so so I so I go ahead
my family was way back in this whole
struggle but you know I ended up with
decent teeth because of the Union you
know right well you did Roger and me
which was I mean it was a hit it was a
notable film that got a lot of attention
about something that had been going on
for a bit the decline of unions in the
deindustrialization
of the Midwest of the the steel belt the
auto industry and so on
do you kept that flame alive throughout
the 90s you had two TV shows you did the
big one you're speaking tour I mean what
what do you attribute that decline to
generally the the decline of a city like
flint yeah I mean which is just the
decline of everything by that example
Wow we don't there's not enough time on
this part I know I know I should really
get into that but basically um well men
wearing sandals in public but but all
yeah but I would say if you look at all
of my movies it is each of them if you
put if you strung them all together it
is a 20 hour film about the evils of an
economic system that is unfair unjust
and not democratic and as a result the
decisions do not get made by the people
who are affected by the economy and I've
never considered this country a
democracy because it's not it to say
that we get to vote doesn't make it a
democracy that's part of it but the
other part is we have to have a say in
the economy we have to own the country
we the people have to own the country or
it's not a democracy so I ask because it
seems like that was the wilderness and
we talk about this era that over the
past 40 years a lot on the show of the
decline of labor unions the the
financialization of the economy because
that's how you understand what's
happening today is knowing about the era
where you were doing this work people
got scared and they got manipulated and
and I and they the companies and the
banks decided the way to stop any kind
of revolution or any kind of uprising
against this was to have people have
their heads spinning so fast force them
to be able to live from paycheck to
paycheck so they never have a moment's
rest make them work two jobs or three
jobs so that they can't get involved
politically because they don't have the
time and dumb down the rest of the
country and their kids take money away
from the schools [ __ ] on the teachers
this there's a whole process of going on
especially since 1980 since Ronald
Reagan where the the idea has been to
create a frightened nation where people
are so scared that they're just not
going to make it that statistic this
past year that came out that the
majority of our fellow Americans do not
have enough available cash in the bank
or in their pocket that if a loved one
died tonight all the way across the
country they cannot go to the funeral
because they cannot buy a plane ticket
there's not this has been a heaven that
corporate America never could have
dreamed of that they could have people
so debilitated so demoralized so afraid
that they better keep their head down
and not say a whole lot so afraid that
that you know we you know Virgil we just
got a we got a we got to vote for Joe
Biden because because Joe Biden you know
we got to go to the middle and we got to
play the middle we got to get those
Trump voters back or we got it and and
it's like wow you know and the pundits
Errol I was on that in the show after
the election the debate the other night
and it was like I couldn't believe the
questions are asking me I was like 1980
lunch bucket joe questions how you gotta
get back to working class and they
talked about the working classes it was
some [ __ ] white guy with a lunch
bucket and it's not the working class
the majority of the working class are
women the majority of the working class
are young people and the majority of the
working class are people of color that's
the working class
and when you say working-class that's
what should be you eat but that when we
say working-class that's not what people
think is it
they've got everyone's mind so polluted
with the way they want us to see the
world a one our so afraid that we will
not put in somebody who is gonna take
their game away from them and so if
that's what you want
run Hillary run Joe Biden you know and
first of all that'll guarantee you're
losing I mean don't get me wrong Joe
Biden Hillary won by three million votes
Joe Biden will win by close to 5 million
popular votes and still never enter the
Oval Office because Trump will win the
electoral college again if we don't get
this straight right now that's exactly
what's going to happen I said this back
in the summer of 16 and nobody listened
to me and I was booed I'm Bill Maher
when I said it and you know then I just
said you know what they don't want to
hear this he did not want to hear the
new rule he said listen to him and but
people were like no no no tell us what
we want to hear Michael it sounds like
you did not go to Joe 3-0 you would know
that Biden is the way to victory I don't
know what that was supposed to do so we
had a stroke on national television
Michael it looks like that's fine
Michael you say that America does not
care about Detroit but I saw 8,000
candidates over the past week making
their case right there and did you not
believe any of them were going to fight
for the people that we've been
describing tonight I believe Bernie
would I believe yep
I believe I believe Elizabeth Warren it
has some very good ideas sure sure sure
why she has to keep saying but I'm a
capitalist you know it's nice because
all her policies are to pull the rug out
from under the capitalist so and and I
convert you know she's still she's still
in the version press but I'm trying to
I'm trying
put a happy face on something that I
don't even know they have a lot of gall
to show up in Detroit or Flint that's
true and and you know first of all to
just show up in Michigan when we learned
a month after the Flint debate for the
2016 election between Bernie and Hillary
that Hillary was fed the questions in
advance by one of the CNN people and
they use these mothers in Flint at the
microphone in the middle of the aisle to
ask their questions about the Flint
water poisoning and Hillary knew what
they were gonna ask when Flint found
that out people in a city that's already
so demoralized people decided to stay
home in November
8,000 African Americans who had voted
twice for Obama stayed home now they're
not going to ever vote for Trump but
they were not going to vote for Hillary
Clinton and that's never really been
discussed as to how did Hillary lose the
state of Michigan a state with four or
five majority black cities that's how
that's one of the reasons that she lost
it the other reason was President Obama
who I love came to Flint during the
election year and stood in front of
people and drank the Flint water telling
them was okay when it wasn't okay and we
know that that water that one of the
aides brought it from Air Force One
there was no way to get water in that
high school because they've been turned
off a year and a half earlier there's no
water foam there's no water there's no
kitchen in that high school for the
record I would not still love this man
knowing that well I I say that because I
it's hard it's hard for me because
because I'm a little bit older than you
guys so I lived through a different time
I live I I in 1968 it was the Thursday
before Palm Sunday I'm walking out of
our Catholic Church after Mass on this
Thursday night one of the dads are going
to warm up the car turned on the radio
got out of the car and shouted to all of
us coming out of church they just shot
Martin Luther King and a cheer went up
amongst the people coming out of mass
out of church not as I'm an eighth
grader and that
image so was so seared into my head to
this day that I that I would live to see
a black man voted President of the
United States just that alone was so
stunning and reduced me to tears at
11:00 p.m. on that election night um but
especially coming out after the Bush
years and yes someone who claimed to
repudiate it all through his eight years
um I was very critical of the things he
did that were wrong for instance when
General Motors went bankrupt and the
government took it over like the
government owned General Motors and
Chrysler man what an opportunity what an
opportunity to say okay we're in charge
now
now we're not in the business of
building cars we're gonna turn this back
but not until there are some changes
change number one is the internal
combustion engine is killing this planet
so we're not gonna build those anymore
and what Detroit is going to be known
for is building clean transportation for
the 21st century we're gonna build
bullet trains we're gonna build light
rail we're good we're gonna build you
know a bus system that works and we're
gonna get we're gonna wean ourselves off
the automobile what if he had done that
what have he done that where would we be
instead he just gave him the car company
back and they and they just kept
screwing the workers
I'd like to link a few of these last
questions together I think and also
shoehorn in and I hopefully funny
anecdote which is that you know you
you've been doing the kind of thing that
we've been doing very recently for 30
years now and more than that and over
that time you've basically been as far
as like I can conceive of it in my
knowledge of pop culture you know the
one of the bleeding left edges of the
you know Democratic universe
the liberal universe in this country and
this is the shoehorn in an anecdote
because I remember feeling political in
like the early Bush years is like a
young high school student and like going
out and like trying to protest the war
and public squares and stuff and then
meet my friends watching Roger and me
for the first time and becoming so
insanely
angered by it that we spent the rest of
the evening in my friends basement like
whittling like weapons like Spears out
of like extra wood that was in the
basement for some reason just because we
were so just like I'm gonna
directionally angry and we were like
we're just we just need to do something
about this incredible movie that we just
saw that made us so angry at everyone
but so over the course of the time that
you've been doing what you've been doing
hopefully making people very very angry
about the people who we should be mad at
we're now in this place where since 2016
and now they're there is perhaps for the
first time in your career like a genuine
mass left movement in this country
beyond anything that we right now this
weekend 1,500 socialists are meeting in
Atlanta Atlanta which might be one of
the biggest socials gallery biggest
socialist gathering in several decades
yes and so it kind of popped in 2016
with the Bernie campaign and had this
huge energizing force behind it and now
we are three years later four years
later and we're in these debates and
Bernie is one of the central candidates
of these debates and and owning people
left and right from the debate stage but
also there are like 19 other people
around him that are sucking energy out
so I just would like to hear your
perspective on our current left moment
and if from your perspective of having
done this forever does this feel like
the real deal with you or does this feel
like something that we're gonna have to
like struggle and maybe be disappointed
with no no I believe no the this is the
path to victory into a better country in
a better world I'll tell you why first
of all there may be 1500 socialists
meeting in Atlanta right now but every
poll now shows that people under the age
of 35 the majority believe in socialism
over capital yes yes yes so that's the
new way it's already I almost get all
just I could I could just call it a day
at that knowing that statistic here's
the other good news every year for
million seventeen-year-olds turn 18 yes
4 million since Obama's election Inouye
that means that's 11 years that's almost
40 million 40 million young people have
become voters all right that this is the
final year according to the data that
the baby boomers will will own the show
in the sense of the demographic and the
numbers written and so therefore very
shortly there will be a president who
does the floss dance at their inaugural
when will we have our first streaming
president all right but let me just put
a lot of question because you mentioned
that you guys you know I listen to you
and I gotta say first of all the reason
I was honored that you asked me to be on
the podcast tonight is I really think of
you as my babies about the know that is
baby yes baby baby you were the guy when
I I was much younger that was like oh
this is the only person who knows the
right thing around now and I mean I'd
matter if I was the same age I'd be
listening III go back to what we were
talking about earlier about that moment
when you are doing your work about Flint
and deindustrialization and its
consequences our our man
Don shower to Don told us that you know
the people in Traverse City proper you
know they're they're good liberals evil
laugh but and the surrounding areas
that's all Trump country and I didn't
ask why
but it's it's there's this real question
that those are all not just the you know
used hot tub salesman and Kia franchise
owners who make up Trump's base it's
also people who have what when it marks
we call false consciousness that who are
should be the people organized in the
working class and that's how we agree
that's how you make change by organizing
around class lines but then they go off
and they become queuing on people they
become mayor people
so we can talk about them and we can
also talk about say the majority of you
who do not vote at all and are correct
to do so I would argue because they
recognize that our politics is a fraud
there's no not voting for someone does
not make any material image in your mind
with our current party system I mean so
how do we get how do we get out of that
that's the million dollar question and
also we keep getting outside of
interviews and I don't have an answer
for it how to fix politics so I hope you
have a good one and I could just repeat
it the first group that you mentioned
the ones that vote for Trump and
otherwise you would think you know maybe
there's some hope or you could save them
or whatever but you can't that's just
the you have to accept it to cook
working so hard trying to worry about
them and trying to convince them they're
the minority and they will never change
even the good one you know I can name
good people in this area that voted for
Trump good but when I say good people I
mean you know they raise their kids
they're kind you on the street you know
they're not [ __ ] but they don't like
black people and they're misogynist
because they think women are sometimes a
little too loud they're talking a little
bit too much and really shouldn't have
any say over what happens to a
fertilized egg and and that I can't help
them and I have to let them go and I
have to trust every year four million
seventeen year olds become 18 and
they're not [ __ ] you know we and
they've also gotten mad from Facebook
memes but your generation but your
generation and the generation that's
coming after you the one that's been in
Heights the Parkland generation these
kids are so great they don't hate they
don't judge you on who you love it's a
very different generation and that's who
is becoming voters and the older people
who who see black people in a certain
way who see women in a certain way they
are and God rest their souls dying off
and they've been dying off I mean think
about this think about this anybody who
was say over the age of 55 in
19:18 voted for Ronald Reagan on average
they're dead they're dead and that's why
I was really talking to all these people
on MSNBC the other night after the
debate they keep talking about politics
like it's 1980 those people are gone why
are you still talking about these Reagan
Democrats they die but a lot of good
stuff about Ronald Reagan in the news
lately I don't know if we want to
slander him - can we roll the Nixon tape
but wait a way to take way to take I'm
sorry but I don't think you answered my
question because you're just saying just
waiting the demographics will sort it
out but I know a lot of young people who
are uh the rich [ __ ] Country Club
gated community [ __ ] who know where
their [ __ ] bread is buttered
yeah that is not the man I am asking a
specific question yeah how do we rebuild
working-class consciousness in this
country that has been systematically
destroyed over the past 40 years I'm
sorry for yelling that no I'm the second
part of your question you don't want the
bottom Ryan 2020 the people who don't
the people who don't vote they make up
the largest political party in America
is called the non-voter party there are
more of them that are Democrats
Republicans or independents the non
voters there are the people we should
reach out to they are the people that we
have a chance but we will not win them
with Joe Biden and we won't with them
with white privilege platitudes of how
we define things it happens because you
know I've been saying this for some time
now if the swing states will get ballot
proposals on the ballots next year to
bring out this base we have a chance of
winning they're not going to come out
for the Democrats by Karl Rove did in
2004 putting the gay marriage
propositions on the ballot to bring out
the conservative right the exact so and
it worked fourteen states passed the
anti-gay marriage laws in 2004 in
Michigan we kicked the Republicans out
of Lansing the governor the Lieutenant
Governor Secretary of State and the
Attorney General all the Democrats they
were all elected in November
but it was not because of them
necessarily although the governor's a
woman the lieutenant governor was black
the Attorney General's a lesbian and the
Secretary of State can count past ten
that's pretty good well if I remember
but we did it because we put two ballot
proposals on the ballot to get out the
youth vote we put legalize marijuana not
this medical marijuana stuff or partial
Eagle no full legalization full
legalization we doubled the youth vote
from the last off your election doubled
the speaking of which if anyone after
the show has me up the second ballot
proposal was to outlaw gerrymandering
that pass was 70 61 percent of the vote
to out to make gerrymandering illegal
but that brought that brought people out
I don't think your your so the premise
of your question this loss of
working-class consciousness I think
they're the consciousness is higher than
it's ever been because of everybody
that's been put down into the situation
of having to live from paycheck to
paycheck that's the majority of our
fellow citizens you can't have more
consciousness than that when you're
trying to figure out what the [ __ ] am I
gonna do about my bills this we not what
I'm talking about it's not just
awareness of your situation but that
translating into political affinities
into political action that forces
material change ninety seven percent of
black women voted against Trump
ninety-seven percent I'm telling you we
need African Americans especially black
women young people women in general
seventy percent of the people were
eligible to vote next year and I'm
talking about Democrats and relegates
the whole of the American voting public
seventy percent of them are either women
people of color or between the ages of
18 and 35 or a combination of the three
that is 70 percent of next year's
electorate if we can't [ __ ] speak to
that if we can't get ballot proposals
and pass laws if we can't run candidates
that they're gonna be excited to get up
in the morning that morning in November
of 2020 and vote for them nobody is
waking up that morning saying I can't
wait to get to the polls to vote for Joe
why yeah yes so but I'm gonna happen and
that's how we're gonna lose but my gap
but Joe 3-0 yeah hey
I mean you I don't know what that is but
it sounds very millennial yeah is it
like a hologram is it some sort of one
of those things like the QR code yes is
Matt what but I mean yeah we're where we
are right now for example it's early
days there's no doubt I mean this is
it'd be silly to try to forecast what's
going to happen for all the important
stuff we've been talking about because
we're we're in the richard Killian level
of elections right now but if you give
the correct answer which is that earlier
that that bernie is the real candidate
who offers a vision of change an actual
structure of change a plan for change
among these Democratic candidates
anything Street Fighter Annie's are the
only way to defeat a street fighter is
with a street correct
now you've been watching the debates
we've been watching them so I guess what
I'm asking is how do you see the
interminable period we have in front of
us shaking out I mean you have Biden he
is seen as quote-unquote electable he
stays on the top of the polls right now
you have worn as a kind of like side car
to Bernie that never quite supersedes
him but who is certainly appealing to a
certain class and to a certain subset of
the Democratic base and so I'm
interested to hear a little bit on the
stage tonight about what you think we
can expect after this opening shots with
the 8,000 interchangeable I don't want
to sound too woke about it but really
they are white eyebrows or I draw
eyebrows too much eyebrows the only
slider on the Democratic candidate is
the eyebrows yeah
Joe Joe Biden as you said Joe Biden
npc's you know you real able them you
know it's a swamp Joe Biden
so [ __ ] Mountain Joe Biden Michael
bana John Hickenlooper and then Joe
Biden himself like lady that were
confronted with all these do you think
they just slay them away and we're fine
what do you think there's an actual
threat posed by the legacy of Obama
wielded by Joe Biden which would be a
real worry for anyone expecting Bernie
to cut through the the 2020 race
remember that open mic on Biden when
they were gonna sign some bill and they
see a deal big [ __ ] deal okay mine a
root beer tasted a lot better we need we
need a know we need an accidental open
mic on Obama when he says the Biden get
the [ __ ] out of this race you know
because really do you think that Obama
would no no he won't do it he won't do
it partially because he he doesn't want
Bernie to get the nomination yeah right
that's Bernie is the most dangerous
thing to all of them because Bernie will
upend the whole game that they're
playing all these Democrats that are
pundits on the on the cable news
networks they're all working for
somebody they're all answering to some
some money somewhere you have to know
that yeah these X well I want to know
who Claire McCaskill what what is she
doing who was she lobbying for famous
winner Claire McCaskill I know it's
funny because the last cycle grab me if
I'm wrong there was a ballot initiative
in Missouri that passed yes so Florida
to raise the minimum wage exactly while
Claire McCaskill got owned right she is
excited that she lost because the
National Party was too far to the left
that's right she's a hundred percent
convinced about let me tell you I ran on
people read something here this is this
is what this is another example if we
stay on this path of how we're going to
how we're going to lose and this is
Kamala Harris this week announced her
new policy position oh yes yes we
actually don't think we've read it on
the show so this might be the reading
into it this is I'm quoting her quoting
her alright I
love this so much I'm not gonna add just
a cloud because we're gonna be rooting
the entire exact words here she goes
yesterday I announced that as president
I'll establish a student loan debt
forgiveness program for Pell grant
recipient who start a business yeah that
operates
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
can you
[Music]
i I really hope I'm not I really hope
that I'm not stealing Amber's joke from
an actual episode but the day after this
happened she texted us saying that we
needed to cover this on the show because
that literally describes her this that's
true we did do that yes she is a Pell
Grant recipients arted a small business
that operates in Brooklyn New York
somebody actually did the numbers on
that and if that was a current program
it would forgive the the Pell grants of
something like fifteen thousand people
in the United States wonderful no this
will keep people home exactly this will
keep people home and and and this is why
this is why they're afraid of Bernie
because he doesn't put out [ __ ] like
this he just says exactly what it is
that he's going to do and and so there
if we end up along these lines with a
candidate like this if Bernie can't look
I don't know if the polls at the polls
if you can believe the polls let's say a
year from now or let's say nine months
from now while the primaries are going
on and they starting probably six months
from now like February so if if the
polls keep showing that Bernie would be
trump Biden would be trump Harris would
be Trump Warren would be Trump if
there's four of them will be Trump then
there's a clear one of them that will be
on our side and we'll fight for the
working people and the poor of this
country and that is obviously Bernie
Sanders and he will take Trump down now
we keep imagining the debates well I
would that'd be great
Bernie versus Trump who loved it okay
I'm gonna I'll make a prediction right
now should Bernie be the candidate Trump
will refuse to debate yes in fact I
think drunk may just refuse to debate
period because just because he can and
he loves to do these things where we're
all planning for it being normal and he
is the anti normal and he will not show
up to the debate I disagree I think he's
gonna be regular he's gonna do he's
gonna be great I think he's gonna be
normal with it he's gonna be he's gonna
be look folks for president for four
years I've been low-key nutty with it
I've got her up coated on the sticks I'm
nice you cracked my pen on see but
honestly I think it he'll do one maybe
and then it'll go horribly and then go I
don't get whole away at all I could see
the guys what's the difference what's
the difference who gives a [ __ ] as
sterling Hayden said yeah Mike I know
we're going long but I was hoping we
could do just two more things with you
and one is you told me the other night
you have a three-point plan for winning
next year yes it's it's very simple nine
nine nine thank you finally I said this
last night but for the others why non
dynam nine nine nine in order for the
three-point plan to work the majority of
us have to start owning the fact that we
are the majority we are the American
majority the majority of Americans agree
with us on every single issue the
majority of Americans take the
progressive position on every name the
issue go ahead name is whether its
minimum wage mass incarceration a choice
it doesn't matter what the issue is
every poll shows that the majority of
Americans agree with us that is a gift
that is rarely handed to you throughout
history I mean Martin Luther King didn't
have the majority with him no no not at
all you know Gloria Steinem didn't have
the majority with her that this rarely
happens the fact that and it's so
perfect especially for the amount of
alcohol that's been consumed here
tonight there is I'm still good to try
the works already been done for us the
people thank God are already with us we
don't have to go out and convince anyone
that a fertilized egg is not a human
being we don't have to go out and
convince anyone that it is wrong to lock
up a mill
african-americans in our prisons we
don't have to convince people that we
should that marijuana is the evilest
thing a cadaver that ever exists that we
don't to do any of that
they're already with us that's the power
and forget about wasting your time on
anything else right now a third of the
white guys will come along just because
you know some worker will manager
contingent yes yes so here's the three
so here's the three ways to victory
because they're so strengthened that we
will tell them that we won't like you if
you don't vote the way we like number
one people came out out of the woodwork
last November to vote we had one of the
largest turnouts for an off-year
election ever and what did they do they
put the Democrats back in charge of the
house if the Democrats don't do anything
in these two years and one year is
almost up they are not going to come
back out next year they will think that
that was a waste of time the Democrats
in the house have to do something and
they can sit back and say well well we
can't do anything because you said it
won't do it you know they can impeach
they don't need the Senate to impeach
they need to impeach they need to create
a historical record that what this
president has done is criminal it's
immoral and it's wrong just plain wrong
and they need to go on the record and
say that and we don't need to take five
months with it but the impeachment
should take a week right evidence
already exists the evidence exists we
don't have to do any evidence collection
okay I agree with you but I am NOT
optimistic on this one I am I think
early on now how many are they now they
broke the majority of the caucus today
is supports and impeachment this is the
right thing where the out of snow song
we got to do something comes into play
because just do literally any well
forgive me
my pessimism but the fact that secrecy
just breezed through the [ __ ] US
House billions of dollars for the
present to continue running his [ __ ]
concentration camps on the border
[ __ ] the continued lack of
accountability for our [ __ ] Gestapo
on the [ __ ] border Gibbs and then
also responded to criticism from AOC
from Elan Omar from progressives in that
caucus by going after them and
demonizing them gives me very little
hope for Nancy Pelosi ya know it should
give you a little hope for us winning
next year because what Pelosi's behavior
guarantees that those people that came
out in November we hadn't voted in a
long time
are gonna stay at home yeah because what
they've seen her piss on the very people
that they put in there because they
wanted to change and if change doesn't
occur if they can't take a stand against
Trump and I'm not talking about Russia
I'm talking about it's enough for me to
impeach him because he said last week
that article 2 to article 2 gives me the
right to do anything I want no you don't
have that power and now I have to
impeach you for it I wanna see the damn
basement I wanna see the impeachment as
long as one of the articles is it is
charged that the president wears a
diaper because that's all he would talk
about for the next two years he would
just be like I don't worry died for fake
news and he would get everybody in the
cabinet on press conferences be like do
I wear a diaper and they'd be like oh no
these wonderfully you don't wear a
diaper and then whoever got the
nomination they would spend the entire
campaign every commercial would be hello
i president Donald Trump I don't wear a
diaper we would be like what the [ __ ] I
what about health care yeah diaper I do
not wear one so you know it's fake news
that's the only way it's gonna work well
number two what I mentioned earlier we
need ballot proposals in the in the
dozen swing states we're on the ballot
there were these measures that will
bring out the base the people that will
vote for our candidate that if if we do
that I'm telling you it's a slam dunk
if we have minimum-wage ballot proposals
Yahoo Rights Amendment for women I mean
just there's a whole list of things we
could put on their student loan relief
free college you know I really need the
candidates for the proposals because as
we saw in Missouri yeah you know that
people came out for the damn milk
Amore's
but baliphar freaking Claire McCaskill
for you will be working harder that's
correct so that brings me to point
number three we need to run a beloved
candidate who is a street fighter for
the working people in the poor of this
country because they're the majority of
the country and when they see somebody
fighting for them not not telling them
for the umpteenth time that they're from
Oklahoma and therefore and my four
brothers were all in the military and
trying to do all this stuff to patronize
what they think the working class wants
to hear when what they want is to be
able to fly to the funeral of an aunt or
a grandparent and have the money to be
able to do that that's all they're
asking for don't you think the working
class might want someone who skateboards
or know you languages they don't that's
something that every single person er
tables across the country that they are
talking about god I just want someone
who speaks Finnish as a caveat as as far
as skateboarding a number of countries
have lowered the voting age to 16 I
support this involved right I need more
youtubers directing on YouTube that are
this is my Sephora haul and also why you
should be voting for Bernie Sanders
every single person who owns Felix and
fortnight's should be entitled to vote
yes no matter if they're nine years old
now that you guys Oh old [ __ ] joy
president Logan talk on the your pumpkin
on the teenagers you know you don't turn
into your parents come on we're quite a
few you know that by the circle of life
I saw I just watch
I just watched a video today of probably
50 teenagers bum-rushing the fence at
Lollapalooza in Chicago and getting all
over together through a feat of
collective action and disturb the area
51 raid they could not stop them all and
they all got into Lollapalooza so one
good way you see those [ __ ] aliens
one guy was arrested and I hope he had a
smirk on his face and said you could not
get us all now look we we have to do
this our Mike I know we're running a bit
long but if you if you do this for us we
have a regular segment on chapo Trap
House called the duck hunt where we what
the hell is it in a while is the duck on
Episode two three years why is it called
that and then we were worried about
getting sued actual truth so since we
are talking about 2020 and the two
debates which you saw the last two
debates yes the new york times has an
interactive feature up an opinion piece
featuring uh just a stable of
commentators some of their in-house
colleagues pundits thoughts thoughts
pogs who all acts snacks who gave they
assigned a a numeric grade to each
candidate and explained why and it is
batshit crazy and we will we would like
to reach out and then roast the response
to do us the honors of doing this with
us I had absolutely okay are you okay
with this okay let's do it alright you
know you ain't seen this have you no oh
okay
yeah it's a bummer folks I'm just gonna
be honest with you cuz we got Liz Mair
doing a lot of commentary now Liz Mair a
Republican strategist who correct me if
I'm wrong I love exile and guide ville
that's of great album she worked for
Walker Paul Harry Perry using Oh
Republican [ __ ] uses I'm sure you've
noticed Mike just saying you're a never
Trump Republican means you got so many
writing gigs in the liberal media yeah
it's easy so we're gonna get a bit from
her now Sanders the New York Times
response I'm plucking I'm cherry-picking
where you heard of this guy Sant Bernie
Sanders from the first night five out of
ten Liz Mair Sanders made the same
mistake warranted punching down but he's
also what what they're the man who's a
populist you know my not the
pharmaceutical executives whose she
punched down owners of big shares in
these companies she doesn't explain no
no I
she said the one thing when she says
punching down she means attacking Tim
Ryan and John Delaney because they are
low in the polls yeah that makes them
minority the Tim Ryan havoc one percent
in presidential polls basically makes
you in the North America we debate over
who is baby on the show but uh John
doing these one hundred-percent big oh
my god punching a baby punching down but
he's also Sanders far less policy fluent
than warranties and he gets a lower mark
as a result like Warren Sanders got
fairly pinned on banning private health
insurance and no one other dis again
contrast what you experience during this
debate with what the New York Times is
registering this house like Warren
Sanders got fairly pinned on banning
private and health insurance and no one
other than unions will like his trade
answer now Sarah Vowell
three out of ten whence when senators
Warren and Sanders dismissed legitimate
critiques of their similar health plans
particularly the radical proposal of
abolishing private health insurance
applause line as Republican talking
points I was enraged to a degree that I
cannot adequately describe family
newspaper
it's your job to describe it she's
basically like one of those mothers who
gets superhuman strength to lift a car
off of her kid but her kid is Aetna she
adds an apology would be nice apology he
tells Sarah Vowell apologize the blue
cross may cry
mayor mayor PD with the little with a
little gnat on his head apparently which
was happening the first night someone
gives him seven out of ten says he's
super progressive Bret Stevens shoutout
he was far and away the most poised and
confident speaker persuasive and
pleasantly ingratiating even when I
didn't agree so he's loving them and
Sarah Vowell sorry she gave the worst
answers this is gonna be a theme eight
out of ten if you had read his memoir
and he had me at gym class was not my
scene he was educated he was educated at
by Oxford and the Navy sure is going to
be President [ __ ]
clover chart you know you know Klobuchar
we all love Chloe dude everyone in this
room has had a shoe thrown at them by
Amy clover car and if you have not her
pledges that she will come to each and
every house and throw a piece of her
office at you also the the Midwest I
believe Minnesota and restate that Oh
Clinton almost lost dad it was close
we'll watch our thing is I want it
multiple times will what concern I
literally do not know who that is will
Wilkinson for the New York Times sense
see you suck [ __ ] planet senator
Klobuchar is a stone-cold killer Rock
Creek Park in DC but she's playing it
cool she's going slow and steady up the
middle without being a jerk to the left
like Delaney her no-nonsense practical
magnet Monty climb the ladder
her no-nonsense practical Gator Dan
Midwestern effect is thrilling but it
connects I can't connect who are you
talking about you were sobbing [ __ ]
New York you have never talking to a
person you've not spoken to a person who
makes under six figures who is not
taking your goddamned recorder in 30
[ __ ] years who are you talking about
that is the mad Chrisman
that ladies and gentlemen is the Matt
Chrisman that we've been watching the
debates with in a hotel room and
publicly for the past couple days
Hey okay Alba char has a crossbow aimed
right squarely at my forehead her aim is
incredibly good if you would like to
call the police that would be wonderful
she's doing very well right now all
right here we go
Biden this is the New York Times a
review of Bravo that you heard of this
guy yeah I'm gonna go through I'm gonna
go through everybody Oh Charles blow
gave him seven out of ten this was okay
this is my own personal thing he says
this was a make-or-break moment and he
made it or precisely he scraped by so he
didn't make her break he did something
concept you can't say make-or-break and
it is something else besides
make-or-break it's something Charles
Perrault blow not as good right earlier
as it says his father Curtis Curtis blow
much better
okay Liz Mayer yeah oh by the way Liz
Mehra I used to be a media reporter okay
and when I was a media reporter I worked
for I work for Haber Brooke I worked for
Springfield when I worked for vice I
worked for a Newsweek and every time
private prisons were in danger Liz Mayer
would hit me up and she would give me
the skinny on why they were being given
a raw deal and when the Obama
administration in their last legs were
federally trying to crack down our
private prisons I got a huge [ __ ]
dump from Liz Mair in my inbox so she's
not only or does a bad person bad person
here are in a metaphysical sense you are
bad not only a representative losers but
just a bad person now she says eight out
of ten for Biden wild the hits just keep
on coming but he was much more fluid
tonight 303 300 three three yeah three
great the gray matter between his ears
was much more fluid than it was if he's
getting at the debate his solid brain
matter was fluid by the end of the night
it was wonderful baby found him in when
he'd eaten is that he had a Wendy's
frosty between his ears by the
blew it folks willing to throw many
punches and showcase his experience he
handled Harris well in many exchanges I
suspect the frequent invocation of Obama
the fact that isn't sound scripted and
looks just aggressive enough we'll keep
him in good standing well I mean Biden
was very tough against people who were
mysteriously burning toast in his
vicinity a lot of traction just from
knowing who the last guy he worked for
is now this is the last one we're gonna
do I skipped over a couple y'all
remember Delaney John John oh yeah
friend of the show jungle a friend of
the show we made him our big baby humans
thump John you heard John Delaney right
Mike I don't want to lose John Delaney
because that's the entertainment respect
right there he is the heel he's the
beautiful villain in any of one at one
of these debates okay now this is the
New York Times all of the reviews that
I've that I've highlighted here are John
looks at every moment on those debates
like he's about to edit an entry and
wiki feat Brooks
okay we're gonna go through four john
delaney reviews from the New York Times
Liz Mair starting it up at nine out of
ten you were there you remember how he
was clearly a nine out of ten ago he
look like a anthropomorphised
[ __ ] goofy yeah he's like every time
he smiled there should have been like a
little bubble above his head what a hook
if Mario was on the stage he would jump
on him get a coin from ya [ __ ] head
okay
Liz Mair nine out of ten unbelievable
nine out of ten a virtual no name or who
seemed to garner more attacks from
senator Sanders Warren
both of whom were not unnecessarily and
dangerously punching down that'd be fair
got way more oxygen than he deserved and
that's what he wants it needs to stay
alive now everyone knows
name that wasn't true before tonight on
trade he and Beth oh are far closer to
the actual Democratic electorate than
Sanders Warren and he forced them to
spend a lot of airtime showing how out
of step they are with their own voters
bottom line he got the big dogs to
elevate him which should have been
completely impossible and even if he's
not where the base is on policy overall
he'll probably do better as a result he
really can't do worse I love that it's
like he made a name for himself
it's like yeah like that scrappy a
go-getter John Wayne Gacy okay in a name
for himself they call him diaper john
delaney everyone know they call it
[ __ ] john delaney everyone says big
bald [ __ ] chocolaty it's on
everyone's lips knowing as I'm saying it
okay Bret Stevens you know as we all
know climate denier wall street journal'
[ __ ] ever written and interesting or
memorable phrase in this life sponge
like scum accretion of Western
civilization suffered like the fact that
he has the job he has honestly means
that society should not exist if those
are the kind of results that it will put
out Iraq war promoter anti-arab racist
red Stevens friend of the show friend of
the show 8 out of 10 for John Delaney
well well I agree with much of what he
says and Democrats desperately need to
hear the voice of someone like him who
speaks for a lot of voters turned off by
the constant dehumanization of the
private sector Democratic electorate has
been dying loverboy folks it's been
dying for the voice of the teacher from
peanuts yes we want to make it so that
people can actually access health care
in this country whoa
[Laughter]
next and this is the second-to-last
peter wiener that's just me as always a
is real name know as chris said he has
two names for penis and richer times
columnist dick johnson eight out of ten
for john delaney he helped himself the
most known by almost no one before
tonight he was quite effective
criticizing two health care plans of
Warren and Sanders he's serious and made
the essential point warns and Sanders
agenda is essentially anti private
sector oh no the private sector you know
he strapped you down to a table and been
force-feeding you bulb and dog and horse
[ __ ] in your mouth for the last thirty
years he's against it folks do you think
a warning center Spanish auntie private
sector that we will not hear the words
private sector five years from now yeah
[ __ ] yeah thanks to the 18 to 35 year
old socialist majority let's say you go
to small-town America go to diners
everywhere and everybody's like we love
our private sector we're just worried
about it no this is we really will not
hear it because of the compliance cube
which requires at all to have good
thoughts at all times
why do these people have jobs who is
paying them
this is absolutely brick now I'm
thinking of running for president
because this thing to this one of my
platform planks will be to round up all
the pundits yes and now I'm a
non-violent person there's a lot of room
out in Utah we can build them a nice
town there's I fear there's a nice
unoccupied ranch called skin walk yeah a
few ayahs in the personality
probably one I don't know I I don't know
if anybody plays a trumpet but somebody
should play taps for the New York Times
oh my god cuz it is over it is over it's
so over it's it's amazing you know and
and and you we do need an inquisitive
aggressive press in this country and we
don't have it we do not have it and this
is what you just read is the most
stunning thing that that would my god
you know a lot of money has been
digitized now and and if the world is
still here in 50 to 100 years this has
this people are gonna read it they're
gonna have symposiums where they're just
gonna laugh at us right now they're not
gonna believe this was called the paper
of record that this is the most
important newspaper oh yeah and and it's
gonna look awful and their range of
commentary is five different people who
all give John Delaney ten folks that
sounds stupid but you're forgetting
they're actually referring to his
physical attractive yes yes yes he's a
goddamn he's a big booty [ __ ] I live in
a country where the majority of voters
the 70% who are women people of color
and young adults I believe the majority
of voters the actual people are to the
left of Elizabeth Warren they paint her
as as someone who's some leftist Pied
Piper the actual people yes they're
struggling day in and day out you know
they may not have a label for themselves
but the things they believe in are to
the left of Elizabeth Warren and aunt in
some ways to the left of Bernie you know
the way you we have to look at Bernie
and Elizabeth Warren is there is there
that they're as good as we've got and
they will act as servants of the people
the people need to direct them to do the
job that needs to get done in all these
networks they have an agenda that
they're pushing it's clear what the
agenda is you guys have called them out
on it and and I do they listen I hope
they listen to this we know they're sick
you bury Madeleine
things at them there are some little
paint pigs who enjoy Gary I will step
bear in there for sure there's some of
them that honestly we cannot even tell
you because then we would lose the
satisfaction of them continuing to get
mad well if they are listening right now
let me just say one of them is a treat
boy I'll tell you that much to these New
York Times columnist to the
right-wingers who are pundits on MSNBC
America is laughing at you you are a
joke and and we are lucky enough to have
this show as a means to amplify the fact
that we think you're a joke do you hear
me all you eight out of ten errs you're
you're a goddamn joke you're a fraud
we're onto you and and by god we are
going to somehow do an end run around
you so that we are going to run the
country from this point on we the
working people the poor of America the
majority of Americans who believe in
these things you know somewhat tepid
applause from the audience because it's
hard to believe that we would ever be in
charge because it's been destroyed the
idea of working people coming together
and extracting concessions and demanding
their fair share that idea has been
destroyed not immediately eliminated
from this country not in me in heaven
and not in the people I know and and
when I'm in the White House here we go
here we go
[Applause]
Secretary of State right here god that's
too much for me yes pretty good role yes
Secretary of Agriculture
[Applause]
you're gonna broke the lead crosser yeah
we're gonna grow the weed for a new
America
that's your job thank you Michael no I
mean I think that's as as inspiring as a
place to end on is I saw ruling a
different fiefdom of light you have any
closing thoughts I want to thank you for
coming to Traverse City I want to thank
this great audience for being here and
and I want to and I want to remind you
of something there are more of us than
there are of them yes that will never
change
so take the power that's already in your
hands we can make something very
important happen in in the next 18
months we have to do this folks we don't
have a choice
no choice no George no choice because we
have someone in the White House who
truly thinks he's never leaving and may
actually act in a way or do something
whether it's to start a war or to create
a fake terrorist incident or to just say
I'm not leaving because all these
illegal aliens voted for the Democrat
whatever it is he's got up up in his
mind this is this is truly the most
dangerous time that we've ever been in
and and to sit by and not do anything
will will certainly be our ruin so take
take pride in the power that you have
you are not alone if you're listening to
this someplace out there in the middle
of the country you are not alone you are
the majority and and we will succeed
because we are smarter than Bret Stevens
that is
that is the message of Jeremy Corbyn we
are many they're a few and that is the
message of Bernie Sanders not me us we
we the very first American word it's in
the catch the first word that we wrote
down we the people not me the people we
the people that's who we are this is our
last chance folks it's in your hands
this is our last chance Michael Moore
thank you so much for joining
[Applause]
[Music]
