[Music]
hey folks yeah that's right that will
mix it up tonight I'm introducing the
show we are in a wonderful Columbus Ohio
the middle city glorious capital of Ohio
we are here with Brett and Brian are
proud are proud that's from sweet flight
radio and we're getting ready to do a
show here we're very excited we hope
everybody comes out for it
Columbus legends Brett Payne and Brian
could be Columbus legends everywhere
except for in Columbus thanks for having
us we appreciate it
you guys are like how anvil was always
huge in Japan and they didn't even know
it that's my dream is to get huge
somewhere that's not America yeah uh I
would love to be the biggest act in the
Islamic state that would okay quick
preface it should this audio ever
actually make up the air ah just know
that I am working the levels on the zoom
mic will so as always if you don't like
the audio email virgil who loves e-mails
he is he told us how to do levels even
though it's not here and a little bit
later you'll be hearing something i know
you all love live content a clip from
our pittsburgh show that's right no no
no before you complain before you
complain just know that this is not a
whole live show this is one this is the
second act of our live show in in
Pittsburgh last night and it was
honestly the most epic Rod Dreher
reading series on quest that we've ever
done on the show yes I mean I almost
don't want to give too much away but I
will just say this is Roger Ayers The
Exorcist yes yeah nominal and if you
guys are good you know you give it it
you give it a shot give it it's fair
shake and you enjoy it you're nice to us
we'll give you what you want which is
all the live shows unedited including
sound checks we don't be good I must
rest we are not gonna do the Dreier
content at any of the other live shows
from here on out
so if we don't give it to you on here
you're not gonna hear it will be lost
forever unless Riley's deserves like
rods tears in the rain it deserves to be
heard but yeah we're here in the living
room of Brian Quimby hi yeah I brought
you guys to my house and my big table my
big gross table the basement right now
is completely filthy so there's not
enough room for us to be down there
we just make make a path through the
boxes and to record each night so I was
just wondering and you guys aren't
chilling down there do you ever do the
podcast while sitting on beanbag chairs
filled with kratom we do pee in holes
don't know there-there is when you go to
if you get to go down there in the
studio this week there is a table down
there that is green like with kratom
powder all over it looks crazy yeah we
are when we first started streaming our
show on video we would set kilos that
kratom up on the on the table next to us
so people can see how much kratom we
have down his crate amid CBD where legal
drug dealers and we're only gonna get to
do this for probably another two or
three months before the gravy train ends
when I was in LA I I drank this huge
like CBD water thing and I don't know if
it's like just my low tolerance to weed
or if I'm a [ __ ] or if it's just
something with brain chemistry but it
like kind of got me high in this very
enjoyable way it is I like destroyed or
anything but like you have this like
mild buzz and I was thinking about how
cool it would be to get addicted to just
CBD weed somebody recently was on
Twitter and they were like brought they
DM me and they're like Brian I'm
listening to your old you're back
catalog and I'm listening to a show
where you can't stop talking [ __ ] about
how CBD is fake had a change of heart
since the first time you tried it you
walked into some smoke shop on campus
and had some like gum or something and
you were like the guy says no I can't
get high I can't get high for the rest
of the day
that's I was mad about that ya know
that's you know people have gotten mad
about me for this plan there you know
with medical marijuana and just retail
marijuana available now people are
afraid of course of kids using it so
I've begun dosing water in school
districts with CBD so the kids you know
they can illegally take that legal
marijuana but they won't get high I just
no one's thanked me no more ATD
medication just be chill I just went to
my daughter's middle school my daughter
is in seventh grade and I went to her
school first to drop something off
earlier today and I walked by and I was
like this is so Ohio they have a narcan
kit in the front of the store and I'm
like god damn or these kids do an errand
[ __ ]
well it's Ohio it is well those cops
have done that thing now we're like if a
cop gets like food poisoning or
something they're like I think somebody
uh sent me a mail with a little bit of
fentanyl in it yeah we love that I love
when cops are like that's like the tier
above abortion survivor it's like I was
in the same room as Fenton all it's like
you know it's not like you don't just
instantly die if you touch it no we had
a police force here that claimed there
was Flyers put on their cars and they
had been dipped in fentanyl so that when
the cops touched them they would
overdose then they put Pepsi in our car
knowing that there was aborted fetus
parts in there they give his apples with
razor blades the fentanyl thing is wild
I just we have a new one of the ballot
measures in in Ohio this time is issue
one and it's treatment for drug offenses
no jail no jail time for drug offenses
and there's a dark money pack now that's
putting out these memes that say if
issue one passes a person that's walking
around with enough fentanyl to kill
10,000 people would not go to jail
where did you get that number I love
that I love like ten thousand people or
four hundred elephants god that's that
[ __ ] pack is probably funded by
private prison companies pretty sure oh
that's disgusting I know I know I saw it
just it's the police deal yeah Ohio's
cop I mean Columbus's cops are like now
becoming the one that people say when
they say there's corruption and it's
like they just arrested there they
arrested stormy Daniels yes and they're
now the vice squad so they arrested
stormy Daniels and then about a month
later the cops shot a woman who was like
a sex worker that was that story was is
that guy even charged or what is going
on but now the vice squad is suppose
they say the vice squad is on hold it
wasn't right it was it was it out of
uniform cop we just shot a woman trying
to push her into a car yes yes I the
kidnappers he had her in the car and
then apparently he parked next to the
wall of a building so that if she tried
to open the door she wasn't gonna get
out of the car so she bit him and then
he shot her like eight times or
something please like maybe gonna
[ __ ] charge no there no yeah he got
off they said that she they actually
said she stabbed him and that's why he
got off [ __ ] they don't bust anything
nobody gets in trouble he ride the guy
that just shot Tamir rice and Cleveland
got a new [ __ ] job in a rural place
like you you just they they don't get
busted I mean they don't get busted
anywhere though it's not like New York
and LA or any of those places like have
done it yeah that's why when they
[ __ ] convicted Van Dyke that was like
holy [ __ ] I can't believe it actually
happen I couldn't believe that because
in Chicago we had like a Special
Operations Division in CBD and it was
basically just the shield they were
doing the shield like they would just
[ __ ] extort drug dealers and robbed
them of their packs and then sell them
what didn't happen and it's like no one
really went to jail who's just like
alright we won't us alright fine we
won't have to shield unit anymore
you happy you're not gonna get any of
these gripping dramas so I slightly
certainly not as serious but Brian your
your cousin got in a little trouble with
the law recently yeah you should find a
murder Brian on Twitter you got to find
this thing and the street fight W CRS
page but he posted something about a
state rep who was an enormous piece of
[ __ ] the state rep is a guy who said so
a couple weeks ago a little 11-year old
girl was at Kroger and she got tased for
shoplifting and the creepiest thing the
cop was saying see honey I don't want to
do this you made me tase you but anyway
they're a kind an adult man rising an
11-year old girl
yeah shoplifting $58 worth of stuff and
shooting with a Taser and an apologized
saying honey I'm doing this for your
betterment yeah I mean I can't imagine
if you're a cop like this gets said so
much on every podcast and on every on
Twitter all day but like if a cop can't
deal with an 11 year old girl then maybe
they just don't need to be a cop but uh
so this state rap in some backwoods ass
county in in Ohio said well maybe she
deserved it
you know maybe like if a kid gets if my
kid got shot I would look in inward and
see like what how I failed as a parent
and maybe these people should see maybe
these parents should see how they failed
when their kids get shot yeah and if
their get tased her shot maybe they were
just acting like a punk so my cousin
posted something that was roughly like I
wish someone would kill this guy how am
I supposed to believe in the government
and they got arrested the guy bragging
on his Facebook page about getting him
arrested and an HR 5 felony and free
speech is very important to the Republic
it's very important to care about really
yeah well they're using his Facebook
page as sort of they've said things
about leftist stuff on his face we can't
talk about it a ton but like he has
stuff on us like leftist like imagery on
his Facebook page and of course he's he
works for us so I think he had some
street fight stuff on his page and
they're using that to say he's like a
radical
it's nervous yes black black guerilla
family bloc but the good thing about our
job is when I contacted a lawyer I
talked to a person that's a lawyer and
was like you know should Brett and I
shut up about this and he was like you
should check with their lawyer but the
first thing I said what I told him what
happened and the first thing he said was
he got arrested and I was like yeah he's
like isn't that like good for your brand
but I go to jail I mean like if we're
gonna make the thing of like it's a
death threat to say I would like it if
someone like [ __ ] that guy like then you
just wipe out like three-quarters the
good things online that's all I do is it
someone dies all day I'm saying I'm not
saying I'm going to do it or old pace
I'm saying like I would enjoy if that
happened that's not a threat well yeah
and it's a guy with like maybe a hundred
friends on Facebook it's like he's not
some influential guy that's like out
there saying like let me get my minions
it was just it was one of those I mean
and I feel like it was just the dude saw
that thing and he felt so hopeless and
then that's what came out you know the
thing about is that Jake does work with
those kids Jake works with at-risk and
homeless youth and so it came from like
a very passionate place and was
obviously a terrible idea but he's not
he's not facing a felony anymore they
not good he's in misdemeanor territory
don't take our lead we're just really
lucky and you like the regular guy who
has to pay for like LinkedIn premium so
you know it's a [ __ ] rough world out
there and you know just you know say it
in the text your mom screaming and
screaming at the on the Xbox message the
person who killed you on Cod you know
did [ __ ] hit a heavy bag get one of
those punchy bags it's a clown that you
put water in the bottom it comes back up
and pretend that's all your enemies
don't you know don't take a risk by
being epic on Twitter that's what our
job we'll take the risk I want to do the
new George Carlin thing on your show
real quick
yeah kill death shoot stab
seven stab fight yeah
murder there you go I want to talk about
another array giuse miscarriage of
justice is currently going on this is a
burning Columbus but this is a New York
story I was reminded if again today this
is from New York one from much it's
called days ago headline transit
obsessed Queens man will not be released
back into community sorry says here ever
since he was a teenager in Queens Darius
McCollum has been in trouble with the
law
always for stealing subway trains and
buses and the story goes on and it is
basically about this guy who I regard to
be something of a folk hero in New York
City absolutely I even heard about this
guy before I'm over there and it's what
it sounds like use a guy who you know
this entire life has been deeply
obsessed with trains he was stabbed as a
kid by a classmate and like up he was
very soothed by trains as part of his
recovery and ever since he was about
like you know a teenager he has been
basically you know commandeering and he
was driving an actual train like a C
train at 15 not hired by the MTA but was
covering for an MTA employee who wanted
to spend time with his girlfriend that's
cold
yeah this is perfect for her because
this is this is anarchism right isn't
this what we talked about on our rested
for more than 30 times for taking the
months for taking them on Joyride
subways and buses I disagree we're
riding it's not a joyride
he picks people up on these buses he
does the actual rapid being paid long as
transit this is now 53 years old he was
in Brooklyn Supreme Court on Friday
hoping the judge would give him a
measure of freedom and let him live in a
supervised group home instead he was
committed to a secure adult psychiatric
center which is like a bedlam style
Horror Show for sure
drive the train just a job
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Schilling
furred who would not agree to be seen on
camera sided with prosecutors who argued
that McCollum is quote dangerously
mentally ill but well you know this is
why you this is why like you can't ever
vote for a prosecutor for any political
office yeah it's like this is like a
wonderful like whimsical man who's
actually helping the community and has
this amazing interest in this thing that
the city and state led fall into total
disrepair and this for this [ __ ] law
school [ __ ] just this joyless
[ __ ] husk is like now let's just put
him in a cage for however much time
that's like you know I just this
wonderful whimsical guy mayor sociopaths
prosecutors are [ __ ] socio tracking
them that habit right it says uh this is
the first incident it said in 1980 at
the age of 15 Darius was arrested when
he drove an in-service he trained he was
covering the MTA employee shift so that
the employee could visit his girlfriend
a passenger concerned when she saw young
Darius sitting alone in the operators
cab the train was stopped and Darius was
arrested the news of the Yonge subway
bandit was sensational through there
thro through all of it Darius never
revealed to the authorities he was
working for the MTA employee oh he's
real abandoned how is he he's like
abandoned in the way Leto of a guy sees
a pie being on the windowsill and finds
a quicker way to cool it yeah he uh yeah
it did tell ya he didn't tell that is
[ __ ] cool buddy
that's a comrade is what they called oh
no I just told this thing yeah so uh you
returned to school but then he was
labeled a truant and his failure to
reform resulted in his confinement in a
mental hospital it was there that he was
given heavy doses of antipsychotic
medication and he was diagnosed with
depression and psychosis within days of
his release from the hospital Darius
returned to the subway his MTA friends
were so pleased that he had not revealed
their complicit activity that they
welcomed him back into the fold to the
transit world was a violation of his
probation and and he was sent to jail no
so in 1989 of court he was diagnosed
with Asperger's syndrome but he has
liked by all accounts
font like understanding of the New York
City Transit System both buses and
Subway's yes it's a type of dude that
like you feel like this is C I know our
job doesn't exist in 1980 but in 1980 a
guy could just get in a train just drive
and people the people that work for the
Train are like that's pretty whimsical
it's nice what this guy's doing and I I
kind of I wish we can pull that off
because that guy should just be a
character in his part of New York you
know give him a job at the MTA I mean
this sounds like a great position you're
taking somebody and instead of utilizing
their magnificent skill you're putting
them in a cage people people hate any
type of greatness because there's a true
they're hater type of true greatness for
the past 40 years Darius has been in and
out of jail for charges involving
transportation he has never been
arrested for a crime of violence he has
never injured anyone he has been banned
from all MTA rail yards busty boats and
other official offices and one of his
many efforts to find employment darius
volunteered at the New York City Transit
Museum a job he loved but he was fired
when his boss ultimately realized his
identity that's [ __ ] oh this guy
things more than I ever could that's
very [ __ ] tragic 911 Darius
volunteered his knowledge and skill to
make the New York City subway system
safe
Darius led a team of federal agents New
York City intelligence detectives and
New York State Police through the
subways subway system identifying
locations where intruders were able to
enter without being detected Darius was
actually incarcerated at the time he was
taken in shackles from his parole miners
island by a team of federal agents to
tour the subway system assisting law
enforcement with their efforts for his
contributions
Darius received no benefit instead the
Department of Corrections was notified
that Darius was quote easily manipulated
and a terrorist could gain valuable
knowledge as a result he was placed in
solitary confinement
can you imagine the [ __ ] fat neck
tweed oh who is like I am tactically
ascertaining that someone could use this
boy's brain to initiate an Islamic style
terror attacks online whatever Sal bin
Laden gained access to Professor X is
cerebro vicious easy though it was like
so easy after 9/11 to just be like I bet
I think this guy's talking to uh sama
bin Laden throw him in a [ __ ] hole oh
yeah so finally I mean the last time he
was arrested was in 2015 where he drove
a Greyhound bus around New York City and
he was relatively arrested at gunpoint
by five New York City police officer
where he's gonna go he's just following
the route but but yeah basically
prosecutors have argued that he is a
dangerous criminal that needs to be put
away for the rest of his life and some
horrific mental institution where's
Andrade of thinking here there is a
gofundme going on right now
he's currently incarcerated we're
putting that [ __ ] up yeah but there is a
GoFundMe for his legal-defense I mean I
think this is going to be appealed
hopefully but I mean I remember learning
about the story a long time ago and just
thinking like what what a folk hero this
guy is yeah the guy who just you know
rides and works the trains and yeah I've
said this before but if the Emperor
Norton were around now the first time he
tried to stroll into a nice fancy
restaurant downtown San Francisco he
would have been strangled to death by
some thick neck [ __ ] cop psycho yeah
one week they would not have [ __ ]
plaques of him all over the city not
just the [ __ ] cop psycho but like
you're the prosecutor how do you how do
you do that do you like going to the
court you're like I want to throw in
this like wonderful man who's never
heard any and just helped he has never
once committed an act of violence or
even put anyone's life in danger through
his action then what do you do you go to
a bomb pan yeah okay look at your bumble
lap live the rest of your empty
cosmopolitan existence you ever look in
the mirror and wonder what the [ __ ]
you're doing with your life okay all you
wanted to do when you went to law school
you know that [ __ ] creep they all
think they're Sam
Watterson in law and order fighting the
good fight we actually just like last
week there was a story in Ohio about a
woman that worked at Giant Eagle the the
deli counter at Giant Eagle and she
would eat like four to five pieces of
ham or salami every single day that she
worked there she worked there for eight
years and the loss prevention people at
[ __ ] at Giant Eagle fired her and
impressed felony charges and said she
ate nine thousand eight hundred dollars
worth a ham in the time she worked at HR
now she's being charged with grand theft
for hanging out she's just like smuggled
it's like it's like a [ __ ] it's like
the Great Escape just smuggling lunch
meat out of the place in her stomach
every single day she was just you know
she probably caught it and then just was
like one fun picky people they're all
that's too thick oh that's too thin
those are all separate incidents one log
operation moving the ham from the
rocketstor to her stomach is individual
taking of tiny land that would be like a
Class B felony or what all right [ __ ]
misdemeanors it's just a so no they
don't add up no they Joe and I'm seeing
it like like the loss prevention guy is
a dick obviously and he's the type of
dude that would like gloss prevention
guys like the yellow punishment on a guy
you know but then there's like that went
to with the cops and then it went to a
prosecutor and now they're in court and
this is still like going on this
person's been charged with a felony for
that what just sick like sadistic pure
society yeah it's so gross you live in a
Thor if you make under like $80,000 a
year you live in an authoritarian
society absolutely tyrannical boot if
you make under that amount of money it's
[ __ ] country you are so you're so
underrepresented in any kind of
government like democratic structure
that you're effectively disenfranchised
even if you do vote yeah and if you have
no ability to change this at all no and
they and they and they use and the only
way you see the state is is this is
awful kuroh coercive just boot and of
course no wonder a lot of them I'm not
become
like you know Infowars conspiracy guys
because that makes sense and like this
state as a concept is just a thing that
[ __ ] with him like I remember that that
Bundy ranch guy who killed those cops in
Las Vegas I don't know if anybody
remembers this him in his girlfriend who
dressed up like the Joker Harley Quinn
on Las Vegas Strip they shot two
remember that yeah they shot two cops at
a Cici's Pizza drop the Gadsden flag on
the bodies and then ran into a Walmart
where by the way they killed a good guy
with a gun okay was the dude who was
there and he was concealed carry he saw
the guy and he thought Oh active shooter
engaged and he didn't know that the girl
was there with him and she blew him away
okay and then they ended up get dying in
a shootout with the cops these this guy
like his life story I think he's from
Ohio he's from the Midwest like shitty
schools and then his only in inter
counter was the government was that he
kept getting arrested for pot yeah all
the time
and it like [ __ ] his life up and
totally like robbed him of his ability
to really do anything besides just sort
of scrape by and even when he started
getting better at that something else
would happen and he'd get not the square
one but it's that's the state and of
course it's like controlled by reptile
Rothschilds or whatever the [ __ ] well in
the thing that like with the thing about
it is that like that's why it makes me
crazy when he's like rich liberal type
people go on Twitter and talk about like
these poor people are voting for Donald
Trump and stuff and you're they don't
vote because who would they for who
would I vote for like if if I don't make
if you make you know $25,000 a year you
don't you don't care who's the president
who's president what if you make twenty
grand a year gives a [ __ ] they're trying
to leave the house without getting all
their assets seized in a [ __ ] cage
for a decade if you vote for Trump and
it's like you want to know why they did
because ever since you got the
nomination till now the establishment
attempt to undermine Trump is to
emphasize that he's not one of us yeah
he's not part of the establishment and
so it's like yeah you mean the [ __ ]
[ __ ] who make my life [ __ ] yeah and
like contribute to everything that like
makes it hard for me to live
saying he's the opposite of you guys
that he's the total antithesis of
everything you are that what you're
saying I might have to give this guy
look yeah and you're buying I mean
they're buying the ham for 50 cents a
pound she's carving it up and selling it
for $6 a pound and doesn't have enough
[ __ ] money to eat a [ __ ] ham
sandwich on her break and borrows a few
slices that are gonna go in the trash
anyway absolutely they waste half the
food yeah the food all ends up in the
goddamn garbage dumpsters all in locked
an efficient distribution of resources
that's what you get this happen this is
such a [ __ ] oh my god recently we've had
Wars episodes heard you were just
talking and without us knowing it we're
just like slowly walking into an abyss
yeah yeah whole thing now is that we got
a call-in show where people say yeah my
boss is ripping me off and [ __ ] me
over and it's like oh let's make this
funny we my idea to like for our
Columbus episode songs live show was
like we would let's watch a movie and
make fun of it and like look you see why
I suggested that we just talk about
anything at all that happens and it's
yeah I really hope the human condition
is just pure authoritarian misery you
give anyone power at all though just an
IQ series in middle October yeah that's
a little disturbing you think also like
the weird thing is is like you can spend
all night like you're gonna spend
probably three days here and you're
barely gonna like see things about the
police we're like the thing that shocked
me the most about getting to New York is
when you're about 15 miles out in New
Jersey there's like flags for the police
department there's police graffiti all
over the place looks like at least at
least the police are up front there you
know because like this is suck here I
think this neighborhood this is a
development this uh they built this in
the 60s it was originally a blue-collar
neighborhood now it's a blue lives
neighborhood I would love to be like the
Marc Ecko of pro-police graffiti that
would be good I want to be the Banksy of
purple that I want to be the guy that
up with every time a cop gets shot that
sells the stickers it says the name of
the city and then strong after it about
the blue lives matter movement and its
propaganda arm because there's an
official blue lives matter [ __ ]
Twitter account I don't know how they
got that checkmark well they're not
they're not efficient they're not like
an organ anything that's literally just
were the guys most yeah for the ideology
we actually had a round-robin tournament
and of course they posted every time a
cop gets shot I like look at this but
then they also post every time a cop
dies in the line of duty which means
like yeah he was in a donut shop but if
I could choke to death how to crawl it
yeah they have like all these cops like
accidentally discharged in their web and
then sometimes like I think it may be an
algorithm because they just posted a
reasons like sickos getting arrested but
there was one they posted it was like
woman arrested for rescuing animals
during wildfire and it's like what are
you saying working like it'll stick
where people stick oh we're keeping the
people safe was for her own good
well that our idea was blue lives magic
yeah so the route calm for cops yes they
Amin that that blue lives matter stuff
is so big like everywhere we traveled
and in like the one thing that we
noticed when we were on tour through the
Midwest was that you never see a blue
lives matter flag or anything on a
shitty car it's always a pickup truck
that's the classic tweet Felix tweet
from during the black lives matter
protests when he says I don't understand
why they have to riot says man well cops
put his groceries in his Porsche Cayenne
every guy with like a new SUV or
something is like he's like no all you
have to do is show cops you respect them
and they respect you and it's wonderful
and they're my best friends it's like
yeah you're like a rich guy who rich
white guy who smiled at them you know
why they do their job they talk about
cops really protecting you specifically
they talk about cops the way people like
give advice to people like hiking about
bears like suppose you just don't show
any fear
yeah guys are really comfortable around
their personal armed guards my favorite
my favorite reads my favorite deaths are
when the bladder account will report
that a cop tragically died in pursuit of
a suspect on foot it's like you mean a
[ __ ] I just blew a [ __ ] aorta well
asked to run for half a block well like
every plane on that everybody liked the
resisting charge is such [ __ ]
because like everybody's afraid of the
police now cuz everybody except for like
you know 300-pound white guys that like
work at the local mill that doesn't
exist anymore son like you know like an
engineer isn't afraid of them but
everybody else if the cop starts talking
to you going to like panic mode
immediately I actually when we were
touring in Virginia we got pulled over
and I [ __ ] panic cuz he's been in the
car vaping out of a pack switch really
[ __ ] smells in the car it does and I
was hauling ass down a hill and I got to
80 79 miles an hour it was 79 I wish I
had this guy pulls me over but I pull
over on the wrong side of the road like
into the middle he was like pull over
and he pulled me over but he looked at
me and he was like this guy's like just
a scared dad that like has never been
pulled over before and I was just
sitting in the car like just I sure wish
I hadn't done that oh my god yeah man
[ __ ] blue eyes [ __ ] imagine
you just have to act scared of them
that's how you deal with the police now
yeah when they show up you they want
they want to see you submit to them yes
and what they're they want to be God for
a minute they want you to show them your
belly yeah yeah there's all those
there's that kid in a this happened a
few years ago I totally got forgotten
this kid in in Miami I believe got like
grabbed by the scruff by a cop and like
planted on the pavement and arrested and
roughed up because he gave him a quote
hateful look yeah that was the cops
testimony we had a guy looking at him
wrong we had a guy here that
the guy was talking [ __ ] to him and he
was on the ground handcuffed so the guys
the cops stomped on the back of his head
and it was on camera people the video
circulated and that guy's back on duty
and named neighborhood and he also had
shot another guy he pulled up they do
this summer policing program here we're
playing clothes police drive around in
unmarked cars and try to bust drug but
that goes well and they jumped out of
the car and this [ __ ] guy took off
running cuz he's like these two guys are
chasing me with [ __ ] guns and they
shot him in the back and this same cop
also kicked the guy in the back of the
head he's like been a problem peep Zack
Rosen people know his name in town and
he still works he's like who hasn't been
in trouble yet it's lucky I had quit
going to my favorite New York a style
pizza place because they were raising
money for that guy I had a picture of
them sitting on a horse with a black
girl standing like next to the horse
like a little kid and I was like what
the [ __ ]
I love all those like every time that
there's like a cop just like unloads a
[ __ ] bazooka into a child on a
tricycle there's just like a totally
organic story where it's like a cop
played a pickup basketball game with the
child I don't know where look at this
cop doing the shoot dance cool dude we
have a Columbus Police cop now that's a
dancing cop and he goes to all the rap
concerts and dances oh yeah we got one
of our boys and blues here tonight he
comes out and does the dougie and [ __ ]
you guys you guys seen the video the FBI
agent at the bar like he's like doing
that he's doing a backflip and his gun
falls out and she hits this poor woman
and and you see my dad more recently
than the the turned FBI agent have you
guys seen the it's been going around
Twitter the video of the the [ __ ] cop
yeah hold it's not a cop in uniform at a
club just like taking this phone out
like just on the IG just getting a video
of just an ass
just doing that her ass is like a foot
in front yeah but it's like that's such
a weird thing to do yeah like even
average I before any guy we're all
worried a guy worth the urge to be
public like I gotta get this ass yeah
it's like this [ __ ] cop sees the ass
he's like you know this one's pretty
great but I'm knocking I know I'm not
gonna be able to remember it being able
to remember things like last year I
don't know what have any I blew a video
the in [ __ ] perfect attack if that
cop gets in trouble though and they show
the video that someone else recorded of
him recording someone's ass at the club
I guarantee you his defense will be the
same as the VanDyke guy who just got
found guilty if killing laQuan McDonald
his defense said yes we all saw the
video of you just like this guy was
clearly walking away or just like in no
way
lunging towards you from ten yards away
with a three-inch knife you shot him
like I don't know how many times 16 16
times first of all and I testified that
he was shooting at the knife they
trained you to on speed Your Majesty I
actually have slow motion ability I am
able to go on to bullet time I call it
cop mode I was doing I was curving the
bullet as in the shown in the film I
wanted it's like he's that guy's such a
[ __ ] that he found a way to be
convicted as a cop Cook County jury
you're [ __ ] idiot the the only way
that was sort of happen is because there
was video of all of it yeah and even
that is not a guarantee of acog oh got
together to leak it get it out there it
was gonna be [ __ ] buried forever and
we know for a fact around the manual
kept it hidden for a year so that it
wouldn't come out before his reelection
and as that's probably I think why he's
not searching another term
because he's knows that that's still a
time bomb there's like a like a smoking
gun proof that he held that back he's
gonna blow up all over again and it's
just gonna [ __ ] out destroy his career
so he's trying to go out on top so yeah
we we saw that video right and it's it's
you know under arguable what happens on
it however in addition to him testifying
that I was trying to shoot at the knife
his is his defense said to like the jury
like you know yeah you saw the video but
we are arguing that the video is is
irrelevant to the matter at hand because
the video doesn't show what he saw from
his perspective oh yeah that video of me
filming that woman working in the club
didn't see what I was seeing yeah I was
I was making an ocular passes might have
been filled with explosives I I was I I
was looking for any identifying tattoos
reported to the slide the horny thing
that has been making me laugh lately is
that but right after that stormy Daniels
thing it came out that the Columbus
Police Department had been doing a
long-term undercover sting on all the
strip clubs and dollars for [ __ ]
alcohol and lapped in [ __ ]
taxpayer-funded strip to the strip club
at the end of which they get to arrest
everyone yeah yeah that's disgusting
watch commander I have tactically
ascertain that I think several the
dancers actually liked me as a person I
got a shot at this Jeezy commented on a
house where my body was I have created a
perfect taxable square perfection so I
can ascertain myself into my tactical
dodge charger permission to bring an
m249 shw with overwatch for 18
warthogs over mr. Kitty's six [ __ ]
months investigating to see if strip
clubs are giving hand jobs in the
[ __ ] backward and then not only do
you have this abusive power of ice crew
then they decide that they're going to
do a literally politically motivated hit
these guys basically deputized them to
Donald Trump and said we're gonna help
you mr. president cuz we love you so
much
we're gonna take this lying [ __ ] is
getting you in trouble with her
accusations and we're gonna [ __ ] make
her look less credible so they literally
just entrapped her so that they could
discredit her allegations
that's just like a [ __ ] that's that
is literal fashion nearly naked it what
I wonder like III would love to hear
like how this all out because they
didn't really talk about how it all went
down because I don't a Columbus Police
Department most police departments they
don't have to tell you [ __ ] and you know
when they arrest somebody they don't
have to make anything public and I just
don't even know how they got away with
being like we're gonna go arrest or be
Daniels yeah what a [ __ ] idiot what a
[ __ ] bunch of idiots it's illegal here
there's like the the strip club laws
here really like like they're really
specific it's like you're not allowed to
like put your finger on a nipple and
they're there like oddly specific so I
think that it just they were waiting to
see one of these come one of these
people trip up and it didn't take much
to arrest her it that was wild though
that was insane
it was retaliatory I think 100% I mean
if you're a vice cop you have to be a
trump guy like it's a hundred percent of
Trump think about that my spice cop is
just like a guy who wanted to be a
national review bathroom sicko writer
but was somehow too stupid for that he's
like a guy who's obsessed with sickos
I'll do whatever it takes to find a
sicko I'll lick the bottom of the
bathroom floor trace the sickos
it's like are you sure you know you're
you're fine you know look within maybe
they spend all their time just being
[ __ ] tyrants like extorting sex
workers I mean those piggish pieces of
[ __ ] they're like I'm doing it for you
know my kids that I don't have but you
know God willing one day but yeah no
absolutes wine I don't think anybody I I
do think like if you went around and
asked like a hundred people 99 of them
would say get rid of the Vice the vice
squad on any Police Department cuz it's
that I mean like it's nothing they don't
they do they provide zero service to
anybody alright so that is but an
appetizer for our little taste of the
Chapo street bike lab that will be
happening Wednesday night mm-hmm
here in Columbus Ohio at the Athenaeum
theater Leslie you're in Columbus if you
were just in Ohio yeah I mean it's the
centers in America it's equidistant who
I know was more than two hours away from
so lazy not to drive yeah you should
hear I'm honestly disappointed if you
don't come I drove to Cleveland last
Monday to see a cop and I I definitely
hope that my old d sa cincy peeps come
out do you say since he come out to you
I'm at I would like to say hi it's a
homecoming in a lot of ways because
finally we are coming home to
streetfight Columbus Ohio where it all
started time had a flat circle yep um so
yeah Brent and Brian it's great to be
with you it'll be better to be with you
on Wednesday night yeah on stage hell
yeah so tickets still available the link
for that will be in the show description
as well as the link for free darius now
oh yeah the fundraiser please this guy
does not deserve to be no one else's
life heavy it's cruel
so without further ado I now present to
you Chapo traphouse presents rod rares
The Exorcist live in Pittsburgh okay so
I mentioned that in the second act of
tonight's show we would be returning to
a member an all-star of the chapo Methos
folks I'm talking about Rod Dreher how
many y'all like Roger air he's been as
matt said quiet lately like the like the
golden snake killer yes what do you know
it some in stress treat calm results
revealed some interesting information
oh no of this column this is a rod
column that really takes you on a
journey it's really pretty special and
I'm thrilled to share it with you here
tonight this is from just earlier this
week the post at American Conservative
comm is simply titled Nathan's story
hard to tell where this one is gonna go
but it really my interest is piqued it
really takes me there I really hope it
was just that he was fooled by Nathan
fielder begins and ends there cuz I
don't like the idea of him telling
someone's life story this is about
bringing back Firefly Nathan Fillion may
be none of my co-hosts know what this is
or where it's going by the way so I'm
the only one you're watching us here for
the first time yeah I'm the only one who
possesses the secret rod knowledge well
I don't know about that okay this is how
it begins
what if rod was one of us just a sicko
like one of those just a stranger in the
bathroom just a stranger in the Bang Bus
like the rest of us okay it begins like
this I've had these two stories open on
my browser for a few days now I'm going
to destroying my other hard drives
what is it an incognito tab I'm going to
go ahead and post them as a preface for
something very strange the first one is
about a rash of cattle mutilation out in
rural Arizona oh boy you know that's the
most [ __ ] up porn taste I have ever
heard and he's quoting from this article
a cow and bull were both killed
overnight an ear cut off a section of
hide detached the scrotum and penis
carefully removed the vaginal cavity
gone the blood drained
he's just describing the operation of a
slaughterhouse no discernible tracks
were found near the carcasses which were
lying near an infrequently traveled Road
little blood was found on the ground and
the cow was wedged up into a tree as if
trying to escape from something by the
way the I think the news site he's
getting this from is cryptid facts calm
no it's actually from I'm sorry we have
to go back does he think that when
they're scared
cows hide in trees it would certainly
appear that way not from the Midwest
he's from the south
yeah all he knows his gumbo yeah they
look there were wedged up into a tree as
if trying to escape from something I
mean this is not rod writing this is not
rod writing by the way this is cryptid
news in fact report com in his decades
of living in the scrubby pinyon-juniper
forest north of Williams the 66 year old
Mahan has raised horses and small herds
of cattle and seen animals killed by
predators such as mountain lions and
coyotes he has witnessed scavengers such
as Ravens and vultures picking at
carrion but never has he witnessed the
deliberate dismemberment he saw last
week for people that come out and
purposely kill and mutilate an animal
for their own pleasure is just unreal
it's sickening he said as he tucked his
weather-beaten hands into his well-worn
pockets okay that's a little journalism
where they like try to
try to be a little too right early there
were your hands in his pockets perhaps
they were very spiffy you don't know
this is a brand new salvaged denim city
slicker like this is why they have to
stop making movies about journalists
just this guy from like you know the hog
spit press is just like oh I'm like the
spotlight guy especially since every
time some pencil-neck [ __ ] journalist
tries to describe any [ __ ] like white
working-class guy they end up just
describing a Tom of Finland painting
muscular hands and biceps I can't
believe somebody would torture and kill
an animal for their own pleasure he said
walking into Outback Steakhouse
there was a twinge of sadness and
Steelworkers voice but elation as he
said we work hard we play hard a state
inspector who is investigating this said
this isn't random the people who were
doing this I would say our professionals
he said they professional calculators
professional cow vagina remember yeah
that's that's the Kansas City mob that's
the only thing they do anymore
I need a barrelful cowboy Z you
understand me you show up at the [ __ ]
bus station it's out South Kansas City
there's a guy in a trench coca
wanna buy a cow [ __ ] I did like like
that he's putting a mob bosses putting
hits out on cattle and bulls
I want that [ __ ] up my desk by tomorrow
morning okay so that that's the first
story that rod had on his browser window
this is the second and this is rod again
the second item is this description of a
new show coming up this month on Netflix
the chilling Adventures of Sabrina a
darker take on the Archie comics
character
[Laughter]
he's doing the city alright I yeah I
also know where this is going but I'm
gonna let so know you're a [ __ ] pro
rough the chilling the chilling
Adventures of Sabrina a darker take on
the Archie comics teenage witch
character excerpt from a story about it
now this is the excerpt not rod this
series which stars hearing in Shipka who
played Don Draper's daughter on Mad Men
as the ticular orphan daughter of a
warlock and a human begins with Sabrina
Spellman 16th birthday on the horizon a
milestone for which kind in which like a
demonic bat mitzva every witch or
warlock must be bob mitzvah must
participate in a ritual that includes
signing your name in blood in satan's
autographed book don't like a bat
mitzvah and subsequently going off to
what is essentially hogwarts from hell
for Sabrina however the choice becomes a
dilemma she's half mortal two and while
her father was a patty half mortal
something either dies or it [ __ ]
doesn't so my mother my mother was a
mortal and my dad is a warlock so I get
my eye of Newt at 7:11 mortal not in the
literal sense of mortality but in a way
to categorize the Don magically inclined
yes this is Rey science I don't approve
of it thank you thank you which finder
Texas rather Claire I don't think you
need a Wikipedia my sort this one out
guys so going on it says the new teaser
certainly drives home the fact that this
is this darker redo of the cheerful 90s
sitcom Sabrina the Teenage Witch is
coming from the makers of Riverdale the
dark streets old-timey car isn't trio of
cool girls and matching outfits I'll
keep it in the same universe as the hit
CW show but now isn't River
just like softcore teen porn like gay
porn but it's like it's like dark archie
essentially yeah
wait w programming it's Ron calls it
cheerful but do you think Ron also
approved of the 90s TGIF Sabrina the
Teenage Witch because I highly doubt it
I think he thought the idea of a talking
cat was anti-biblical I'm sure rod has
an article that's like but really how
can Clarissa explain it so it says just
the end of the description of the CW
says but now Beelzebub is here in the 7
foot tall angry goat flesh and
thankfully animatronic Salem has been
replaced by an actual cat hail Satan
okay this is how do they make an actual
cat talk okay here's a recap it's how to
be CGI involved here's where they get
back to rods actual commentary this is
rod breaking in he goes okay the
mainstreaming of Satanism in pop culture
whether you believe this has nothing
this has to do with spiritual realities
or as merely symbolic is undeniably
culturally significant uh-huh The
Guardian being The Guardian suspects
that this new wave of pop occultism of
which sabrina is but only one example is
a manifestation of the political wait
what what is what is his church he's not
worth he's an Orthodox Christian aren't
they supposed to know I mean like my
people believe that Satan is like
walking around and buying a bus ticket
we have a very literal interpretation
but is this even this is not canon for
Orthodox people is what I'm asking I
wish I knew anything about the earth I
think like regardless what denomination
rod is or isn't he's gonna switch around
a few more times but he he has a 19th
century interpretation of Satan which is
like a mean guy who tricks
to being warning ya know what it is he
went on tumblr and he found half of
Bushwick reading tarot cards and he's
like oh this has got to stop yeah the
Greek Orthodox Church is that they do
communion ooh the euros correct is that
wrong yeah so it's hard to worship in
there because they keep all these exotic
birds bird [ __ ] everywhere they have
that they have Jesus on the cross but
he's always turning under a heat lamp
when the prutte what the priest is
reading Scripture he's like yeah I want
to be [ __ ] crucified dude I'm not
gonna I'm gonna skip over this Guardian
article because it's basically just
about how witchcraft and school and
witchiness is being adopted by young
women is kind of a symbol of you know
feminism and female power etc etc also
in here it's the same the Dark Lord
hey which is good and cool just the last
quote from this Guardian article says
when you break societies conforming
rules as young women as young women are
you are punished the witch is an icon to
help young women be strong in the face
of the pushback they get every day so
for me these new shows are heartening
yes
even the horror films okay now we're
back to rod those first two things that
I just talked about this is all a
preamble to where this story is actually
going this is like the prologue to this
post he goes well I agree with
Harrington that the occult boom is a
sign of the times what it signifies is
another matter
I'd say now that's a setup for me to
tell you about a strange telephone call
I received yesterday grandpa Simpson has
article where is
so I live in harmony the time-life books
on the occult I think it was the office
above I've hesitated about whether or
not to blog about it don't blog about it
did ya never hesitated before blogging
about anything he's a poster the caller
an old friend from whom I hadn't heard
in a decade or so gave me permission to
blog about it as long as I kept names
and identifying details out of the story
his name was Vlad flood orit's
I loved like 10 years like this is true
detective that's gained the
investigating duo back together to scour
the AMC bathrooms he goes uh he said
others may draw hope from it he wasn't
exactly sure why he felt the urge to
call me about the matter but he did
background Nathan as I as I'll call my
friend we even discussed Nathan I
completely lost the lead amber we need
to talk about Nathan recipe it's not as
good as it used to be here's the
background nathan is a devout Catholic
who lives in a major US city and who
works in a for sophisticated
professional milieu he is in early
middle of nowhere tuxedos to work he is
in early middle age a husband and a
father he and his family go to Mass
daily fashion weekly I'm sorry
you go to best two days in a row if you
go to a chap I know
that's Felix's me and my cousin
character you know we went to Mass daily
yeah you know we want this contest where
we can go into any Mass free for the
rest of our lives awesome if you if you
went to a mass daily like you literally
you would have to skip a major meal yeah
- we got the [ __ ] Kade up his nephew
[Laughter]
[Applause]
okay guys that's the background this is
all the preamble are you ready for this
turn here's where he drops it oh my pop
Nathan started his story with a
jaw-dropping line for the past year my
wife has been under the care of an
exorcist disappoint I've never had that
particular fetish but I get it have you
considered Lancaster Merrin father rod
by some guy that wears vestments for
their [ __ ] I was about to say like
what are the odds that she's like oh
honey I would love to go but I have to
see my Exorcist I have to go on a cruise
with my Exorcist the ocean will draw a
Satan out of me my wife's Exorcist John
Redcorn okay I don't I don't know
Nathan's wife as well as I know him well
have you tried putting on a habit or
something
but I can tell you that she is worldly
and sophisticated even as his devout she
is one of the last people you would
imagine having a problem like just have
a great time I can't believe I got
possessed I got 1600s on my SATs like
that only bad people get possessed it's
very Protestant which one of us is the
least likely to be possessed as it's not
will it's not amber it might be me or
mad I think or Felix I don't know
probably you you would probably annoy
the demon too much can you imagine it
out I think will is the most likely to
be visualized you're a curious man you
would be you would be when we're on this
tour I guarantee you're going to go to
some antique store and purchase a range
lamp or vial and just go this is that's
cool I just drink it yeah you're the
nicest guy and you like antiques
I feel like Virgil like you would get
possessed but the demon would like his
internal monologue would defeat the
demon
alright alright we need our living room
water or that's got to be a different
consistency than the bedroom water cuz
you're in a different oh jesus is the
Prince of Lies nice ad hominem yeah why
are you try some facts it's Nate is just
like [ __ ] Pazuzu shows back up in hell
and Satan's like you were supposed to be
possessing that guy for a longer time
he's like yeah I can't spend that much
time in the bathroom man okay let's get
back to a traitor's friend's wife
getting plowed by a guy at a bishop set
okay Nathan told me the story of how
things came to this point I won't give
you too many details out of an abundance
of caution holding a flashlight under
his chin when he's right
I just like this one this is the her
speaking of the midnight society so
because it turns out that his wife had
an eating disorder as a teenager and
tried to kill herself twice back then
now in the middle of her life depression
returned but with certain strange
characteristics that seemed yeah maybe
go to Mass every day you [ __ ] freak
he says now in the middle of her life
this is this is what I love someone like
just imagining what this marriage must
be like and he goes now in the middle of
her life depression returned but with
certain strange characteristics that
seemed off he began to despise religious
things in an inexplicable way again he
said they go to Mass daily what [ __ ]
sane person wouldn't get sick of that
I'm entirely sick of the [ __ ] Marvel
movies and I see like three of those a
year you watch like a movie every
[ __ ] day which is the exact number of
times you should go to Mass three times
a year you don't have to go to Mass
daily there's no no instruction to do
that like twice a week is crazy
no I think James Joyce used that as like
a footnote for someone who is an extreme
Irish nationalist you don't less you're
in like an occupied territory there's no
reason to go to that much Church I'm
pretty sure you don't get extra grace
for going to Mass every day to go to the
mezzanine section of heaven with the
free open bar like it here guys guys
imagine what their marriage is like like
I cannot believe you're gonna find out
by the way guys there's a lot there's
there's a lot more of this to go so like
I gotta get through this so she goes
when she went to a quote healing Mass
there was a manifestation that indicated
something dark and alien was at work at
in her Catholic exorcists today work in
a professional way
right ruling out all other medical
possibilities to explain the behavior
before they start the exorcism of
Nathan's wife has not been a single
event but has required multiple sessions
which are still going on yeah daddy
The Exorcism of basis twice that's a
good porno name by the way Nathan nathan
has been part of the rituals he told he
watches and cries in the corner he told
me that eight different spirits have
manifested themselves through his wife
yeah
estranged estranged being possessed my
wife had told me that she wanted me to
make her come once eight different
spirits have manifested themselves
through his wife he's been at this long
enough now to discern which one is which
they revealed through the rituals that
they entered into his wife's family
through her grandfather who was involved
with the occult in a ritualistic way I
hate it when my family brings their work
home I love it what I just get
shit-faced to watch hereditary and
they'd call Raja Herod crying but going
back when he says Catholic exorcists are
professional there's no such thing as a
Catholic Exorcist right because the they
have formally denounced exorcism they
still do it and I like American
evangelical Protestants look modern
no it's more professional it's like you
show up and it's like that Looney Tunes
cartoon you and the demon both punch in
and say born and Sam more than Beelzebub
very professional okay Nathan said that
depending on which evil spirit manifests
in a particular moment his wife's face
Leo there's Dino there's Patrick I need
to finish this he says Nathan said that
depending on which evil spirit manifests
in a particular moment his wife's face
contorts into expressions that he has
never seen in her despite nearly two
decades of marriage
yeah she's smiling she's smiling shut
removing all the time it's literally
just describing being married to Robin
Williams this is the worst thing this is
like every [ __ ] day this woman this
poor woman has had to go downstairs and
her husband has his back facing her and
reading her the options for breakfast in
Latin this is just like yeah I wonder I
wonder if anything about the marriage
hazard oppress'd no it's got to be the
eight demons sees he's basically doing
she's basically doing like some sort of
demonic [ __ ] improv show it's like I
need I need one of the kings of hell and
a profession you're going to be in the
audience don't try to take away from the
show remember its yes and mind you
Nathan is one of the least woowoo
friends I have yet goes to church every
day of his life again he works as what
you might call a symbolic analyst in a
very worldly occupation and lives in one
of the biggest I don't know what the
[ __ ] right so he goes in colors
triangle square circle another circle
Church at 5:00 in the afternoon on a
Tuesday it's just him and Benito
Mussolini's grandmother so he goes he
has been a faithful Catholic for as long
as I've known but not especially
interested in that mystical side of the
faith once you've seen reality through
the eyes of spiritual warfare he's told
me yesterday
you can't go back it's everywhere okay
here we go he told me other detailed
stories including accounts of bizarre
poltergeist see things happen
in their apartment and his wife being
unable to stand the presence of blessed
objects and then in parentheses in
parentheses a classic sign of possession
yeah I mean I brought home I brought
home General Franco skeleton for us to
worship and she hated it
this [ __ ] is possessed again readers he
goes again readers if you knew these
people Nathan and his wife you would be
even more shocked by all of this you are
now this is the kind of family that
takes European vacations and lives a
sophisticated cosmopolitan lives in
Europe yeah leave the father this is the
family who goes to Lourdes and yet this
horror has overtaken them
she's got needs the wife goes through
periods in which he hears foul
blasphemies and feels compelled to
commit suicide in the exorcism sessions
Nathan says the demons under compulsion
from the Exorcist speak of these things
in particular how they intend to destroy
Nason's wife and her in family life you
know far be it from me to endorse the
Episcopalians but maybe it's time to
take a step down to a lower Church just
like anything be a [ __ ] Unitarian
like I make fun of them but like it's
nice to like you know give blankets to
poor people or whatever they do at least
they're probably coming you know like
the worst thing Unitarians do is like be
on realsense episodes yeah this is well
when will she be free of him The
Exorcist can't say the fight continues
in regular sessions in our long phone
conversation yesterday's three sessions
a day in our long phone conversation
yesterday Nathan says that hit this
ordeal has taught him about the power of
prayer and the church's weapons against
these things
he knows that his wife is not his enemy
despite the things that sometimes come
out of her mouth and he is resolved to
hold firm to fight for her through his
prayers and to help her be free of these
malicious intelligent spirits I like the
idea that there's just malicious dumb
spirits [ __ ] possessed my wife and
she kept saying things like yo if I
would the lottery first thing I'm doing
is buying a [ __ ] limo it's showing up
to my old high school Nathan is the sort
of man who would have been played by
Jimmy Stewart or Jack Lemmon in a 1950's
can you imagine that
that's the worst movie ever made the man
who loved Church awesome dude let me
tell you right now my wife she could fit
so many evil spirits inside of her you
don't even know this wife here you could
put 15 20 evil demons inside of her it's
amazing please please please buyer
please he told me that having entered
into this world he has learned that more
and more ordinary people like him and
his wife are turning to exorcists
that's a good side for a soul Society I
think like just like you gauge for how
you're doing as a civilization how many
people are consulting exorcists it seems
like a good like you know sure he has
come to see the demonic attacks on
marriage and family are increasing and
he wants people to know there is hope
but laying claim to that hope requires
recognizing the nature of the battle I
don't know how I would do if I were in a
situation in which I would be lying in
bed at night and my wife blurted out I
hate you oh my god Oh
I can't imagine a world I can't imagine
a world water my wife yells I hate you
instead of just muttering it quietly oh
my oh my god Oh
word from the wise just pretend to be
asleep oh my god this it must be a demon
who else could it be I imagine you're
lying in bed at night and your wife
blurts out I hate you and then started
growling in an otherworldly voice that's
Nathan's reality now supposed to be a
hopeful message that sounds like a pitch
for a CBS sitcom if he's a he's a good
good church-going man she's possessed by
a demon if she if she is like you know
depressed obviously tremendously resents
her Catholic psycho husband if she's
like as a gag like why don't I just
pretend to be possessed and growl at him
she [ __ ] rocks like she's [ __ ]
rocks coming coming to CBS this fall my
wife the lesion by the way I love it
okay he's in he's lying okay imagine
this you're lying in bed in the middle
of the night I don't know where your
wife blurts out I hate you and then
starts growling I think what he
interprets his growling is just the
sound of her vibrator
she starts humming in a weird frequency
that's she's possessed by eight demons
the the the worst of which is named
katashi or making fun of these people
but I don't know they they seem like
they're really enjoying life though
they're basically living in a D&D game
just coming back in the supermarket is
saying oh I think I think my bag boy is
a drow that's Nathan's reality now
wah-wah he is not afraid does this ever
come back to the horse vaginas no no
the Calvin itís rather oh you know you
ever do that you accidentally like paste
the URL of something you're jacking off
to me I'm assuming he's claiming that
these cow dissections are satanic
Ritchie what were you saying
and with the first the prologue is that
like there's just a rise in a cultism
and demonic activity sorry but cattle
mutilations are not the work of
Satanists they are UFOs everyone [ __ ]
knows this cattle mutilations are
classic [ __ ] there's a hard fantasy
sci-fi divide in this fantasy world and
everyone knows the cattle mutilations
are aliens not [ __ ] Satan why do
aliens want a mule a cow's bleep oh no
they don't move that quickly and aliens
are lazy and as always the true
synthesis of these two you know these
two belief systems hello where the
aliens are real but they're very
religious and are in fact named the
Covenant I accept that
Satanist aliens got it there you go
we didn't it wide open Pollak Felix is
the best Marxist among us I'm just a
deal maker
I love making deals I just made one
that's what's ablation is just making
deals is nafta Reno gate renegotiate
okay so wait sidebar he renames and
NAFTA you did you do this what no
renegotiated NAFTA is it's a good deal
however he renamed it the US Mexico
Canada and he didn't say deal but you
know that he wanted to agreements he
said the u.s. Mexico can agree ignore
the North American Free Trade Agreement
was too bulky
he just had to put list every country
that was involved because he forgot and
you know he wanted to say deal well I
mean wait hang on Canada u.s. Mexico
the calm agreements okay back to Nathan
this is this is Nathan's reality now and
he is not afraid
he asked the play he's really afraid and
he should be yeah if he's that he's
either terrified or full of [ __ ] not be
afraid
yeah they're eight demons if my wife who
sleeps next to me every night but I'm
not afraid buddy you don't really think
there are eight demons living next to
you every night yeah she goes no I isn't
getting cooked he has to play his part
in rescuing his tormented wife dude just
give her a divorce if you want a [ __ ]
rescue you're heard from her torment for
the love of God who I should say oh this
is great this is this is a great line
from rod
yessuh play his part in rescuing his
tormented wife who I should say fully
consents to the exorcism she wants to be
free of this - that's the first time rod
has ever taken the idea of consent
seriously that sounds like one of those
poly couples where the guy's like yeah
my wife is totally into it
[Laughter]
what Nathan's wife is going through now
is like what director William Friedkin a
non-christian witnessed and filmed in
his recent documentary the devil and
father am orth okay he goes on to talk
about this new William Friedkin
documentary I mean I'm a big fan of the
devil and father Jones it's a great
movie so he basically just goes on here
- I got another letter from a friend of
mine who met the devil when he went down
to Georgia really quickly in this whole
article rod vouching for Nathan's
credibility it's just been oh this is a
guy I am with sometimes and he called me
on the telephone after 10 years of no
contact and the one oh but look and then
this really just shows how American is
his real vouching is he works with
cymbals so he can't just be a crank yeah
ampersand % pound sign sometimes a Euro
sign that circle with the line through
it the indicates you shouldn't do
something yo my friend invented the
killed key I just I love how rod
responds to like any stimulus at all
like you really that's really like only
child magic I mean I know he's not an
older child but it's like just anything
he's given he's able to create worlds
like if you showed him Kingdom Hearts
can you imagine the walls are breaking
down
goofy has met Sephiroth anything would
drive him insane he's so awesome so that
that is the story of Nathan and his wife
however if you are a fan of Rod Dreher
like I am you know the real gems are in
the comments oh yeah first comment your
mother sucks [ __ ] in hell these are the
sweetmeats you know it's like a rod
colobus like a stay or like a [ __ ]
like like a pork shank or something and
then this is like the the [ __ ] the
thyroid these are the people who write
him letters and call him on the
telephone in the middle of the night to
be like rod my wife is [ __ ] the devil
okay I just I want to read this comment
the encounter I'm about to describe
happened six years ago little boy I'm
disabled and can't drive any longer okay
I rely on friends and paratransit for
the disabled to get around but six years
ago I still took the bus fairly often a
driver was moved from another route to
the one I used the most often there was
an intangible coldness to the woman
which I cannot recall ever having been
in the presence of before okay
this bus driver bus driver did not tell
me to have a good day I tried thanking
her numerous times I tried hailing her
new
sighs and she gave me nothing okay she
goes and she enjoyed driving half a
block past a waiting rider were stopping
half a block short particularly in
winter weather and most of all if the
waiting passenger was obviously limited
in mobility that's a classic demon move
I like how you know a report of demonic
activity is just a shitty yelp review
for these people
I experienced a horrible encounter while
in middle school a young man slapped all
the books out of my hand
goddamn imagine how many humans janta
Daris encounters in a daily basis my
snippers order was half an hour late
clearly the work of Beelzebub so she
goes I mentioned her to one of the
paratransit drivers who looked at me
with dread on her face
she told me that Freda no kidding was
president of the local drivers union if
you're a member of a union you might be
possessed by the bestop when you're
driving a bus you might be possessed by
the devil any working class hero is now
automatically a demon a surly bus driver
who's not kissing your ass is now a
demon yeah god bless this woman this kid
who works at McDonald's jacked off in a
cops Big Mac he must be possessed by the
devil I just like the idea of a bus of
the sign at the front that just says do
not accuse the driver of being possessed
by demon
so that goes here one day I tried a
little test on Frieda
[Laughter]
though ever
I tried a little test on Frida before I
went for the bus I took down a wall
crucifix and placed it in the inner
pocket of my jacket my trip to Walmart
was uneventful
[Laughter]
looks like she's carrying a sawed-off
shotgun under her like bubble goose
jacket so cuz you're no convulsions or
shrieks from Frida however when the bus
returned and I boarded to go home Frida
seemed incapacitated
she sat behind the wheel as though in a
trance and her eyes shut and head moving
back and forth this woman whom I never
noticed at whom I never noticed the
human emotion was moaning as though she
was in agony
I know it's anecdotal people can dismiss
it but yeah sure here's the best part
I know it's anecdotal people can dismiss
it perhaps she just been assailed by
mystery menstrual cramps idea Exorcist
began it was women on their [ __ ]
period it do be like that though yeah oh
my it could have just been menstrual
cramps but I wonder last last I
recommend you find this [ __ ] and like
buy her a big present or something
critical support for freedom last I
recommend hostage to the devil by
Malachi Martin it's the hardest book
emotionally and spiritually I have ever
read if you lack confidence in Jesus
Christ it's probably best that you avoid
it
there has been so much Catholic magic in
the past month like Supreme Court Conor
McGregor
this is why I love Catholics because
like they like evangelicals
like they're like oh we have to adapt to
the modern world and they're like we
made our church and help like Catholics
try to live in the modern world and just
like fit all their dumbass concepts in
there and just like just hearing them
like go about their day and encounter
like people who don't like them and be
like Satan and like see somebody with
jam on their hands oh dude [ __ ] he's
getting stigmata there you go
yeah Oh getting mad get it making a face
after you receive a five percent tip
that's the work of Satan though the
snacks this gives me like a deep
visceral sympathy for Frida because it
just makes me think that's the last real
job I had before I became a podcaster
which was I worked at Barnes and Noble
and I before I got moved to the info
desk which I was very good at and I
actually kind of enjoyed I was read I
was at the cash register for hours and I
would get so bored and frustrated that I
would slowly just kind of lose it and by
like our three or four I would just be
almost vibrating with frustration that I
was there and I would just be like just
angry and I would just have to like
consciously suppress my desire to just
scream about how awful this was just
standing here and doing the same thing
it's like it was the worst job in the
world because it was a combination of
the mundane sort of factory reality of
like working on an assembly line and
then like having to smile at people at
like having a customer service travel is
the worst of both worlds and I just
imagine if doing that somebody would
come up to me and start flicking holy
water in my face i I don't think I would
have reacted well I liked when I was
thinking like this week I was talking
about like different like dumb liar guys
with my friends and I was thinking about
this guy who at my old job of being a
bouncer who he would come to when I
would bounce in the back near the
bathroom he would just hang out there
and he was like the type of like dumb
liar guy who like befriends the
management of a bar so you like really
can't tell him to [ __ ] off what's wrong
with that that's cool and he was just
like at free drinks he's literally
disrupted being a bar patron
he's awesome but every time a woman
would walk by be like yeah I [ __ ] her
and was yeah she sing there was one one
time the most distinct memory I have of
him is this woman like said oh you know
hi whatever the [ __ ] this guy's name was
and when she was out of here shot he
goes yeah dude I almost [ __ ] her but
then my friend texted me that she had
herpes and I just left it it's great
because you know that story's a lie like
why would you lie about the Hat but it
was just like just six seven hours of a
time these like mind-numbing
interactions and yeah I would just stare
at one point on like a outlet plug for
five hours just being like this is no
you kill yourself just cuz you feel like
this now there's like the rest of your
life this is Felix's version of one's
they had a job it's been a while I had
this idea the other day we all loved rod
and we all loved the police we all cried
and we all loved the letters that people
write to rod that he includes his
post-grad articles and I wanted to do
with this kind of long term troll where
I would endear myself to rotted by just
writing me emails saying oh you know I'm
a good Catholic I go to Mass 24/7 I live
in Mass and you know I just got some
issues go not and basically just write
them in name letters that it seemed
plausible and I mean like most of these
don't seem plausible and just eventually
it devolves and just starts including
quotations from Chairman Mao I I would
encourage all of you to just do that
everybody if you have some free time
just befriend rod just tell me what's on
your mind but make everything magical
you know like oh you're really mad at
your boss but your boss's secret gremlin
why not all right guys that was William
menaker presents chapo traphouse The
Exorcist starring Rod Dreher
and
Ethan Pittsburgh Pennsylvania that is it
for us tonight thank you guys so much
Pittsburgh you guys [ __ ] Rock
we are shopping Trap House thank you
guys so much
cheers everybody good night
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
