let's get down to business here let's
get down to the 12 rules for life if
you've listened to the show we've talked
about Jordan Peterson before I'm sure
you're familiar with him I don't think
he needs much introduction can I just
say there was an article in the LA Times
recently about him that that talked
about him as being because you guys you
know he's the dark professor yeah but he
has been referred to as a member of what
this article called
the intellectual dark web yes yes this
is like I think it's Dave Rubin has self
christened him Sam Harris Jordan
Peterson in front no [ __ ] darkwing
duck or something yeah Harvey
Weinstein's an intellectual dark
absolutely yeah really is dark I hate it
when the f Lankford I'm always sunny in
photos I know these guys know that the
dark web is where like you download
child porn and hire hit men and like
identifying their like actual movement
I'm glad you brought that out the
intellectual dark web right like and you
know Mon you or all these guys but like
Peter said in particular I think is the
perfect avatar of this cuz it's like
yeah ooh this this is dark and dangerous
like these these controversial ideas
she's putting out there who like he's
just too dark and intelligent the the
fundamental fact about him overall but
all of these guys is how unbearably
tedious and vacuous their actual
thoughts and writing are okay let me
from being dangerous it's just it's only
dangerous if you're trying to [ __ ]
stay awake or make sense of any of it
I did I did read the book and let me
tell you it is basically a combination
of like the secret and the bell curve
that's like if you if you're in a market
for some self-help [ __ ] with all the
kind of narcissism and navel-gazing and
mysticism that implies but there wasn't
enough social Darwinism in it for you
this is the book for you don't just
respect yourself have contempt for
others the commotions it makes oh that's
that's what I believe in so to start
things off like might the main thing I
was curious about this book it's like a
it's a it's a tome it's a doorstop this
thing and it's it's a genuine you know
hit in the
publisher yeah it wasn't one on Amazon
for a while yeah views were raves I
think it's exactly our five-star rated
book except I wrote a review that was
one star that I asked people like if
they if they found it helpful to upload
it and for like a couple of hours it was
the the second most helpful review on
there it said my man has literally no
idea what he's talking about and you
were a confirmed purchaser you were just
I was a purchaser I read the book and
the Jordan Peterson fans mounted a
campaign to get it taken down place of
ideas you know I mean of course he is
like all these people embraced and taken
up the mantle of free speech and the you
know open exchange of ideas and civil
society but both him and his fans are
just about the most thin-skinned dorks
and reactionaries imaginable who again
like if you make fun of Peterson or even
just discuss him in any way that a short
of absolute reverence will throw a fit
and you know again just take you on the
road to pedantry the speech thing is
something they had really you know
outrageously pedantic about because like
he he's famous because he said he
wouldn't call trans students by their
preferred pronouns and like every time
he is pressed on that he says I didn't
say that I said I wouldn't call them by
any pronouns that were dictated by law
so like what the [ __ ] are you gonna call
them like I mean he's totally willing to
obfuscate what he's actually gonna say
in service of some abstraction well
that's a very good I mean this is sort
of like his ruse and I think it speaks
to a lot to his popularity in like for
instance in all these interview clips of
his that have sort of gone viral I'm
sure you've seen them he genuinely does
get the better of the people who were
interviewing him most of the time
because they're largely unprepared and
they had they do the standard sort of
liberal thing where they're like you
don't really believe this do you I mean
we've talked about this before and then
he does it thing where he just speaks
really belligerently and quickly and it
just sort of like plows right over them
however unlike words about statistics
that like most people don't know however
what like what he does is like there was
a famous one the one that a lot of
people shared it's like I think Vice was
interviewing him and he was talking
about like you know sexual harassment in
the workplace and he was making the
point that lipstick when a woman wears
lipstick the point of lipstick and
makeup in general and women to like sort
of you know brighten red in the cheeks
and lips is to convey sexual arousal
it's meant like they like to convey or
it's an exaggerated sexual response so
he's saying like when women put on
makeup and you know dress up to go to
work they are signaling their sexuality
in a way so we shouldn't we shouldn't
lie to ourselves about what's going on
there and then like the interviewer
would be like we'll just try to pit like
wool so what does that imply and he's
like well I'm not implying anything I'm
just really acknowledging but but it's
just like he's setting up these sort of
like thought experiments and statements
that would seem to imply that women are
asking to be have their asses pinched
just because they wear makeup to work
but one could just as easily say like
when a man wears a suit like a blazer
tailored jacket is supposed to make your
shoulders look wider and give your upper
body a sort of nice sense of symmetry
and proportion which is also sexual
signaling so I wasn't going to say
anything well but your outfit proves it
I mean I'm dressed like a [ __ ] sister
look at the outline the way that it goes
in the jungle discipline simply what
does the man wear when he comes to the
podcast he puts on a pair of sweatpants
where you see exactly how he's been
circumcised this kind of gets it his
appeal though is because he's talking
about these taboo subjects you know like
and and it's exciting for some of his
fans that like he's talking about the
the sexuality that's like lying behind
seemingly normal situations and they get
excited about that except whatever like
in a very vague general sense like of
course that's true but it's just like
what is he implying here and the thing
is I don't think he really knows what
he's trying to imply I think his fans
like pick up on these little cues that
resonate with them because it's like
excited
controversial but I think he very
strenuously tries to avoid the
implications of any of this because like
I said I think he's just incredibly
tedious it's just like when you're when
you're a kid and like you have a
substitute teacher who like uses mild
swear words you're like wow this guy's
cool he said what the hell
like that's basically uh how these guys
are responding him is this kind of like
paternal authority figure who's a little
on the edge well for like a lot of
reactionaries in the best like few years
I'd say you can really rip [ __ ] up and
like get an audience by pointing out how
shitty the modern world is it's [ __ ]
terrible like most people that listen to
you aren't happy they're completely
unfulfilled by their existences they
have no fulfilling relationships in
their life but for most of them like for
a lot of the alt-right guys it's like
they'll string them along and be like
hey doesn't Mark Zuckerberg stock
doesn't this suck isn't it [ __ ]
stupid that I the only Avenue of
politics is like this sort of cultural
consumption in which Marvel movie you
see is and this [ __ ] stupid and
tawdry don't you hate your life and then
they sort of like lose people because
every time they all meet up they look
stupid and kill somebody or you talk to
them long enough they're like and the
thing that we do about it is we blow up
a Home Depot parking lot but with Jordan
Peterson it's that he just goes into
this sort of Sam Harris sort of so
evopsych [ __ ] it's not it's not that
it's not that his fans were like super
interest in what he has to say after he
points out how shitty Modern Life is
it's just that you know it sounds like
something that's smart and they're
mostly hooked by like my life is shitty
I think what what hooks them also is
it's one it's step one is you identify
discontent and that is where a lot of
these small less successful reactionary
quote-unquote thinkers stall out is
because they really only have a spurious
diagnosis he has an action item and it
is just self-help it's just yeah it's
just take control your life bucko
because the life of a sort of
underemployed relatively economically
stable middle-class young person is one
with basically no supervision no
structure and that allows you to basic
we do a thing like game until you wet
yourself because no one will stop you
from doing that Inlet except for
yourself and he is acknowledging that
and saying you have to be the one to
actually intervene in your own life and
that is that's incredibly powerful
either because people literally don't
get parented anymore like parents don't
talk to kit their children about about
these kind of things or people grow up
so wedded to the rhetoric and
communication styles of the internet
that nothing is real until they see it
online so their parent their parents can
tell them to clean the room all week and
it's just gonna go over their head but
when their YouTube friends tell them to
clean their room it actually resonates
I'm not sure which it is I'm not one of
these guys so there was that the most
famous interview he did was the one on
the BBC with Kathy Newman and there was
that part when I think she said
something about how like well you know
most fortune 500 CEO is our men it's
very exclusionary there aren't a lot of
women on there and he said something
like well yeah most men aren't fortune
500 CEOs either and like that's true and
if you're not going to be able to like
offer a critique of a structure that has
extremely wealthy people and extremely
you know disadvantaged people you're
gonna get caught in places like that
yeah well that's you know like he's the
reasonable one that's why he's not gonna
go away is because the other so like
gather two main like dominant cultural
forces like the reactionary one in the
liberal one the liberal one can't point
to the world the culture its created and
go actually you love it it's great
America is already great Jordan beaters
is going to be around like forever until
I don't know he starts a cult or he he
finally does like he intersects a mass
suicide with Halley's Comet at the right
time I don't know but yeah he's not
going away because they have no answer
to him we got because he offers a
structural critique and it's wrong but
it is and it's it's a gibberish at its
heart but it is one that seeks to offer
an explanation and they're an all
cultural conversation on the bra and the
mainstream is not comprehensive you it's
just individual think piece
right and individual reactions to
specific discrete events and all coming
from this sort of vague cultural
liberalism and which really just it has
nothing to offer other than the status
quo is basically good we could use some
more diversity but nothing that actually
speaks to anyone's real discontent on
any level other than like not seeing
enough representation in a card or
something and I think what Peterson does
is like he said we hook something
because like we hook the hook so the the
mark says we've described earlier but I
think and then what he offers is this
kind of Jungian psycho and analytical
thing trick where it's just like you can
with this knowledge that I'm going to
impart to you you can recreate yourself
is sort of a character in your own
heroic narrative yeah is it that that
connects with these subconscious ancient
sort of almost biological truths about
humanity and this is where it gets into
the reactionary part is because all of
these truths that you know Peterson
thinks is unchanging absolutely true in
any attempt to alter or go outside of
them will lead to disaster are all
things like you know just hierarchy is
natural the traditional family is
natural and like like these are like we
need two huge these things that are all
true because they've been true
throughout all of human civilization
this is something that actually like he
feuded with Sam Harris about because you
know Sam Harris's fans all like
requested that he get Jordan Peterson on
his podcast you know like one my two
dads to talk my my Islamophobic dad my
transphobic dad and so he went on and he
just set a bunch of gibberish about
archetypes and the collective
unconscious and sam harris was like what
the [ __ ] are you talking about that
doesn't make any sense and everyone was
disappointed and they had this email
exchange where Peterson was like talking
about slaying dragons and [ __ ] yeah yeah
he really loves that he loves the
slaying the dragon well that's the thing
is it and these guys like the Bears fans
liking Peterson how many I want to know
what percentage of these Peterson fans
are guys who until Peterson showed up
consider themselves guys who like were
loved logic and reason and thought that
those were the ways that you figure out
the world and then this guy shows up
with the dragons and the [ __ ]
subconscious in this euphemism yeah and
they're like [ __ ] me up buddy what it
shows is that what they really don't
they don't really care about logic or
reason these are just a totem because
they want to justify traditional
hierarchies because they think they
belong on the top of them they think
they aren't on the top because evil
cultural Marxists have interceded with
with the truth changed the culture
undermined their rightful place and they
want to get back on the rightful place
the same way that like the in Shaw
regime before the French Revolution was
was had a natural order they feel the
same way but the the Enlightenment came
along cut all those heads off and we
don't think in terms of divine rule
anymore so we need something to replace
the Divine Right with and it can only be
in a modern context so it's got to be
reason and logic but if another guy
comes along and he has the same
hierarchy to defend and but he does a
more a more sparkling job of it and he's
talking about dragons and archetypes
I'll take that whatever it is whatever
can justify the hierarchy is what
matters I meant you know who else had a
natural order lobsters okay I want to
give you this now cause like the book is
called twelve rules for life and ever
since it came out it's like all I want
to know one of the twelve rules I've
actually found someone who just has done
all 12 I forgot all of them okay
I'm hoping your life must be [ __ ] up
man since you turning down your house
would still be on there followed them
though rule number one never finished a
bottle of water if you have water out of
your home if there's a fire you could
put it out quickly this is uh this is a
real quote from Peterson's first book
maps of meaning okay that's my favorite
halo comedy
chaos is what extends eternally and
without limit beyond the boundaries of
all states all ideas and all disciplines
it's the foreigner the stranger the mem
of another gang the rustle in the bushes
the hidden anger of your mother okay
order order because chaos is
symbolically associated with the
feminine order by contrast is explored
territory that's the hundreds of
millions of years of hierarchy of place
position and authority that's the
structure of society and this has got
all this dragon bush well so I'm just
gonna say here
chaos is the fire that burns down
choosers house that order is the pork it
virginals in the water yet listen here's
the way he puts that in the new book
which which is full of like that that
type of stuff about you know the the
balance of order and chaos in the world
he says order and chaos are the Yang and
Yin of the famous Taoist symbol to
Serpent's head to tail order is the
white masculine serpent chaos it's black
feminine counterpart wellheads
now I don't think you've got to be a
Freudian to look at white masculine
serpent and draw some kind of conclusion
about what he's macho and reasonable I
don't really talk about this is this is
logic wise reason by the way check out
my new website whited comm new
collaboration Jordan Peterson
illogical men have you seen this look at
the [ __ ] diagrams or in his first
book it's like literally Henry the
[ __ ] Henry Darger
[ __ ] this is like the diary of a madman
where it's just like you're just like
linking all these things this circle
represents the kingdom of order this
circle represents the dragon of chaos
between it is masculine and female truth
belief energies it's like absolutely
love logic and reason these are like
this is the Enlightenment these are like
those hotep means where it's like sex
sex
spirituality energy exchange it's like
two people [ __ ] but they're writing
books on
that he is defending the la
enlightenment tradition with this [ __ ]
he keeps saying that the cultural
neo-marxists are undermining the
enlightenment and this is what this is
what he is calling the enlightenment is
this insane gibberish from his head
about about the the chaotic female I
don't know if he documents you know he
has no idea what these philosophical
schools that he's constantly referring
to actually are who was part of them
what they what they represent the
Enlightenment was you know I've only
have never studied modern European
history you only watch YouTube the
Enlightenment was a time when all the
guys have Europe all her old friends you
know George Washington
Francis epic bacon all them got together
and they said why don't we have an
exchange of free speech and logic called
YouTube which has been around for 300
years well what it was what the
Enlightenment was West people using
logic and reason and an observable
reality to challenge an unjust hierarchy
the Society of Order and saying that
this doesn't this shouldn't exist and
being answered by no it's always been
and God has ordained it and now this guy
under the guise of that enlightenment
because it is such a penetrating and
powerful idea that has persisted in the
West for the the since its inception
he's gonna use that term to defend that
same [ __ ] hierarchy he's just replaced
you know Hobbes's divine you know
constituent God King with a surfeit
sucking its own dick I just wanna I
wonder I want to include this part shout
out to you at Nathan Robinson who did a
great takedown of Peterson recently and
this week in current affairs this is
amazing though in in Pearson's first
book he includes an epigraph that is a
letter to his father and I'm just gonna
read this here I don't know dad but I
think I've discovered something that no
one else has any idea about and I'm not
sure I can do it justice its scope is so
broad okay you know who's often you jerk
off with your right hand what if you put
your left
I said I sat on my hand and it was like
I didn't know it it was like it was a
stranger it was chaos because its scope
is so broad that I can see only parts of
it clearly at one time and it isn't
exceedingly difficult to set down
comprehensively in writing yeah no [ __ ]
anyways I'm glad you and Mom we're doing
well thank you for doing my income tax
returns you professor [ __ ]
joy I didn't use to give a [ __ ] about
this guy now I'm not some rules for you
you have to keep you don't do online
banking it's easier than any time in
human history to keep track of your
expenses bucko
feel like sigh whatever when I read his
letter to his dad like this struck me as
sort of like a miniaturized version of
the eight thousand page now scarred
novel or it's just a letter to my father
he's such a poor man's now it's gone
Navis guard his book about cleaning his
room that's just one book in a 50-50
volume entry about his first 12 years on
that letter honestly sounded like an
excerpt from confederacy of dunces J
Riley [ __ ] I'm on the edge of something
mother father I've on the edge of
something I can't even comprehend it
okay III keep talking about the rules
I wanted all right let's do this do it I
want to go through okay
these are these are Jordan Peterson's
twelve new rules to fight the chaos
fight the good fight the cast which he
has said is female he is telling his
legion of SLE dork fans that women are
terrifying other than must be tamed but
that's Raj a good reason homeboy it's
not a [ __ ] graph that he made with
human [ __ ] on the side of a wall you can
tell from lipstick ya know homeboy um
you need to put your finger on above the
g-spot played they clicked like a
swizzle stick flute and you need to give
chaos a triple digit orgasm and now you
say that that like he's he's
representing the feminine represents
like the dark bottomless abyss of chaos
and men
represent the light and reason an order
and you would say well that's a fairly
misogynist like pseudo philosophical
drivel and then I think he would say he
would point out that no you
misunderstand me I'm saying we need
order and care what's the value to
thought it's about the synthesis of it--
though synthesize the cab fight the
caste sometimes the word is fight that
that [ __ ] marcus floppin guy he knows
how to fight the case sorry I keep
delaying this here the 12 rules rule
number one
stand up straight with your shoulders
back okay Shuji can you remember this
and can you explain this one okay for
one thing the role model he wants you to
emulate when you stand up straight with
your shoulders back is literally
lobsters yeah famous this is famous but
they don't have what they don't stand up
at all Paul Bunyan or they don't stand
up you know you're being pedantic they
don't have the city would imagine
I actually I've bookmarked a an excerpt
in my dog-eared copy of the book here
where he talks about the lobsters that I
can just read to you what he says yeah
yes please sure okay lobsters have more
in common with you than you might think
particularly when you are feeling crabby
haha lobsters live on the ocean floor
thank you they need a home base down
there arranged within which they hunt
for prey and scavenge around for
straight edible bits and pieces of
whatever reigns down from the continual
chaos of carnage and death far above
Virgil's apartment ago what they want
somewhere secure where the hunting and
gathering is good they want a home so
this isn't debate this is the basement
when your mom is hucking be sure to play
video games and the carnage of mom and
dad upstairs stuff order and chaos
I hate when order and chaos fight each
other what
I have to spend weekends with order kind
of sets because you know what they call
lobster cages bedrooms he lit yes why do
they go all right well listen this can
present a problem since there are many
lobsters what if two of them occupy the
same territory at the bottom of the
ocean at the same time and both want to
live there what if there are hundreds of
lobsters all trying to make a living and
raise a family in the same crowded
cartoons he's just doing spongebob like
a lobster goes to work every day
Watson clocks out all right other
creatures have this problem too
when songbirds come north in the spring
for example they engage in ferocious
territorial disputes the songs they sing
so peaceful and beautiful the human ears
are siren calls and cries of domination
a brilliantly music bird is a small
warrior proclaiming his sovereignty I'm
so sick of these birds that only sing
about [ __ ] and hoes so listen what
happens next in the book is that he
tells this story about how when he was a
kid he got a tape recorder and he made a
recording of a songbird and then he
played it back to the SOG bird and a
subreddit acted ok so then he brings it
back around now wrens and lobsters are
very different
lobsters do not fly sing or Persian
trees we have to censor this guy this is
too dangerous this is more important
than the First Amendment we've got to
stop this book from being read friends
have feathers not hard shells wrens
can't breathe underwater and ercell
masturbate and they are seldom served
with butter however they are also
similar in important ways both are
obsessed with status and position for
example like a great many creatures the
Norwegian zoologist in comparative
psychologist and I can't say this guy's
[ __ ] name observes calls now scarred
yeah it's now it's guard every man
now it's already a girl canal scarred
said back in 1921 even common barnyard
chickens establish a pecking order
listen the determination of who's who in
the chicken world has important
implications for each individual bird
survival particularly in times of
scarcity the birds that always have
priority to access to whatever food is
sprinkled out in the yard in the morning
are the celebrity chickens after them
come the second-stringers the hangers-on
and the wannabes then the third-rate
chickens have their turn and so on down
to the bedraggled partially feathered
and badly pecked wretches who occupy the
lowest untouchable stratum of the
chicken hierarchy those guys are such
well where's the lobsters go what the
[ __ ]
okay what he's doing here is he's
employing uh he's having a stroke here
I'll never forget when chaos I mean
mother stopped me from testing Ren's
breathing underwater
this is this is postmodern yeah okay
what he's doing here with with all the
lobster and chicken [ __ ] is what what
he's doing is he's saying in nature
there are these fairly ruthless
hierarchies that govern you know who
passes on their genes and has sorted out
largely through you know violence and
domination and things like that and he's
extrapolating from that that like
essentially that is the natural way of
things and human society you know like
you should be like the victorious
lobster because he the lobster gets
physically bigger and struts about when
he is cleared his little lobster Warren
first kind of a downer of a point but
like his lowest stratum of chicken
society he literally calls Untouchables
yeah which are like literally a cast
vessel in India yeah who are severely
well they haven't coming yeah they got
out pecked the draggled and parse the
other well you know if you want to pick
[ __ ] Birds there's just a new study
out about how Ravens survive through a
very complicated system of cooperation
rewards based a rewards system based on
cooperating with one of those Matt we
shouldn't even have to talk about the
[ __ ] birds really you know yes
because we're social animals that
[ __ ] gives the power of speech and
have created civilization but again like
this works because it's true in a very
nonsense that you know all animal
species including Homo sapiens are you
know they they are governed by these
cutters like nasty you know uh none
irrational darker impulses and we sort
ourselves into these pecking orders in
human nature
however the fallacy is that like that
that's because it exists that it's good
and human and humans to civilization our
society is inalterable it isn't
inevitable right and again of course you
could do the opposite and pick out any
number of animal behaviors that are
completely alien from human beings and
be like oh we should emulate that as
well yeah we should be like bonobos and
just stick our dicks in each other's
faces whenever we have a conflict so
that ok so that's basically the point
he's making about lobsters is that less
you gotta [ __ ] off you gotta have alpha
Papa didn't take your space on the ocean
floor and if somebody plays back a
recording if you have a face attack [ __ ]
anybody was when he's saying stand up
straight with your shoulders back he
means like you know as a young man like
the the more defeated you are
psychologically that you will reflect
that physically and sort of like close
your Sabbagh D language up and sort of
hunched over and if you just sort of
projected more physical confidence you
would feel more confident yeah that's
true yeah and that's a perfect example
of his whole deal he hasn't actually
useful if kind of obvious piece of
advice for you know you're slumped over
basement dweller that might not even
have thought about posture before this
and he smuggles into it a bunch of
insane
social Darwinism at the same time does
he do like a version of the Virgin and
Chad being with like a bunch of insane
circles all okay yeah the chad is order
rule number two treat yourself like you
would someone you are responsible for
helping okay I mean that's just nice you
know that's like a that's like a you
know a good attitude to have health care
this is like the guys who like like they
turned 35 they're like oh my god I did
32 hits of acid and I realized that when
you're nice to people don't be nice to
you oh my god it was like God was
talking to me I mean the thing is he's a
he's a psychologist so he does like you
know do
therapy with people so you know half of
what he says is just really basic ways
for people not to hate themselves and
hate their lives and he's just like let
me just what racism in there all right
rule number three make friends with
people who want the best for you that's
like literally your friends that kind of
has a defining character and people who
want to see me die
I always keeps me on my toes keeps me
ready a friend if not a person I keep my
circle small y'all only eat with a few
laughs of many watch it [ __ ] jejak I
want to see the Petersons versus a
mirror barricade [ __ ] I'm not even
friends my [ __ ] wife I'm not friends
with myself there's a there's an
anecdote he tells in here at that part
about how he liked a childhood friend of
his came over to his house and he
brought a friend of his I heard of yeah
okay he says it was his friend I really
remember he was spaced he was baked he
was stoned out of his gourd his head and
our nice apartment up on goofballs did
not occupy did not easily occupy the
same universe and then yeah he just goes
on about how pissed off he was that this
guy was in his apartment and then he
takes his friend aside and says you need
to leave and take this useless bastard
with you or something like that so this
is his attitude towards friendship
no no stoners in my house okay rule
number four compare yourself with who
you were yesterday not with who someone
else's today that's sort of like he's
getting into this uh Eat Pray Love yeah
well no I mean I think I might be that's
fine like I mean you know it's fine to
say like don't beat yourself up by
comparing yourself to others but he's
he's spins that out into this extreme
individualism right then not only should
you not compare yourself to others you
should cut yourself off from others you
should you know kind of elevate yourself
above others like the first I thought I
can't why would young white men who've
been conditioned to think that because
they know a lot of things about Star
Wars and are good at video games are
natural rulers of the earth why would
they would appreciate someone telling
them that they should cultivate a
delusional sense of self superiority
that doesn't have to come in too
unseemly contact with other humans that
might disabuse them of it again this
rule here is just like very basic like
boring you know life advice however I
can imagine where he's gonna go with
this is extrapolating it to the
political sphere which is like I think
I've read him say things like you know
socialism is not about loving the poor
it's about hating the rich and that like
it's this idea that it's envy that makes
people you know advocate for a more just
society or a more adequate distribution
of resources yeah he's constantly saying
like don't blame capitalism don't blame
society well you know what should you
even wait what blame frozen it's like
okay capitalism isn't the problem to
then fill the space of well okay how
come everything suck so bad with well a
bunch of a bunch of French and
postmodernist got together and changed
the content of Disney movies yeah yeah
the selection of like the most kind of
foundational neoconservative neoliberal
idea that there is no society as
Margaret Thatcher put it like he's
calling on you not to even consider
yourself as belonging to a community
you're a lobster on the bottom uh yeah I
think I think Matt you made the the
absolute correct observation here is
that like he's critiquing sort of
activists and people who want to change
the world and this gets into rule number
six I'm gonna skip ahead one because I
want to talk about it he says set your
house in perfect order before you
criticize the world and I think the
point you get exactly right is he's like
don't criticize capitalism don't
criticize you know in just this
criticize I'm cartoons that aren't as
good as they used to be yeah like that
really is what he's interested in Laura
Cross tits aren't they so but the set
your house in perfect order before you
criticize the world again there's like a
half truth there that I think is
applicable or even a okay criticism of
the left like you know maybe sort your
own [ __ ] out before you try to take on
all the problems of the world but when
he says set your house in perfect order
and then when he will say that of course
people are always imperfect so then
never try yeah so it's a constantly
receding horizon of things that you can
or shouldn't do and he says I've read
something about him where he said like
the 60s are really bad because they just
gave everyone the idea that like if you
carried a placard like you should have
something to say even though you've
never been financially independent and
you're only a student or whatever and my
answer that is like you know how much
small business experience should I have
to have before I can say the Vietnam War
was a [ __ ] atrocity like or that
segregation is bad and should be
confronted I'm gonna criticizing someone
else's house isn't the only thing you
can do you can also help people set
their house in order some people don't
have a house you know the only way he
can think about it is we're in these
autonomous spheres and we can be
critical of each other yeah that's all
we can do we can't build solidarity it
doesn't exist okay
I'm going back one rule now rule number
five is do not let your children do
anything that makes you dislike them
this is actually my favorite rule yeah
you remember what that was about
you know I mean I'm not a parent so I
don't have a personal relationship to
this idea but how did like raise her
kids it's a chapter where he fantasized
about beating up a small child at a
playground oh yeah he has a story about
how he was at a playground and there was
an obnoxious child who was causing a
shenanigans and he had a fantasy of like
kicking the [ __ ] out of the kid and and
then thought I wish I could do that and
since I can't this is the grub okay yeah
I have the excerpt right here he says I
remember taking my daughter to the
playground once when she was about two
she was playing on the monkey bars
hanging in midair a particularly
provocative little monster of about the
same age was standing above her on the
scenes or she was wrong I watched him
move towards her our eyes locked he
slowly and deliberately stepped on her
hands with increasing force over and
over as he stared me down he's the big
Tom that's all
what's wrong with that he's she's in the
space that he's supposed to occupy part
of the ocean floor that's the ocean
floor he's being a lobster you should
high-five this one second I just love
the idea that they locked eyes and he's
being stared down by a two-year-old and
he goes he goes yeah he knew exactly
what he was doing up yours daddy oh that
was his philosophy is like rockabilly
slang yeah this is a good yeah
two-year-old all that have philosophy
don't even that bowel control he had
already concluded that adults were
contemptible and that he could safely
defy them again he hasn't concluded
anything you don't have thoughts as the
two years old three words two-year-old
has like done the calculation I think
it's pretty safe that I could defy these
adults around me very little what
happened to me as a result I've weighed
the consequences he stepped out the fake
dr. Peterson let's have a discussion
about the nature of miss steps on her
fingers that looks at those you're
witnessing a quake becoming he goes he
already concluded that adults are
contemptible and that he could safely
defy that too bad then that he was
destined to become one that was the
hopeless future yeah [ __ ] that was the
hopeless future his parents had saddled
him with what to grow up in two years I
give I give my child anti-aging
anti-aging serum they've been two years
old for three decades she was great in
salutary shock I picked him bodily off
the playground structure and threw him
30 feet down the field wait I think he
just punted this guest:30
okay which is totally normal and cool no
I didn't oh you guys know I didn't I
just took my daughter somewhere else but
it would have been better for him if I
had had al contempt for humans until a
stranger in a public park threw me
across a playground then my life was
great after that
life stories include a violent inner
interaction with an adult when you're a
small child and then things just getting
great exact to year old was the dragon
and Peterson was Santa and when a baby
was also disrespectful and Peterson just
used his thumb to press down on the soft
spot on the top of his head like a
[ __ ] like a like a video game
he was also conquering chaos he was
about the size of a cooper I just jumped
on his head the coins of honor and
discipline came out of his body
I got a playground battle I remember
about this chapters is a section called
discipline and punish which is literally
the name of yeah hell fucose bad Bethan
wah which I think he doesn't I probably
doesn't even know that well he hates
Foucault right yeah he hates Foucault
and Derrida who he says are Marxists and
who he believes essentially controlled
the the the way the whole world
proceeded after the nineteen that makes
sense that makes sense is a cabal of
French postmodern theorists with a
combined income of like what sixty-five
thousand francs a year who wrote books
most undergraduates don't even read when
they get a sign though like you wanna
[ __ ] talk well logic and reason what
is a more plausible explanation for the
course of matches through a screwdriver
the last 30 years the vagaries of global
capitalism ie the forces that control
the production of everything that we
consume and interact yeah or a handful
of French [ __ ] going to some
colleges that most people don't go to
changing the content of Disney films and
turning us all into these horrible does
this theory either like it comes from
like these neo conservative think-tanks
who blamed cultural Marxist this is like
the Frankfurt famous theory right and
they said cultural Marxists they meant
Jews but you know they had this whole
conspiracy theory about how Marxism got
turned into identity politics which then
took over the world jonathan chait
believes this yes yeah among other
people and Peterson just added as this
thing where he turns Marxism into
post-modernism
even though
most Marxist will tell you they hate
post-modernism and people who I don't
know a single person who calls himself a
postmodernist yeah but people who are
into contemporary theory are often very
antagonistic towards Marxism yeah and we
try to reconcile them driven out of the
Academy thirty [ __ ] years ago you
can't get a Marxist interpretation of
anything but what would the reason that
this is even surface-level plausible to
people is because the neoliberal turn
happens simultaneously with the
liberation of minorities and women in
the West and those two things sort of
one of them kind of cloak the other one
and so people can point to the problem
and say well look what happened once we
got rid of these hierarchies as opposed
to look what happened when you know the
Western capitalism went in to prolong
crisis and it was restructured in a way
that radically destroyed labour-power
and atomized communities and d
industrialized and and scattered
everybody to the [ __ ] Four Winds and
turned them into eternally precarious
subjects whose had no real economic
security no ability to place on long
term security to their children that is
masked by the fact that well yeah but
now there's more women in movies and
black people on TV a lot of this is
coming from people in the center and the
Democratic Party Hillary Clinton
rewriting that history to the point that
like you know the the Black Panther
Party was a think-tank
they're turning these very radical
movements against racism for feminism
for you know sexual liberation into just
kind of you know electoral policy driven
you know Democratic goals the black
Black Panther Party who's not think-tank
is a movie studio putting out some
amazing films that we're all very proud
of right now Henry Henry I want a list
of every [ __ ] Jew that works at Pixar
all the Incredibles are Jews they
changed their name when they got to
Ellis Island I'm sure
he really hates is frozen frozen the ice
frozen has anyone here seen frozen I
have not seen frozen Oh Chris who seen
frozen okay what do you learn about
propaganda oh well what he hates about
post-structuralist right what but he he
hates it because it's sort of like a
revisionist fairy tale in that like the
message of the movie is that like the
princess doesn't need a prince to save
her or become self actualized or
something yeah there's a [ __ ] song
about how there is nothing outside the
text and gender is constructed
he's like yeah this is this is a this is
a departure from the classic tradition
of these ancient folk tales but it's a
Hans Christian Andersen thing as much
you get so much [ __ ] just plain wrong
yeah historical facts sources citations
I mean academically the guy's a total
charlatan yeah okay let's uh let's do
rule number seven and rule number eight
I'm just gonna go through these pretty
quickly okay rule number seven pursue
what is meaningful not what is expedient
okay good luck rule number eight we've
all we've all wrapped up that finding
meaning thing in a bow we can do that
rule there rule number eight tell the
truth or at least don't lie um all right
again like I mean just cool again these
are like just incredibly pompous ways of
restating like incredibly bland you know
boring yeah truisms okay rule number
nine assume that the person you are
listening to might know something you
don't
that is something he does not do it is
something I've never seen him do yeah
yeah it's full contempt for anybody who
is not on the same on board with this
and his [ __ ] fans now are in this
thing where they think he's such a
goddamn genius and I'm honestly
convinced it's mostly because we don't
teach humanities to kids anymore and
this is the first time they're
encountering this stuff like I think
that they I think a large percentage of
his fans if they think he came up with
all this archetype [ __ ] like they don't
know the Carl Jung is you know they
don't even know Joseph Campbell so they
think that he is just like I got I went
my room for a while and when I came out
I had these charts like Doc Brown
dad I've got an idea yeah you know and
they they don't realize that he's just
regurgitating sort of this is like this
relatively but well-trod territory of
frankly discredited psychological
concepts rule number ten be precise in
your speech now this is the role that
mr. Peterson probably could use to bone
up on is that like he has this rule be
precise in your speech but every time
you're critical of anything he says his
fans are like well you got a watch you
know ten thousand now right situation
where you can legitimately they see such
a [ __ ] genius
that anybody who has a critique that
they can't answer they assume well it's
in there it's in one of the things he
has said because he has the whole corpus
of knowledge so it's your responsibility
if you're gonna criticize him to engage
all of it you're not you're not you're
not qualified to talk about him unless
you have absorbed his entire and you
know what I'm sorry if it's transparent
gibberish what kind of what if violence
am i doing to myself to subject myself
to so this video that was making the
rounds the other day online of him
summarizing a scene from Pinocchio yeah
yeah and the scene was literally one
minute long he spent two minutes
summarizing it yeah well that's what I
love about like the mythic archetype
stuff because at the end of the day I
think really what he's interested in is
cartoons that's what he loves talking
about Christian reading meeting these
are his maps of meaning
he's headed yeah that's all he is he has
an idea of what a fairy tale is that he
thinks is is eternal and truthful very
logical and reasonable stuff and he
thinks anything that comports to it is
good and anything that goes away from it
is bad anything that goes away from it
is doing so because it has a political
agenda that is not truly artistic the
only way we truly artistic is to
replicate the same [ __ ] tropes that
have existed for a thousand there's
another video where he's just listing
Disney movies and he goes Bruneian a
beast great they really nailed it Little
Mermaid nailed it
Lion King some problems but nailed it
and I wasn't like the problem is around
if he's grading them basically on how
they conform to his idea of the kiss
canal
fairytail motif so he's just a [ __ ]
he's just a canon nerd yeah
Cao Lu's awful child who I would
headshot with no second thoughts I'm
head I agree with you mr. Peters he's
like Greg tur convinced character on on
cinema you know our Hercules
surprisingly underrated five bags of
popcorn
sorry Shrek lots of great things in
there for adults hair care okay here's
oh this is great speaking of cartoons he
has he has to take on The Simpsons this
is again we've been having fun but I
[ __ ] Simpson Nathan Robinson picked
this corn kernel out of the [ __ ] pile so
shout outs to him again this is this is
his take on other Simpsons without
nelson king of the bullies nelson is
clearly a several rungs below Dolph
Kearney Adolph Bernie and Jimbo are the
trails all ships really lifted the
nation out a penance now well dr.
Peterson there is only one reaction I
respect his name is John schwartzwalder
you will stop butchering his work okay
here you guys without nelson king of the
bullies the school would be overrun by
resent the resentful touchy mill houses
the narcissistic intellectual martin
prince's soft chocolate gorging german
shows an infantile Ralph Wiggum months
is a corrective so it's point there is
that bullying the week is like that's
like another order those people those
those children all have bad bad things
about them but the bad thing of being a
sadist is nothing compared to being
chocolate gorge or election ah oh yeah
how does Jordan Peters to feel about the
real life real life chocolate gorging
German child Kim calm all right last two
rules here these are these are actually
to me the ones I'm most interested in
because I can't figure out what they
mean rule number 11 do not bother
children
when they are skateboarding now this is
a role that taken at face value
I 100% agree with I don't know I think
kids should be allowed to skateboard
whatever the [ __ ] they might perform
citizen's arrest
this is really rambling incoherent
chatter I lived for a while I lived in
an apartment building and there is a
fountain in front and kids would do
grinds off of it it was really annoying
Lila old man Crispin here we go this is
the chapter where he goes all in on
post-modernism and I completely get an
ember I can't remember what he was
skateboarding at all sorry okay so kids
should be allowed I think kids need more
a little bit more freedom a little less
supervision a little bit more danger in
everyday American life that's actually
what I believe rule 12 this is the final
rule and again one that on face value I
agree with entirely pet a cat when you
encounter one on the street get parvo I
got allergies man what is he saying with
this is it is does he literally mean pet
every cat you say it's just you know
it's just stop and smell the roses
cliches it's not okay you know it's
alright stop and smell the cat's sniff
the cat's ass when you see your friends
you know taking off their shoes tuck
take some time suck their toes enjoy
life so those are the 12 roles and I
guess just the to wrap it up here I
think you know I want to restate the
motion right the most salient fact about
Jordan Peterson is how unbearably
tedious he is as a writer and a thinker
however the reason for his success and
the fact that like this again pseudo
philosophical drivel is having such a
its moment in our culture right now is
because as we've stated like the Oh sort
of hegemonic cultural and political
liberalism has largely failed and for
the young men that he's talking to
nobody in like the overall like sort of
monoculture is talking to them or
addressing them the only people who are
talking to them is YouTube yeah and he's
talking to them through YouTube and he's
telling them a story that that makes
sense or acknowledges some
some truths that aren't being addressed
or discussed elsewhere that they're not
getting and I'm not saying that he's
right but like he's you know like
there's enough half-truths and all of
these things to lard the rest of it and
the rest of it I ended and it flatters
prejudices that they already have
it doesn't really chat it challenges
them in a superficial way in in that
they should clean their room or do
something you know some push-ups or
whatever you know stop gaming every four
hours so it's paying attention yeah
right somebody's like wants to make sure
that they're doing okay yeah but but in
the deeper sense they're absolutely
they're absolutely flattering every lazy
prejudice that they just got like and I
want to go a step further because it's
not just you know liberalism that has
failed but I think quite frankly the
left has not done a good job or has
failed in this regard of for the most
part telling a story that connects with
the lives or makes sense to most people
yeah and I mean I think the story is
being told it just doesn't have the
cultural spotlight it doesn't have the
outlet there's really nobody doing it in
a way that is accessible to people right
can I pop in myself take this is
producer Christmas off by the way take
yeah so I was watching
Queer Eye for the straight guy the other
night the new season which is a very
loving it finally people are loving it
it's connecting with a lot of people and
it occurred to me that the story that
it's telling is or what people take away
from it is basically the same thing as
what Jordan Peterson is offering is that
you have these young men who either and
the men of all ages who are either
ground too far into or somehow I've
jumped the track of like the society
you're supposed to have it's dads who
are working three jobs and only sleep
three nights and because of their
religious upbringing it marry the first
person they met and and have five kids
and they have no sense of self-identity
or somebody who you know graduated
wasn't able to find work or place and is
like unable to struggle in their work
life and you have these people come in
and crack open the door and show them a
way out of this like prison of their
constructed maleness in society that's
Liberatore in this way that that casts
some kind of a story about taking
control of your life having some kind of
self-respect and putting shape on this
chaotic off often
like messy world cleaning their rooms
and in this case it's these gay men who
are like showing their form of order in
the chaos and it's a more Liberatore
order again it's like cracking to open
this door and showing them a way out of
these prisons and I just thought that
it's such a positive mirror versus this
kind of looking backwards as you said
like reactionary of embracing
hierarchies thing it's instead of saying
clean your room so that you may embrace
the order of classic systems it's like
like he's cracking over the door and
saying like just become a prince and an
ancient monarchy crack open the door and
bow down to your ancient rulers yeah
yeah yeah yeah I just thought that it's
funny that these two things are
resonating at the same time because
they're very much the same thing of like
order and chaos and there is a place for
like finding order because modern life
is extremely chaotic and canyou can
spiral out of control for no reason of
your own doing and feel totally out of
control of your own life but I would
just say you know get a facial scrub and
like clean yourself up better and then
maybe feel better instead of like
embracing reactionary mindset about
pinocchio and also there should be a
sixth fab 5 who is the socialist bad 5
yeah the other thing is that you still
is that is that the self-help thing is
good to give you a sense that you're in
charge of your life but then you also
need to have an understanding of why
things are the way they are and how they
could change and that is where socialism
comes in yeah and that's what and that's
the other thing that's unexamined didn't
the show why I said there should be a 6
that the part of it is helicoptering in
$100,000 Home Makeover yeah that you
know helps redefine these people's lives
and it's you know it's really affecting
and like the other thing that I noticed
is that Peterson does talk about he has
that think about like hug your dad or
something save your dad save your dad
save your dad almost every one of these
career is ODEs has a moment where one of
the guys turns to the subject and is
like so I noticed you have a dad and the
guy just starts bawling because they'd
like either they have not let anybody
talk to them about how they relate to
their parents or
nobody has tried to and it's just that
like breaking connection there that
there's like a paper-thin wall of
emotion between them and their even the
concept of having a father is another
point of resonance that I thought so
yeah I mean like there's a reason why
these things you know resonate with
people on a you know an emotional level
and that's why I think I was you know I
was thinking about Pierce another day
and I felt like you know when I was in
my 20s or earlier like I feel like sort
of in an earlier more embarrassing stage
in my life like Christopher Hitchens
sort of filled that role of like guy who
I loved watching video clips of because
I thought he was so smart and like I
loved seeing him like own Harry a phrase
and own people and like contrarian his
challenge yeah yeah that was like
someone who has a systemic critique even
if he doesn't right right and I was
always like I love that I was always he
was the idea being so impressed by how
smart and cool like this guy was and I
think that's the way a lot of Pearson's
fans respond to him because that he's
this like well bearer of like I mean
consistence like he's somebody's caught
his dick in a port I kind of can't under
I mean he is to me that's the one I have
the hardest part getting is how he
became a YouTube celebrity sounding like
that and crying all the time
if you see the other YouTube celebrities
it's weird of some podcast like just
none of those have good radio voice
where we're weeping Muppets I just want
to when I'm [ __ ] up that's the real me
I want to come back to the intellectual
darkweb concept because I'm just
thinking about a buddy of mine who
orders pharmaceutical drugs on the dark
web and they come from just like guys
who somehow get their hands on these
chemicals and have fake molds of the
actual pharmaceutical pills and just
pack them in there and then manufacture
their own bills and send it to you in
the mail and that's just kind of what
this book is really I mean a convenient
is a great way to get ready for your big
cross-country flight make sure get card
with your card makes it easier for you
to bust with your homies
um rule number 13 always burst with your
homies hit the dab on them you have to
do it to them so I think that's it yeah
their ink you read my article on
Peterson on viewpoint maybe we'll even
though in that Canadian I'm Irish Shuja
we will link to your article in a few
point in the episode description
