[Music]
[Music]
yeah when you bring me out introduce me
as Joker
[Music]
hey everyone it is Labor Day weekend and
you know what that means let's get this
over with but there is one piece of
housekeeping that we have put offers so
so two months ago TVs Mac Chrisman lost
that again Virgil Texas and say good the
bad I don't even wear what the bat was
about but the sake of the bet was loser
Mac husband watches the view for a month
I said I do it and he's gonna do it
because fortunately the day after Labor
Day September 3rd the view comes back
from their summer hiatus all the people
you love will be there Whoopi Goldberg
sunny Hostin joy Meghan McCain and Abbi
hunter who is coming back from maternity
leave according to her last Instagram
bump date she will be back this fall I
just love how they've got to like two
daughters of failed presidential
candidates what what is what is where
does that happen how in what universe
does that just accident we just we just
somehow ended up with two daughters of
failed Republican presidential
candidates it's like as Harold Stassen
daughter gonna show up next Matt we'll
have to watch the first hi it's an hour
long you only you're only yes watch the
watch the first that's the best half
because that's when they talk about you
know thing about presidential daughters
John Kerry's daughter she became like a
normal actress she was in Spartan with
Val Kilmer and then never heard live
again yeah she's a bartender that wait
Alexandra Carrey
yes interesting yeah no respect for
anyone respect for any presidential
child who I have never heard of you are
braver than the troops Nixon's daughter
yes zero yeah Romney's daughters I'll
join that compound
I do I have respect for like um you know
to vit and the day and and try and
triumph or it sons because like they
were annoying during 2012 when they're
like I want to beat up the black
president me to my dad like they've gone
away since it's true I haven't heard of
rhombic Romney in in almost 10 years now
and I'm really glad well I missed the
Palin kids the most America like that
when they literally had to take a
shotgun and get Levi Johnston to show up
and sit next to the daughter the
pregnant daughter we knocked up out of
wedlock made a reality she quit the
governorship of Alaska to make a real TV
show about her stupid ruled so much and
then he got in a fight with his dad yeah
and the cops showed up and he fought the
cop awesome he needs to come back
absolutely they all need like yeah no
that was like that was the perfect
politics because like ya know they were
those realest [ __ ] that was like at
least I raised my kid [ __ ] yeah but Matt
Chrisman will be watching the view
starting Tuesday September 3rd you can
follow his live tweets of the view on
twitter.com at hashtag Matt watches the
view and is a dumb baby calm that will
not be the hashtag will be the hash
table those lineups I wish I lost a bit
it sounds [ __ ] fire oh god it's gonna
be so terrible Anna no Anna Navarro's
going to absolutely decimate Trump
Meghan McCain I like she'll be like well
I don't like him but that's like too far
to say he's not the president whatever I
read that she was engaged to be married
to Al Cardenas who's another Republican
ghoul but she changed her name already
in advance I don't I don't know if I'm
reading the articles I think that I'd
like to prevent being left at the altar
or something it's like you I've already
done it you can't you can't back out now
that is so [ __ ] lame [ __ ] yeah no I
can't I'm eagerly awaiting a Thomas
Dewey's great-granddaughter to show up
on the set at one point for some reason
well we already have the new firing line
with Jesus [ __ ] Christ
Herbert Hoover host of the new firing
line that is correct you've never cared
about oh I can't wait for Alexa Evans
Hughes to show up Charles Evans Hughes
do decree Wendell Willkie son is gonna
come on and he's pissed a hundred and
three years old and he's pissed a guy
who's like a seventh generation Lincoln
and he's just a [ __ ] yeah he's just one
of those people who's like yeah I think
the earth is flat but they have to keep
it for most people because they can't
handle it I agree with them FDR's kids
were pretty fail yes correctly yeah
Ellis Roosevelt was cool she was she was
absolutely she was lit yes Alice
Roosevelt was on one perpetually I may
be like being too horny lately but I saw
like a drawing of her she's pretty hard
I mean rikku horny I saw uh someone
doing a silhouette and it got me sprung
they were there Victorian drawing room
tracing onto a large piece of butcher
paper from a from a single candle light
and if you're familiar with a John F
Kennedy but what happened to his
children they're not doing well I think
what happened is like I got all the luck
the Kennedy should have had honestly Joe
Biden is because he wrote the anti
ecstasy bill that criminalized taking
care of people on ecstasy has probably
killed more Kennedys and Lee Harvey
Oswald or one of them Joe Kennedy the
third is probably going to run for the
same primary what's-his-face in
yeah he's gonna run presumably a show
that he will crush marki yes and he's
probably gonna run to his right because
marques relatively left for a senator
man
I also saw another poll that uh
what's-his-face there the Republican
governor of Massachusetts would beat Ed
Markey if he jumped into the race yeah
Baker Charlie Baker they love him up
there love a good and quote-unquote
moderate but he would not be Kennedy the
third because I don't name is so
powerful those their little peasants
they are we're all [ __ ] peasants and
and they're the leash lords is it like
if you're in Massachusetts the Kennedys
are the family in the [ __ ] castle why
the ones that you they're the ones that
you brought your millet to at harvest
time that's so stupid it's like all
you've seen them do for the past 50
years is drive their cars directly into
concrete divider [ __ ] fly their
planes into ski lifts thereby killing
too they're just like yo I would not
trust this family to drive me anywhere
but they should be my king for some
reason maybe that's it maybe they just
like seeing them get owned and they're
like Oh
Joe Kennedy it'd be hilarious if he died
in a blimp accident but it's not
happening maybe if he was in the Senate
it would be more likely in an unforeseen
campaign catastrophe Joe Kennedy's
Wienermobile dead mercury Charlie Baker
no the Kennedys are like if anyone out
there is played Crusader Kings you know
you might you might be the king and you
might have seven kids but they all die
very strange reasons one is mauled by a
bear one gets leprosy ya know I think
that it's sort of like a wicker man
thing I think like the sacrifice of the
Kennedy is what keeps Massachusetts you
know their tech sector vibrant oh oh oh
it's like the flower wars yeah so sick
yeah they just have a candidate instead
of like erecting a ziggurat like it was
carving someone's heart out just tossing
like 600 bodies down it you just like
you give a kennedy a car and be like hey
just drive down this highway yeah go
drive you know and then the Red Sox will
be guaranteed to win at least one
more World Series that decade well I
mean most people that say do you follow
a pagan blood religion Catholicism
that's true all comes together we're all
figuring [ __ ] out yeah so actually if
that's the case never mind they're not
there they're actually savvy
practitioners of probably one of the
only true religions there is the seed is
strong yes yeah all right
so y'all have another beer so like I
said I would love if you guys want to
talk about the Joker cry Chris cut all
this this is actually keep the parts
where the mic is just on the couch we're
talking about stretched resin over watch
also where you got where I guess the
aspect ratio of a laptop the crucial
ship do not keep in the part where I
admit it to not knowing what stress
Rises that is some Nixon tapes hash tag
Virgil Texas fake gamer girl is gonna go
viral effect one of those accounts that
like you know just clips every time
Jordan Pederson gets interviewed and
he's like you know become a mountain
lion I'm in trouble they're gonna clip
you not knowing stretches be like I'm
finished y'all okay
are we rolling everyone's got decent
levels alright boys so it's been a while
since we had this setup wills not in
town there's literally never happened
before will has been indicted by a
secret court he is in prison right now
about to be executed whose family we say
hey that's crazy man that sucks I'm
sorry it's us it's me Felix
Matt also known as Matt Chrisman Virgil
Texas I've been smoking off-brand jewel
pods all day I have I have a powerful
thing that I've come to from smoking
these don't hear it yeah alright so
[ __ ] Noah Baumbach is Tyler Perry for
Jews hallelujah did this [ __ ] this
[ __ ] these off-brand jewel
pods definitely killing me but they're
making me pretty smart okay let's you
know owner ability let's be honest here
has anyone here actually actually liked
a Noah Baumbach movie I like the squid
in the whale I think that's pretty good
nah do I love all of them I love I like
cooking kicking and screaming wait that
was him right that was him I also like
the one with Nicole Kidman where she's a
jerk a jerk yeah I liked um my favorite
one is waiting for hello and that's the
one where uh Ben Stiller I don't know if
he made that up or not it's totally real
Ben Stiller has a 15-year resentment
against his stepmom because she
pressured him into going to Tufts and
he's a contract lawyer but he really
wanted to go to the Tisch School for the
Performing Arts and I mean a woman
played by Greta Gerwig I can't I don't
know if this is a and she's like she
asks him why he's wearing a Tisch School
for the Performing Arts hat and he does
sort of like weak middle-aged man cry
and lady has an affair with her while
he's house-sitting for his
brother-in-law while he goes on a
diarrhea retreat in Malaysia and it's
six hours long and it's just forty
five-year-old saying to each other like
I don't know if I'm ready to be me and
it's [ __ ] tight it's my favorite
movie you know ever since you put that
as your screen name Noah Baumbach
Jeffrey Epstein movie I can't stop
thinking about it because one of his
favorite actors Ben Stiller would
honestly be perfect for Epstein oh my
god he would kill it
give you just like he doesn't die his
hair for a few months so he gets nice
and white or nice and gray he's uncanny
I did like the squid in the whale but I
haven't seen in like 10 years and I
wonder if I would still like it if I
watched it again but I mean - and I know
energy to actually like bring myself to
watch it because there's really nothing
that memorable about the film except
it's like Jeff Daniels is a shitty guy
yeah he's a shitty dad pretentious jerk
and the Sun was screwed up okay yeah oh
it's one of those like vibes movies and
there's nobody that's the thing is the
opposite of advisory there's nobody his
kid his kid Jack's off in the stacks at
the library I do remember that oh I know
you're confusing that with happiness
nope that's different he jacks off onto
a railing on a balcony
that's two different things oh yeah
that's a [ __ ] motif horny kids Jack
how arrogant I was to go off against
Matt Crispin with his encyclopedic
knowledge of sons jacking off I got
every scene you know it's funny the
show's been on for a while three years
now almost and yet we can still keep it
fresh because this is the first time
that this host configuration has ever
appeared on the show wrong it isn't
wrong now we literally did that we did
it
remember the Ross to Ted instance till
article I don't cut all this then never
mind I I guess I forgot it although the
show has been on for more than three
years now Jesus has it really yeah yeah
and soon enough you guys are both gonna
be flopping and twitching having vape
infused induced seizures and then we're
all gonna have to figure out what to do
okay so I recently posted about vaping
and a very helpful individual entered my
mentions who is a pro vape activist from
the UK and he says that all of the
doctors say vaping is way healthier than
smoking and it's actually good for you
also like even if it wasn't it's not
going to happen to me
well I mean that's true yeah I mean your
life is got kissed we've all understood
this for a while now I'm the sweet boy
you're a sweet boy
you cannot be brought down by
conventional weapons no no it's all it's
all just it's just chemicals that you
put in your body that well your body
refracts into emotions I imagine in like
30 years you're just gonna look like a
Morton Show looking device strapped to
your face a big backpack yeah um achill
is being infused into your body he was
in charge yeah that's true he had the
most chemicals yeah this is the point of
that movie yeah and this mean woman was
jealous of him jealous of all of his
games they always do and cook down the
chemical the cool chemical man like Joe
Biden like Oh everyone's jealous of him
wants to take him down
it's true I'm gonna say enough yeah I'm
gonna be like beta or orc I'm gonna
stand
and say I don't know what's going on but
this is [ __ ] up these vibes are [ __ ]
okay
let's talk about that for a second yeah
bado horik who has launched his
presidential campaign approximately four
different times now has seen it not
redound to any kind of bump of the polls
has in the last three or so weeks
stumbled across what he clearly thinks
of as the magic formula to rise into
contention and that is doing cusses yep
no no not just constants but he is now
trying to be the gun guy which I'm
actually surprised that no one had
really emerged as the gun guy I thought
it's gonna be small well well that's
right
yeah we're supposed to be one of those
like also-ran losers but I guess they
just got lost in the mix it makes sense
to be the gun guy because uh mass
shootings happen every day so there's
all it's always in the news and if
you're the gun guy you get to be in each
one of those articles saying you know
like you know president presidential can
work was quoted saying you [ __ ] god yeah
you you mother freaking crop spawn can I
can I read married to sentiments
back-to-back please then you guess which
one is said by faze banks and which one
is said by better or for it we all know
who face banks face banks is the star of
the greatest video ever recorded the xxx
tenth ASEAN memorial podcast with lil
zan and Adam 22 he is I know that I know
it more than I going fathers face at
this point I know he is because of you
he is a very unwell person a a symptom
of our current times but now you have
actually convinced me that he's good
yeah no he has clout he's clouded
I just hate looking at his avatar he's
waged ever tour is cool you gotta say
that he's pretty nice with his another
mass shooting 30 minutes away from where
I live 12 people dead for absolutely no
reason it could have easily been me
could have easily been you where the
[ __ ] do these weirdos come from when are
we gonna get our [ __ ] together
[ __ ] vibes alright and then we don't
know how many have been killed we don't
know the motivation but here's what we
do know this is [ __ ] up
is that the same tweet is one of them by
better or work or is one of them by
phase banks are they both the same man I
could honestly believe that they are the
same man at this point and it would help
him if they was because [ __ ] vies
would be a really good campaign slogan
who would honestly vote for him like if
he went advocate if he was on the next
debate he said America is suffering from
a real crisis a crisis of [ __ ] vibes the
vibes in this country let's face it
folks are [ __ ] I think that would
resonate with people I will say it's
smart and gets you attention to be the
gun cussing guy but it doesn't translate
to you winning because that's just not a
salient issue even in the Democratic
electorate because all the people who
are really obsessed with gun control
have already you know chosen for
Kabbalah eros or Elizabeth Warren right
because the ones are people yeah because
they're by definition realists which
means if you're if you're low in the
polls you might as well be a leprous
disgusting peasant that they could dump
into an open grave because they care
about viability and they care about
results in all that [ __ ] which means
they gravitate towards winners you saw a
post by front of the show Clara Jeffrey
the other day which it really stuck with
me
it was evening the mists of the latest
mass shooting you know the time has come
for you to think about when you're
sending your kids to college whether
they should go to college in a state
with open gun laws yeah open care you
know you know actually you know make
them pay yeah which you just it's it's
really astonishing to me that the Upper
West Side [ __ ] rich liberal vote
voting vote with your tuition dollars we
are we are going to choke Athens Georgia
that's like sorry my shitty kid doesn't
get to spend a hundred thousand dollars
learning to do a feeling dancing is that
is that a thing feelings dancing I think
honestly RIA
dance think about your feelings okay
how about somebody major in making
coffee flavored coffee I would love that
no I mean like I have to say I like
really hated bado and this all started
oh I remember you were just like
steaming you hated his own butts now I
like it because it's like I well because
he's a loser for what that's why I like
him is because it's like you'd strip
away that he's a member of Congress you
strip away that he's married to like the
daughter of like the richest man in
Texas
his own family is like pretty nothing
richest man the richest man in El Paso
me yeah that's disputed but is that it's
a long father-in-law and it's disputed
I've heard billionaire I've also heard
not a billionaire one way or another
caked up yeah he's ballin yeah no he's
that'd be no is a fell guy absolutely I
thought I realized this when I watched
like the video of him cooking dinner the
other day
and he made a double cheeseburger on
English muffin with a side of unseasoned
broccoli that is a Mikey miles okay I so
I'm doing a 30 rock rewatch and I just
rewatched the episodes with
what's-his-name from Mad Men oh yeah
yeah when when he did lizard and the
joke was he was bubble he was in the
bubble right and he was very attractive
but he sucked at everything but he
didn't realize that because he had such
a pretty face everyone to be nice to him
I kind of think that's really just the
case with that but he's old but the
thing is like guys who are like super in
the bubble like people let them succeed
at things just by virtue that but bado
like if you look at his life before
caught like he never got anything done
he was like a failed musician failed as
a zine writer failed everything he went
to New York to try to make it and then
went bad your guy he's the classic guy
who couldn't hack it in New York like
the song hears if you can make it here
you can make it anywhere he did not make
it here I do want to point out this is
the easiest place in the world to make
it but he's mine he made it and it just
was like - not for me but I think that
he's like he I don't think this is like
traumatized until like he knows he's
failing he's this is a familiar feeling
for him before yeah I think it's more
comforting for him to know
oh this is how this is going he'd be
freaking out if he was a top of the wall
like that's what I think that like him I
think he this is the Noah Baumbach movie
he consciously blew his chance at being
the front-runner because he doesn't like
succeeding but he never had a chance to
be the front-runner cuz it was all
[ __ ] to begin yet well sure
imagining though a counterfactual world
where he did just he announces his
candidacy rockets to the top Biden
doesn't even get in because of how big
his lead is and by this time in the in
this alternative world like at this
stage of the election and he's like
coasting and everybody else is like in
single digits he probably would be like
injecting like rhino tranquilizer into
his ball sack just freaking out he would
you would he would like he would blow it
so spectacularly like he would crash a
[ __ ] SUV into it I don't agree
because he was the center of all of the
liberal attention in 2018 there any blew
it he blew it I think it was just an
impossible job and I think he
objectively did better than yeah but
it's a perfect thing and the median is
the perfect way though yeah he did well
but he still didn't win perfect
yeah that's the perfect gen-x like moral
victory yeah it leaves you still in
knowing you're loser and doesn't
challenge yourself perception yes
exactly and that's why he went met he's
like help do let's do it again a Gen X
is like Fanta that's the Gen X fantasy
is like everyone's looking at you you
almost do the thing but you don't do it
so you don't have to actually have to do
anything but everyone's like very proud
that you accomplished so much
considering and then a girl in like a
jean skirt hold your hand it's a beta
it's a freaking participation trophy and
beta I think he actually really liked
like going to Iowa and meeting like just
Gen Xers who were horny for someone
who's like them sort of but like not
inflated by corn and he like he likes
just going into these rooms and being
the center of attention of like the Des
Moines book club
yeah he doesn't have to do anything this
is perfect for him this is like this is
honestly like this is like taking a dog
to a farm he's having a blast
oh yeah every time a guy shows up at of
meet-and-greet and he's got like a pixie
shirt on he's like hey they have a
little moment but you're telling me it's
clean if I Yoda if I go to your
neighborhood thousand percent there's
not your aunt no no I mean there's your
feces every in bathrooms alright we're
gonna have Virgil go to the super hood
and do the way we're recording in my
place I will buy a couch for this
purpose I'm actually closest to Felix's
neighborhood and I will I will venture
out there and I want a shadow if he
looks for a day no you'll see I'm
accomplishing like twice the amount of
work my mental state has improved
drastically that is my body fat has
decreased and you know easly do you know
my driving do you know the etymology of
your neighborhood
let me guess it was like a Dutch guy no
not know every go park right yeah uh no
the apologies really dumb oh wait my
brother told me this yeah it was a
planned community in the 1920s created
by a during the like the 20s boom
created by a construction company called
real good construction yeah and the name
of the name of the neighborhood was real
good and which was shortened to Rico but
some Ron Swanson should know that but
that was like cool sleighing back then
they know it don't be fellas like if you
had something called Dumon park now no
that's that's a badass life I would not
go to zoom in Park I'll just say oh I
not dude it sounds like I don't want to
throw in the Thummim show right now my
life well I mean what's what's the
nightlife like typically I'll get on
counter-strike 9 o'clock I've been
grinding the bots maps though typically
guys with like 4 character names that
are made upwards PC gamers love to do
names like you know flunk misspelled
somehow
the pinnacle of being a PC gamer
thinking that you invented a word and
it's called Exuma rated uh you know
they'll often kill me in counter-strike
i won of it i want to visit rego park i
want to live like common people do
whatever comment even on a common person
and i have no illusions that i am he's
just a fan of the rapper common not not
the lab the acting he's a fan of the
tragedy of the Commons yes the tragedy
of the Commons is when people listen to
comments just for the cool beats not the
amazing lyrics when they fail to
appreciate his performance and Hell on
Wheels the AMC dad program yeah and and
Suicide Squad that's true he's in there
for five seconds I feel like hell on
wheels and Vikings they were both vying
for the same demographic yeah oh that
well that's yeah yeah it's it's it's a
they're both rec room shows there shows
you watching your finished basement
while not talking to your wife there are
millions of fans of Vikings on the
History Channel and that to me like I
don't know if it's a good or bad show I
don't look a little bit of it's a bad
show that makes sense
watching a drama series on the History
Channel's to me it's so intrinsically
wrong like kidding it's like it's like
if you bought your shoes at a [ __ ]
grocery store oh my god there's nothing
wrong with that throw by Kroger sell
shoes and they're the same shoes you'd
get anywhere else sir viking vikings is
the History Channel like really low
budget Game of Thrones knockoff right
yeah but presumably without any of the
cool nudity or violence on the table
though there is violence on it I know I
saw an episode like once randomly in a
hotel no we watched an episode together
remember I do man what know when we were
in [ __ ] where was it Princeton okay we
did the Princeton show yeah and they put
us up in this hotel and we were like
we're drinking late and like the only
thing the watch was a History Channel
and that was that show right yeah the
Vikings [ __ ] fake Game of Thrones
show and like yeah there's no nudity in
it or else we would have peed off
together
like we usually do
and it was I just realized this it was
the Karl Diggler joke that we wrote
together of of the fake Game of Thrones
that David Miller it just goes to show
though like if there's a Lord bastard
boy going fast the southern gate because
it does imply though that the
Scandinavians are a mythical people and
I think that's true
they're not real well that's what you
said to us the other day that you know
in the 30 30 Years War imagine how
terrifying it would have been to face
this army of guys with INTJ stairs yeah
just the INTJ stair coming at you and
500 guys named Sven over a field that's
how they kick the [ __ ] out of so many
poor lumpy German peasants
well the fjords have like naturally
occurring occurring florid in them
that's true I don't account for the
fluoride stair it's very tragic actually
I used to I made fun of my friend once I
lived in Minnesota he did 23 me and he's
like oh my god this explains so much all
my life I thought we were you know half
Norwegian but we're actually half Danish
wow dude but actually though the more I
think about it does make sense because
Swedes are just like dull int J stare
yeah very inward nervous Dutch the deal
masters yeah Kings the kill deal they
admitted making news and Dane Danes are
just there the chat dump yeah they
really are
yeah things are the chance of
Scandinavia yeah and of northern Europe
in general yeah wait Danes are the
Chad's I think so yeah yeah they're very
chatted nothing not the Swedes no no no
no the Swedes are the virgins absolutely
no question on that one yeah tall and
powerful and Hardy and they they they
make uh computer games where you stare
at a map for night exactly
yeah that's Chad baby everyday
Norwegians are like they don't want to
admit that they're Chad's that's what I
found out like there they are very
they're more artistic than the Swedish
yeah but they're like they don't want to
like in in my struggle by Carlo of
noseguard there it is he's like he like
tall handsome like athlete but he's like
his narration of his high school years
is like I'm a nerd [ __ ] who sucks it's
like now you're like kind of cool for
that it like that's what everyone's like
but there they have it they're very
internally tortured the Norwegians
I'm glad we're talking about
Scandinavians because we have a
bafflingly large scanning it's true I
guarantee you they're all thrilled right
now we're gonna get we're gonna get well
not like angry like whatever Mao they
don't get happen they there's probably
one of those words that like roomful I
guess would be like the hardest core
feeling they could have that they
probably have a word for it in their
languages one of those words it has like
more JS than you would assume it would
have yeah and there's a line through the
O's and all that [ __ ] yeah but the bunch
of dots on all yeah and it's like I had
a pleasure enjoying your program this
afternoon as I am you know as I usually
do with a cup of drip coffee because
we're the only place in Europe that does
that apparently and but I noticed that
you you incorrectly described the effect
of Swedish people and then there will be
seven more paragraphs I'm going to put
rocks in my pocket and walk into the
baltic ocean is what i do this every day
this is you've gotten many emails like
this and we also get emails sr with oh
haha i know this is a joke to you but an
18 paragraphs about sweden
yeah it is cool though it is cool
because like with the death of forums i
thought we saw the death of the dear
Richard letter but we do get a lot of
them oh yeah I kind of like it I know
honestly I even willing to pander to our
Scandinavian fans and say whoever you
hate we hate them all so absolute no no
you do not hang on I thought that meant
Finnish people it does also Russians
yeah that's fine but then get a few more
aqua feets in them and the list gets a
little longer
we love our Finnish fans I also don't
hate anyone that's true I'd make fun of
Russia I don't know no I don't know
enough about Finland to make fun of them
but I love all of them except for Irish
and English people it's true that that
curse it up those cursed Islands get
them out of here Hey
become Americans or shut up stop talking
like you know there was a Tory dude the
Brit guy who said the solution to brags
that is make the UK the 51st state
yes what are you guys thinking come on I
mean it's not like ok so it's not as it
is ridiculous and just absurd absurd and
shows how stupid this like what a
repulsive project this is that we made
Hawaii is they yeah just like a this is
ours now again a part of it it's so far
away and really you couldn't say that
it's like more ridiculous to make the UK
smell like do it especially since we're
playing NFL football there on a regular
basis now that's like the closest thing
to just declaring something at colony
but they don't really have anything that
I want we already have Morrissey his
opinions have only gotten better she's
moved here they don't there's nothing I
want from those people what are we what
if we do the deal and we get the NHS and
they get all they get the refills on the
sodas which they've got it come on if
you if you told them how many Barrett
how much soda you get and you come to an
American restaurant they would be like
oh my god they were there minds would be
blown I feel like breaks it could have
been avoided if you just like it was
like a wag the dog war over soda for the
people look if you just got those people
really mad about soda yeah I mean they
clearly I mean when you consider the
things that they did get mad out like
colors of passports and [ __ ] yeah soda
would have been the easy fix for a
second because they they are about it's
mental to an election probably is mental
may they prorogue in the Queen's
prorogue into bleedin Parliament in she
uh as here's what I understand from
reading a child's explainer on the
Guardian dot cou a that Boris Johnson
new Prime Minister who's not elected
okay the people
the UK Parliament for five six weeks or
so yeah the Queen said yes and by the
time they said [ __ ] it let's do it be
legend by the time they come back it
would be nine days before October 31st
which is the deadline for breakfast yep
where it has to happen unless something
else happens yes and they ping down the
corrode a million times but Boris
Johnson and the EU have both made very
strong animations that that is over
they're gonna just go for it
yes and Boris Johnson said when he was
running for the conservative leadership
that yeah I'll do a No Deal yeah what
the hell to pander to the lunatics yeah
and I think it's gonna be cool it would
be an utter disaster especially because
they've not figured out the Irish border
issue no we're right now if you are in
Northern Ireland and in the northern
part of Ireland you can just cross that
border it's easy you not to go through
any customs checks or anything like that
even though I believe the UK is not in
the the shenzhen zone and that is one of
the key provisions of the Good Friday
Agreement yes was demilitarizing that
border right which would in a no deal
situation be one situation what happens
is November 1st it's again we'll keep
going back to this because our
imaginations are very limited it's that
[ __ ] Simpsons joke where the Russians
say we're back and the [ __ ] wall comes
up yeah and I'm sure that all of the
Irish Republicans in Northern Ireland
will take that very well there'll be no
problem with that whatsoever there are
so all of the opposition parties and the
conservative they have a minority
government that's propped up by a
handful of DUP Northern Irish psychos
yes all of the Amin certain parties are
united against a No Deal brexit the
majority of people don't want to know
the old brac said and there weren't
enough conservative rebels opposed to a
No Deal brac said to tear the whole
thing down but it all comes on to what
jazz does well I mean he can't do it
alone though right because lately he's
in an impossible position right because
word is that Boris Johnson is totally
fine with calling an election because
way that that election time frame works
is they call election Parliament is
prorogued for an election yeah that just
runs out the clock anyway and ends up in
a [ __ ] dough deal brexit irrespective
of what happens in the election so what
really has to happen right now is a
parliamentary majority has to force him
to either not pro-roh Parliament or not
do a No Deal brexit like force em to
demand a to request another extension
but that would require a real rebellion
among at least a few conservative party
members a publicly said like yes no we
cannot have a dough deal brexit this
will be an unmitigated [ __ ] disaster
well we'll see because right now it
makes me think these people are about as
useful is never Trump Republicans and
well you would say that but they also
[ __ ] shot that remember that [ __ ]
week when Theresa May tried to pass her
[ __ ] package and it just failed over
and over again that's why in Jeb that's
why Johnson is is like [ __ ] let's do
no deal because the lesson of threesome
a is tenure was there is no deal that
can pass yes correct yes oh and you just
wait for the clock to run and it goes
you the deal is done by time you don't
have to [ __ ] pass anything and then
it just happens boom the other problem
is you go to an election and the polls
have gone haywire because all the remain
people are supporting the Lib Dems now
of course and all of the exit people are
supporting Nigel Farage's new party the
what's a call it's called the pregs of
party the brakes of party oh very very
easy to remember but the BRICS is recent
in recent days a brexit parties poll
numbers have gone down because Boris
Johnson [ __ ] who says like I'll do a
no deal breaks it [ __ ] I uh let's
have a LARP because now he's the prime
minister well that was always the
conflict I mean the only reason this
happened in the first place is because
David Cameron had this insurgent anti-eu
chunk of his electorate that he was
worried was gonna go to you Kip and so I
said we'll give you a referendum so you
stop barking about it and then against
everyone's expectations it won and
they've been dealing with the [ __ ]
backwash of that ever since and yeah the
only way that you can keep the
conservative coalition together is by
saying you're gonna do Briggs it even
though Briggs it could bring the
troubles back its basically yeah it's
there early unprepared for a No Deal
bright no deal bruh he is like an actual
disaster it means all their ports are
[ __ ] stopped up for months it means
their economy crashes it means people
can't get in or out of the [ __ ]
country because they don't not have any
kind of [ __ ] guidance or how customs
and border control works it's gonna be
lit what a shitty country I mean they in
a second there are there they those guys
in us we're really killing it I think
honestly in always like Foursquare
across the board were ripping [ __ ] up
and I'm very proud of all of us the
Anglosphere doing great honestly I would
I would like Australia to may be like up
their game a little bit I mean they're
lame obviously and very dorky they've
got that guy Scott Morrison but you know
they need to do something you know like
give kangaroos the right to vote or just
go crazy
I mean Australia's killer because
there's like there's really like no
nobody you can vote for in Australia no
it's me who's like yeah I don't think
like I don't think we should literally
suicide our content and it's like kind
of like a combo deal to the way that the
Liberals treat Trump voters in the
middle of America is I don't understand
what that base of brexit voters are
really saying or what they want is it
just racism or anything like that
because they've got a prime minister who
is Turkish ancestry well I mean it's I
mean it's a bit of far away I mean it's
not like he wears a fez that would be
cool um there'd be the coolest thing
he's ever done we should all wear Fez
no I mean it's like it's the breakdown
it's the breakdown of late capitalist
democracy it's just it there are
contradictions that are no longer can be
papered over and it's causing the whole
system to just meltdown what about the
millions of [ __ ] Pro brexit voters
who do not live in the UK and are just
like
fat whale sunning themselves on the
beaches of Spain well yeah there are
there yeah there are of our dumb pig
exactly there are villages by boat yeah
our village is people in our boat
dealers and our you know petty bourgeois
they're also fast if this goes in the
deal [ __ ] our tower [ __ ] everyone who
votes for Trump and for and for
continuing fossil fuel extraction is
[ __ ] in any meaningful sense in the
very near term there's a category 5
hurricane the 4th and for 3 years coming
to hit the United States obviously we're
cutting our own throats but nobody gives
a [ __ ] because none of this stuff is
connected and then he was mine their
proper ating out of pure spite and pure
like all they know is who they don't
like and they want to make them unhappy
and that's what they're operating I mean
you know we were in London a few months
ago and yes it was not a functioning
society and yes it's something that has
to be destroyed absolutely 100 they're
doing it they're doing a great job I'm
proud of them let's make it happen folks
let's get that uh let's get that V for
Vendetta move going on let's do it
let's get John Hurt out of there let's
get the guy with a hat or the mask yeah
anonymous yeah the cool guy for chance
gonna be President the UK so sick
so anyway right now probably in election
don't be fun I mean that would be fun I
mean I'm it'll who knows now it like
everything's so [ __ ] by this brexit
[ __ ] and by this rambling I already
[ __ ] deck and and yeah it's like you
know the the the the Corbin idea is
always you know the the strong platform
the strong left nobody wanted to deal
with this less than Jeremy [ __ ] yeah
exactly it's it's now he's caught in
this [ __ ] he's a human tangled in
this it's a huge distraction there's no
way to talk about those kind of issues
when regs it's the only thing you know
we're talking about yeah fundamental
issues in I I saw there was a headline
[ __ ] headline story in The Financial
Times saying that Corbin wants to cease
300 billion dollars worth of stock from
major British corporations of
redistribute that to the workers yeah
amazing
phenomenal phenomenal wonderful great
great that's what should have that's
what an election should be [ __ ] fought
over right and said he's gonna be
tangled up in this [ __ ]
yeah well that's it's great it's it's
like as the system collapses it throws
off these these like short-term crises
and and and contradictions and riddles
to try to unpack and it leaves you
unable to make any kind of broader
longer-term plans or appeals you're
under billion pounds yeah it's good it's
great we'd love to see it so I mentioned
hurricane durian currently barreling
towards the East Coast United States
having just laid waste to the Bahamas a
category 5 one of the most powerful
hurricanes ever seen not just in the
Atlantic but ever in recorded
meteorological history but there is
actually something even more dangerous
heading slowly but steadily towards
America's Shores
and I of course I'm referring to the
joker movie this is I mean okay chill
one
the only like this is we just talked
about how jeremy corbyn's left platform
it's offset by this unforeseen social
catastrophe possible end times event of
greg said this is good Darrell Bernie's
campaign because everyone's gonna have
to deal with this yeah that's gonna be
truck no one's gonna want to talk about
medicare-for-all or [ __ ] green new
deal it's gonna be what are you going to
do about the Joker every question at the
debates in the fall is going to be what
are your plans for the Clown Prince of
Crime okay now now someone has made a
film about the Joker agile aiding him I
get like not critic lungs misbehavior we
are we're used to seeing that the Joker
in films of course and in comic books as
they cared that we all despise exactly
as he commits crime he is the dastardly
villain yes very big antagonist areare
their protagonist Batman this film for
the first time will feature the Joker as
the protagonist be glad antagonist is a
Latin word that means the good guy
yeah and it means that the movie
endorses all of his actions exactly
millions of impression Americans are
going to go to the theater and they're
gonna come out thinking the crime is
something to laugh about
yeah I mean like we
we were talking about how this could
offset Bernie's campaign Jake Tapper is
an impressionable young 38 year old what
if he go to debate one night he's
dressed up like the Joker and he's
committing crimes there
Bernie's too old to stop him Joe Biden
baseball player in his youth could maybe
try to throw a fastball at him the
Joker's too fast no one could stop him
Kamala Harris yeah Batman that's right
here's a crime fighter ya know so if you
if you've been paying attention which
you shouldn't be you should not be
paying it the Joker premiered at the
Venice Film Festival this last week and
the film was met by a number of
responses that's gotten some good
reviews it's gotten some bad reviews but
a thing that goes through all of the
reviews is a concern that this film is
dangerous that our young men
specifically are young frustrated sort
of insel you might say involuntarily
celibate men might see this film and
take the Joker as some sort of hero
figure and decide to do crimes in honor
of him and honestly there's a real
debate happening now about whether this
is something that we can allow to happen
in this country allows what do you what
do you what do you mean me I don't
really get a vote on whether films are
released well not I didn't think anybody
did yeah I don't that's not something I
mean I think like I I've been getting
mad at a lot of these posts but I really
don't think it's like emblematic of
anything beyond like a couple thousand
like dumb shits on Twitter and like you
know yeah the new type of journalists
that got a computer in 2012 and it's
like Donnie an expert on that
conversation whatever it's I mean it's
really just like now to write an article
or to make a post you have to have some
type of moral invectives against
whatever it is you're talking about or
for it everything every because we're
you're so divorced from power or
anything happening or you feel possibly
your own destiny even though that might
not actually be the case every dumb
thing that happens the world is just
either a
it's a just a do gravest moral test or
it's the possible apocalyptic event yeah
so I really just like part of it is just
like the business model for media which
is like hey dumbass write an article
that everyone hates so we may you know
we make like a few coupons on a dress
but nobody even clicks it we just all
look at the headline oh that's super
yeah I hope someone puts this headline
next to another headline and says normal
world yeah
nods head but also it's just like you
like no one can really just like I
shouldn't say no one I'm doing the same
thing I'm criticizing but like for a lot
of people they can't just you know
what's what's like a good day of posting
for you you post about your lunch you're
like you know what a would have a
[ __ ] bird wore flip-flops you know
whatever yo whatever the price is right
but like a porn star [ __ ] all the
contestants I find a very unusual animal
that nobody else has found before and
then I quote tweeted yeah I say that's
me yeah for me like my ideal day of
posting is like yeah I talked about my
lunch I like to reply to some like a
posted a video game companies making - I
don't know I'm mad at one of developers
or something I say something completely
just wrong and inflammatory just it's
factually incorrect to get people to
yell at me and it never works hmm you
know this is something for example like
you know Tyler Perry is a better
director than Steven Spielberg ever has
been that's a good day for me I can you
know dust off my hands we did it good
day at the post
I had fun you had fun everyone had fun
yeah but you know for some people it's
just like well hey this is like my only
outlet I feel like this is the only
place I can you know be me but it can't
just be fun it has to have I feel so
divorced from any power or any events
every event that happens seems like it
just happens to me I have no say in it
like you know maybe I have to raise them
sort of like moral invective against
thing that will just kind of be
inconsequential I'm sure will be a good
movie but I don't think it's out of that
tank of just the fantasy that Oh
ie have moral righteousness and I will
say something and people will flock to
me about it and that that will thereby
create change well yeah no I don't think
anyone believes it will create change no
a lot of people believe that is the
problem I mean I don't know how else to
process it like when these people say
like we need to stop valorising this
character yeah it's like first of all
who's we
second of all how what would that mean
like your tweet what is that going to
start is it is in your mind someone's
gonna read that tweet and it's gonna
start an avalanche of people like every
there's every waning to them don't
idolize the Joker every nobody will stop
where is the mental fantasy and that's
the the the what how social media
deludes you is everyone has that fantasy
that yes I will give the truth and just
by giving the truth millions of people
will rally to my side and that will
create some kind of power that overturns
the current situation that we're in I
mean it's the only explanation because
otherwise I mean if you're an if you
don't have in some dim recesses of your
mind a belief that that's gonna happen
then what the [ __ ] are you doing other
than I hate to use the phrase virtue
signaling no I saying I don't I want
everyone to know that I don't like the
Joker and his evil schemes and his
insell friendly backstory or whatever
the [ __ ] I don't know I'd I'd kind of
disagree with that I think like in
general like posts are in the possible
worst state they've ever been because
like go on there and it's it's dog [ __ ]
it's just dog [ __ ] everything makes you
feel bad everything everything is just
like the immediate most emotional
reaction you can have to any input it's
any talk about like you know climate
change it doesn't go to like well you
know well what what can we do how can we
mitigate these actions going forward how
can we reduce casualties as much as
possible you know
if got if we don't invent something and
it just goes to like arguing against
this person who doesn't exist
who's like you have to you have to be a
vegan or I'll kill you guess what
[ __ ] I'm not or getting mad at
that person or just the thing I hate the
most is just like someone who lives in
the middle of America going we're all
gonna die so [ __ ] it no you're not we
all have to live through this you all
have to live through the rest of your
[ __ ] lives there's no out but all of
it just makes people feel like [ __ ]
because it's just the same people saying
the same [ __ ] to each other all the
[ __ ] time it is just like a
communicable illness it just makes you
angry and shitty all the time kind of
like what they say the joke remove there
but at the same time I don't think I I
don't I think that like there is a sense
among people who like you know just
posing moral and effective against
movies that they are do it there's a
small sense that they are doing
something but it also like if you just
all you do is you're on there and you're
just yeah receiving and giving the same
stimuli and generally growing matter and
matter as you feel more and more
disconnected from your own life due to
events outside of posting it does feel
good to like try to rally some
indignation or maybe try to tell people
what they should do I don't I don't
think it's a hazard I don't think I I'm
not like all like briefly get mad at a
shitty post but I'll go on with my day
but it is like sad to see it is sad to
see it's I I wouldn't call it a hazard
either but you know when the in the
early days of the internet theoretician
said that this would be a democratizing
tool that this would fundamentally
change our politics and change the world
by giving every single person a voice in
a digital forum we all know that that's
[ __ ] what the Internet has actually
done what social media has done is just
replicate the same power structures that
have existed right and all the fantasies
about the internet like bypassing
censorship well censorship really isn't
the problem anymore it's the daily
of information there's just so much to
process you don't know what the process
you consume and react to everything
you're exhausted before you've even done
anything
you are so overpowered by the stimulus
that like how could you how could you
prioritize anything how could you
respond to anything that actually feels
powerful you're just it just did it's
millions of people just being like this
isn't it to each other feels like [ __ ]
and it feels like [ __ ] for everybody and
I feel like one of the reasons that
something like a movie like the Joker
and it's up galvanizing everybody to get
some sort of taken and and decide you
know what all those Bob Dole
reactionaries in the 90s talked about
violence and movie is in video games
cause violence they were right like on
Bob Dole those guys were actually
correct I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
backtrack I'm not gonna like say wait a
minute what does it mean that I now am
endorsing this old like right-wing you
know moral majority position now I'm
just gonna barrel ahead no Frank [ __ ]
Frank Zappa Yeah right but I think the
reason that that there's the power
desire to do that is one because of the
deluge that Felix is talking about
whenever there's one thing that happens
like say a joker trailer that everyone
sees then you feel that moment if I can
get something in now because everyone's
talking about this instead of just the
dissipated the dispersed ideas and the
other show so every single Nazi all
right person believes that politics is
downstream from culture yeah that was
your Breitbart while he was jacking off
in the toilet yes died on yes I repeat
all our AP and the real horseshoe theory
is that liberals also believe that yes
completely 100% and in the early 90s
when do the right thing came out which
is a masterpiece that everyone should
watch and that is very very alert he
does the right thing there were liberals
writing white liberals writing in the
organs of white liberalism saying and
Spike Lee has has commented on this
saying that I'm afraid that this movie
by showing african-americans rioting
after a police killing will inspire
riots that black people cannot watch a
movie without being turned into doing
that sort of thing yeah and it was
racist it was offensive and why would he
ever [ __ ] paid any price for [ __ ]
saying something so disgusting as that
the current arguments about the Joker
are doing exactly the same yeah because
it's the same deal of yet you have you
have an you inhabited a world they're
trying to make sense of we're over Trump
one where they cannot use any material
explanation like there can be no
material explanation for why Trump won
so therefore it has to be culture right
therefore we have to like look through
the chicken entrails of popular culture
and media to find exactly what led Trump
to win and the the dark Joker that's a
good that's a good example then you get
to input motives on to this group of
people you do not understand the in
cells and who you're afraid of and
assume things about them the same way
you would about any other group that is
is different than you and who you Harbor
anxiety about its I mean I don't want to
say it's like totally the same because I
don't think like I don't think like fear
of in cells is widespread and
consequential as like you know white
Uppercross fear of black people but like
the entire like this idea that like it's
the movie that would do it and not just
like complete social alienation and like
low societal loneliness which just is
completely unaddressed completely no one
gives a [ __ ] about it no one [ __ ]
cares yeah and I have no answer for it
right they do have an answer for what
the Joker
Hector people into trying to convince
everyone else not to see it which of
course and this is the real depressing
thing about this is no matter what
people's motivations are for talking
about the Joker
all it ends up doing is being free
advertising for this movie that now is
just too dangerous for the American yeah
hey we've been suckered into it spent
the past 15 is excited about it though I
love walk you I love Joaquin Phoenix he
owns well we got a what we oughta watch
this I mean we're absolutely gonna do it
on the show too like we haven't done
this we haven't done one since Aquaman
but we will absolutely do it one of the
[ __ ] bujji [ __ ] theater as we do
yes that I want to say this I hate going
to those [ __ ] [ __ ] Alamo
Drafthouse [ __ ] theaters with the
shitty food and all the crowd all the
little rules it's like there's someone's
talking during your [ __ ] thing you
hold up a slip it's a red slip and that
lets someone know to come by and someone
on your behalf I [ __ ] hate all that
[ __ ] it's terrible my ideal is a movie
theater it's a normal movie theater but
you can drink that's it period end of
sentence I don't eat food you just drink
you can't do that in a normal theater
yeah just bring it in
no they [ __ ] search you they do not
search yes they do I look like they
ain't here in New York City yes down yet
don't think [ __ ] do you're bad at
bringing it in I brought booze in the
theaters in New York City where yeah how
you never heard of a flask okay no I
want to drink a six-pack okay yeah that
might be harder I don't wanna nip from a
[ __ ] flash or a Joel I want a drink a
good six-pack while I watch it canto V I
have an idea for you so you do is you
get a police uniform say you have to
bring the beers into the theater as part
of an investigation figure out what the
investment patriot day they literally
[ __ ] searched us well they I wonder
why on page today when I was there
in the black room they combined the two
tsarnaev brothers man these are all his
father scientists that made him know
it's a really simple idea okay you guys
have a normal movie theater know these
[ __ ] like little tables a little
[ __ ] and there's waiters and crap
going around you'll sit like a normal
theory in popcorn you eat like candy but
you also have beer that's it period end
a sentence I will take you to Shark Tank
with that
no but yeah God we're all gonna see the
Joker everyone's gonna see the Joker can
because all this talk about the Joker
joke means that no matter what you think
you have to see it to be part of the
conversation that's gonna happen when
the movie comes out you have to have a
take so everyone's gonna have to see it
even if you think you're gonna [ __ ]
showing your hand to be like oh this is
dangerous and scary like oh so you're
just saying what you're gonna be scared
by you know idiot well yeah yeah what if
a ghost sees that you dumbass but I
actually realized that so people have
talked for a while about the sort of
calculated outrage that that movie
studios have teased to get people mad
about like Lady Ghostbusters or the Star
Wars movies trying to point out oh my
God look at all these awful bros who
hate this progressive film don't you
want to stick it to them by going to see
it it feels like this is a mirror image
of that it feels like it's the exact
same thing of saying oh this movie it's
it's gonna be loved by it's all these
folk weepy soy people are crying about
it doesn't that make you want to see it
and own them what's it the bane movies
supposed to be this the Occupy we having
Batman movie yeah well the thing is is
that all these movies and this was so
frustrating when people try to turn
superhero movies into the basis of their
politics is that all severa movies have
absolutely incoherent politics because
the people making them are mostly
dumbasses are like weird Tory freaks
like Christopher Nolan and the whole
concept of a superhero is antithetical
comment to politics in the first place
because politics is about collective
decision-making and superhero comics are
about one person with
transcended physical powers that can
just dictate things that there will
which is the opposite of politics or in
this case persuasive powers yet the
fantasy that I'll just go on television
I'll just like hack all the feeds and
I'll tell people the truth they'll all
rally to my side that's the coolest
thing in movies someone gets on TVs like
corporations care about money
cool yeah and the Joker is gonna do that
and then the revolutions gonna happen
Matt what's the second thing we're going
on all right so this is my last thing to
say and everyone listening to this is
most likely already gone over this a
million times but I have to talk about
it because it is we have to so you guys
have not talked of now this side now we
did we skipped it because it happened
before we were doing the JFK episode and
we wanted to make that all right there
was a lot of people listen this show who
are not online and for some reason they
was in this show and it god bless them
all right well I will run all through
the whole thing and honestly I don't
even know if I have anything to say
about other than I'm in awe but we're
gonna do a reading so this yes at the
very end
this is the most amazing thing that any
op-ed writer has ever done because we've
talked about that's been our bread and
butter for three years now making fun of
the the constant idiocy of the pundit
class elite opinion elite opinion
holders and how efficient self-centered
and absolutely pighead are there no one
in all of our time talking about these
guys including things like the rod
Dreier's Exorcism live tweeting have
come close to the sheer insane
self-absorbed
oblivious mania of this man now we've
talked about him a number of times on
the show New York Times op-ed writer
Bret Stevens we all know him we all of
them this [ __ ] last week he was
on Twitter name searching himself like
you do and he'd be like we do like we
all do and he found a tweet by a low B
professor that called him a bedbug in a
joking fashion
had 9 faves and zero retweets first off
are you okay in response to this breath
stevens emailed the professor and CC to
his boss at the university he teaches to
tell him how he did not feel like it's a
professional or or virtuoso you have
that email yeah let me find it dear dr.
Karp someone just pointed out a tweet
you wrote about me calling me a bedbug
someone just pointed it out there is no
[ __ ] way that some random person
found this zero retweet he [ __ ] found
it liar so like minutes after was
tweeted yeah I'm often amazed about the
thing supposedly decent people are
prepared to say about other people
people they've never met on Twitter I'm
always surprised about how people can be
fake people
I think you've set a standard I would
welcome the opportunity for you to come
to my home meet my wife and kids talk to
us for a few months and then it's
probably a bedbug to my face that would
take some genuine courage and
intellectual integrity on your part
how would it take intellectual integrity
yeah I promise to be courteous no matter
what you have to say maybe it will make
you feel better about yourself please
consider the sustaining invitation you
are more than welcome to bring your
significant other cordially Bret Stevens
why wanna go I want to do it
yes I one should all go together as a
show to Brad Stevens house he should
make us Dindin no he's gonna do fondue
well what we'll we'll dip the bread into
the boiling cheese and call him a
bedbugs I hate talking about him usually
because he's very dull Oh terrible
writer boring or a [ __ ]
oh you have any interesting opinion like
none of his opinions are freakish enough
to be funny like Ross to Todd he's one
of those guys who [ __ ] uh quit
Twitter and wrote a [ __ ] article
about quitting Twitter and then guess
what didn't do it now we like [ __ ]
name surges and [ __ ]
and he said he quit again he'll be back
but this is like the coolest are we
gonna we're gonna get into his article
we're gonna do the whole thing let's do
it but no I would just want to say so
that's the first thing is that a guy
he's named searches a guy who calls him
he narcs on his boss and invites him to
[ __ ] his wife in front of him while
calling him a bedbug yeah
again we Chapel Trap House offer to do
absolutely we will seduce your wife Brad
we will I do like the email was very
like he wanted to be Dom yeah it's like
I am amazed by how you people act I
invite you to you know maybe bring your
wife to my house make her fifty feet
tall and squish me like a bug I okay you
really you really want to say that to me
I want you to tie me up
roast me like a turkey and eat me for
dinner so he not only tries to get this
guy fired he claimed later that he
wasn't trying to get him fired but why
would he said I wanted his boss to know
what his employee was doing was why what
for what reason was turning in fire only
to get fired so he offers to have a
weird swinger fondue party with this guy
and also get him fired which again I
want to be invited to obviously he goes
on TV to defend himself lies out his ass
about how he wasn't trying to get the
guy fired and it was a hugely on TV he
did and that's where he claimed well yes
he was interviewed and he said I wasn't
trying to get him fired we're I'm s I'm
busy like it was one of the morning
shows and he's like I wasn't trying to
get him fired I just I think was MSNBC I
wasn't trying to fired
I just thought his boss should know what
is going on the kind of horrible hate
speech that's going on so of course
everyone made fun of him we all had a
good laugh and if that was the end of it
would still be like maybe a top five
moment in op/ed insanity I mean this guy
who it's been pointed out a million
times spent his career you know calling
Palestinians mosquitos and and using
every bit of language in his arsenal to
demean anybody who he considers lesser
all the sudden and his talked a million
times about the how the necessity for
being able to have your feelings hurt
and how there's no safe spaces and
everybody needs to sack up and all these
college students
right and now he's doing this obviously
everyone knows this hilarious and if
that had been it it would've been
amazing that song but then the
[ __ ] topped himself instead of
just trying to let it go even though it
bled the President of the United States
to tweet about him the president said
after this happened he quote the
infestation of bedbugs at the New York
Times office at oann was perhaps brought
in by lightweight journalist Bret
Stevens a conservative who does anything
that his bosses at the paper tell him to
do he is now quitting Twitter after
being called a bedbug tough guy so he
went from a guy with thousand followers
doing a nine fave tweet calling him a
bedbug within a three days the President
of the United States calling him a
[ __ ] bedbug it trended for like two
days and then he finally actually
debated his account and for the last
time
we're like give him three weeks he'll be
back I guarantee you know he's back in
he's that's the only good argument for
posting online is it can cause the
president to do something like that now
this is already like I said a top tier
own cell phone one of the greatest cell
phones ever but then instead of just
letting it die down because you can't
you can do anything you have no
supervision
you have no oversight if you're on the
op-ed page it's a license to kill you
could write about anything you'd write
about his Rose Garden
you could write he could go back to
writing about safe spaces without a hint
of self-awareness instead this
[ __ ] on Thursday dropped this
op-ed it's a nuke this is the Tsar Bomba
of op-ed oh absolutely this is the this
could crack the earth and half by the
way just a heads up if you're a Souls
burger
and you want us to stop making fun of
your shitty [ __ ] op-ed writers hire
me as an op-ed writer because I would be
that Dave berry with the New York Times
op-ed page I would just write pleasant
humor pieces about like just the
day-to-day things that are just but the
problem there is that no one's gonna
share that in anger on Twitter and
that's the entire op Edie
business model now and that's why I
gotta say we've talked about how bad
breath Stephens this is a writer and how
pointless his [ __ ] is he is able to do
stuff like this
he'll always have a job nevertheless
people nevertheless my offer stands if
you want someone to talk about how you
know soaps just aren't as good as they
used to be if you want someone that will
ask his friends to dress up like
spider-man and take pictures of them and
say that it's spider-man's real now I
will do that job if you want sort of
just hang out in the newsroom and give
people encouragement I'll probably do
that later yeah if you want someone to
abuse the journalists I will do that I'm
really good at doing journalism so
instead of just letting it go by over
the transom on Thursday Bret Stevens a
man who from all of this we have to
pursue Mies has never been criticized by
anyone in his life to his face and has
never read criticism of him until last
year wrote this world war two and the
ingredients of this is I ate this is the
most I've ever liked him because there's
like this is the like possibly the worst
reaction you up to anything
what's a once again you know before you
read that should be noted is a [ __ ]
climate change denier who believes that
Palestinians are a type of bug people
and that we should and that war with
Iran is inevitable and righteous like a
wretched war theology there's absolutely
nothing of value in his writing and then
the subhead the spirit of certitude that
dominated the politics of the 1930s is
not so distant from us today
this own there we go World War two began
80 years ago this Sunday after Nazi
Germany and the Soviet Union signed a
non-aggression pact that was in fact a
mutual aggression pact not
I don't yeah they it was called the
non-aggression pact idiot look it up
Adolf Hitler invaded Poland on September
1st 1939 Russia's invasion of Poland no
less murderous followed two weeks later
gonna need a site on that one
ouchy wits and whatnot you might want to
look that up on November 3rd of that
year Joseph Goebbels the propaganda
minister gave Hitler a report of his
trip to Poland quote above all my
description of the Jewish problem gets
Hitler's full approval he wrote in his
diary the Jew is a waste product it is a
clinical issue more than a social one
for several years many commentators
including me have written about the
parallels between the pre-war era in the
present there's the rise of dictatorial
regimes intent on avenging past
geopolitical humiliations and redrawing
borders Germany Italy Japan and Russia
then China Iran and Russia now of course
a lot to throw Iran in there you hit
bonus bread that is the unwillingness of
status quo powers to coordinate their
actions confront dictatorships stamp out
regional Wars and rise to global
challenges the League of Nations then
the g7 now when will you new Qatar on
you cowards
there is the upsurge of nativist rancor
protectionist barriers in every nation
for itself policies along with the deep
doubts about the viability of liberal
democracy and the international order
father Coughlin in America first errs
then Donald Trump in America first errs
now all that plus three crucial factors
new forms of mass communication the
rhetoric of dehumanization and the
politics of absolute good versus
absolute evil the relatively yeah what
does that mean it means that people they
weren't nuanced you know the way that
Brett is about Palestine and the blue
line Bush Republican but like yeah you
know that the famous nuance that went
into the invasion of Iraq that we all
know and love so he start he's talked
about radio he basically says that radio
is like the Twitter of the 1930s radio
then like Twitter today was the
technology of the it'd a channel that
could concentrate political fury at a
time when there was plenty to go around
it was also a time when ideology
dictated that fury be directed at entire
classes of people the decade began with
Soviet propaganda cheering Stalin's and
I announcement of the lick
of the kulaks as a class a reference to
millions of Ukrainian peasants who dive
for starvation in the holiday uh that's
not really needed yeah that that's
absolutely not in any way a historical
consensus here we go the political
mindset that turned human beings into
categories classes and races also turned
them into rodents insects and garbage
wait a minute wait are you saying like
any sort of thing that attempts to sort
people based on yeah their classes on
the yeah means a pretty noted noting
that there's a class like there's two
different classes and they have
different relationships to means the
production and some are exploited by
others that's I kind of tell you dude
that's basically Nazism I hate I hate
blood you know anti-semitism is exactly
the same as delao Singh Heinrich Himmler
would claim in 1943 getting rid of lice
is not a matter of ideology it is a
matter of cleanliness watching warsaw
jewish ghetto burn that year a polish
anti-semite was overheard saying the
bedbugs are on fire the Germans are
doing a great job the bedbugs are on
fire where did that term anyway remember
that word was why would he what that
seems random that would be in there
someone look that up yeah well the thing
is there's a high link all right this is
this is the this is the topper if
toppers there's a hyperlink in that
quote and it leads you to a Google Books
search for a this is so this is so top
tier this is the most amazing thing that
anyone has ever done ok links to this
search it's a book about the Jew Jews in
Poland during World War two
and it's like it's called a secret city
the hidden Jews of Warsaw 1940-1945 and
what was not removed from the link was
the search that was because you go into
Google Books you put a search for words
and then it'll give you returns in the
text and someone presumably Bret Stevens
wrote in the Box Jews as bedbugs
[Laughter]
he went into google book search and is
typed in Jews bedbugs
yes and then he just picked the first
result yes only result died happily
the oh man
put it in its [ __ ] article say this
is anti-semitic also in the in the book
there like this also may have literally
been just been about bad bug yes yes
science does not even claim that the
quote had anything to do with Jews it
might well evil event about bedbugs is
just no one has ever approached this in
the history of op-ed writing this is a
week of posting and writing that will
never be topped in my blog to say that
as a scholar of people being mad online
this is a new strain of being mad online
the aggressive Google search to try to
prove that that the what you're mad
about is actual racism and other people
should care about it and that he is
basically a outwits get au jus feely for
being called a bedbug by I never knew
what you have to do I know yeah no I
mean well don't you know I just catch
the collateral strays off it it's really
Adam is the biggest victim of all time
that's true I mean I got it now I every
time I know that you you're on Twitter
you're on you know you're on twitch and
you're playing fortnight and when you
get called like your CS now when you get
called like a turbo homo by some
fourteen-year-old now I know that that's
essentially just that's like what a
three-year-old headshots you would for
buddy feel like I wish there was
localized chat for tonight to just send
somebody like a google book search for
like ojou is try hard let's see that
trope in history sending them oh you say
that I'm a but once I'm Michael clip
like I killed this guy this twitch
streamer and he went clearly hacking
yeah and it would be cool to like look
for you no evidence of gurbles yeah
accusing the Jews of half the Jews have
clearly hacked the Western economy yeah
yeah Hitler Hitler a Nuremberg claimed
that the Jews are posting craner's
throughout Europe I no one's ever tried
this no
and it's also like this is the least
boring thing bread has ever done oh
absolutely no he is even when he's
annoying he's boring yeah this is the
first time that he has injected his just
oatmeal slop with any real personality
and vigor and it is just the personality
of an insanely thin-skinned little
Fauntleroy a little Francis Buckton
buckston fancy lad because remember he
grew up the child of a [ __ ] oil CEO
in Mexico City with like a squadron of
maids to powder his bottom and that's
literally like Buchenwald yeah and has
never faced any kind of critical in
interdiction his entire life because he
went straight from college to the he was
the [ __ ] to editor of The Jerusalem
Post he's 25 years old and went to the
Washington Post and straight to the near
camp just us just a softest life anyone
in history has ever lived never
encountered a single critical
interdiction into their just soft
brained mundane reactionary horseshit I
admire it because I would like to have a
soft life and not have to interact with
any sort of negative criticism ever
yeah and he's he's mostly conditioned
he's mostly made that happen but then
because no I actually agree with him
because any time anyone ever contradicts
any of us or says something vaguely mean
to us that's harassment and I report
them to Jack and they get Ben no I would
I would like to you know have an easy
life like him unfortunately when anyone
criticizes me I will name search the
post and I will SWAT the offending
person but that's a lot of work and I
it's maybe legal I don't know but my
favorite thing about this is that you
know Bret always gets you angry because
she's like this guy has this absolute he
has one of the most valuable pieces of
real estate in in media and he uses it
for just drivel and boring horseshit
he's only there because the New York
Times and I felt they needed another
conservative after Trump won but they're
too much of a bunch of [ __ ] weak
bladdered Nancy's to post to put in an
actual Trump supporter what if you don't
need conservatives actually if you say
if literally there is literally no
conservatives anything to add to any
conversation ever I mean I would like to
see just like a queue guy
they're just for the fun we're in a real
ya get yes like an actual million
Republic you're actually getting an
insight into the thoughts of real voters
and that's interesting that would be
helpful yes get rid of get rid of bread
get rid of whatever other Rask [ __ ]
face you conservatives who like
represent there's a hundred people max
and like get someone in like you know
hashtag Magga
hashtag this destroy Michael Flint son
perfect oh god Michael Flynn jr. would
be amazing I saw a guy on tik-tok who
was wearing a huge round man wearing an
ill-fitting Trump t-shirt and he was
dancing in front of like a CGI image of
a fire and it said on the screen said
when I hear the Amazon is burning and he
had a gas can and he was pouring it on
to the fire and dancing and throwing his
hands up in the air give him that
[ __ ] spot you actually won
ideological balance yes if you really
want to be the paper a record that
represents the majority of people that's
what you need but the thing is is that
so
I was always knowing and I always got
mad at Brett but now I will always
cherish the fact that as much as he is
in the catbird seat in media got the
best job in in in pundit Rhee
it still tortures him and he hates it
and he's miserable because he has to
deal with criticism which he cannot hand
but let's cut the [ __ ] I think we solved
this one day Bret Stevens let take us to
your apartment make us Dindin yeah we'll
come there you'll have a nice meal and
we'll scream at you to your face yes
we're not gonna be violent we're not
gonna be mean no we're not even gonna
raise our voices tell you whatever you
like very calm even voices tell you what
a piece of [ __ ] you are and we will
twitch stream it the other thing is he's
either tortured or he loves it needs a
little pain piggy and then that makes me
even more mad I don't think he's a
painter which makes me want to yell at
him more which he would only love more I
don't think he's a pain piggy I think
he's just like he's just like dude
doesn't know how to respond to this
which is shocking to me but I guess like
if you look at
being the editor of The Jerusalem Post
the opinions you publish are just like
dear freight like it like the you have
their little like dot matrix printer
outs like you having the Wall Street
Journal but it's just two men with
really low hairline pictures yeah it's
simple pictures like staring at each
other
and the entire call they have a debate
column and adjust them shoving each
other boys at a restaurant called pizza
buffet boys we've got on for like four
hours
yeah probably cut it yeah anyway point
is anti there are many societies in the
world a lot of them had bugs bugs that
[ __ ] was tropes friends not Bob's ropes
friends as we always intend on this show
you're Dumber now for having listened to
this absolutely yeah
like how do you how do you encounter
this this this week of discourse in the
paper of record the thing that's
supposed to set the standard for
America's political conversation and
come away with any thought other than we
are just hooting Gibbons screeching
towards annihilation just stabbing our
brains out with knitting meals it's just
one thing to say it's that we will never
ever ever talk to you about Hong Kong go
to hell eat [ __ ] [ __ ] off you've done
[ __ ] good bye bye
[Music]
