yeah so yesterday there was some
argument I have no idea what the context
was but it was a couple superstars of
the web heavyweights heavyweights big
ballers I was Oliver enjoy and read
MSNBC pundit arguing with our old friend
the baseball cranked our own our own yes
and to me
scanning the conversation that people
were laughing at it just read extremely
like anime dialogue and I couldn't get
it out of my head so there's something
about the cadence of these two and like
their statements to each other that
sounds like it's been translated between
two or three different languages and
then back again exactly and it was just
and it's just kind of impotent insults
going nowhere like preparing for some
big just imagine the action lines
radiating mouths and so these things it
really did seem like an anime and I
thought what if it what if it was an
anime well if it was a bloody anime I
think it would go a little something
like this
it's my nemesis joy and no one cares for
you why the baseball disguise is
superfluous this guy's I've used my own
name on the web for 17 years man
next time dispense with that you did X
for those who did no such thing
you jumped into my mentions uninvited
baseball show yourself out the same way
you came in if you don't like the
response yeah I prefer factual accuracy
so I so disengage from what you are
offering instead more than a moment how
can I miss you when I don't actually
care that you were even here
some would say tentacles this is Kurt I
can walls local journalists at large
I've heard there's a big scoop about
tentacles
it's another one of our combatants it's
into the rig oh my god he is here in
back of doubt that everything you are
doing is wrong and sinful you will not
stop me from using all of birth control
pills
I want McAdoo's out that's what you
think
prepare to be destroyed I will eat them
as numerously as the mice on the
northern winds my rap advice a
commodious prayers
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
