yeah
Seattle the Vera Project hello hello
Seattle I'm listening
so um Seattle's you know it's treating
this pretty pretty good they want to
throw roast it too hard but fantastic
scrambled eggs are amazing toss salad
best in the world
miles this is for Steve ever messed up
you said the n-word on your twitch
stream after Drake was on it
there's a Starbucks in my hotel I didn't
know they did that there are Starbucks
everywhere and actually we would like to
start out this evening by reading to you
guys from not one but two books by
Howard Schultz yeah of Starbucks about a
profit the man who saw a disgusting
stink infested fish gut riddled town and
the Puget Sound and said here I will
build my church I won't be oh the
glorious Church made of beans I'm just
inspired by Howard Schultz you know it
wasn't enough for him to invent the
beloved comic strip Peanuts or or to
appear on the hilarious sitcom Hogan's
Heroes sergeant Schultz remember him
folks
can we get the first absolute first
weeping face of the evening for that
Hogan's Heroes referee of it through a
door of that show there is the figure of
masculine order Colonel Kurtz but he's
always be told by the feminine energy of
this box of secretary Clank it's Colonel
Klink it hurts that be a way more
artistic show in the earth well in the
ma I got Lobos head on a [ __ ] steak
in front of the camp am I right folks
in the manga is Colonel curse he cannot
be stopped no no you know what people
think they can get you if you're wrong
about something but the truth is if you
know one thing you know everything and
you can connect it back to that one
thing and pretend you were talking about
that
she looks realized this after he
referred to the famous volcano in
ancient Rome is a Mount Vesuvius it
would stop most people but I said well
actually the restaurant Vesuvius
Brando's also burned down see done he
cannot be faded folks okay so this is
Howard Schultz who again someone who can
form you this in addition to being the
Starbucks guy he's also the [ __ ] that
[ __ ] up the SuperSonics right that
Oklahoma City is a big fan of this guy
and and if you go to the Wikipedia page
for 2020 potential Democratic
presidential candidate know ya know it's
a very broad list it's got a lot of
crazy names on there Mark Cuban and
stuff it's the broadest possible list
but on the list is Howard Schultz okay
he wasn't considered remember he was on
the short list for Hillary's cabinet he
would have been at least secretary of I
think labor and maybe even like commerce
her or [ __ ] Treasury well this is
interesting because in these books he
offers a fairly telling vision of the
ideology and contemporary capitalism so
I just want to dive into this one his
first book is called onward which I
think was the same slogan as the Italian
fascist party
Avante okay this is a from part one
which is titled love chapter one need a
beverage of truth yes any coffee very
tough so on Tuesday afternoon in
February 2008 Starbucks closed all of
its Us stores whoa a note posted on
71,000 locked doors explain the reason
we're taking time to perfect our
espresso great espresso requires
patience that's why our dick we're
dedicating ourselves to honing our craft
now I think we remember this because
everyone was pointing out how shitty
their coffee was there you go so
Starbucks they've won they've won so
like this whole first chapter is about
the decision decision point he made
through shutter all the Starbucks to
retrain their staff so I'd like to read
a little of this now he says pouring
espresso is an art one that requires the
barista to care about the quality of the
beverage if the barista only goes
through the motions if he or she does
not care and produces an inferior
espresso that is too weak or too bitter
then Starbucks has lost the essence of
what we set out to do 40 years ago
inspire the human spirit for context you
know Starbucks is where you go if you
did a lot of cocaine the night before
and you're not letting go of your idea
with your business partner for a
pizzeria that's inspired by nightclub
atmospheres
Starbucks has always been about so much
more than coffee but without great
coffee we have no reason to exist well
hold on a minute seems to me that if you
if the coffee is that necessary then
it's the the thing it's about I just one
last thing it says it's about the thing
that you literally can't have it with
that yeah it's a coffee place I'm pretty
sure yeah all right one last thing here
for the chapter one he says there is a
word that comes to my mind when I think
about our company and our people that
word is love I love Starbucks because
everything we've tried to do is steeped
in humanity that makes it sound like
Soylent Green we steep every one of our
delicious beans in rich delicious
humanity oh it's not love it's coffee
it's about coffee it's not a brothel or
it's pretty sure a hundred percent of
the people who go to Starbucks go there
for some sort of coffee or coffee driven
all right now what is your book the
other heart my book is another one of
his his [ __ ] literary self [ __ ]
it's called pour your heart into it
oh how Starbucks built a company one cup
at a time
wretched garbage of course and really
really insidious in the way that it
promotes ideology of capitalism and as
like a thing that sort of justifies
itself we'll get to that so this is the
one thing he says early in the chapter
one thing I've noticed about romantics
they try to create a new and better
world far from the drabness of everyday
life that is Starbucks aim to we tried
to create in our stores a little
neighborhood spot where you can take a
break listen to some jazz
and ponder Universal or personal or even
whimsical questions over a cup of coffee
what kind of person dreams up such a
place but my next one just perfect
perfect companions of that one he writes
here valuing personal connections at a
time when so many people sit alone in
front of screens aspiring to build human
relationships in an age when so many
issues polarized so many and acting
ethically even if it costs more when
corners are routinely cut these are
honorable pursuits or at the core of
what we set out to be and what I like
about this is he keeps going back to
this idea that it's more than a coffee
shop it's a place anyone who's ever
hi-yah it's a coffee klatch
it's the modern-day Agora where ideas
and philosophies are exchanged every
time I've ever been to a Starbucks and
by the way they have done a good job of
making pretty much okay coffee available
everywhere in this country which is no
small feat but that's not enough for him
it has to be more about love and
inspiring human connection and meaning
that screen thing is the mantra of every
shitty coffee shop that has a sign up
that says no Wi-Fi talk to your neighbor
oh yeah every Starbucks I've ever been
to like it's just people robotically
shuffling in and out on their way to or
from the office just to get they their
bean juice that they need to make it
through the day spent largely staring at
screens what other end Starbucks are out
of one the only like passion that exists
in the Starbucks is like every few
months when a Trump person is like just
did you tell them your name is all lives
matter just do it they can't [ __ ]
stop you it's not illegal it's the first
amount of day then they have to say it
then that raises awareness of Trump yeah
this is the guy after all who at one
point encouraged his [ __ ] employees
to engage the customers on questions of
race
to try to tell you as a former employee
of Starbucks that the best part of it
for employees was also not love nor was
it coffee it was all the witness you got
for the whipped cream okay one more here
he says infusing work with purpose and
meaning however is a two-way street yes
love what you do but your company should
love you back as a merchant my desire
has always been to inspire customers
exceed their high expectations and
establish and maintain their trust in us
as an employer my duty has always been
to do the same for people on the other
side of the counters for our partners
this latter responsibility has driven me
for many many years so again it's this
idea that it's not enough to just be the
most successful coffee chain ever in
human history it's that it's about
inspiring connections right well the
thing is is that for him for a guy like
Collard Schultz's devoted their life to
this acquisition of wealth of this
frenzied face it can't be it has to be
about more it has to be about
connections and passion and love and
family because if it isn't then it's
just about the cold bloody inhuman logic
of capitalism of buying Forex and
selling for why and keeping as much of
the surplus as you can like that's the
brutal reality of what he has devoted
his life to this [ __ ] machinery of
exploitation who could [ __ ] handle
thinking that every day that that's what
they were doing so he's basically X
building an ideological buffer whereby
he's not doing the thing he's doing he's
doing this other thing I think it's what
he's doing
I'm not saying this is conscious I'm
saying what he's doing in it still it's
the subconscious way that all of us by
interacting and in capitalism and then
responding to it honestly just put skin
and seen you on this gleaming Terminator
skeleton of capitalism with these ideas
about about work being meaningful in
some spiritual sense instead of just a
cold extractive Enterprise I still think
you're giving him too much credit i I
mean really I think the idea that he
needs to morally rationalize it has less
to do with the fact that he's like this
bougie genteel person and coffee King of
America sounds tackier than what he
wants to be as like some kind of captain
of industry no I I don't think that he's
that he it's um
I don't think that it that he wants to
justify it morally I just think that he
wants to feel like it his life has a
meaning and that there can be no meaning
in in capitalism because there requires
no human input he's trying to convince
himself that he's actually a human being
and not just a function and an algorithm
here's another thing he's trying to do
well it would have been audacious for
any of us to compare Starbucks cultural
impact to that of the Beatles great
start great start already
and I have to say Howard Schultz
comparing Starbucks to the Beatles is
John Lennon comparing the Beatles to
Jesus Christ calm the [ __ ] down one
thing was clear from comments like
cliffs both are icons that play
memorable roles in people's lives
others piped up with observations about
the Beatles career the band took risks
someone said they took us on a journey
at a time when the world needed cultural
leaders so badly they didn't compromise
they led with their hearts The Beatles
believe and if you believe you can
change anything
they kept reinventing themselves but the
same time they stay true to their music
I offered recalling their 1967 album
sergeant pepper's Lonely Hearts Club bed
there was music in that album I remember
using the Beatles as a metaphor for an
iconic brand was I thought brilliant it
swept us into a creative process
providing fresh context for us to
examine and speak about ourselves and
the company most of us were enthused
although I noticed a few who were lost
or rolling their eyes at the exercise
and like cliff we got up out of our
seats and walked across the posters to
pick up our favorites so yeah he thinks
he's Don Draper Starbucks is a carousel
it's like The Beatles in that there were
both very successful institutions in our
culture and also half the original
Starbucks board is dead I love the idea
of like you know really crazed fan kills
the CFO of Starbucks right now you don't
get it I just hit those quarterly
reports meant so much to me
fourth-quarter three fiscal year 2011
that was like my imagine he got obsessed
with chapter 27 of the Papa John memoir
the son do you think the Dunkin Donuts
people are like whoa all right fine were
the Stooges I'm doing a very eggy pop
energy game there's one passage in that
book that I didn't flag but the gist of
it is Schultz is looking for ideas he
wants outside the box I used to tell
everyone at company as a story of an IT
guy who explains World of Warcraft to
Howard Schultz and says this is the
biggest online multiplayer video game of
all time and their demographic is males
like 19 to 35 who are addicted to
caffeine is obviously the subtext here
the well well at the time I guess
Starbucks that was the one market they
couldn't crack they couldn't love 19 to
35 year olds and so Schultz had some
other you know see sweets fly to Irvine
California to the blizzard headquarters
to think about a partnership the idea
was and some kind of Starbucks world of
work
rewards card and they they go to the
Blizzard headquarters and Schultz sees
this 14-foot statue of an orc warrior
riding a horse and just shakes his head
at it and then this this partnership
never materialized and could you imagine
how different history would have been I
believe before that he says while I was
concerned Warcraft may not be part of
our brand not consistent with our values
not consistent with our company value
yeah we'll see about it when they formed
their own private army I like the idea
that Howard Schultz was just scared by
the org I asked my personal Blackwater
security to check under my bed sometimes
love being still being afraid of
monsters when you're sixty okay
so here's another section from this
other book pour your heart into it where
he talks about how poor like coffee I
just got that basically he talked about
he was inspired to basically invent the
idea of espresso bars in the United
States because when he took over at
Starbucks they didn't sell coffee
retailing they sold it only in banks and
he made that he said let's turn into
coffee bars and he brought espresso from
Italy to the United States and he talks
about how he was inspired to do it here
there's no better place to truly savor
the romance of life in Italy and so he
talks about how the Italians do things
differently they do street harassment on
scooters
they have an unparalleled appreciation
for the fine pleasures of daily life
they have figured out how to live in
perfect balance they understand what it
means to work and equally what it means
to relax and enjoy life they embrace
everything if passion
nothing is mediocre the infrastructure
in tere Italy is appalling nothing works
but the food affinity is absolutely
incredible the architecture is
breathtaking the fashion still defines
elegance wrong all wrong
they drink cheap espresso on the
giancarlo hill overlooking Rome they do
do that so he talks about how he was in
Milan Milano and he he came to a spy a
number of very charming espresso shops
and he says half a block across the side
street I saw another espresso bar this
one was even more crowded I noticed that
the gray-haired man behind the counter
greeted every customer by name he
appeared to be both owner and operator
he and his customers were laughing and
talking and enjoying the moment I could
tell that the customers were regulars
and their routines comfortable and
familiar in the next few blocks I saw
two more espresso bars I was fascinated
it was on that day that I discovered the
ritual and the romance of coffee bars in
Italy I saw how powerful it popular they
were and how vibrant each one had its
own unique character but they had one
common thread the camaraderie between
the customers who knew each other well
and the barista who was performing with
flair what if he just actually went by
like a bunch of cruising spots in the
operator and the customers they all get
into this big foamy bath together it's
amazing it says at that time there were
200,000 coffee bars in Italy in 1500
alone in the city of Milan a city of
size of Philadelphia it seemed they were
on every street corner and all were
packed my night Minds started churning
and I want to wonder how many of those
[ __ ] coffee bars that were destroyed
or displaced by a [ __ ] Starbucks
since that
it's like this amazing vibrant unique
culture that I'm honorable monopolized
and destroyed I've never been to Italy
but uh let me ask you this do these
coffee bars also sell alcohol and that
always often not let either many of them
do though some of them so then there's
bars yeah but I think that's the thing
that the finding thing that coffee is
that the buyers is it is mostly if not
entirely coffee okay it's a coffee place
it sort of booze booze at night becomes
a bar okay what you sort of answering
the question so I thought you have the
inside track on this why I've been to a
place that had coffee in their day and
then that alcohol at night they exist
what was it called will be resolving
this in the nine o'clock show tonight
this been Rick Steves Kings on Europe
we're gonna resolve this with Chris
Hardwick and after Chapo flicks
