measures and Republican mindset here's
another thing from like this is from
like a couple weeks ago but I read this
article and it really summed up for me
like so much of American culture and
like the politics that it breeds and I'm
seeking of course now this measure
failed in Georgia but you may have read
it this piece about this town in Georgia
that had that basically it's become a
very it's like growing in population and
they film a lot of movies there it's
become sort of like the southern
Hollywood because of like a lot of tax
breaks
it's called Stockbridge Georgia and
basically they were voting on Election
Day to resegregate their town yeah they
wanted it basically it's a town that
just elected his first black mayor and
has an all black city council the white
residents of the town were basically got
on the ballot a measure to split the
city into between the white part and the
black part and basically take away all
of the the tax base of the white part
and essentially they were doing this so
they could get a cheesecake factory and
a PF Changs
I'm reading here from this is what they
said yeah that's what they said it's
just interesting seeing how the
goalposts move over the years because
for a long time it was all about schools
and now it's literally about chain
restaurants but I mean it's like this is
in another in another 10 years our chain
restaurants will be our school yeah Oh
where'd you go to high school Oh
Cheesecake 11 it says wait residents are
hoping to split the city into creating a
new majority white town known as Eagles
Landing the community in recent years
has become a hotbed of activity for film
production companies and is often
referred to as Hollywood South if you
watch the movie Black Panther you will
recognize the area upon visiting it as
it served for a shooting location for
the popular film white citizens recently
enacted a plan to split the city into
two taking the most valuable parts of
Stockbridge for their own and kind of
put a force field around it that
disguises the techno utopia that is
encased within city lab reports that
residents are upset with that the
community is mostly attracting Bojangles
and waffle houses
when they watch she's killed for [ __ ]
Bojangles around here when they want
cheesecake factory or PF Changs type
establishments in Musso Bay area they
want to pay more for less good food
that's what they want the daily cost
notes that the committee of privileged
white people was meeting at a country
club to discuss their plans the plan was
hatched when the woman running the
campaign realized the average income of
residents in the area was not high
enough to attract the businesses she
wanted in the area what is most
troubling is that the Eagles Landing
plan calls for volunteers to essentially
steal the business district that already
exists
leaving Stockbridge revenue residents
with a massive loss of sales and
property taxes residents didn't believe
state officials would allow the measure
to reach the ballot but that's exactly
what happened in the area's white
affluent voters passed the measure
Eagles Landing will feature six-figure
income and a business district that was
built from the ground up with help from
a largely the largely black community
even though Stockbridge residents won't
be allowed to vote on the measure unless
they are in the Eagles Landing area it
will be their community that is torn
apart especially an annexation of their
rightfully owned city oh my god so
Google's landing was iron cross Georgia
so that that measure did not pass
weirdly considering it was only the
people in the Eagles Landing that would
be voting honestly kind of encouraging
that they did not go to yeah recreate
segregation so that they could have
overpriced wontons the the phrase blood
and soil was not polling well so they
changed it to blood and cheese cake but
that just didn't have the direct appeal
that they were hoping no but III read
that article and liked it it just really
made me like think that like it really
summed up a lot of me like what our
politics is really all about
who the people who vote in our elections
like what what they're really thinking
about what they want politics to achieve
for them and it is that they want to
create like you know these all white
suburban enclaves that don't have to pay
a single dime of taxes for anyone
outside of their little like yeah domed
city yeah they want to recreate the
village the village is their utopia it's
it's there it's their model of the
future that they and they don't want
they don't want any
single dime of the taxes the property or
sales taxes they pay going to anything
like you know public transit or
education for anyone that isn't their
kids and I gotta say it like it's not
couched in these terms but this is
literally like this is the ethnos state
[ __ ] that like alright people are
obsessed with they do they don't
conceive of it in those terms but this
is what they want to do they want
essentially an ala carte taxation system
in which like what little in taxes they
do pay goes to things exclusively that
serve them and only them and by them I
mean their kin and kind and other well
well-to-do white people right and what
be and basically this is when you're a
rung down from the ultra-wealthy
who are able to do this stuff
unilaterally exactly they don't have to
worry about redrawing valid measure
doing at allit measures and and you know
any of that [ __ ] they just keep
their money out of the public out of
range of public revenuers and recreate
private infrastructure by themselves cuz
that's the glory of having that much
money when you're a little bit lower on
the on the economic rung you have to
still do this kind of stuff but the idea
is still the same as i said and i think
a few weeks ago it's it's it is how one
of the big things that exited the roman
empire is that local rich people local
people you know at the lat of fun do
people who owned large estates just stop
sending people to the to the army and
stop sending tax revenue up and started
building walls around their little
things and saying now I got this and
that's what's we're seeing that
recreated here at everywhere above like
the top you know like ten percent people
are doing that and yeah it's only gonna
get more more prevalent over time I do
think it's funny though and very
revealing and honestly should even be am
embarrassment to like the white
nationalist types who see this kind of
thing as a model and have you know like
Roman [ __ ] busts as their avatars on
Twitter and post nothing the pictures of
columns and are like is their assess
with Eagles yes this is how things
should be this is the [ __ ] white
Western culture that you're defending it
has nothing to do with any of these
ancient verities it's [ __ ] Cheesecake
Factory and he f Chang yes
shanks it's this air Zotz corporatized
poured concrete cheap-ass recreation of
of things that you never even
experienced it's just it's somebody
else's dream of somebody else's dream of
a culture and you're getting just it
covered in [ __ ] MSG and high fructose
corn syrup and that's the [ __ ]
culture that you're willing to kill what
3/4 of the world population to maintain
just think of the [ __ ] psychotic
awful heart of anyone who is motivated
by that to see to see all that death as
like grimly necessary not something you
necessarily want to you know celebrate
but something that must be done for the
good of the culture and this is what it
is well this is [ __ ] yeah like these
are the people like you know like like
even like the intelligent racists who
will be like you know like people like
Andrew Sullivan or whatever they were
like you know we should be you know like
you know Trump is a demagogue but like
you know people on the Left who poopoo
you know concerns about immigration or
whatever are playing into his hands you
know we should speak to the fears of
people who are like afraid of the
caravan because you know it's a real
issue like you know what what if what
happens when you know Western culture or
American culture changes and I'm like
[ __ ] good let's like dude our culture
is dog shits off our culture is terrible
and when I say our barely but it's they
be calling it a culture somebody get us
all to that concept like here's the
thing like um American culture like as a
whole still does like it carries a lot
of weight in the world and that like we
set popular culture for the world yeah
largely but like anything that is
valuable in our culture I'm sorry is not
being produced by white suburban I know
like we talked about like white American
culture there is no cultural well that's
like it would rather have [ __ ]
Cheesecake Factory than breathable air
or drinkable water in the next thing
they do to getting culture they've
produced nothing they consume they
consume [ __ ] minions t-shirts and
Isis hunter [ __ ] bumper stickers for
these days and yeah Ford f-150s and a
shitload of guns yeah and it's just like
I don't think this culture is worth
preserving
they oh oh it's our den
kradic culture that's worth preserving
these people don't believe in democracy
we just explicitly told you they're
trying to like literally annex territory
for themselves so they don't have to
like live and share any property with
like black people but governor's the
governors of two states and the
President of the United States are
currently in public carrying out an
attempt to steal [ __ ] three elections
there's no there's nothing but content
for democracy and all they want is the
freedom to consume garbage dog food dog
[ __ ] food idiot television shitty movies
and [ __ ] petrochemicals that is yes
yeah so yeah like again so if you're
looking at you know five thousand people
fleeing warfare and horrible and misery
ating conditions that largely this
country is responsible for Central
America trying to enter a nation of what
320 million people yeah god I just don't
know if we can handle another 5,000
people in this country I know I don't
think like what that these people are
looking for like a job or so just
anything because their way of life has
been uprooted by horrible
global capitalism somebody like so long
what they're gonna come to the America
and they're gonna change our culture by
I don't know introducing food that isn't
although look if they come here we're no
longer going to have a melting pot by
that I mean the chain fund I unless tan
I Levi and seeing this nation's
Fuddruckers turned into tacky eras
anything that's uh it's you know a
bearable or interesting about American
culture is not being produced by these
people nothing is being yeah they don't
produce culture they just consume a
corporate [ __ ] monetized
just gravy pipe of [ __ ] it's like it all
of American culture it's like that
Simpsons episode where they go to the
Duff [ __ ] brewery and all the
different flavors are coming out of one
pipe that's it yeah all the pipe it's
like the food the beverage the
television it's all just a corporate jet
and the funny thing is is these Nazi
guys see that and they're like horrified
by a - yeah but they somehow think that
their fellow white is cult in these
places
are gonna somehow rise up against this
commodified awful even mana corporate
monoculture like they don't love it more
than life itself
well even those people like the people
who have marble bust [ __ ] well
they're foolish if you asked any one of
those people who like you know has like
hashtag defend Western civilization or
whatever from you know from people in
Central America or immigrants or
whatever like ask them what their
favorite Symphony is and watch their
[ __ ] gormless [ __ ] slack-jawed
face just go the one from Clockwork
Orange yeah yeah yeah my favorite moment
of that ever and this is a year ago now
is that there was a threat where one of
these [ __ ] mutants posted this
picture of a statue and he said this is
the culture we're trying to preserve and
he got owned immediately because
somebody pointed out it was actually
made by an Asian woman oh yeah it was it
was a statue it's like a marble statue
of like you know like a woman in a
dyadic we need rest like like a classic
like representation right look realistic
and he was like this is Western
civilization and it was actually a
chinese-american rhymin skull and
everyone was owning him for that and I
feel like that sort of missed the even
bigger point which says the [ __ ]
statue is [ __ ]
statue is basically just a [ __ ]
marvel real tall there's nothing to it
there's it's just look a sexy lady in
ooh it's hard it's like impressed by the
technical skill of like making stone
look like fabric it's like that's fine
but like just looking at that being like
I'll kill three four quarters of the
world yes if your brain is a dog's brain
and you know whenever I think about
whether it's Eagles Landing or the
villages or any of this [ __ ] that I
think you've seen it if you ever you
know the movie a boy and his dog oh yeah
Don Jon with Jason Robards yes
post-apocalyptic movie where Don Johnson
is this sort of like teenage wanderer
through this like post-nuclear hellscape
yeah and eventually he gets kidnapped by
basically the underground version of the
villages led by Jason Robards where
they've used robots to recreate this
kind of like nineteen fifties guitar so
yeah 1950 suburban existence and they
want to get him so that they can
literally milk his sperm and create more
like apple-cheeked young lad to here at
all by radiation yeah exactly yeah yeah
check out a boy and his dog directed by
IQ Jones these Sam Bell cujo's lq Jones
lq olq jones sam peckinpah like yeah
yeah some Wild Bunch based on a Harlan
Ellison's short story anyway boy and his
dog very good movie
