can we talk about that video of Don jr.
and Jerry Falwell and like whatever
other juniors were on the panel because
I think that's the it's the most
emblematic of this yeah but we didn't
see this live this is one of the things
that we saw oh I saw I saw this when I
got back yesterday and it [ __ ] broke
me for the entire it broke me more than
anything actually being there because
described described via that it was like
a panel on the main stage featuring Don
junior Jerry Falwell Jr and then two
other right like Jerry Falwell mrs.
Jerry Falwell Jr junior wife jr. and
some other [ __ ] genes I think it was
Mercedes slap there I don't think so it
was someone who looks like Mercedes slap
and her wonderful brother [ __ ] Craig
plop and [ __ ] Gershon BLAP just all
the people with the most unappealing
names but I'm sure onomatopoeias yeah
but the sound that was made when they
were born
yeah so all slapping so they're all
there on stage and mrs. Jerry Falwell Jr
is like and we're gonna have our
granddaughter and we're gonna name named
her Reagan is that isn't that
presidential and donji they're all like
they all seem just like City they all
seem like they just have been hung over
in a sleeping bag for an entire day
except on junior who seems very geared
up because I think that he thinks that
his dad is gonna watch this panel an
amazed by his riffing ability and he's
like what is he named a trump yeah oh
yeah ha ha ha ha
name it Trump like he's so it's almost
like before he went on someone was like
we're gonna we're going to kill one
randomly selected member of your family
if you don't elicit a laugh from this
crowd he's like God no problem for me
no like and then one of the women starts
going off on some gender stuff she's
like God gets to decide your gender and
we're we get this you know I don't get
to decide like we're eight we're raising
our daughters daughter she gonna have
dolls and then Jerry Falwell Jr goes my
boys my boys had gun in their hand since
there is they could walk and then Don
jr. just goes hashtag me to God makes
the choice what the babies
and God decided she would be a girl you
don't have to raise him as a girl she
just got a little baby doll right there
are every second I mean my boys always
have guns in their hands we didn't
that's not something hashtag me too yes
can we talk about Jerry Jerry [ __ ] that
was an amazing panel because it was the
perfect like Jerry Falwell senior and
Donald Trump senior like obviously both
huge pieces of [ __ ] but they have like
some force of personality and sort of
water vivre where like even Jerry
Falwell when he was like you know I
think the I think spiraled to dragon
who's a transsexual like a like millions
of people were like yes sir but Jerry
for all Jerry Falwell Jr has is that
name but when you put him on stage it's
just like he's just a [ __ ] lump of
wet clay there is nothing going on there
like his his riff on gender gee I love
dolls and my daughter is a good Barbie
Connie yeah oh yeah just assume I can I
like to see AI see it comes to
McDonald's and you gonna rest the whole
place oh you just assumed I like the
homeless gender is you and and Don jr.
is just like all right all right we're
riffing yes and let's go the [ __ ] is
equality who did it how about how did
green new deal and it just it's one of
the most depressing things have ever
seen it's worse than the littles and
podcast there's like more there's more
like thinking on your feet in that one
than this and that was kind of a running
theme of all of this right is that the
total dearth of charisma yeah
anyone on stage except the most
buffoonish cartoonish like uh yeah
figures in the movie yeah not just
people on stage with the people watching
it yes that that's like it was just like
it was like a mirror reflecting just the
perfect just vacuous nough sand nihilism
back and forth
