so this is my last thing to say and
everyone listening to this is most
likely already gone over this a million
times but I have to talk about it
because it is we have to so you guys
have not talked of now this side no we
didn't we skipped it because it happened
before we were doing the JFK episode and
we wanted to make things right there is
a lot of people listen this show who are
not online and for some reason they was
in this show and it god bless them
alright well I will run all through the
whole thing and honestly I don't even
know if I have anything to say about
other than I'm in awe but we're gonna do
a reading so this yes at the very end
this is the most amazing thing that any
op-ed writer has ever done because we've
talked about that's been our bread and
butter for three years now making fun of
the the constant idiocy of the pundit
class elite opinion elite opinion
holders and how efficient self-centered
and absolutely pigheaded they are no one
in all of our time talking about these
guys including things like the rod
Dreier's Exorcism live tweeting have
come close to the sheer insane
self-absorbed oblivious mania of this
man now we've talked about him a number
of times on the show New York Times
op-ed writer Bret Stevens we all know
him we love him
this [ __ ] last week he was on
Twitter name searching himself like you
do and he'd be like we do like we all do
and he found a tweet by a low B
professor that called him a bedbug in a
joking fashion had 9 faves and zero
retweets first off are you okay in
response to this bread Stephens emailed
the professor and cc'd his boss at the
University he teaches to tell him how he
did not feel like it's a professional or
or or virtuous do you have that email
yeah let me find it
dear dr. Karp someone just pointed out a
tweet you wrote about me calling me a
bedbug someone just pointed it out there
is no [ __ ] way that some random
person found
zero retweet he [ __ ] found it liar so
like minutes after was tweeted yeah I'm
often amazed about the thing supposedly
decent people are prepared to say about
other people people they've never met on
Twitter I'm always surprised about how
people can be fake people
I think you've set a standard I would
welcome the opportunity for you to come
to my home meet my wife and kids talk to
us for a few months and then probably a
bedbug to my face that would take some
genuine courage and intellectual
integrity on your part how would it take
intellectual integrity yeah I promise to
be courteous no matter what you have to
say maybe it will make you feel better
about yourself please consider the
sustaining invitation you are more than
welcome to bring your significant other
cordially Brad Stevens why wot ago I
want to do it yes I want should all go
together as a show to Brad Stevens house
he should make us Dindin no he's gonna
do fondue well what we'll we'll dip the
bread into the boiling cheese and call
him a bedbugs
I hate talking about him usually because
he's very dull Oh terrible writer boring
or a traitor [ __ ] oh you have any
interesting opinion like none of his
opinions are freakish enough to be funny
like Ross to Todd he's one of those guys
who [ __ ] uh quit Twitter and wrote a
[ __ ] article about quitting Twitter
and then guess what didn't do it now we
like [ __ ] name surges and [ __ ]
about it now and he said he quit again
he'll be back but this is like the
coolest key are we gonna we're gonna get
into his article we're gonna do the
whole thing let's do it but no I just
want to say so that's the first thing is
that a guy he's named searches a guy who
calls him he narcs on his boss and
invites him to [ __ ] his wife in front of
him while calling him a bedbug yeah
again we Chapel Trap House offer to do
absolutely will seduce your wife Brad we
will I do like the email was very like
he wanted to be Dom yeah things like I
am amazed by how you people act I invite
you to you know maybe bring your wife
my house make her fifty feet tall and
squish me like a bug I okay you really
you really want to say that to me I want
you to tie me up
roast me like a turkey and eat me for
dinner so he not only tries to get this
guy fired he claimed later that he
wasn't trying to get him fired but why
would he said I wanted his boss to know
what his employee was doing was why what
for what reason was joining Empire only
to get fired so he offers to have a
weird swinger fondue party with this guy
and also get him fired which again I
want to be invited to obviously he goes
on TV to defend himself lies out his ass
about how he wasn't trying to get the
guy fired and it was a hugely on TV he
did and that's where he claimed well yes
he was interviewed and he said I wasn't
trying to get him fired where I'm s NBC
Ike it was one of the morning shows and
he's like I wasn't trying to get him
fired I just I think was I'm SME see I
wasn't rying to get him fired
I just thought his boss should know what
is going on the kind of horrible hate
speech that's going on so of course
everyone made fun of him we all had a
good laugh and if that was the end of it
it would still be like maybe a top five
moment in op/ed insanity I mean this guy
who it's been pointed out a million
times spent his career you know calling
Palestinians mosquitos and and using
every bit of language in his arsenal to
mean anybody who he considers lesser all
of a sudden and he's talked a million
times about the how the necessity for
being able to have your feelings hurt
and how there's no safe spaces and
everybody needs to sack up and all these
college students need to stop crying and
now he's doing this obviously everyone
knows this hilarious and if that had
been it it would have been amazing on
its own but then the [ __ ] topped
himself instead of just trying to let it
go even though it bled the President of
the United States to tweet about him
the president said after this happened
he quote the infestation of bedbugs at
the New York Times office at oann was
perhaps brought in by lightweight
journalist Bret Stevens a conservative
who does anything that his bosses at the
paper tell him to do he is now quitting
Twitter after being called a bedbug
guy so he went from a guy with thousand
followers doing a nine fave tweet
calling him a bedbug within a three days
the President of the United States
calling him a [ __ ] bedbug it trended
for like two days and then he finally
actually debated his account and for the
last time we're like give him three
weeks he'll be back I guarantee you know
he's deep back in is that's the only
good argument for posting online is it
can cause the President to do something
like that now this is already like I
said a top-tier own cell phone one of
the greatest cell phones ever but then
instead of just letting it die down
because you can't you can do anything
you you have no supervision you have no
oversight if you're on the op-ed page
it's a license to kill you could write
about anything you can't write about his
Rose Garden you could write he could go
back to writing about safe spaces
without a hint of self-awareness instead
this [ __ ] on Thursday dropped
this op-ed it's a nuke this is the Tsar
Bomba op-ed oh absolutely
this is the this could crack the earth
and half by the way just a heads up if
you're a souls burger and you want us to
stop making fun of your shitty [ __ ]
op-ed writers hire me as an op-ed writer
because I would be that Dave Barry the
New York Times op-ed page I would just
write pleasant humor pieces about like
just the day-to-day things that are just
but the problem there is that no one's
gonna share that in anger on Twitter and
that's the entire op e d
business model now and that's why I
gotta say we've talked about how bad
breath Stevens this is a writer how
pointless his [ __ ] is he is able to do
stuff like this he'll always have a job
nevertheless people nevertheless my
offer stands if you want someone to talk
about how you know soaps just aren't as
good as they used to be if you want
someone that will ask his friends to
dress up like spider-man and take
pictures of them and say that it's
spider-man's real now I will do that job
if you want sort of just hang out in the
newsroom and give people encouragement
I'll probably do that better yeah if you
want someone to abuse the journalists I
will do that I'm really
doing journalism so instead of just
letting it go by over the transom on
Thursday Bret Stevens a man who from all
of this we have to purser Mize has never
been criticized by anyone in his life to
his face and has never read criticism of
him until last year wrote this world war
two in the ingredients of slaughter this
is I ate this is the most I've ever
liked him because there's like this is
the like possibly the worst reaction who
what that anything what say once again
you know before you read that should be
noted is a [ __ ] climate change denier
who believes that Palestinians are a
type of bug people and that we should
and that war with Iran is inevitable and
righteous like a wretched were theology
there's absolutely nothing of value in
his writing then the subhead the spirit
of certitude that dominated the politics
of the 1930s is not so distant from us
today this own there we go World War two
began eighty years ago this Sunday after
Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union signed
a non-aggression pact that was in fact a
mutual aggression pact not true I don't
yeah
they it was called the non-aggression
pact idiot look it up Adolf Hitler
invaded Poland on September 1st 1939
Russia's invasion of Poland no less
murderous followed two weeks later gonna
need a site on that one
ouch wits and whatnot you might want to
look that up on November 3rd of that
year Joseph Goebbels the propaganda
minister gave Hitler a report of his
trip to Poland quote above all my
description of the Jewish problem gets
Hitler's full approval he wrote in his
diary the Jew is a waste product it is a
clinical issue more than a social one
for several years many commentators
including me have written about the
parallels between the pre-war era in the
present there's the rise of dictatorial
regimes intent on avenging past
geopolitical humiliations and redrawing
borders Germany Italy Japan and Russia
then China Iran and Russia now of course
a lot to throw Iran in there I've gotta
get around there
oh you hit bonus bread that is the
unwillingness of status quo powers to
coordinate their actions confront
dictatorships stamp out regional wars
and rise to global challenges the League
of Nations then the g7 now when will you
nuke Tehran you cowards
there is the upsurge of nativist rancor
protectionist barriers in every nation
for itself policies along with the deep
doubts about the viability of liberal
democracy and the international order
father Coughlin and America first stirs
then Donald Trump in America Firsters
now all that plus three crucial factors
new forms of mass communication the
rhetoric of dehumanization and the
politics of absolute good versus
absolute evil the relatively yeah what
does that mean it means that people they
weren't nuanced you know the way that
Brett is about Palestine and the blond
Bush Republican but like yeah you know
that the famous nuance that went into
the invasion of Iraq that we all know
and love so he start he's talked about
radio he basically says that radio is
like the Twitter of the 1930s radio then
like Twitter today was the technology of
the it'd a channel that could
concentrate political fury at a time
when there was plenty to go around it
was also a time when ideology dictated
that fury be directed at entire classes
of people the decade began with Soviet
propaganda cheering Stalin's
announcement of the liquidation of the
kulaks as a class a reference to
millions of Ukrainian peasants who would
die for starvation in the holida that's
not really needed yeah that that's
absolutely not in any way a historical
consensus here we go the political
mindset that turned human beings into
categories classes and races also turned
them into rodents insects and garbage oh
wait a minute
wait are you saying like any sort of
thing that attempts to sort people based
on yeah yeah means a pretty noted noting
that there's a class like there's two
different classes and they have
different relationships to means the
production and some are exploited by
others that's I kind of tell you into
you that's basically Nazism I hate I
hate blood you know quote anti-semitism
is exactly the same as Dalhousie
Heinrich Himmler would claim in 1943
getting rid of lice is not a matter of
ideology it is a matter of cleanliness
watching Warsaw's Jewish ghetto burned
that year a Polish anti-semite was
overheard saying the
bedbugs are on fire the Germans are
doing a great job the bedbugs are on
fire
where did that turn would anyone
remember that word was why would he what
that seems random that would be in there
someone look that up yeah well the thing
is there's a high link all right this is
this is that this is the top roof
toppers there's a hyperlink in that
quote and it leads you to a Google Books
search for a what it's a so this is so
top tier oh this is the most amazing
thing that anyone has ever done
okay links to this sir it's a book about
the Jews Jews in Poland during World War
two
and it's like it's called a secret city
the hiddens use of Warsaw 1940-1945 and
what was not removed from the link was
the search that was because you go into
google books you put a search for words
and then it'll give you returns in the
text and someone presumably Bret Stevens
wrote in the box Jews as bedbugs
[Music]
he went into google book search and has
typed in Jews bedbugs
yes and then he just picked the first
result yeah the only result happily the
oh man is [ __ ] articles say this is
anti-semitic
also in the in the book there like this
also may have literally been just been
about bedbugs yes yes size does not even
claim that the quote had anything to do
with Jews it might well Avella been
about bedbugs
is just no one has ever approached this
in the history of op-ed writing this is
a week of posting and writing that will
never be topped in my blog to say that
as a scholar of people being mad online
this is a new strain of being mad online
the aggressive Google search to try to
prove that that the what you're mad
about is actual racism and other people
should care about it and that he is
basically a
a outwits ghetto jus really for being
called a bedbug final exam I feel like
Sondra I never knew what you had to deal
with I know yeah no I mean well don't
you know I just catch the collateral
strays off it it's really Adam it's the
biggest victim of all time that's true I
mean I got it now every time I know that
you you're on Twitter you're on you know
you're on twitch and you're playing for
tonight and when you get called like
receipt yes now when you get called like
a turbo homo by some 14 year old now I
know that that's essentially just that's
what a three year old headshots you
would for anybody to like I wish there
was localized chat for tonight to just
send somebody like a google book search
for like Oh Joe is trihard let's see
that trope in history
oh you say that I'm a but one time
Michael clip like I killed this guy this
a twitch streamer and he went clearly
hacking yeah and it would be cool to
like look for you no evidence of gurbles
yeah accusing the Jews of half the Jews
have clearly hacked the Western economy
yeah yeah Hitler Hitler at Nuremberg
claimed that the Jews are posting
craner's throughout Europe I no one's
ever tried this no and it's also like
this is the least boring thing bread has
ever done oh absolutely no he is even
when he's annoying he's boring
yeah this is the first time that he has
injected his just oatmeal slop with any
real personality and vigor and it is
just the personality of an insanely
thin-skinned little Fauntleroy a little
Francis Buckton Buxton fancy lad because
remember he grew up the child of a
[ __ ] oil CEO in Mexico City with like
a squadron of maids to powder his bottom
and yeah that's literally like
Buchenwald yeah and has never faced any
kind of critical in interdiction his
entire life because he went straight
from college to the he was the [ __ ]
to editor of The Jerusalem Post he's 25
years old and when to the Washington
Post and straight to the near camp just
us just a softest life anyone in history
has ever lived never encountered a sin
critical interdiction into their just
soft brained
mundane reactionary course it I admire
it because I would like to have a soft
life and not have to interact with any
sort of negative criticism ever yeah and
he's he's mostly conditioned he's mostly
made that happen but then because no I
actually agree with him because any time
anyone ever contradicts any of us or
says something vaguely mean to us that's
harassment
and I report them to Jack and they get
Ben no I would I would like to you know
have an easy life like him unfortunately
when anyone criticizes me I will name's
hurts the post and I will SWAT the
offending person that's a lot of work
and I it's may be legal I don't know but
my favorite thing about this is that you
know Brett always gets you angry because
she's like this guy has this absolute he
has one of the most valuable pieces of
real estate in in media and he uses it
for just drivel and boring horseshit
he's only there because the New York
Times felt they needed another
conservative after Trump won but they're
too much of a bunch of [ __ ] weak
bladdered Nancy's to post to put in an
actual Trump supporter what if you don't
need conservatives actually if you say
if literally there is literally no
conservative anything to add to any
conversation ever I mean I would like to
see just like a queue guy on there just
for the fun but a real like ya get yes
like an actual million Republic you're
actually getting Lane insight into the
thoughts of real voters and that's
interesting that would be helpful yes
get rid of get rid of bread get rid of
whatever other Ross [ __ ] face
conservatives who like represent maybe
100 people max and like get someone in
like you know hashtag mega hashtag this
destroy like a flint Sun perfect oh god
Michael Flynn jr. would be amazing I saw
a guy on tick-tock who was wearing a he
was a huge round man wearing an
ill-fitting Trump t-shirt and he was
dancing in front of like a CGI image of
a fire and it said on the screen said
when I hear the Amazon is burning and he
had a gas can and he was pouring it onto
the fire and
and saying and throwing his hands up in
the air give him that [ __ ] spot you
actually want ideological balance yes if
you really want to be the paper a record
that represents the majority of people
that's what you need but the thing is is
that so
I was always knowing and I always got
mad at Brett but now I will always
cherish the fact that as much as he is
in the catbird seat media got the best
job in in in pundit REE it still
tortures him and he hates it and he's
miserable because he has to deal with
criticism which he cannot hand but let's
cut the [ __ ] I think we solved this one
day Bret Stevens let take us to your
apartment make us Dindin you will come
there you'll have a nice meal and we'll
scream at you to your face yes we're not
gonna be violent
we're not gonna be mean no we're not
even gonna raise our voices tell you
whatever you like very calm even voices
tell you what a piece of [ __ ] you are
and we will twitch stream it the other
thing is he's either tortured or he
loves it needs a little pain piggy and
then that makes me even more mad I don't
think he's a pain which makes me want to
yell at him more which he would only
love more I don't think he's a pain
piggy I think he's just like he's just
like dude doesn't know how to respond to
this which is shocking to me but I guess
like if you look at being the editor of
The Jerusalem Post the opinions you
publish you're just like different like
it like the you have their little like
dot matrix printer out it's like you
have in the Wall Street Journal but it's
just two men with really low hairline
pictures yeah it's simple pictures like
staring at each other and the entire
call they have a debate column and
adjust them shoving each other boys had
a restaurant called
pizza buffet boys we've got on for like
four hours yeah you're probably cut it
yeah anyway point is ante there are many
societies in the world a lot of them had
bugs bugs that [ __ ] was tropes friends
not vibes from ropes friends as we
always intend on this show you're Dumber
now for having listened to this
absolutely yeah like how do you how do
you encounter this this this week of
discourse in the paper of record the
thing that's most is set this
standard for America's political
conversation and come away with any
thought other than we are just hooting
Gibbons screeching towards annihilation
just stabbing our brains out with
knitting needles
