let's pick out this reading series so we
were we of course are still mentioning
the the events of the the UK election
which were still in sort of a high from
but boy
holy [ __ ] if you wanted like a [ __ ]
real-world example for why people are so
pissed off in the UK and why Jeremy
Corbyn pulled off this shocking upset
it's this [ __ ] high-rise council
block that burned to the [ __ ] ground
and like not to the crown but just was
gutted by fire and Theresa May the
scenes of her being chased by crowds
pelted scream that she now has what
jezza's approval ratings were before the
election it's now totally flipped
that's an essence that's amazing this is
her Katrina is what there's yeah it's
the direct consequence of conservative
policy this was social housing this is
like a you know a council block or
whatever and this is what was incredible
to me the entire exterior of this
building was covered in I don't know
napalm or something because it looked
better to another block of flats that
was privately owned it was it was for
wealthy people they didn't want their
their I their line ruined by an ugly
public housing project so that literally
instead of doing any renovations or
installing a sprinkler system and this
gigantic residential complex like yeah
caked on oily rags and like yeah
gasoline jelly on the outside of this
building they yeah they used the
cladding on the outside of the building
that was flammable they could have used
one that was fire resistant it would
have cost five thousand pounds more
total tell you that yeah and they said
that will risk it okay keep that in mind
keep that figure of five thousand pounds
in mind because we're gonna go die I was
talking about my off mate classic we're
gonna dive right into this reading
series and we're returning again now to
my favorite and my favorite I mean maybe
the single worst person with a byline in
our media Megan McArdle yep
she came out yesterday with what is
honestly the worst take I've ever
[ __ ] seen or at least one of them
it's up there
this is writing in Bloomberg Megan says
beware of blaming government for London
tower fire okay this is like probably
the first time she wouldn't blame
government for anything well sometimes
they do the right thing and kill poor
people here's the subhead though perhaps
safety rules could have saved some
residents but at what costs other's
lives there's always a trade-off I love
that title formulation that's beware of
something that's obvious and popular and
frightening to you in particular you
always see that in life from people like
George Will what at what cost is a
subway cutting ties with Jared Fogle is
the drill tweet where well drunk driving
kills a lot of people but it also helps
people get to work on time so it's
impossible to know this matter but like
just think of that phrase there is
always a trade-off you couldn't get a
better example of a trade-off here which
as we said $5,000 versus what a few
hundred [ __ ] lives burnt incinerated
in this [ __ ] death trap that was her
big in her awful articles about health
care and how we can't have Medicare for
all is she said the same thing there's
trade-offs and yes of course there's
trade-offs everyone knows that but right
now every single trade-off is dead poor
people for granite [ __ ] countertops
and rich [ __ ] pea tears and and
she's just defending that trade-off is
good yep and when I first saw this my
instant reply was like this is the most
cynical and disingenuous she's ever been
which is really saying something but
then I sat with it for a second and read
the [ __ ] piece again and I was like
wait no she's not being disingenuous or
cynical at all this is exactly what she
believes like her being honest like
she's just not aware of it what do you
think Megan like because she's lazy as
in addition to being dumb do you think
she just wasn't aware of the body count
when she wrote this I think she didn't
care didn't care just didn't care
there's no I mean
stance you can't look you can't let
emotional things like the number of
people who died affect your rational
argument yeah it's a it's a spiritual
successor to the famous Matt Iglesias
take of Bangladeshi workers get crushed
by a factory that wasn't up to code and
that's ok you know it's it's that sort
of don't don't don't muddle my argument
with appeal to emotion I'm just telling
it like a trade offs but uh let's
actually read from Megan here she says
in her you know singular prose style a
few days ago fire swept through grenfell
tower a large apartment building in
London it's not yet known what caused
the fire and we aren't conclusively sure
how it spreads so quickly consuming the
entire 24 34 storey building nor is it
known how many people died in the fire
as a Friday the count is at least 30 so
she was in her mind was aware of at
least 30 dead people writing this
article what we do know is that there
are ways to help control the spread of
fire in apartment buildings such as
sprinkler systems this has the making of
a scandal for Prime Minister Theresa
Mays beleaguered government her
Immigration Minister Brandon Lewis was
formerly the Housing Minister he
declined to require developers to
install sprinklers the independent
quotes him is telling the Parliament in
2014 we believe it is the responsibility
of the fire industry rather than the
government to market fire sprinkler
systems effectively and encourage their
wider installation think about that
noise it's like you know the the fire
sprinkler company needs a better PR team
they would need to hire ads like ask ask
your landlord about sprinklers just like
a hallway totally on fire there's got to
be a better way even these libertarian
min arcus have to at least pretend
gesture that they're going to solve a
problem in some fashion by throwing a
few bucks at a PR campaign people who
died in the grenfell fire might be alive
today if regulators had required
sprinkler systems this does not play
well for the Tories you think what would
someone someone's taking a page out of
this Elizabeth look
I didn't alysus Megan but before we
start hanging them in effigy how about
not effigy half of that there are a
couple things we should consider the
first is that even if the regulation had
passed and required existing developers
to retrofit sprinklers into older
buildings Grenfell tower might not have
gotten a sprinkler system before the
fire occurred regulations are not
implemented like instant coffee great
analogy I've always said what's
something fast just painting a beautiful
picture with words she said they take
time to formulate and further time for
businesses to comply all the political
will in the world cannot conjure up
enough sprinkler systems and sprinkler
system installers to instantly transform
the nation's housing stops I think it's
a good point because we can't do it
overnight we shouldn't do it
[Laughter]
unless it's instant coffee I don't want
there's this guy John Ralston Saul he
wrote a book of Voltaire's bastards
[Laughter]
enlightenment rationality started off as
like a way to banish the mystic tyranny
of feudalism and allow people to
organize their lives with reason and
logic instead of instead of appeals to
superstition but over time it became an
edifice of justifying the rule of
entrenched elites and the managerial
class who have absorbed those those sort
of types of reasoning it puts this
patina of logic on just a huge mass
death machine I mean and Megan McArdle
is just like the single person ill
embodiment of that thesis because they
they're all they want is these [ __ ]
trade-offs and they will and everything
needs to be reasoned out
rational but at every point it is just a
way to stop people from thinking about
how the present order of things is
insane and bloodthirsty Matt and cruel
in a way that doesn't have to be not get
your wallet ready to bite down on
because it's gonna get so much worse all
the hands in the world all the toilet
paper in the world it's not instantly
gonna take all the wet [ __ ] out of my
ass you know you're dreaming about hope
you know where I'm out walking around
ripping acidic brown diarrhea
well okay I'd like to show me a better
way Sara how familiar were you with
McArdle's before her latest AG uh enough
to not be surprised that she published
this okay so she continues this however
is only a quibble if Grenfell tower
could not have been saved there are
surely other buildings where fire will
soon occur that may be so mad when I
read this it's like she started out
thinking ah I gotcha it would have taken
time for the sprinklers to have been
installed at every like oh wait now
other buildings uh well [ __ ] it I'll
just call just power through this
tonight next stupid [ __ ] heart
I'm dr. Manhattan I don't see time it'll
in your path I'm really glad she could
explain this to me NAT bite down on that
wallet and she says it may sound
heartless to discuss life-saving
measures as calculation but the fact is
we all make these sorts of calculations
every day not ourselves and others we to
make them in a way that enriches some
and kills others and we're okay with it
you're okay with it we get that consider
the speed at which use you're over to
work
[Laughter]
I'm not gonna be listening it is so it
is like needles under my [ __ ] skin
have you been fine how you can't
everyone can't drive 25 because it would
be everyone would know one would die and
yet are crashes but no one would get to
work on time yep right yeah that's
exactly okay good so we know good we can
move on okay some may disagree with me
using the muzzle flash my handgun to
toast my kids breakfast every morning
but hang on a second
she said we make these trade-offs every
day I don't see how driving a car is a
trade-off okay she says when the cost is
as personal as glaring and obvious as
restricting every car to a snail's pace
we can see that not all safety
trade-offs are worth it however when the
cost seems to be borne by someone else
we suddenly become safety absolutist no
price is safety jihad
[Laughter]
unfortunately other people's money has a
way of ultimately coming up cost more to
build buildings then rinse okay okay
wait a second
this paragraph here from sentence to
sentence line to line is I forget who
pointed this out is like the Galactic
brain okay we're going for regular brain
to cosmic consciousness and right now
every okay if it costs more to build
buildings then rents will rise people
will be forced to live in smaller spaces
perhaps farther away some of them in
fact may be forced to commute by
automobile and then we don't see those
costs in the same way we see a fires
victims we will never know the name of
the guy who was killed in a car accident
because he had to live far from work
because rents Rose because regulators
required sprinklers this isn't [ __ ]
this is a talking head son look
paralysis in the in the but in the face
of the butterfly effect when she was
saying you know what goeth in Iraq yes
yeah yeah look we can argue all day
about whether it was my fault or
probably your son's fault that he
flattened himself under my Wienermobile
replica but you know who's to say he
wouldn't have been killed by a condor at
a later day say that he wouldn't have
been playing underneath the wheel and
someone else's drives a clue yeah no I
kind of did you a favor getting a quick
go and make another one all right I
don't want not to have a stroke so I'll
just go to the last paragraph here it's
possible that by allowing large
residential buildings to operate without
sprinkler systems the British government
has presented prevented untold thousands
of all by being driven into homelessness
by higher housing if you think about all
the people who are like homeless per se
and you think about all the widely
available housing stock that there is in
a city like London or New York oh let's
say we just you know
housed homeless people in the available
housing who said like I mean who's to
say they wouldn't I mean like they're
not used to having a house and they
could slip and fall in the shower
leave a stove on you know let's not
forget the horrible consequence of that
which is that the the investment
portfolio of a bunch of psychotic Saudi
princes and Russian whele all the guards
would be slightly reduced what was it
you said you said earlier today virtual
about how Megan would be ineffective
controlled opposition in a communist
government yeah yeah just takes over
it's like she is like the figurehead of
the Tory party because no sensible
person no normal person who's not
politically oriented at all and not very
aware would read this and be like oh
yeah that makes sense
no everyone with any [ __ ] capacity to
think it reads us like oh this lady's a
monster well I think that she styles
herself as we saw with her book and even
the packaging of the book is like a
Gladwell sort of yeah you know I'm
giving you the twisted history of
economics or of moral blah blah blah
political economy and stuff like that so
she may be she may be going for that or
maybe a happy quincies the Washington
Generals of libertarianism I encourage
everyone to keep just keep saying Megan
McArdle is the leader of the ride and if
you vote Republican you believe this
lady just make her be the total
figurehead air drop her articles into
the Rust Belt you should testify for the
HCA like yeah oh my god love that is a
thought leader she's the head of the
Republican she invented conservatism
well here's the thing like like health
care right there's a lot of people don't
have it a lot of people will die without
it
if it gets taken away from them whom
among those people who might otherwise
die are actually murderers okay right
like think about the lives that we're
saving bye-bye what if future baby
Hitler was in grenfell tower oh my this
this is Blackbeard Megan McArdle
incoming black mayor what if you save
somebody's life but they made an app
that killed you no but like this is the
heart of how idiotic this argument is
because you can make it about anything
anything for any reason it's literally
just saying but what if and as you
pointed out counterfactuals were not
that interesting to her back in the Iraq
war days all of her [ __ ] about
trade-offs and like other people's money
and who's gonna pay for it all that [ __ ]
goes out the window when we decided to
like [ __ ] invade and occupy a country
that had nothing to do with 9/11 because
she felt like it yeah and remember how
angry she got it at people who were
against the war one of the biggest she
fantasized about them getting beat up
yeah one of the biggest anti-war
movement hippie punching [ __ ]
artists but I mean look she's learned
her lesson and as you could see is
developed a new compassion for human
beings yes and is humbled by the five
hundred thousand dollars where the [ __ ]
Bloomberg pays her to just [ __ ] this out
daily for a gaggle of sexually confused
bowtie guys is that her think about like
what her annual salary of Bloomberg is
versus what it would it cost to install
a sprinkler system in that building
that's no trade off I'm just gonna
finish this final paragraph you got it
we got off we out though but it says
it's possible that by allowing large
residential buildings to operate without
sprinkler systems the British government
has prevented untold thousands of people
from being driven into homelessness by
higher housing costs it's also possible
that a sprinkler system would not have
saved lives and grenfell in the rain
fell in for it okay yeah yeah as the
fire apparently spread outside the
building as well within it it spread
outside the building because it was
cladded inflammable [ __ ]
yeah hold these possibilities in mind
before condemning those who choose to
spend government resources on other
priorities regulatory decisions are
never without costs and sometimes their
benefits are invisible cost the rest of
all these sentences is costs to my
fellow rich pieces of [ __ ] yep this is a
sauce that she's worried about that's it
this
cause she's concerned this is as
disgusting as like any elimination it's
like a fast article you read it's just
as disgusting and heartless but because
it's behind like a respectable in the
media respectable ideological positions
it's okay but it's saying the same thing
like it's a zero-sum game and sometimes
people have to die for it at the altar
of this ideology yeah that's like no
that is one of the most sociopathic
things yeah years it's like I see it
almost as a form of eugenics I wrote
this piece a while back about the
eugenics and the Republican Party and
libertarians lost our shet they're like
how dare you you know the real eugenics
is abortion but I think you can really
say this like her piece is part of
valiantly she's literally arguing these
poor people who live in housing for poor
people well you know that money could
have been spent elsewhere yeah I think
and that's it well keep in mind Meghan's
book was the ups that we read on the
show the upside of down wife failing
well is the key to success she would
have a revised edition goodbye by
burning well is the gun too invisible
cost-benefit creative destruction you
know can't have the good stuff without
burning people to death was her book a
memoir yeah the show is the probably the
most painful reading series preciseness
that we've ever done the most mad
everyone ever got at will because he
assigned us all parts to read from it
yes yeah is that a [ __ ] slaw the sex
part
someone got that part I don't remember a
sex I got the break-up the relationship
part I got the relationship oh okay I
mean well the sex is implied no not with
libertarian that's Megan again I think
my line about her after I read this
piece was she's gone beyond both
banality and evil yes she's like a new
realm it's like it's it's so she's so
beyond boring you need the pineal gland
understand no Megan McArdle is the
ultimate like cosmic brain yes like you
start the regular brain is like my god
this unspeakable off is at loss of life
for literally no reason other than
saving money for a couple [ __ ] and
rich people and then Megan McArdle is at
the bottom with like universal
enlightenment yes where she sees through
time-space
and that is now God
orals yeah yeah that's it for this week
Sarah Jones thanks so much again joining
us thank you Sarah
thanks for having me our pleasure Cheers
until next time bye bye everyone
bye
