it's a good future I mean look when does
when did the events of halo take place
500 years in the future so we have to
get through a little bit of a rough
patch before we're there and this is the
rough patch we're getting through it
we're gonna do it the way events of halo
where the rough patch are you kidding me
do you see how [ __ ] cool they look
yeah a lot of people died but the Atanas
phase the [ __ ] Spartan armor [ __ ]
awesome Master Chief had a hologram that
maybe he'll [ __ ] in the next game you
can't [ __ ] them you're not friends with
them yeah you can't [ __ ] a hologram man
not yet yeah this guy fix the Holograms
like and what you think that cashier
likes you you got to get the hard light
Holograms right from Star Trek is that a
thing because like in the Star Trek you
could [ __ ] the Holograms right yeah on
the house have never seen Star Trek I
thought Chris for sure watch Star Trek I
thought for sure you watch Star Trek I
don't know what I know what you're
talking about I thought you could [ __ ]
the Holograms in Star Trek
oh is that what han Solo was no that's
like this room with like a huge sim a
trollface lathe roll face like a sir
with me you can do that now you know you
can't you just look at the hologram
you'd have to still crank your own meat
as long as your master there's a way you
can sort of homebrew a system has your
own a flashlight and it's mechanical
yeah III think that technology exists as
long as you're masturbating it's not
you're not in or you're not interacting
with the technology in my opinion you
have it has to be doing it for you for
you to actually have you having sex
call me a Luddite or whatever but if
you're not actually if your hands are
involved you're not no your hands
wouldn't be involved it's just this
isn't something like Sony would sell
you'd have to you know buy it so you're
saying that right now in the year 2018
you could jerry-rigged a system where
you could have sex virtually without any
kind of you touching yourself I don't
think you'd have to jerry-rig it I mean
III think there are distributors of this
kind of thing well okay but are you
talking about
well how do you engage the genitals
so yeah it's just it's a mechanical
device okay we have to stop yeah why do
you want to know so much about this stop
being a bit you wanting to perfect the
technology the one Kickstarter that's
like every Kickstarter well I'd make no
perfect artificial no you know I'm
asking not for myself I would never be
interested in this but this is a good
transition because I'm worried about
people who now apparently according to
the elite media I'm supposed to be
worried about and be very sympathetic
towards and want to find a solution for
and that are in cells man can we talk
about a funny this insole [ __ ] is you
know the part I love about it the most
all the New York media people who have
almost exclusively written think pieces
about how all every time they have sex
it's just horrible and unsatisfying and
gives them severe depression and get
drunk seven nights a week or like what's
the big deal just have be nice to
someone who'd have sex yeah yeah you
guys figured it out yeah yeah you're a
little bit better than them but not by
much it's a media ecology that's powered
by sexual neuroses and then someone has
is slightly less good at it and you can
just totally but the thing is you like
any hierarchy right there are a little
bit above the intel's and they're like
look great thing is that that's what
that's the real issue though is that in
sell is a specific thing it's not just
somebody who can't have sex it's
somebody who who has turned that into a
justification for their hardened
misogynistic worldview that they are
reinforced by through online they're
people who whose disaffection and and
you can argue about whether it's a
frustration with the fact they aren't
able to dominate women the way that they
could have in previous generations or
that they're just lonely or the way
everyone is in the 21st century either
way it starts with a sense of of being
unable to engage in traditional romantic
relationships and then the thing that
makes them different than just a general
term of someone who is romantically
unfortunate or a virgin or something is
somebody who then takes that
frustration and then plows it into the
internet and then gets into a community
of similarly afflicted men who that
reinforce each other's worst pathologies
and instincts and then turn that into
basically a worldview that that that is
essentially nihilistic but powered by a
sign at the heart by by a misogynistic
rage right it's the same thing that
seems to happen in a lot of communities
that are built solely on commiserating
and only the commiserating is that it
eventually just turns into no one helps
each other it gets better they just sort
of egg each other on to get angrier and
angrier
yeah ya know more and more miserable or
whatever it is whatever you know
obviously for men who are socially
dislocated the trend will go towards
making each other angrier and you know
possibly more violent and then for other
people might just be to make each other
sadder and go deeper into themselves but
yeah you know it's a very there have
always been guys who just couldn't [ __ ]
I mean there have there no but this is a
particularly modern affliction because
they seem they are both lonelier and
less lonely than they're than their
ancestors because our ancestors did not
have communities that they could build
on this where they could access everyone
else in the world who felt this way yeah
which turns out may have been a good
thing
well what's such a trip though is that
the reason people are talking about
insults now is that one of them plowed
into a bunch of people in Toronto and
killed them right in a literal Isis
style attack and within a week you have
people in the pages of the New York
Times going well let us hear them out I
don't remember happening after the nice
attack I don't remember any articles
like Isis do they have a point should
the [ __ ] the Great Satan of the West be
destroyed should the Caliphate be
extended across the globe nobody had
that nobody wanted to bat that around
but because these guys are relatable to
a certain type of I don't know Dallas
Hattie in sexual freak all of a sudden
their violent outbursts are calls for
help instead of cries to be
wiped off the face of the earth but I
promised that I wasn't gonna read the
Doucet article I said that on Twitter
and I haven't Virgil you looked at it is
there anything worth responding to in it
yeah I'm taking your word for it because
I'm not reading it hmm you want to give
it a shot yeah go for it all right
this entitled the redistribution of
sexes by Ross Douthat one lesson to be
drawn from least recent Western history
might be this sometimes the extremists
and radicals and weirdos see the world
more clearly than the respectable and
moderate insane you laugh at me because
I'm different I laugh at you cuz you
know all the same all kinds of phenomena
starting as far back as the Iraq war in
the crisis of the euro but accelerating
in the age of populism have made more
sense in the light of analysis by
reactionaries and radicals that is
portrayed in the organs of establishment
opinion therefore I will be resigning
yes you just basically yeah you wrote
yourself out of a gig this is part of
why there's been so much recent
agitation over universities and op-ed
pages and other forums for debate
there's general understanding that the
ideological mainstream is inadequate to
the moment but nobody can decide whether
that means we need purges or pluralism a
spirit of curiosity and conversation or
a furious war against whichever side you
think is evil I can decide don't [ __ ]
put words in my mouth Ross Douthat I can
decide I know the time for jibber-jabber
is over for those who are curious than
Marshall one useful path through this
thicket is to look at areas where
extremists and eccentrics from very
different worlds are talking about the
same subject so Isis killers and in
cells basically means such overlap is no
guarantee of wisdom but it's often a
sign that there's something interesting
going on op-ed pages are a land of many
contrasts which brings me to the sex
robots well actually it brings me the
case of Robin Hanson a George Mason
economist libertarian and noted
brilliant weirdo commenting on the
recent terrorist violence in Toronto
Hansen offered this provocation if we
are concerned about the just
distribution of property money why do we
assume that the desire for some sort of
sexual redistribution is inherently
ridiculous wait a minute you're a
libertarian you are you don't credit the
redistribution of wealth so far what the
[ __ ] are you even talking about
uuugh at you
prima facie reviews to redistribute
wealth but you're gonna want to talk
about redistributing [ __ ] sex like
it's a goddamn commodity but you won't
redistribute any actual commodities well
that's that's really the essence though
it's over then shut up he's finished
after all he wrote one might plausibly
argue that those with much less access
to sex suffer to a similar degree as
those with low income and might
similarly hope to gain from organizing
around this identity lobby for
redistribution along this axis and to at
least implicitly threaten violence okay
a man's earn I say I don't know that you
could plausibly argue that but you could
definitely argue it prevent professor
walking-stick okay they'll hold on a
minute though she might be doing
something else he might be trying to
undermine the case for wealth yeah by
saying well if by your logic in it
yeah and saying if you want to
redistribute wealth doesn't that mean
you should also want to force women to
have sex with these weirdos that's and
if you don't want to force them to have
sexually is weirdos
then you shouldn't redistribute wealth
that is the only way that that argument
is even ATS probably as plausible that's
also incredibly stupid but it's the only
way that's even surface although wealth
is a lot like sex you know if you don't
have any experience with it you come
into it you either blow through it in 30
seconds so you never have any fun with
it well the towel is him saying or at
least implicitly threatened violence if
their demands are not met no that that's
probably the case but I guess Ross did
not realize that his toy did at face
we've got it that hard
that's amazing Ross God you dummy okay
little bearded [ __ ] skipping ahead a
number of the critics I saw engaging
with the essay tended to respond the way
a normal center-left rider like Weissman
engaged with Hansen's thought experiment
by commenting on its weirdness or
ideological extremity rather than
engaging fully with its substance but to
me reading them together offers a good
case study in how intellectual
eccentrics like socialists and populist
in politics can surface issues and
problems that lurk beneath the surface
of more mainstream debates by this I
mean that as offensive or utopian the
redistribution of sex might sound the
ideas entirely responsive to the logic
of late modern sexual life and its
pursuit would be entirely care
characteristic of a recurring pattern in
liberal societies this is Ross going
back to form here first because like
other forms of neoliberal deregulation
the sexual revolution created new
winners and losers new hierarchies to
replace the old ones privileges the
beautiful and rich and socially adept in
new ways and relegating others too new
that was frustration rich attractive
people could never get laid before the
second round it wasn't it all like until
about 1963 if you own two hats you could
[ __ ] anyone yeah they had to [ __ ] you
look at me
louis xiv was just sadly jerking off
into his chamber pot he could never get
laid this is the classic Ross right
because it's like if you look at sort of
a lot of people's sexual relationships
now you can go yeah a lot of these are
wrong and we've commodified so much
human interaction that these are awful
and unfulfilled for people like all of
modern life is but his solution is to
harken back to a past that never existed
yes and he goes to the complete wrong
direction instead of going maybe we
shouldn't commoditize so much of our
interaction maybe we live in an
outstandingly lonely time maybe the
problem isn't so much for bisk ewis sex
as it is everything is transactional
it's let's make it so that you have to
give someone for donkeys to get a
[ __ ] let's bring back mandatory
tithing to the one Street Church second
because in this new landscape and amid
other economic and technological
transformations the sexes seem to be
struggling generally to relate to one
another with social and political chasms
opening between them and not only
marriage and family but also sexually a
sexual activity itself in recent decline
third because the culture was dominant
message about sex is still essentially
heaven Arian despite certain revisions
attempted by feminists since the heyday
that was the Armenian guy who invented
sexual harassment a message that
frequency and variety as sexual
experiences as close to a Summum bonum
as the human condition has to offer not
the greatest possible diversity and
sexual desires and tastes and identity
should not only be accepted but
cultivated in that virginity and
celibacy are at best strange and at
worst pitiable States uh I wanna I wanna
I got a paraphrase
front of the show and infrequent gasps
Jacob baccarat who on Twitter pointed
out one of the central fallacies of Ross
as a point there when he says that one
of the things about Hefner in sexual
idea ideology is that it prizes variety
but the thing about Hefner was that his
sexual aesthetic and and concept was
incredibly monotonous it was one it was
basically a million copies of the same
person and and and and to do that has
the because he has a literal-minded
dullard he thinks well a lot of
different women but all women who
essentially look the same
because Hefner was a reactionary figure
he was he was trying to bring back sort
of the pre-world War two gender dynamics
that have been disrupted by women
entering the workforce and that and that
heav'n Aryan sexuality is conservative
and that's part of the part of his
inability to reckon with the past the
way it actually was as opposed to the
way that he thinks of it in his head
well Hefner for these guys is kind of
what like jay-z is more Boomer t-cog
could serve yeah which yes is hood which
is to say yeah jay-z for the past 10
years has been like yeah I set up the
investment trust no taxes hit bust went
to the fashion show
oh no what's that on the floor and it
just nothing but yeah starting
restaurant groups the best type of
furniture you can buy when you have a
young child and but if you talk to a
conservative about it because he like
met Obama or whatever they're like this
van he's talking about his [ __ ] and
his hoes selling crack which he hasn't
done in years but with Hefner how care
just for seemingly
a hundred and fifty years had a magazine
where it was like wonderful woman wore a
boat captain hat but you could see her
nipples which is very boring like that
type of thing you jack off to when
you're 12 and you're afraid of seeing a
vagina or whatever but they're like this
is the most freaky [ __ ] I've ever seen
[ __ ] is smoking cigar she's half-naked
what the [ __ ] put it away
oh my god it's right next to this is
best high-fives of 1965
oh this is too much this master
narrative inevitably makes both the new
inequalities in decline of actual
relationships that much more difficult
to bear which in turn encourages people
as ever under modernity to place their
hope for escape from the cost of one
revolution in a further one yet to come
be a political social or technological
which will supply if not the promised
utopia at least some form of redress for
the many people that progress is
obviously left behind there is an
alternative conservative response of
course namely that our widespread
isolation on happiness and sterility
might be dealt with by reviving or
adapting older ideas about the virtues
of monogamy and chastity and permanence
and the special respect owed to the
celibate okay so you remember when your
wife was like a slave that you had kids
with and also how are you doing that
without dismantling capitalism the force
behind every single [ __ ] thing that
he's talking about
you're gonna allow this rampaging
[ __ ] Dee atomizing machinery this
alienated economic system that turns
people towards its purpose and away from
any kind of idea of the self nononono
Ross needs to go on PUA hate and explain
to them the virtues of monogamy and
chastity it literally said that's what
the alright is the alt-right
are guys who went from that PUA to this
[ __ ] doesn't work pipeline and then
we're like you know it does work if we
completely return society to how I
imagine the 50s but in such an insanely
small bar way at the beginning of this
article he sort of suggests that his
entire existence and the existence of a
North in like the New York Times op-ed
page has essentially been superseded by
reality and his pointless but then he
confirms that by after Sue's ol article
pointing out the real chasm and a real
crisis an identity in and and in
relationships in humans in lake capital
existence and his response is tax
credits for abstinence only education
that's great it's like how do you look
into the abyss and come out with that as
your [ __ ] response that's true he was
all over Rubio adding the [ __ ] child
the little measly child
to the Trump tax abilities like we did
it yeah we did it every [ __ ] this is
gonna turn it all around this is gonna
this is gonna this is gonna make hole
has been broken apart this is gonna make
make straight wood has been rendered
crooked it's gonna be [ __ ] taxpayer
assisted inducements to have a kid in
wedlock yo Sain gibberish shoutout to
everyone who doubted me but we got $200
for new parents whoo families coming
back baby Oh congratulations
congratulations you just had a kid
here's your $200 check for having a kid
here's your $10,000 bill for having a
child your Rubeus hospital your rubio
bucks balance is negative $125 but I
expect the logic of commerce and
technology will be consciously harnessed
as already in pornography to address the
unhappiness of in cells be they angry
and dangerous or simply depressed and
despairing the left's increasing zeal to
transform prostitution into a legalized
and regulated in scare quotes here sex
work will have this and implicitly in
mind the libertarian and general male
fascination that's redundant with
virtual reality porn and sex robots will
increase as those technologies improve
and at a certain point without this is
just one long run-on sentence and at a
certain point without anyone formally
debating the idea of a right to sex
right thinking people will simply come
to agree that some such right exists and
that it makes sense to look to some
combination of change laws new
technologies and evolve mores to fulfill
its whether sex workers and sex robots
can actually deliver real fulfillment is
another matter but that they will
eventually be asked to do it in service
of a redistribute of goal that for now
seems creepy or misogynist a radical
feels pretty much inevitable so he's
saying that the dumb like ben shapiro
take on universal health care which is
that you force doctors to work at
gunpoint for free will happen if we
legalize prostitution yeah essentially
because he wants to brilli went for it
this week Ross he believed he wants to
availed he wants to blame this hyper
accelerating capitalist sort of end
point where where people have
essentially been stretched into their
individual [ __ ] molecules
like somebody being pulled into a black
hole he wants to turn that into the
fault of the 60s cultural shift he wants
to he wants to blame that on on birth
control pills my culture like my Western
patriarchal culture is so strong it's
the strongest ever we never should have
left it by the way it was destroyed by
guys with bowl cuts smoking dirt weed
and going hey can you give me a groovy
[ __ ] it's just it's Matt he yeah he's
just he's just the sad wizard who lives
in a D&D realm where a bunch of dirty
hippies cast sexual promiscuity and then
did like a Becks role is that a thing I
don't know is that yeah I think you
would I'll use it extra I don't know hey
what if your finger-blasting they cast a
spell for sexual promiscuity and then
they'll be an aura okay or of sexual
promiscuity and then they roll to some
what do they roll I mean it depends by
generally I mean I think if the aura
would last a certain period of time you
have to renew it or perhaps to use magic
spell points in order to sustain it okay
not be dude they've been saying my oral
s forever the short answer is it depends
what class you are all right okay I'm of
almost four yeah yeah so in the game I
got clones and they've ever had sex for
clones in ways so they're pretty good at
sex okay so that he thinks that happened
yeah as opposed to capital acceleration
B capital e accelerating that's why as I
said before I'll always respect the
nickel and Psychopaths who identify the
actual vector and just say that's good
and we should all see we should want to
cease to be we should want
singularity and we should we should
wanted to basically get rid of humanity
what I don't understand is and just
basically want to for the point of
feeling right like at the end of the day
guys like Douthit they don't actually
care if anything changes they just want
to be on record has of being as of being
the the soft quiet correct voice of
decency who is who has not listened to
in the howling
profane public sphere there's been
cheapening by the day they just want to
be that they don't actually care if
anything changes what I understand is
how we're men worse off now post sexual
revolution or how are the in cell men
worse off other than that they're more
envious I guess
yeah the old path for in cell men was
that you worked in a little brick shed
on a rich guys property and they're like
oh yeah that guy wipes my donkeys asses
and he's a simpleton it was that your
tork oh yeah yeah and you were you were
alone in your targets now all the tour
goes get to go online and assure each
other that it's not your tour gonna
stats the problem it's the women they
all got together and decided that
they're only going to distribute their
sexual goodies to the Chad's I'm gonna
prevent you from having it even though
you are imposing upon them the exact
same lookest standards that you're
blaming them for having on you yeah
that's the thing I never got about those
[ __ ] they are mad at hot women
for only wanting to be with hot men but
would never consider being with an on
someone who they would consider less
attractive so the so the general
objection is that women now have higher
standards and a more reproductive
freedom and not you know their being in
the workforce they don't you don't have
to rely on marrying an in cell man yes
so like that first part isn't even true
you don't spend enough time around women
if you really think that you follow any
woman and you look at her timeline alan
dershowitz could get it oh my god the
noid could crush my oh my god yeah um
but which way western man which way
commiserating about Becky's and Stacey
is in a discord that will later be
seized by the FBI because one of you
used a Zamboni to kill somebody or or
you and another bunch of guys with dusty
floppy hats sharing a can of baked beans
on a rich guys to stage and wondering
what it's like to hold somebody's hand
and going oh I think I'll see some great
clouds which way a western man both are
great yeah that's true like Jim sells
they used to just all join the Navy like
the British Army
British Navy was just in self yeah see
for 12 years I never saw women those are
you're in cells and they [ __ ] each other
and then blind barrels yeah they would
[ __ ] each other and then every time they
saw they saw like oh my god this is a
beautiful bird I've never seen before
let's kill this piece of [ __ ] she's
punching rare birds to death there's
that story the dollop did a story about
this century now this is a different one
in 19th century a British merchant ship
er something found this island off the
coast of Australia way off the coast of
Australia and it had like a million
penguins on it it was just the entire
ground was basically nothing but
penguins and they just immediately
started murdering them all they couldn't
eat them they're not really good food
they just started murdering them and
only after they just started murdering
them they figured out oh we can put them
into a giant press and turn them into
grease that we can use to light candles
it's not as good as whale blue whale oil
or anything it's basically it's like
nature its the ditch weed of flammable
you know look material but we get to
kill all these birds these birds who
play little jokes on each other a little
Society holy [ __ ] we get to just run
erotic cuz they're not scared of humans
they've never seen them before you could
just walk up to them and Club them all
to death and they did that that'd have
to be the best day of their life oh my
god can you imagine it's like a
real-life grand theft auto where the
cops never show up so you're you're
these sweet little birds oh my god so
your suggestion just put them all on a
boat yeah yeah you could call it the
tragic Christian I mean we all very good
baby very good thing we should use robot
technology to make sexbots we should use
it to make fake penguins so they're not
really killing penguin or since there's
no like water to there's no front Tirico
no code to send anybody to water wise
everything you know everything leads to
somewhere where people are you just sent
him in a space Oh
see all that Bezos technology say sorry
buddy you're not escaping to Mars to
watch us drown to death [ __ ] you're
here with us all the in cells can go to
space Felix had the answer right there
it's not that they deserve sex robots
they deserve sex pedestrians to kill
robot pedestrians
oh my god give them some simulated
outlet for their invented rage against
theses or whatever seem that deloria sex
video where he's playing the game postal
too and he's he's just of course
murdering women no I can't put it and he
like throws a Molotov cocktail aboard
and he goes oh I told your branch who
are some worse Rollo's it's just like
horrifying but it's like you know if you
just made like a Westworld for these
guys where it was just like robots
without souls that they could kill like
yeah but though not let them out but
then they would get really good at
actual guns that's why you can't leave
them out I can't let them out it you
can't lock them up do you allow people
to go to therapy for free or have
parents that like there's something out
or yeah not have every moment of
everyone stayed devoted to not [ __ ]
drowning so that they could you know
talk to one another do that oh god that
you know which one are we are going to
do now it's going to be the west-world
for souls to do yes active shooter
Disney World will you make them
different from real world guns you know
you [ __ ] with them yeah you can't
license them yeah yeah we built this
three trillion dollar simulation who
didn't want to license the guns
[Music]
