[Music]
gentlemen and ladies we being here today
to discuss what I think is the greatest
social crisis facing our nation and we
are going to do it now the first time
ever a chapel symposium on the issue is
there a Joker crisis in America I will
be doing the role of McLaughlin on the
McLaughlin group to introduce this you
know all-star cast here let's be honest
we're playing with a full deck Joker's
are wild and as such we've got all a
tsa's bringing you this conversation
here today
beginning with introduce Felix Peterman
I consider myself to Pat Buchanan of
this roundtable asking why the Joker has
gone to Israel so many times why those
scars are scarves from circumcision I
couldn't do the joke visually mad it was
a joke before everyone got here before
the McLaughlin group forum it was pretty
good I was just disappointed because I
didn't get to set it up by calling him
the choker I think I have a different
opinion on this movie than most of the
people here but I think we can all agree
on one thing the music choice especially
for a key scene in the movie yet perfect
[Music]
hey I'm Jen pan my qualifications for
talking about this movie are that I've
seen it which apparently is more than
most people who are writing about it
including some articles I saw today in
vogue in the cut that were titled things
like why I won't be seeing Joe it's
important to take a stand you need to
have your voice heard Amberly frost you
know dedicated soldier and the glorious
cause of the workers movement and PhD
and joker studies that Chrisman Here I
am reviewing this film a changed man
because of all of the ways I thought I
could pass
we respond to this movie I do not think
in a million years I could have
predicted the way that I actually did
and we'll talk more about it later will
min occur host McLaughlin chapo
traphouse Adam can introduce both of
them we got Nick from come town podcast
Adam from come town podcast and I'm I'm
glad you guys invited us on to talk
about our buddy Shane from the man Shane
[Laughter]
from SNL can you imagine if they tried
to put him in a movie
yeah no I'm just like pissed off all the
[ __ ] Chinese people won't let me say
[ __ ] that I want to say so yeah so
obviously you got a raw deal and so
thanks I mean we're gonna share some
thoughts on that we're gonna get into it
but leading off the symposium we do have
a special guest
calling in from Australia international
film critic Matt B Brady we'll kick
things off with his first thoughts on
Joker Matthew Brady audio log I'm
recording this in the hopes that there's
still someone out there to listen to it
I think it's important that at least one
person stands witness to these end days
I suppose I suppose I should start at
the beginning
I can only speak to what happened here
in Australia we lost contact with the
rest of the world pretty quickly on the
fourth of October at 10:23 a.m. the
Australian Prime Minister ordered every
fighter jet the Australian Air Force has
into the air that's right all eight of
them their target was simple every
cinema blacks
and movie theatres in the country the
reason the Joker movie unfortunately the
bombs came to be late a few bold souls
had tried to warn us beforehand they
told us this movie was dangerous but we
just didn't listen and even that was an
understatement
Joker directed by Todd Phillips is like
the black death and the Spanish flu
combined this movie has dropped more
bodies than Hillary Clinton watching it
is like staring at the opened Ark of the
Covenant
maybe theaters this became Charnel
houses and the few that managed to
survive you could hardly call them lucky
you see the movie adding vectored them
somehow it was like a virus or something
they'd walk out of the theater
immediately get online and create a
gimmick account like Joker rates dogs
Joker and just unleash havoc it's still
hard to believe how fast it all happened
how FAR's the world ended I suppose I
should attempt to describe the movie
itself future generations if there are
any deserve to know what happened in the
beforetime you see I did see the movie I
had to I managed to find one of the few
theaters that didn't get hit I didn't
even need to buy a ticket there was no
one at the register or the concession
stand there was no Usher's I don't even
know if there's anyone in the
projectionist booth but that movie it
was playing so I sat down to watch it or
I tried to go at least it was kind of
hard to pay attention to the movie
itself I mean I was constantly having to
check the exits or scan the rest of the
audience for potential threats I got up
and went to the bathroom seven times and
searched it just to make sure no one had
hidden a weapon in there michael
corleone style and when I wasn't doing
that I couldn't even sit down I had to
spend the entire movie in a combat
crouch with my weight evenly distributed
between both feet so that I was ready to
launch myself in any direction at the
first sign of danger one thing I did
notice though
for a movie called the Joker it wasn't
actually very funny
there's a pretty light on actual jokes I
feel like the Joker himself could have
maybe done a few more bits you know like
so he had a can of coke zero for
instance a need to build a soup anyway
huh
this uh this Coke Zero
it's Coke Zero taste a little funny yeah
I uh I guess there's a 1 in it really
I'm at now wandering the loam of the
outback a harrowing report Australia I
won't understand anything he was saying
on how the the Joker madness is
spreading but um we've all now exposed
ourselves to it and I want to begin this
roundtable discussion with Felix your
article in dead spin I think it's a
great jumping-off point could you talk a
little bit about the history of the
Joker in American culture how this Joker
fits into our current moment and some of
what you make of the reaction to the
movie itself from there you you wrote a
great review nothing in it is wrong but
I think we're gonna widen with anything
that I write widen the aperture of this
discussion cuz we have some very very
enthusiastic takes on this movie well so
the Joker
you know Joker is a lens you can see
certain periods of American history
through like the the Cesar Romero Joker
who I mistakenly referred to as the
Oscar Romero Joker and the initial draft
of the article that somehow went to
publication initially that's actually it
was a good comparison because the US
military and those death hunters were
basically where the Batman of the 80s ya
know United Fruit Company Wayne
industries but he represented a
whimsical time where you know we tried
to kill Castro with poisoned dental dams
and things like that of course Castro he
was part of the anti condom movement so
he was he was safe forever
but you know in the 90s you had like an
ad Buster style Joker in Jack Nicholson
who had no real like nothing really
beyond like you know taking an art
gallery and making it crazy and then
when we became very self serious and
gritty after 9/11 because we had lost a
war we had Heath Ledger and now we have
the perfect Joker because it creates a
for this time because there's a bunch of
sound and fury and reaction encounter
reaction about this thing that this
movie isn't actually about and
journalists alternating between telling
themselves the same 30 jokes they've
told since like late 2016 against an
army of people who are radical I not
radicalized but just pay attention to
guys on YouTube named like the the
snarky logician arguing with each other
forever about this thing that's just
like it would have just been like a
slightly above average movie in 2006 Jen
pan your thoughts so um we I'm sure will
talk about all the political stuff and I
know do you want to dive into that but I
think I really like the movie just on
the basis of it being kind of like a
movie about psychological disintegrates
like the sort of best movie genre that
there is and I mean I think that you
know one particular part in that in the
movie where that comes through is kind
of when there's that sort of reveal near
the end where it turns out that he's
kind of hallucinate AddThis relationship
with his neighbor who lives down the
hall and that was sort of the you know
point that people I think got a little
upset or uncomfortable about they were
like this is the kind of like insel part
or whatever but I you know I really
didn't think it was like a condemnation
of her he didn't seem to be particularly
angry at her she seemed like a good mom
and a good neighbor and but you know
there was that kind of reveal where it
was like oh he is completely batshit and
I thought that was pretty cool even if
that kind of moment was a little bit
fight club' or you know a bit I don't
know a bit tired at this point and we
there's promises that we'll talk about
Gary Glitter so I'll stop on that but
that's like
we needed to Rita she threatened Twitter
amber okay so I actually went into this
like knowing that it was going to be
like a series of omage --is and I had
like a major like criticism it would be
that it was like a little too packed
with oma jizz but I thought that
actually in many ways it was the inverse
of like a like a death wish or you know
a taxi driver because those are movies
that are high art and highly reactionary
and this is a movie that's not really
high art but it has perfect politics it
is a class war movie but the kind of
like liberal pundit reclass wouldn't
know class war if it bit them in the ass
like like they would watch like you know
the execution of the Romanovs and be
like in racism much like it's actually
insane and I think the most interesting
thing about the movie is that like it
has proven that like the trump
administration has turned every like
liberal into like a 1970s Wisconsin
housewife just like listening to her
son's heavy-metal records backwards
looking for secret satanic messages it's
completely insane I think it's amazing
what lose about the central core that's
about insults and when it's just so
clearly about class war if anything this
movie has exposed the psychosis of the
kind of like you know cultural media
liberal
and it's not even like subtly about that
there are points in the movie biggest
complaint is that it's like two on the
nose or out class well there are points
in the movie where you just see like
newspaper headlines that just say kill
the rich we'll get to that but uh next
up Matt Chrisman all right I went into
this movie expecting myself to have
basically Felix's opinion of all this
ridiculous mess and cultural mishegoss
over this what a perfectly and she got
moment we have this garbage and just the
stupid sterile argumentation about
garbage that's so perfect and that's
what I was expecting to think and I was
of course also resentful of just the
idea that now every film asked
just be a superhero movie for it to get
funding so you just make good movies and
turn them into superhero garbage but I
sat down to watch it and I now believe
that it is I think honestly almost
accidentally and not really through an
effort of any other filmmakers just
lightning in a bottle a work of
surpassing brilliance and a master taste
I think it is genius I think it is
brilliant Michael Moore agrees with you
I think that there are two levels of
analysis here that are incredibly sharp
and illuminating and like felt made me
like feel like I had taken an
intellectual [ __ ] enema they just
like made so many things that felt kind
of right outside the tip of my tongue to
make sense like it just by exemplifying
to phenomenon one is it distillates the
last 20 years of cultural conversation
about what the Joker means as a cultural
character right because the Joker has
been around forever but only since like
Dark Knight
The Joker has become a focal point in
culture he's a Shibboleth for white male
alienation right like you know uh the
twisted idea the idea you know why
should I apologize for the monster I've
become nobody apologize for making me
one right that's what the Joker
represents and this movie is about how
that what that means it has to be a
movie about the Joker it has to be a
Joker origin story because it's the
origin of the joke or not as a character
in the Marvel DC universe but as a
cultural phenomenon what the Joker comes
from and and then and the level and the
level of the text itself you have the
prop the whole movie is about the
process what we're by cultural catalyst
cultural hegemony takes white male
alienation and directs it away from
class consciousness towards individual
nihilism and that is the process of the
movie that is the movie is his class
alienation about people feel being
directed by culture down to this
nihilistic path and away from a real
revolutionary spirit and that's why it
had to be a 70s period piece because
that is when because the Joker now is a
gritty character like that's the whole
joke is that this comic-book stuff but
he's serious and 70s is when we invented
gritty cinema it was the first new
Hollywood 70s is when
pretty cinema existed and it has to be a
superhero movie because that's the
current coin of the cultural realm and
it's like people who grow up with these
cultural references an experienced
class-based alienation are then
channeled because of the culture that
they consume towards nihilism and away
from class consciousness and the dream
at the end where he gets held up
spoiler alert and embrace that isn't
real is that like that thing that could
actually be good the the suppressed
desire for community and solidarity and
then he snaps back to being literally in
the asylum and separated and unable to
connect to others and committed to a
life of meaningless violence and then
you have the fact that the Liberals
decided to tell people this movie is too
scary it's too bad you're all gonna
become insel shooters if you see it
don't see it so of course all these guys
go and see it because that's enticing
and now they they can't analyze it about
class consciousness because they've
already been told it's actually about
how you're an entitled white male who
wants to be a written charge and you
hate women and minorities and then you
see the movie and you're like well I
relate to a lot of this I guess it's
about being a Nazi and I'm a Nazi now
because they're they're brainwashing
they're literally washing it and
poisoning it in part by saying that [ __ ]
and they hope you'll take that message
away that even time I'm sorry I'm done
like I said I've just say a few things
and that was one of them I probably
won't talk again for like 20 minutes
it's not everybody projects their own I
mean literally everybody projects
everything they're feeling on in this
[ __ ] movie for some reason but the
only important thing to me was that todd
phillips could make a funny movie when
he needed to and the moments that are
supposed to be funny in that movie or
[ __ ] hilarious
so i mean that alone did it for me other
than that yeah it's a great performance
[ __ ] fun-ass actor it's just it was
it was fun it's a fun fun movie I don't
know how you go see that movie you don't
walk away like not feeling like you had
a good time Adam I think I guess I
depart from what everyone's been saying
I think the movie was about
anti-semitism
a lot of people scoff at us because
we're failed stand-up comedians and we
bathe our mothers and we get into bed
with our mothers and watch late-night
television with them and you know I
think you know one day we could we could
maybe snap you know mitt one day we may
be like you know kill the president or
something like that you know so I think
no I mean I I agree dude you guys are
wasting I guess what the movie does
culminate with I guess we should talk a
little bit about like you know Joaquin
Phoenix's Arthur Fleck his take on the
Joker Felix you described how of
previous incantations of the Joker have
fit into American culture two questions
a where does Jared Leto's Joker fit into
your equation and where does Joaquin
Phoenix arth reflect Joker well Jared
Leto was perfect for like the pre Trump
hyper consumer of media period because
it was like this [ __ ] idiot doing
something stupid and then people running
it into the ground and this thing
becoming financially viable despite what
you know if you out hundred thousand
people who consume every bit of media
said so it was the perfect pre Trump
thing but this one like just in and of
itself like removed from what I think of
the movie as a whole he does like
Joaquin Phoenix is he's the greatest
deal he does a [ __ ] amazing job
playing a deeply disturbed like sort of
sympathetic isolated man yeah no he's
tweezed twisted his [ __ ] but just
amazing dancer I have to say like I know
there were like five like weirdos drink
dance but he's like clearly taking some
Martha Graham glasses absolutely he's
got loose hips he's wonderful
yeah he's in his body I want in the fact
that he gave himself computer neck for
the movie yes to appeal to the when
there's no reason he doesn't work at a
desk there's no reason for his posture
to look like that right he looked like
the Hanoi and boxing kid like it's
[ __ ] amazing I he's the King Jen like
uh I supposed to look like Joaquin
Phoenix his portrayal did Joker Arthur
flack a struggling comedian but to me
what the movie was really about is a guy
a fairly harrowing and effecting because
of Joaquin Phoenix of performance
portrayal of a guy suffer
from mental illness and the lack of
social resources to help him or his
family but do you think that like it the
portrayal of civil service and social
good in the movie says that it's like
it's a lack of that that's killing
Arthur or is it like are they as
indifferent as the Thomas Wayne you know
sort of charitable billionaire character
yeah I mean you know as amber said like
I too thought that the movie had perfect
politics such that when we walked out of
the theater we went to see it together
and when we walked out I said I'm gonna
call the movie Loker
I mean I think that you know obviously
like he is psychologically
disintegrating and the backdrop is you
know one of extreme economic inequality
the retrenchment of the welfare state
and you know labor unrest
did everybody catch that whole like
garbage strike right which also the
trash is piling up yeah also he's like
literally chained to a radiator and
beaten right yeah yeah like he had a lot
of [ __ ] going on but I also think about
that part in the movie where he is
talking to his social worker and at
first you know he's kind of like oh
you're not listening to me and it sort
of seems like she's not that invested
but then she's like the money is gone
they don't give a [ __ ] about you but
they also don't give a [ __ ] about me so
you know I think that overall his kind
of like own turmoil was very very much
set in this you know larger context of
societal disintegration and I mean I
have more to say about just like
American mainstream American movies and
class conflict but you know let's yeah I
think that that element of of him of him
being alienated from the social welfare
state but then at the end the thing
about there that we don't have any money
it's it's it's very perceptive about
failed and Holle intentionally because
the idea is these aren't these
institutions are alienating in
themselves they are they are hollowed
out by the like neoliberal state like
they are intentionally deprived of
resources so that they don't function
and but what the function of that is is
that someone who interacts with those
institutions in a way that is alienating
is then alienated from the state as a
con
and it further atomizes them and takes
their rage and makes it more personal
and makes them hard it makes it harder
for them to see things as like the
product of you know capitalism so I
thought like also like it was the thing
that annoyed me is that like I realize
like oh this is a we live in a society
movie and I don't like that they're
using comic books to tell like Ken Loach
stories but nonetheless I will say that
I do think everyone who is not like the
wealthy people there are portrayed
relatively like sympathetically or at
least like opaquely enough to leave room
like really the only true enemies in it
are one like Wall Street guys into like
these lofty allegedly benevolent liberal
you know billionaires yeah and like I
thought that was pretty good I thought
like even like you know the kids that
knocked him around like later on he was
just like yeah I should have chased them
cuz also his Jewish co-worker who plants
the gun on him yeah causes all the
problems you know the dwarf didn't give
him the gun no no Jewish man I thought
it was weird when Phoenix looked
directly into the camera and told the
viewer to Google the USS Liberty okay so
like I what your guys saying about like
the politics of the movie but that's
still like it doesn't make like the
actual movie that great for me exactly
it's like if you if you zoom way into it
and just look at it as like this is a
stupid movie about the Joker
it's [ __ ] grab out of clown [ __ ]
mad at Batman the only thing Todd
Phillips said about the movie is like
yeah you can't really make jokes anymore
and that's it I've been heard like him
way like wade into these conversations
at all and that's like what I've heard
from the filmmakers and he said he's
like you know you're not like he's like
he's not like a hero he's just like a
subject and I feel like people don't
understand about everybody everybody
who's in a movie has to be a good guy
that you root for cuz I teaches you good
lessons and how to be a good person cuz
that was Breaking Bad is where that
[ __ ] started the final season of
Breaking Bad people like shouldn't he be
in jail yeah what no it's Hays Code
idiocy right that's a level the third
level of analysis that this is all very
depressing because we're having these
in-depth meditations myself included I
need that $300 from Deadspin for more
gaming mouses but about this thing that
like it's an impossible thing to verify
right but if you took this movie removed
the Joker from and removed the context
that we're in from it put it in [ __ ]
2007 where we all watch it how would you
feel about it I don't know and it's
depressing because yeah not only is this
movie beat you over the head very
unsettled to the point where we're
unsure of like when we delve deeper into
it we're unsure of how good it actually
is the main criticism from it is adults
who seem to have had some sort of like
brain degeneration we're just every
piece of media has to be about friends
being nice to each other protagonists
means a good guy
protagonist means you like them
protagonist means you are them it's
psychotic thoughts well I would see the
Florida Project yeah that was just
poverty porn though no it's I think it's
I think it's the most beautiful movie
about the American working class that I
know so I'm gonna like fight movie and
it is something about that movie the
guys who are people for sure yeah but
Bruges what people do make good art
nonetheless it is like I don't even know
what that word is this another joke or
movie person who's like a very shitty
person and it's like you don't feel like
compelled to say oh this is a good
person this is a bad person specifically
because it doesn't carry with it the
baggage of the Joker it's that people
aren't looking at it being like oh is
this supposed to represent like Pepe or
something like people can watch that and
this is also a terrible person and still
like feel sympathy and feelings for them
and and it's just like literally people
have become it's like Hillary being
obsessed with Pepe like they've lost
their [ __ ] minds see but that's just
the thing and that's why I must fixate
in my extolling of this film is at the
level that it is most powerful for me at
and the one that I think justifies
everything that I think you might have a
narrow point about in terms of why is it
got to be a joker movie all this dumb
stuff and how it's obvious it hit you
over the head in my opinion all those
things connect to to raze the movie to
its highest level which is where it is a
it is a movie about how the Joker
started but not the character in the
[ __ ] comics the phenomenon of because
he represents alienated by aerial
pathology right that is what the Joker
is that's the guys who wear it they
embrace that idea and the liberal scolds
who are terrified of white menaces Trump
that's where they that's what they think
it is to and this movie is about how
that came into being the process of
alienation and then fragmentation that
turns someone and makes them identify
with that instead of something more
broad something more pathological and
that's where the movie I think shines
the most dangerous example of that is
James Holmes or whatever and then that's
like this like Berenstein bears thing
that you think that it had more weight
than it did and it's like again it's
like he's it's you know it's funny in
the movie where Joker says I don't
believe it's like you know he's just
somebody that's severely [ __ ]
mentally ill like the myth that won't
die that he was inspired by this movie
but it's also like dude people got shut
up at a [ __ ] ariana grande concert or
like you know what was the Stephen patek
thing like Jason Aldean yeah Jason like
it's completely deranged it's literally
because people just kind of fear these
alienated young men and the things that
they like well I think I think it's also
like it is I talked about this a bit in
the review it's and this is obviously
like a pretty trim phenomena and it is
annoying to put everything through his
lens but I it's because this has been
going on since the eighties and before
that where people feel they have lost
all power politically and the one place
where you feel like consuming everything
in reacting
everything does produce some effect is
doing that with the culture right it's
all entirely outsourced there's nobody
experiences anything internally anymore
every right you you consume it and react
to it immediately in real-time
externally and they expect it to reflect
it like morals that are also toxic so
like we've yet to like like I don't know
how we drive home to like these insane
paranoid like liberals and conservatives
that like that's not how art works like
it's gone past crime scene ISM and it's
moved into like basically superstition
and augury like no compound listener has
actually had sex with their dad I'm
sorry I'm gonna go out on a limb and say
that yeah you're not a listener like
this is like the thing like the idea
that they think that a movie is like or
any kind of art is some kind of like
spell that like directs people's actions
that's not how [ __ ] art works there
it's it's it's like it's the easiest
form of like criticism of art is to just
like try to identify either theory or
morals and line it up with like a
checklist and it's like a shortcut to
actually thinking about anything because
it's much harder to describe what your
feelings are to have something to react
to a piece of art and explain this is
how it made me feel rather than these
are the rules that followed or did not
follow but it's gotten worse since Trump
right like every piece of like film I
don't know if it has turned into a
goofus and gallant car I think it's I
think it's I think it's the evolution of
like media where you know you point to a
lot of things I think a lot of it too is
you have plenty of people that have like
post-high school education now and then
they work at [ __ ] like RadioShack
they have nothing to do but like
continue doing homework online so
they'll go see The Joker movie like well
I guess this has to be worth more than
the $20 I spent on it let me like write
a screed about why the Joker's are bad
economic incentive certainly to like see
[ __ ] like shadows and like see more
yeah they give your life more worth than
it has I don't right I don't know but
yeah I don't even think it's like it's
like what nick says it's not even
necessarily economic it is like the two
things that give your life that make you
keep you from killing yourself or
novelty and meaning this is false
meaning there's no novelty left there
is a project and I honestly don't know
how conscious it is but the outcome of
this project at the elite media level of
condemning the Joker and people who like
is psychos the the end result of this
regardless of whatever the the conscious
intent of it is the end result of this
is to take is to brand white male
alienation as pathological and
reactionary inherently and that is why
you condemned the Joker movie and then
but the real result of that is of course
the people you're talking about they're
not gonna be warned away from it they're
gonna be intrigued by it and when they
encounter it they're gonna encounter in
on the terms you've created that say
that it's pathological and they're going
to then be reinforced in the idea that
oh yeah the problem is an economic it's
it's all the things you want it to be
about because then you have annihilated
the possibility of solidarity we can't
have solidarity with all these white
males oh there are the racists in their
sexist meanwhile they could easily be
appealed to on the root basis of their
alienation but no you're poisoning the
well for everybody else with these evil
when and that's that's the actual end
result of all of this demonizing the
Joker it is to reinforce this persistent
cultural hegemonic agenda it's a
strategy it's a it's a it's a rhetorical
strategy for for disallowing solidarity
I don't know if I I think for like a lot
of the people who just react to it I
don't know if it's a conscious strategy
but the effect certainly is like taking
people who would otherwise not give a
[ __ ] about this and making them identify
with it if you just pointed something
and say this is bad this is dangerous
this is gonna make you specifically kill
me specifically and the [ __ ] do you
think's gonna happen
evidence of that being this movie is now
obliterated most box-office records for
an October the Suicide Squad Joker's
interesting to look at because like I
remember thinking Suicide Squad was
coming out in like 2001 because I feel
like that's when the coverage of that
movie began yeah it was like every two
weeks or like [ __ ] you know Jared
Leto took a dump in Will Smith's
sleeping bag you know and like every
single [ __ ] month there was like a
Hollywood Reporter or Vanity Fair
article or something
the
he had that he sent them used condoms
yeah used condoms he put a bullet in his
mailbox all this dumb [ __ ] and I
didn't even I didn't even end up seeing
suicide squad but I know he got like cut
down to like ten minutes or whatever
going back what's important about that
you mean well I'm just saying like if
you look at the because you you you look
at the media run up to this Joker coming
out you think well how much of this is
contrivance how much control do they
actually have over the way people are
talking about this movie you say like
okay is all this outrage is that like
manufactured is it possible either them
to do that it's like well if you look at
Suicide Squad they tried to do that they
tried to do they tried to like get
people like wow this is [ __ ] twisted
you try to do that with Lady
Ghostbusters yeah yeah but the thing
about about the channel Leto Joker is
the reason they couldn't get it to catch
fire and get people to really panic is
because Trump and one yet yeah it was
it's it's Trump that made the tracker
yeah because Joe the drum winning is
what sent everyone to a panic because
they lost all control of the government
all that but they have the readouts of
culture and they're gonna use them
they're gonna use culture as just a
vulgar brick to hit you in the head
until you become one of them yeah and
one of the ways they're gonna do that is
by demonizing anything that they think
is an expression of this awful male
patriarchal identity that led to Trump
winning because gamergaters
are why Trump won because the peppe's
are the ones who made Trump won which is
absurd he won because at Hillary Clinton
was a terrible candidate he got less
votes admit Romney it was purely a
depression of democratic turnout because
of the awful Clinton campaign that is
the only reason he won but now because
the only explanations are cultural it's
got to be this awful trend and these
awful men and so that's why the Joker
now is a problem and when he was a joke
when Glenna was doing that stuff and on
another level it will let us also a [ __ ]
of your ass yeah he has a hard [ __ ]
mostly good at dying yeah it's like they
you know I mean it was a very much like
trying to be into like a hot topic but
you know it's like ironically the actual
like [ __ ] poor people that probably
would have more in common with that
character have the same taste
as the suicides absolutely they're like
it I want Mountain Dew Joker you know
they don't want yeah I want him was like
a medal pretty like a histogram like
cartel guy yeah it apparently was the
lehto inspiration was an Instagram
cartel guys with like engraved pistols
and [ __ ] like lamb a suits yeah also it
was just a way for a studio to make a
superhero movie for sixty million
dollars it's like now all these movies
cost like two hundred million dollars
and they're breaking box-office records
based off of this panic that's like
associate you know it's like it's a
perfect storm in terms of like the
motivations of the character that's like
there's very little in terms of like
literal exposition in the in the film
with the exception of that one scene
before he kills Robert DeNiro or
whatever and what it just boils down to
something about like jokes are
subjective and so our morals and that's
the whole point
that's all they like really give you
well let's talk about the film itself
you know it really focuses on Joaquin
Phoenix's Arthur Fleck the like his
portrayal of Joker the first thing we
see of him is he is like a sort of
street sign clown and sort of carnival
barker are on what does it clearly a
stand-in for seedy 42nd Street dressing
up like a clown for you know at rented
being at rented out to advertising
purposes sort of a subway Jared type
segue to Gary Glitter you he lives at
home with his mom yeah dotes on her and
takes cares at care of her it's not
quite all there yeah and you know he has
aspirations to you know have a sustain
of comedy career and generally be
noticed by people and like the the
dawning of his Joker personality is
about like coming out of his complete
and total social isolation as someone
basically the person on the bus that
makes you uncomfortable Jen like how did
you feel about the development of
Joaquin Phoenix's portrayal of this
character
as it relates to the politics of the
movie um I mean I don't know I think
that well okay maybe I'm skipping a
little ahead to Gary Glitter but I feel
like maybe it's time something about the
content of the movie so I thought that
scene was awesome where he has basically
it's sort of the analog of like Travis
Bickle in taxi drivers showing up at the
political rally with like his head with
like his new mohawk right so like he's
basically oversees everybody oh my god
it was totally amazing
everyone loves a makeover scene he like
puts on his face painting kills a few
people including his mom spoiler sorry
and then is dancing on the steps to Gary
Glitter and I you know I was a Cambodian
prison for pedophilia yet does everybody
know who Gary Glitter is by the way
[Music]
didn't know right so just as like just
as like a little refresher so Gary
Glitter was this like British glam
rocker in the 70s and in the 90s he was
convicted in the UK for possessing child
pornography went to jail for a few years
got out like immediately went to
Southeast Asia and began molesting
children twisted today is he actually
served his time there got out went to
the UK but he's in jail again because he
was like immediately perfect adjustable
rates were 15 he was convicted again if
like multiple rapes so he's in jail in
the UK now so I mean for the best for
the best yeah so like so the film critic
Anthony Lane in The New Yorker and like
I also read an article in the cut
talking about the kind of like dancing
to Gary Glitter scene and both reviews
were sort of like scandalized like oh we
can't be giving royalties to a pedophile
like this movie clearly different movie
made by Hollywood
pedophile Hollywood movies but I mean
what struck me about that scene is it's
obviously a moment of such dysfunction
that of course they had to use a jock
jam by a pedophile who's in Thai jail
yeah and they left it it's like I feel
almost deliberately left out of the
trailer that's not the music that it's
paradise in the trailer and it gives you
a much different idea of what's
happening in that scene when you see the
trailer versus the actual film well and
like like on top of that like I was sort
of shocked by like how many people were
like did you know Gary Glitter wasn't
it's like yeah how do you not know about
this sort like honestly it seems like
the media class like you have to be so
simultaneously unpunctual yeah one of
the article yeah yeah one of the
articles I read was like this song has
been plucked from musical obscurity and
it's like every sporting event in
America ever even after it was revealed
he was a pedophile they played it Wars
was it rock and roll number two yeah the
name of the song like a jock Jim I was
talking about this as somebody today
where it was like it like they had to
they like whoever picked it like I don't
know everything about how movies are
made but I assume things go through
multiple layers I don't there's no like
back line for people I assume like
there's a guy who's [ __ ] awesome and
imagining and they just go from there
but like do you think music supervisor
okay right so do you think this was
deliberate like yeah there's a good
chance that there's yeah it's funny but
there's also a good chance that like a
not insignificant known for a people in
that decision-making room we're just
like oh yeah just I don't know if this
is knocking who's off-course but a brief
anecdote was that there was a lady
sitting in front of us and Matt was
laughing the entire movie including the
scene where he kills his mother and it's
a hilarious movie it really picks its
spots but when it does do a joke at land
that's what that's what was so great
about it for me is that [ __ ] that
scene where he does the joke and that
woman I guess she's supposed to be dr.
dr. Ruth yeah she's like that's not
funny have like old woman who talks
about her [ __ ] on TV breathing out of
his joke milky goes Matt knock who's
there it's the police your wife just
died yeah which is funny because like
you could you could have [ __ ] Zach
Galifianakis do that bit and it's like
you know it's like Norm Macdonald anti
comedy it's [ __ ] hilarious
and then that like quick cut to just the
two-shot of like you can't joke about
that and Bobby's like yeah that's not
funny
there's certain things you can joke
about it's very it's like a [ __ ]
hilarious it's a very good like comedy
director and the very few people have
like the ability to edit a shot it was
funnier than hangover three by far for
sure that my mom just died I'm
celebrating I mean there's that asteroid
just really [ __ ] deeply funny moment
anyway Matt was pee his pants the whole
movie and then a lady in front of us we
just kept turning around and looking at
him yeah based on the profile she was
like oh is it one of those guys all
right lady
twist it that's all there is to it look
like Matt was Cape Fear hysterically I
might be worried even if it was like a
Pixar there were multiple there were
multiple black women at the movie
theaters seeing the movie by themselves
we should talk about the theatre
experience well we saw it at a Alamo
Drafthouse you know our favorite are
[ __ ] the Trump diet coke
you guys really we got to stop there's
no honestly this is one thing I actually
agree with the audience on they
absolutely hate it when we complain
about the Alamo Drafthouse the audience
I know I should have but it's one thing
I agree with them on Fandango playing
with the Regal in Union Square
okay I've gotten bedbugs there
yeah what I mean entirely life choices
and living in a windowless tenement in
China but this way bugs and I used to go
there all the for the 420 showing
literally search oh sure they ran the
metal detector over me I want to get
like full Muslim outfit you know full
garb and go to one of the theaters that
searching people and be like why because
I'm Muslim is that why you're searching
me at the joke no it's the other one
actually deranged and then we got in and
like the theatre it was an Alamo
Drafthouse like 420 showing it was like
half mostly like women that just want to
drink a watered-down Aperol spritz in
the dark I saw so did Williamsburg I
didn't get first was there like a
security and medals so that was just
like a special Alamo thing yeah they're
giant babies again they saw it okay we
started the album on Monday and because
we had like a ton of people on this
episode chris is like you have any extra
XLR cables bring to the theater and I
did but I brought it in this like sort
of perfectly rectangular leather pouch
so yeah sure that's Jack Wagner it was
the thing you left at my house and you
came over to record and I brought it to
the theater and I was not checked but I
swear to god it looked like the perfect
case for a look at you well that's how
we'll would do a mass shooting he would
take like a he would take like a Luger
that he got from his grandfather's to
stay it out of a nice leather case yeah
it wouldn't be just some bull gray I
would have like a bespoke like leather
satchel okay so Arthur Fleck movie is
portrayal of his immuno mental
disintegration but it really does you
know grind down his shitty day-to-day
existence and like the the catalyst for
all of the the horrible things that
happened in the movie and the streak of
you know murders that he does is both
him being given a gun by his coworker
and eventually losing his job and access
to
social why his more reactionary
co-worker yes because when he got like
the other because he's like oh they're
just kids
and then his coworker actually like
coerced him and we've already
established that he was on like seven
medications and then eventually he
because the social services got cut he
didn't get them anymore yeah he's also
the only other co-worker that's not
marginalized in any way other than by
being bald yes this is so like where do
you have to what how did he end up there
his his material and it's like a culture
buffets him in one direction it gives
him the idea of a power fantasy with a
firearm instead of solidarity and it
gives him like someone to blame without
it like pushes him in that I'm just
adding that it's like something else to
throw on the pile is arguments against
any commentary that the movie is like
reactionary in any way with regards to
race cuz I know you said that that
somebody was saying that it's like the
Central Park five was like more over
like I'm sorry but the focal point at
the Central Park five was a rape in a
part yeah mmm-hmm rape of a rich white
lady yeah like this had nothing to do
with right it wasn't just during the
opening scene the movie is him you know
out on the street Hawking his sign and
then like yeah gang a teenager still
sasai ones away he chases after them you
know he's gonna get his pay docked if he
loses the sign of the store that he's
doing his clown chillin for they run
down an alley fifteen the teens hit him
with the sign and beat the [ __ ] out of
him in an alley and then it's like you
know you know title credit Joker over
the screen is like the the first scene
is of him being you know beaten and
humiliated in the street by a group of
rowdy teens but the real like the the
real violent turn of the movie is after
losing his job and having this gun he
murders three sort of like they're
they're coded as like Wall Street
stockbroker revealed that they work for
Wayne industries and their frat brother
bros and he doesn't show can they
assault him yeah they're what is Wayne
Industries does that desert what is that
manufacture items yes part of the
business
those things where it's anything no in
the in the Batman universe Wayne
industries just seems like they produce
smokestacks like that solution factories
in the racism also in this movie Thomas
Wayne is running for mayor and we see
him as sort of a fake philanthropic
Michael Bloomberg style self-styled
benevolent billionaire he's the only one
that can save Gotham and there's even a
moment on TV where he goes on the news
of responding to the Arthur's murder of
these three finance guys on the subway
that you know there's like an anti rich
attitude and people who are jealous of
success or you know striking out at
their betters serious loans and it's
important to point out that Thomas Wayne
because we say what is Wayne industries
do it's always very very vague and it's
often just what's Kamini it's Herman a
lot it's convenient it's what's
convenient for the plot but I think that
the modern understand if you ask
somebody what are you and your head
think that Wayne Industries does it is
definitely a manufacturer of something
it's not like a brand or like
pharmaceutical company or something it's
a manufacturer which means that there is
zero chance that around the time of this
movie is exactly when a Wayne industries
industries starts massively relocating
their facilities out of the United
States like they are in the process of
moving to Mexico and then later China
all of that [ __ ] is being done in the in
foreign country it'd be cool if they
stayed in this universe and did another
like nineteen eighty one period piece
for Bain but he's an Italian bodybuilder
Bensonhurst just never seen the light
cheap that Wayne's company they don't a
banquet hall where we were going to do
the bodybuilding competition so they
cancelled it and that's his backstory is
that he lost Arnold because when he was
in his top shape they had to cancel the
bodybuilding competition that would be
cool if Wayne industries their actual
business was club promotion flyer he
came up with ladies night for that
reason many others Thomas Wayne is
definitely the closest thing to a
antagonist or villain because also the
movie sort of introduces the idea into
the Batman universe that the Joker is
the bastard son and half-brother of
Thomas Wayne nobody's not clearly brings
it very frightening the movie brings it
back and like implies it like his mother
who he'd like uncovers a letter which
would imply that he is Thomas winds
bastard child and that's why he's lived
a hellish deprived existence as his
father sort of primordial denial of his
existence and responsibility for
fatherhood but then it sort of brings it
back and implies that maybe his mother
is just crazy as well and also the real
source of his abuse and trauma in his
life but it was supposed to be alec
baldwin also and they said they got a
guy that looked like Alec Baldwin to
play Thomas Wayne yeah and he would have
played it like Trump a little bit amazed
like the inflection he used with like
the greedy little pig message on the
lake yeah no I mean like that that was
like you know again like but the biggest
complaint you can have about this movies
is like it's a bit on the nose but the
like you know you abandoned me kind of
thing and like you know you whatever
exploited my mother either
like literally or whatever like it's
again it's a little on the nose but like
you know you you paternalistic wealthy
people have abandoned your children yeah
see that's the thing I think it has I
think it has a allegorical sort of
symbolic valence and that is that even
if he isn't technically his half-brother
in his mind he sees himself as a
half-brother of Bruce Wayne yeah and
Bruce Wayne and earth
represent socio-economic ly the great
divergence in like white at the
destruction of the white middle class
after yeah the industrialization what
what I hate to quote him but what
charles murray crawls the great
divergence right where the mass of what
of like the night elapsed in their
standard of living and the knowledge
economy whites and urban areas and
suburbs they went off and there's Bruce
Wayne also greatly negatively affected
black Americans to know that's what I'm
saying is that it's not a unique
phenomenon it's just it was experience
specifically by this group this way he's
not a good it is a universal phenomenon
it's just that he doesn't experience it
universally he experiences through these
cultural baffles to take him away from
recognizing that it is a universal
phenomenon and towards the specific and
they alienate it he's not a good father
to Bruce Wayne in the movie either I
mean essentially abandons him and leaves
his son to wander around the edges of
his property and be molested by
seriously and then when he meets the man
who sexually assaulted his son the day
before he's like oh you're that guy that
came to my house listen you do that
again pretty [ __ ] mad they can view
the smile and thankfully Ricky Gervais
sees Alfred say yeah they made Alfred
cool yeah did anyone read the Eileen
Jones thing this isn't a review but it
was like a kind of like like historical
retrospective on like moral panic
surround film it's really good it's
incredibly good like which was there's
just one I mean like obviously yeah do
the right thing and she the right thing
is a big one and she Ananda Lou which
was like such a limp dick where because
he was like I am going to incite riots
and people were just like golf clapping
at it remember and Natural Born Killers
yes cuz a huge fight and in fact they
Elvis don't ended up getting sued by
John
did you guys remember this really there
was a cop what the media called
there was a there was a
boyfriend/girlfriend teens who went on a
crime spree in like Alabama or
Mississippi and the media and they
killed a grocery store clerk or
something in a robbery and the media
said oh they were inspired by Natural
Born Killers and John Grisham was like
family friends with the guy who died and
he initiated a lawsuit of Oliver Stone
that he led to the death of his friend
it was the greatest lawyer in America
oh it's terribly stupid that's affirm I
mean that's that's where you take it to
the furthest extreme the article is just
called Joker in the long history of
movie moral panics and she said moral
panics about provocative films like
Joker's oldest cinema itself but more
often than not they're proof of the
film's merit and of a deeply anxious
middle class which is like the perfect
Edison movie where everyone thought the
train was gonna run it was very thinking
of anxiety of like the middle class and
specifically the media class who made
this into a story the palpable
disappointment that there was not some
sort of shooting this weekend they
wanted so bad for somebody to shoot so
that they could confirm everything they
ever thought about trash dick mail boys
and it didn't happen and they're [ __ ]
pissed I just marry this one paragraph
because it like really zeroes in on like
why people are mad this is before the
movie didn't came out the furor
surrounding the new Joker Murphy movie
started not from a disastrous screen but
from an ultra successful one it got an
eight minute standing ovation at the
Venice Film Festival and subsequently
won the film's prestigious Golden Lion
award just for context Golden Lion has
gone to Rashomon childhood Battle of
Algiers a Gabon or fall is a fall the
story of cheese you Vera Drake Brokeback
Mountain and Roma and Love Guru
just hoping someone's having a good time
somewhere I like to think that euro
partiers at the Venice Film Festival did
that voting were trolling us
anticipating the moral and aesthetic
freakout among American guardians of
culture at the elevation of Joker to
significant art filled Center's
standards I pictured them hooting so
hard wine spews out their noses you know
what
she's
a million percent right that it was one
it was absolutely trolling yeah but it
was also true it was perfect they got to
troll America and also honor a film that
I think is [ __ ] brilliant
it's of its time certainly at the moment
it's like if movies now are supposed to
be these cultural reflectors if that's
the idea well then do you have to love
this movie because this movie actually
is culturally relevant and it's Sipho
which we should get off of plaudits for
like yeah this movie really takes it to
toxic masculinity horseshit
it's all [ __ ] pandering garbage
that's just it existed you elicit a head
Pat for people who can easily
deconstruct it's baby brained ideology
this is a [ __ ] challenging movie
that's willing to do the fair joven
thing of embodying certain malignancies
and even bad filmmaking tropes to make a
greater point I agree your sorry my love
[Laughter]
though I mean when we're talking about
like I don't know American like
mainstream American movies and like
class conflict or whatever like I mean
Joker in terms of like art as you were
saying is kind of bad right but but as
Matt you were saying is kind of in a
different tradition which is that I
don't know we don't have a Ken Loach in
America you know so are like Hollywood
blockbusters about class conflict are
basically the purge franchise yeah
Batman movies the purge franchise that
recent movie ready or not yeah pretty
good I like all those movies but there
they are also all like oh the rich are
literally hunting the poor with
crossbows will no one do anything a
little on their own well yeah it has to
be because we don't have a tree yes you
say we don't ask your tradition we can
only like put it in an exploitative box
which is why I like ready or not
which is why I love the purge franchises
we might be the apotheosis of that
approach the last person one was pretty
look kind of a little problematic it
ruled black purge it was great that one
know that verse the first merge
confusingly the third purge is called
the first purge is the best of the
series it is like a bad laceration it's
like a blaxploitation social realist
like propaganda movie it's alright I saw
the first one and it's like okay there's
one day where you can kill anybody and I
watch it it was fun it was fun and then
the second one is like okay purge do so
there's one day where you can kill
anyone they like add more exciting
elements like oh the state's not here
you can kill everybody by the second one
it's like the street is secretly
engineering the killing like a housing
project yeah well no it's about because
a woman is running for president to end
the purge the evil Nazis even the
government hire a bunch of like like
literally like racist mercenaries
Anthony Michael Hall to kill her
assassinate her on Persia night because
they lift the restriction on political
figures so yeah killer and it's all
about how this revolution army wants to
just kill all the evil Nazis who run the
world and she says no that makes us just
like them we have to win the election
it's all about election reform it's
eight years we'll get an anti-war
Punisher movie but what's so funny about
that is that that movie is very
reformist but the first person the next
one is very revolutionary it's Maoist
practice that's the first what did you
say what we're gonna get well that's the
what's so frustrating about that [ __ ]
Netflix Punisher is that Netflix
Punisher was made by Hollywood woke
people and they were handed an
incredibly reactionary [ __ ] thing The
Punisher is just right-wing reaction
from the 70s from the from the Deathwish
era it is reactionary mm-hmm they tried
to make him like woke and he's actually
killing Nazis and but he's like he's a
guy who kills people pathologically you
have to try to do something like that
and instead they're like no we're gonna
have our cake and eat it too
and it's totally incoherent it sucks
they need to embrace the
Joker as a bad guy the way this are the
[ __ ] Punisher is a bad guy
the way this movie does I should make a
version of the Fantastic Four word they
fight the national debt on the anti-war
tip though like I when I was just
reading these reviews like just you know
numbing my mind with like liberal moral
panic idiocy like one of the things
people kept saying was just like oh so
we're supposed to feel sorry for this
person I were supposed to sympathize at
one point someone says oh cuz people
didn't love him enough and it's like
he's like chained to a radiator but on
the anti-war thing I realized liberals
are now invoking something that we
originally did with I think the the
juvenile delinquency scare and then the
war on drugs and the war on crime and
then the war on terror where anytime you
were like oh [ __ ] some people like hit
some buildings with a plane what are we
oh you know what maybe America's foreign
policy might have something to do with
that and they're like what are you
sympathizing with the terrorists it's
like I've seen you solve these problems
a lot of you want to like make blame him
for responding to like judges and like
it's like if you ever suggest like a
pragmatic approach to something where
it's like oh where are these people come
from they're like look some people are
just monsters and our entire role is to
condemn them and you know what even if
he might be bad even if you buy that
even if you think he's responsible
actions that he's bad so [ __ ] what
who decided at what point that you have
to like and agree with the protagonist
of a movie but they have to be a good
person to be justifiable Lolita what is
that child made [ __ ] yeah and that
is the basis for all of this is like
because the Joker is not like the bad
guy in the movie if he's the protagonist
I feel my definition that really start I
feel like with the [ __ ] season finale
or the series finale of Breaking Bad I
know all the criticism of that was like
he should get his comeuppance don't you
- he should be punished I mean he died
he died but it's like you know everyone
was mad that like Skylar should get all
the money and she
go to Jamaica to get her groove back and
flashing his dick should fall off and he
should be in jail and it's like just
because they want entertainment to be
hazed right Hays Code Arab morality play
yeah yeah
you don't [ __ ] over your wall no no
because it's gonna make you do it if ya
if you look school I'm gonna want to do
like superstitious they believe art is
[ __ ] witchcraft
don't listen to calm town you'll have
sex with your dad well when I watch
porno pornographic I won't have sex with
ladies we are over an hour so I think we
should offer our concluding thoughts on
where does the Joker phenomenon go from
here Felix we won't remember any of this
[ __ ] like probably like five days from
now there will be like a new thing a new
thing that everyone [ __ ] argues about
yeah now use the rest of your life till
you die um I guess the last thing I want
to say about the Joker and by extension
like the swirl of controversy and
criticism that has been coming out is do
you guys know the literary critic age
Eve Sedgwick she has this really great
term which is good dog bad dog criticism
which is basically what everybody does
now which is to only evaluate a piece of
art on how progressive it is or how
reactionary it is and I you know I think
in terms of like Joker like obviously I
don't think it's reactionary but I you
know also don't want to just swing the
other way on the pendulum and be like it
was so great because the politics were
great so right because I like a lot of
that reaction was a twisted death which
is great and that's different it's
what's not different when you're talking
about a joker movie you know it's like a
comic book movie it should that the only
metric you should be like way this film
against is like what the filmmakers
stated intention or loosely is that like
you can't have like campy funny anymore
and what was the other thing he said
that's the only thing I've seen times I
live in a society really not supposed to
like have to extract anything out of it
other than like let me sit here for two
hours and if this is like funny when
it's a boat
to be intense when it's supposed to be
then like that's it that's good that you
know I don't need anything more out of a
joker movie than that we don't really
need to be literal or didactic right
stuff I think my thing that like leaving
this like I basically can't wait till a
year from now when people have to go
back and watch this and explain why they
were so scared yeah seriously like that
is it's like you're gonna it's gonna be
like going back going to New Jersey
being like hey remember you guys all
thought were the world's was happening
have you got muskets and put collagen on
your head and formed a militia to fight
off the aliens all so much of my like
like sort of artistic satisfaction comes
from patience and foresight at this
point and I guess like I guess like the
other thing is it's just like wow people
just really can't enjoy anything
everyone's too panicked about the
control it's a great scene yeah yeah
cool a pant there's just panic they're
hitting the culture button because the
power button is broken ah that is a very
good phrase I know you're drunk and
that's why you said it but let's
remember it no I think it's true so I
have three final thoughts can I have a
question number one speaking to I'm glad
this was brought up I have talked a lot
about how I love its themes and I think
it's brilliant
and it works on every level of metaphor
but I also want to insist that it is not
only the reason I like it I believe that
when it comes to it as a film it is well
acted great shots he's great every joke
lands there are a handful of jokes
everyone hits which is having a [ __ ]
thousand percent like ratio yeah with
and having them hit that well fantastic
the violence is really gripping and at
and and gritty in a way that is
grounding his character is compelling
for him rare I feel for him I love all
the performances I love the way it ends
everything that happens I'm clapping
that when he kills his mom I'm amazed
when the little person is trying to get
up get out of the house and the [ __ ]
chain won't go that's a beautiful
[ __ ] physical comedy yeah so I think
at that level it works and then the and
on top of that the metaphors and
everything are fantastic at one shot
we're you know
he says the thing about your son was
killed in a drunk driving accident and
how quick and like just I mean it's like
a fraction of a second to get that
timing right to cut to that [ __ ] being
like you can't joke about you do that so
[ __ ] funny point to to to Felix's
argument that we'll forget about it in
six months I agree because nothing stays
in the zeitgeist for that long it's too
moving too much there's too much native
data I do wanna get mad again when it
wins a bunch of Oscars well it'll come
back that when that happens but and but
I think that that doesn't mean that it
won't come back because the thing is as
you have pointed out a million times
time is a flat circle culturally
everything is just the same everybody
never really changes so things go out of
the cycle but then they come back in
some are embedded because of the import
I think the Joker is so frayed it now
with cultural import as a concept and
this movie is such a good job of
bringing a lot of those things to the
fore that it will be bow embedded and
come back and it'll go away but I think
it'll come back so that's my thing my
guess about it and then third last point
I think that the importance of the Joker
character the the his usefulness as a
metaphor in the contemporary moment can
be shown with a simple point and that is
that during the Obama years the Tea
Party guys would go around with posters
of the Obama as the Heath Ledger Joker
and it would say like that's a socialist
in politics and and and there and and
Barack Obama embodied chaos and disorder
and horror and destruction of the
country now at pro Trump rallies they
have pictures of Trump is the Joker
mm-hmm and that transition from seeing
the Joker's this force for chaos and
evil embodied by Obama and now Trump
being of the savior and also embodying
all the Joker's traits that shows you
where the Joker does where the what the
Joker's like a cultural expression and
usefulness is so that's it
wait real quick my ex-boyfriend is it is
G Shaq talk the first question the Q&A
was what did he think of the jerk I do
like and I'll be very disappointed or to
what Matt said about this being promoted
all right you know what I think childish
is you're podcasting the [ __ ]
childish I've never wanted to do this I
regret everything
no III I feel like we're like in a
cultural loss decade where nothing from
this time will be reabsorbed into this
cycle it'll be forgotten for just a
decade of products that were consumed
for the exact time they were out and
gone forever regurgitation and a reboot
that everything is all the references
are to other things just like Joker's
yeah I guess but he will cut back I have
to say I was talking about this with Jen
like when I think of what and I whatever
I wore my Iron Maiden shirt in tribute
of this when I think of what you know
scared like the tipper gore is like the
last major cultural moral panic where by
the way like liberals and what people
did join with like conservative
Christian right and the authorities to
be like by the way if you listen to
Prince you're gonna be a misogynist yeah
take down Twisted Sister yeah like I
have to say though like what did they
say keep your children away from it was
the Simpsons and beavis and butt-head it
was like NWA and death metal and these
kids these poor kids they get a comic
book movie never going to be a best ever
death metal band out of Denton about a
joker movie you know and that's the
sacrifice they were willing to make to
make this movie because it had to be a
comic movie to encapsulate the entire
phenomenon the fact that it's a topic
movie we'll fix it in time and make it
less relevant and so you know what I
retract what I said Joker will come back
but in a different form there's a lady
joke but I find I
say the sacrifice this will be made is
pure and beautiful and it is a [ __ ]
martyr final thoughts Nichkhun Adam I
don't know go see the movie in the
googling abstain keep posting about
epsteen epsteen okona what yes see the
see the Joker movie and Pitt and say
thank you to Warner Brothers I got love
guru to check out love ya for a movie
dealing with similar themes as Love Guru
and the Joker check out two guns but
like also just a bigger point and I
mentioned earlier don't forget that this
is just a movie studio finding a way to
make a [ __ ] comic book movie for 60
million dollars and to use his PR
department to drum up controversy and
then have like a smash success and it's
opening week making a movie that and
they found a way to like it but it's
good and it's good those Marvel movies
where he says like oh they're like theme
parks and it's like well no theme parks
are fun yeah but the Marvel movies just
a dog [ __ ] roller coaster like paying
attention to like the political economy
that popcorn have fun I will take a girl
try to hold her hand
excuse me I think our popcorns got
switched
can you reach to see we could just talk
for a minute smell your hair no yeah
when you see you should do the thing
that you know you should do when you see
any movie and just like talk about your
life's problems when you buy your ticket
go right up to the ticket counter and
just tell them what's going on this
movie is absolutely just a cynical
product of a profit minded
content mill absolutely yeah but it's
just also it's just a miraculous coming
together it's the way that like the
thing swells out of those I don't use
it's like it's a rather Virata expired
of bio production so it's just it's it's
DNA going crazy it's life finding away
as Ian Malcolm would say yeah but I will
say this I've watched every single
Marvel movie the vast majority of them
in the theater so I'm there I'm not
looking on my phone I'm looking at the
screen the whole time and nothing I've
seen in what 40 hours now of footage has
held my interest and attention as much
as the first couple of [ __ ] minutes
in this movie I think Donald said on
letterbox he he found himself carrying
what happened next which is a great
review yeah now I don't have a [ __ ] when
I watch those movies I'm high we're on a
plane and farting there were there were
maybe like two there was like a
15-minute window where that movie
started to drag but other than that it
was great the entire [ __ ] time we
need to wrap up the Joker symposium I
think the generally says he consensus
view the Joker not going away
even though Hollywood continues to be a
you know a a cycle of repetition and
self cannibalization however at this one
turn around the wheel the stars wanted
to make something that was somewhat like
somewhat uniquely perceptive about the
Joker phenomenon and like just general
cultural relevance of this like 1930s
oddball comic character that continues
to you know be devil the public
consciousness through you know largely
an uncannily good performance by Joaquin
Phoenix but also wittingly are not some
wittingly or not some fairly perceptive
and smart writing and directing there's
no want a pause no question it's just
more of a question
it is a rhetorical question it does not
mean to go on just think about it guys
imagine a world where the character that
the Joker is in our world this symbol of
darkness this twisted Menace this
incredibly challenging role for any
actor to take because of the darkness
within it instead of the Joker
it was the Cryptkeeper and like it's
like [ __ ] what yeah keen spent six
months thinking up like Halloween themed
puns amazing that would be that's the
world I want to live in
ya know once people see the Monster Mash
shootings folks continue continue to be
twisted
