[Music]
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen they got him yes
they did they got him
Jeffrey Epstein has been compromised to
a permanent end uh-huh okay so we're now
we're now you know T plus days from you
know zero hour yeah at the MCC
Correctional Facility in downtown
Manhattan I I know you guys are probably
your minds are vibrating it's quite
similar frequency to ours now with
regards to this Jeffrey Epstein Jeffrey
Epstein's suicide and I'm doing the air
quotes in the air he he killed himself
in federal custody was he on suicide
watch and apparently not yeah no he'd
only just tried to kill himself two
weeks ago why would you have him on
suicide watch I I want to be clear we
are on the road right now we are coming
to you from Des Moines we are separate
from our sickle hunter home base yeah I
don't have my corkboard
I don't have any of my any of the
connections sure yarn
connectors I didn't bring any of my
notebooks and all the all the various
proofs that I have you know Felix is not
with us either I do suspect we will do
another deep dive episode Thank You this
story probably get you know sicko hunter
West Coast's our West Coast soldiers
brace and Liz back on the hunt I'd like
to get them back in the cut and do you
know a much longer episode about this
but suffice to say I woke up you know on
Saturday my birthday looked at my phone
as you do half half asleep and I'm
seeing people like I can't even take
this I've seen [ __ ] like that I I don't
even know what to say it I'm like tell
me about her brother this case is wild
scroll a little bit further Jeffrey
Epstein dead in his cell of a teacher
just said killed him so you know just
that thing that happens why do you need
more specifics to that he killed himself
yeah I I don't know what more I can say
about this right now
god damn beyond everything at Tom I just
like you know here's what I know
for sure there's a number of
possibilities of what could have
happened here him killing himself is not
one of the bottom possible likelihood
Louis rug murdered for Shore oh yeah
body double swaps I'm sweet not outside
another possibility at this point can we
really say anything is too insane come
on people this is happening right in
front of your face there's looking you
in the face it's saying yeah [ __ ] a guy
in federal custody in a secure housing
unit who had previously tried to kill
himself with left unsupervised somehow
kill themselves in a Cell where there's
almost nothing that you could hang
something from and there's nothing to
hang anything from oh he just did it and
we're just supposed to say okay and
you're telling us you know on certain
terms there's what are you gonna do
about it and that's why this serves two
purposes it gets with epstein out of the
way and it is just a big [ __ ] you we now
have to walk around with that in our
heads we have to think how can we ever
think we're gonna beat these see people
when they could do something like that
right out in public and there's not a
goddamn thing we could do about it I
mean this is like you know a week after
we learned that he captivated some of
the leading minds of like you know
Harvard and some of the top scientists
in the world captured their imaginations
with a plan to freeze his brain and dick
and create like a teenage sex farm for
breeding purposes where he basically
wanted his his DNA to like populate the
universe and take over humanity just
through 3di genetic supervillain the
[ __ ] like like volcano lair supervillain
[ __ ] and you know like I just him at a
dinner party of like you know the
leading minds of Harvard and he's just
like yeah through cryogenics artificial
intelligence and my dick we're gonna
create a race like a super race a super
race of incredibly horny piano-playing
math prodigy and then like you know
Steven Pinker or whoever is like
interesting tell me more yeah but yeah
now we did the episode two weeks ago
it's just like oh well I guess they
tried to kill them I guess the question
is how did why did that fail I mean the
thing is is there's no way of knowing
it's that
what happened maybe the first one was
him trying to get moved you know maybe
it was fake maybe it was a maybe it was
a like fending off an attack who knows
there's so many variables all we know is
that likelihood that it is what we're
being told is almost zero almost zero
and why I would put it even beyond zero
is the fact that on on Saturday you know
when this news broke which is like you
know an event that happens we're like
the gulf between what you're seeing can
understand through your own perception
and what you're being told is so vast
it's just like anyone can look at this
and just be like come on come on
this is it like he got killed a day
after these court documents got unsealed
you know linking this human trafficking
ring to Bill Richardson George Mitchell
among other people and then also an
unnamed prime minister and already
Andrew Prince Andrew apparently you know
and then now that he's dead
there is no criminal case yeah that's
overrun has been charged with anything
so oh well I guess we could just close
the book on that one yeah
remains to be seen I asked this of
several of the presidential candidates
at the Iowa State Fair yesterday the
Senators in particular whether the
Senate should convene hearings on this
and maybe have some of his alleged
victims and the people who have you know
brought this case to light to testify
and tell their story yeah you know in
front of the in front of a full you know
the Senate and in television cameras I
think they deserve
not just the chance to publicly state
their case and you know the the
accusation is that you know of what has
happened to them but also I think
they're probably in extreme danger
themselves and I'm importantly and
anymore you can do anything and any more
public profile we can get for these for
these women or you know to protect them
I think is you know extremely necessary
absolutely they've clearly gone rogue
here they'll do whatever it needs to be
done to cut this off I think I had a
realization this is the other thing I
can say with any certainty but it is a
hunch I've had so the two more likely uh
questions as the two likely
answers the question what happened to MC
least likely is that he actually killed
himself because he was so sad Oh more
likely one of two things one they killed
him snuffed him out to body switch those
two things correspond to two different
theories I think of the case one if they
body switched him then that answers a
question of the Deadman switch the
question of how can they kill Epstein if
as is likely being a guy in his
situation he has contingencies to
release sensitive information if he has
ever killed so that means in that case
they would have to switch him out
because they can't kill him if they
killed him I think it's for this reason
they were able to do it for this reason
I think that in a real sense Jeffrey
Epstein wasn't real I do not think that
what we assume as Jeffrey Epstein liked
his life is his hedge fund his lot his
network of properties his life I don't
think that that was really him I feel
like it is a straw name that is used by
the network and by intelligence agencies
to move money around to move girls
around to to maintain properties and
there's a name attached there's a body
attached to that name and it's this guy
and he might really be Jeffrey Epstein
like that might be the name on his
social security card but he has no
actual connection to the higher levels
of the money moving around and the
actual edifice of the thing being
organized he's just along for the ride
which means if he gets caught you just
[ __ ] cut the string and it's over
because he never had access to anything
that could have compromised anybody
because he's just a cutout I well depart
slightly from I think Matt's brain has
gotten a little too
ghal exif ID off of this the Jeffrey
Epstein is not a real person
he's the Keyser Soze okay name a spook
story he's a spook story he's a
pedophile
it's a pedophile like frontman I will
say this though the the thing that leads
me to believe that that almost anything
is possible other than the official
story of him killing himself in federal
custody like as this trial was beginning
to bring to light all sorts of
incredibly damning things about let's be
honest the most powerful
people in the world yeah the reason I
think it is almost impossible that he
killed himself is that immediately after
the story happened
I saw takes from numerous journalists
all saying some variation of mmm you
know I don't know I mean it's it's odd
but I don't think we need to be all
conspiratorial about this people kill
themselves in prisons all the time it's
one of the leading causes of death in
prison and has met Brady quite correctly
pointed out that's assuming that all of
those at least a good percentage of
those aren't also shoddy murder cover-up
tons of jail suicides are actually
murders and even the ones that are
suicides are jail suicides like some
[ __ ] county jail with minimal
security he's in a [ __ ] federal
secure housing unit two weeks after
having already tried to kill himself he
had no [ __ ] roommate they take it the
roommate out of his room right before it
happened this is not a normal situation
it just does not make sense it does not
add up it does not add up sir I mean
like I said I expected we'll do a deeper
dive back when we're at a sicko hunter
world headquarters they try to just suss
out try to make some sense of this I
mean it still remains fascinating but I
think more remains to be seen is you
know will this work and it'll just
everyone will just forget about it move
on or what will will anyone in the
government pick up any kind of further
investigation into that what's going on
here and the human trafficking network
that has you know been the outlines of
which are you know strongly intimated by
this case I gotta say like my dark
moments I feel like that the whole
epstein affair if I if you think of them
as just like a name before this network
a label for the trafficking area the
trafficking Nexus if it's if him is his
name getting out getting arrested this
guy going to jail that is a glitch in
the code basically of the algorithm of
world government right like the thing
that loop keeps money and influence and
power circulating across the globe that
is at this point basically a
computerized system and he is one
element of it and they [ __ ] something
up in the code they messed up
somebody got sloppy and this is the code
rewriting itself and eliminating the
glitch and we're just gonna forget about
it it's gonna be something that is just
a mere tickle in the back we're ahead of
that was weird that time that happened
right the guy who is friends with the
two presidents and had a trafficking
ring just killed himself in federal
custody that was weird
and then we just forget about it what I
also think was funny is that Donald
Trump did retweet something from like
some comedian who's a fan of his video
or he's like family
come on like you're telling me that like
you know this guy had the dirt on the
cleanse and like he just killed himself
in jail
blah blah blah Trump and Trump was
retreated essentially endorsing the idea
yeah yeah no think the Clinton you know
death list which you know by the way
might be real I think it speaks for
itself
but what I find hilarious about that is
Trump Trump is like this is this doesn't
add up it doesn't make sense it's fishy
so what's going on here something's
rotten and it's just like if he were
just still Donald Trump that would be
funny and understandable it's like
you're the president president you're
president you're telling me you couldn't
keep this guy alive in federal code like
he thinks his presidency is watching
himself be president on television he
has no actual control over anything
that's happening all he could do is
tweet Wow that's crazy
[ __ ] up [ __ ] up if true all right
well about this you know like I said I'm
sure your brains are humming at a
similar frequency but we will be will be
back and like I said I'd like to talk to
brace and Liz again yeah I just want to
run one idea by them and that is that
this entire thing is it's either when I
said earlier a glitch in the code that
needed to be fixed
debugged or an intentional free Masonic
ritual called the making manifest of
that was just hidden in which the occult
powers reveal themselves to the masses
as a ritualized coming out a revelation
an apocalypse to bring in the new
dawning era the age of Horus are we in
the Age of Horus stay tuned for further
details it's the year of the pig I would
like to get bridge align on this
conversation
I'm here yes yeah reporting from the
other couch Burroughs doesn't like
talking about the dark forces I know I
know I like talking about the dark
forces I just as you've seen Matt is on
another wave lay off the spectrum at
this point and the past few days of
hanging out with him has just been an
endless torrent of that sort of thing
and I can't really maintain my sanity in
this in this place there's not a
Lovecraft protagonist that's keeping my
eye we um we are again we are in the
field right now as we'll talk to you
about so we are cut off from our regular
supply of substances that make us human
in New York we have been making do with
a local non craft cocaine various
poultices future continues
I've been eating I tried this it's a
local delicacy at the say fair it's uh
it's called a GMO well yes so we have
been at the Iowa State Fair for the last
three days I'm gonna we were mostly
gonna keep our powder dry on our State
Fair experiences because we are doing a
live show here in Des Moines tomorrow
night that I want to be you know Iowa
State Fair based we've seen a lot of the
candidates we saw daddy Bernie we saw
today I have a kink pimp we saw the King
pimp himself the most the most I think I
mean you know the most big ticket player
in American public life no question
there's absolutely no question about
that
it's Bernard Sanders right now okay we
saw a lot of the other losers as well we
just had in our rented house slash dojo
in the dojo in the dojo the sex dojo the
sex dojo actually we saved this with a
show should we tell explain to people
where we're recording I feel like the
listeners have a right to know what's
recording right now so we are at and uh
we booked our travel last-minute and we
had to write an air B&B and there was
exactly one still available in Des
Moines and it is a small palace in
the suburban West Des Moines on a normal
you know every town USA streets there is
a way up ago to hear yeah the first
thing we see is outside this this area
with a an anime of four pigs doing
karate moves let's look at the Double
Down
dojo and then you walk in this house and
it's like very 1970s but like every
single aspect of the decor has been
designed by someone who wanted to create
a sort of air sense version of I'd
something I guess can only be described
as vaguely Asian yes it's like Asian
theme it's oriental in the way that like
a family Chinese buffet might be like
the scene in Boogie Nights oh yeah he
gets money and gets a house and he's
showing Julian more around and he goes
do you like it
it's my dojo imagine if that was the
entire house it's also in the or you
could remake Boogie Nights in this house
and not leave every every location there
is a a faux thatched ceiling God what
the hell else is and here's a moat
there's a water as alone yeah right
water feature in one of the things he's
got like a room that's just his golfing
stuff there's a parent head there's a
lot of bedrooms with like full
floor-to-ceiling mirrors facing the bed
this is yeah there is a sauna in the
basement there's like you know dragons
and like Chinese zodiac signs everywhere
but again it's not specifically Chinese
no it's no Jason
Japanese like yeah pseudo offensive but
also kind of pimp kind of baller
very 70s kind of extremely seventies
mean Lisa also loves bacon yeah there's
a lot of bacon memorabilia screwed
throughout the place my bedroom doesn't
have a door there's also strange damage
to this place that's all very
inexplicable for instance this curtain
over here there is a way one of the the
window Kern's is just perfectly sliced
as if done by a katana we
you actually found the katanas though
yeah and it no it is this mix of like
it's all catch but it's a mix of like
Americana stuff where there's just like
a core like a neon Coors sign behind
like the living room bar right next like
a giant like porcelain Buddha's head
there's a it's a there's a lot of glass
surfaces here we are so we chose mirrors
we are reporting from the cuddle puddle
zone these circular couches around a
glass table we yet know we're recording
in the in the cuddle puddle room and we
just had earlier today info in the dojo
slash poly cool
we had Admiral Admiral Joe Sestak yes
who I honestly we saw him yesterday and
it was like when I saw opening I said
this is like when I was a kid and I saw
[ __ ] Arcade Fire open for the
unicorns I didn't know who they were and
I just stopped when they started playing
wake up and stared at the stage like how
the [ __ ] he was just a pimp he's like
this live he's got the body of a dancer
he's got this opened striped shirt he
looks like he's the polly Kuehl
president of this to stage three and
he's like moving his body around his
voice is shaking he has a great command
of up and down uh he can his voice
trembles he's got a great emotional
range he has this vision this like
militarized state like like a like a UH
like a military socialism a kind of like
starship chirps Starship Troopers
exactly like a woke it's like and I was
like damn I could imagine him being the
guy who leads like a business plot coup
I like shows up on TV one day and it's
like I'm Admiral Joe I'm in charge now
but it would be the worst thing that
could happen that's not the worst
outcome we have not coming down the pike
against Donald Trump though yeah yeah so
yeah being look out for the the
candidate interview with a Joe Sestak
and you know just again want to make
clear now please don't
for not constantly scolding him about
his participation in America kaykai's
military we're just chillin we're just
chillin in in the good vibe zone and
it's just like look you don't have to
agree with him you have to vote for him
but he is now a character in your head
and yes joined the menagerie yeah yes
things that you have to know now welcome
please welcome in its chappo season for
today's special guests the Admiral you
will match a will speak good cop right
now I'll be bad cop listen the [ __ ] up
you will respect the Admiral there is a
commanding officer on the bridge you
will listen to this episode yes you will
donate to his campaign and yeah [ __ ]
that you know you have to agree with him
and you have to vote for it he's um
Sestak actually speaking of officer on
the bridge he you were everybody he's
like a synthesis of Riker and Picard
yeah you know you must make memes about
him the other feel he is a new carries
against he's no terror in the meme space
yes though he has joined the poly cool
and you know along with Marianne and
Andrew yang you instead of for him
instead of orbs it will be boats yeah
maybe the whale emoji I don't know yet
we'll let's just see what works yeah and
there would be things like you'd have
like Elizabeth Warren head it would say
I have a plan Josie stack I have a boat
that's it that's the meet that let me
pass a speed and react says thousand
dollars a month she stack a thousand
boats a month I've got a plant yeah I
got a plan for that more boat yeah yeah
baby get to it just a picture boy
picture of a Navy destroyer captured can
Bernie come out and play-ay him as the
simcity 2000 transportation advisor
knowing you can't cut back on naval
funding you will regret this so ya know
it's like we we won a candidate at the
State Fair yeah we took him home it was
great I was no I was
banging the guys can we adopt it I have
to say after we want him at the ring
toss I was pissed cuz I was like there's
no way we're gonna drag him around here
all day we're gonna end up forgetting
him somewhere lay the bathroom but no we
remembered we held on to it the whole
day got it back in the house yeah and
you know we took him out of the little
plastic bag and we put him in a proper
fish bowl and he likes it he's got
things to look at no I I will say in the
sauna right he showed up to our to the
battlespace alone yeah he has no
entourage he says he's been staying in
Iowa for a month living in a $40 a night
Econo Lodge was just like Rio that's
pretty bleak he's a real one yeah no but
he showed up it's like the Spartans they
sent one man absolutely
and Admiral Joe showed on riot one
Ranger totally alone and we talked about
this he is at a competitive disadvantage
because I was a landlocked state he does
not have access to his power source
which is the massive fleet that he
commands and um we'll see we'll see how
Joe does yeah as things move forward no
we we know I've said that I think that
we're more likely to get like a military
co-optation
of politics from the economy rather than
fascism in this country if we have a
real crisis and in that sense I think
that Admiral Joe is the sort of a pro
figurative figure like that like if it's
not a guy if it's not him it's gonna be
a guy like him espousing ideas like his
when the military just takes the reigns
in the moment of crisis it'll be a sea
stachy and military leader if that
happens that would be our Admiral horthy
if that happens oh I wanted to be a Navy
guy and not one of these army or Marines
I think we should insist that our
military rulers be from the Navy ya know
and I'm convinced now that Navy you know
but most chill of the five branches of
the military is easiest easy one you're
gonna ask him like it isn't the Navy the
easy one yeah I'm here
the other day when we were watching him
speak there was just like he was just
like I was in the Navy like they gave
they gave me a PhD in economics
philosophy
this is listening off like these you
know skills he acquired in the Navy like
at ITT Tech commercial yeah and you were
like oh yeah cuz it's like there's tons
of yeah yeah you're on a boat and you
know you take there's like art classes
and you can like get a PhD like like
being on a cruise and you were like like
although all the former army guys like
their interests and skills are just like
yeah I'm going I'm a gun guy yeah guns I
was a major to gun all the Navy guys
just have [ __ ] go yeah I've got a PhD
in cultural anthropology I served for
eight years I'm into guns and having
brain damage then of course you know we
can't have an Air Force dictator because
those are those fly boys are all hot
doggers oh no that's not that's that
Pinochet helicopter energy that's way
too fascists don't even need a [ __ ]
Air Force like half of the Navy is plane
that's true like get the [ __ ] out of
here ya know that that's been actually a
hobby horse of a few people for a while
abolish the Air Force and I've been
favourable we didn't used to be there in
the world war two what World War two it
was the Army Air Corps and then they
insisted on splitting off get out of it
get over yourself
no more air force but by see ya go to
the other words and what do the other
services bye-bye and our our our you
know quintessential vision of you know
alpha you know fighter pilot
you know jock ace pilots is Top Gun
that's about the Navy yep they were Navy
pilots yeah it's cool they had they play
the volleyball yep they have the tight
jeans and white today's thing you lost
that lovin feeling they they say you
must have carnal knowledge of a woman
this time on the premises and then he
you know yeah they're they're the
biggest dicted players they're Navy boys
yep get rid of the Air Force ships all
power to the glorious sea stack yet
naval power all right moving on so like
I said we saw a lot of the candidates
here right a lot of the players the one
guy that we didn't get a chance to see
you
cuz we got here on Thursday we got here
the day he was doing his hair
unfortunately was you know Democratic
frontrunner Joe Biden friend of the show
Joe Biden and you know he continued he's
had a he's had a great week
oh yeah he's had he's not been
sundowning for 78 straight hours ever
since you know the debate you know he's
been on fire he cannot he cannot be
stopped he said a string of I don't know
I'll be nice and call them gaffes among
them confusing the parkland and Sandy
Hook mass shootings or saying I was vice
president during parkland massacre which
was you know he'd been out of office for
two years yeah he said what was the
thing where he was like black kids just
to have skills more kids are just as
smart as white kids poor kids are just
the smartest white kids he said and the
midst of winners speeches we choose what
truth over facts truth over facts um but
you know you did have a good moment here
at the Iowa State Fair that I want to
talk about some turning point USA some
Charlie Kirk um weasel yes some weasel
from Turning Point USA this woman you
know got him in the in this sort of not
the pressed girl but like they walk
around and you know eat the put the corn
dog and everyone follows him around and
in the midst of that one of whatever one
of Charlie Kirk's little rats
how many gender yeah yes Joe Biden she s
Joe Biden how many genders there are and
Biden responded at least three just
decided to go for it
cuz there are at least three the woman
then asked him to name them and then he
said don't play games with me kid adding
that he was the first one in the Obama
administration to come out in support of
marriage equality and then apparently
like he grabbed her arm and all the deal
holler at weirdos or that's you're
having a field day with that that's so
amazing because you he catch she catches
him and he knows that it said oh I'd
[ __ ] I have no idea all I know is I
have a dim knowledge that it's
definitely not to about to that's all I
know
no.2 is not right and then it's just
like am I gonna ignore it no I'm just
gonna [ __ ] it the hurry heap the pigs
get down the field go for the [ __ ]
endzone and it just goes at least three
or at least three
however for anyone else he doesn't want
to get tripped up over this question and
you know Joe Biden not prepared to
answer that question what you know if
you're not prepared for this question
like that from you know a little rat
like that what you say is you know we're
not get out of here kid you brah yeah
you do a little CC WC Fields things
however if you want to give be correct
and right answer to that question how
many genders are there you say none zero
zero or infinite most acceptable answers
but those are Dodge answer is to say one
the human gender I think zero is the
best answer to that question there are
zero genders genders not real as many as
you want them to do yeah good luck Joe
well this was so this was the week when
the press corps finally had to say we
think he's too senile yeah and that's
what all the articles are now like seems
like Joe has a real gaffe problem which
you go to [ __ ] it which everyone knew
was the [ __ ] case I mean he had the
gaffe problem back in like 1989 when he
was a spry 300 years this is this is Joe
being Joe but you know now I mean look
like someone ended together like a mega
cut of his brain just short-circuiting
on camera and I could but it's all of
recent vintage oh yeah you know this
wasn't like when he came out when Barack
Obama nominated him as his vice
president he said isn't this guy great
Barack America so I yeah play the clip
of the Joe Biden mega meltdown and
montage rich Fitzgerald the county
executive or bad debt account executor
being here and we know he's about that's
that's who bar go to Joe 303 300 and
this fight we can speak out and be more
straightforward Senator Joe I mean no no
but I mean think about me too
it's not about I know you're supporting
by saying buoy but look here's the deal
you didn't work
the UAW took incredible cuts in their
future don't have here in Miami in
Florida you don't have a that is if you
keep an audience but if all these
breakthroughs we have with the whole
help people who have or in fact are
likely to get Alzheimer's by Wall Street
bankers CEOs and hutch hedge fund
managers
poor kids are just as bright in just his
talons white kids join I found that
bullion excuse me the secretary we sat
together in many meetings my wife is a
full-time teacher taught all during
being what we're vice president a
president tumbler and the Democrat
demagogues around the world how can a
person pygmy be maintained and she never
yields she does not break she stands up
the bills that the president that excuse
me the future president here that that
that the senator is talking about we
choose truth over facts or that I keep
my recommendation in private unlike you
I expect you would go ahead and say
whatever was said privately with them
that's well and the gag grilled the
Global gag rule events money from
getting in NGOs ten a billion dollars
worth of worth of loopholes in the law
because why they do that yeah you know I
I looked at it anyway
I that's what I think my planned I know
what my plan does by strengthening by
strengthening by strengthening I was
okay so uh the life but they have
original to your point that like the
media you know after like after his
performance at the debate where you know
again right after that I said they were
like strong energetic on top of the ball
kind of thing I'm not saying that this
matters but I kind of think that the
worm is turning and now this is the
point where the media is like okay we're
bored with him being the front-runner
and I think this just precipitates a
spate of negative press that he will not
know how to deal with because he's
totally inflexible and incapable of
analyzing and reacting to new
circumstance
so he's just gonna stay the course he'll
just get worse and worse more
embarrassing uh no but I think the
warmest turning slightly we're like the
media now either you know is proactively
asking the question like do you think
maybe he's you know fit and you know
mentally fit enough for you know there's
maybe he's too old or not really there's
something going on there but similar to
the Epstein thing we're like there was
like you know Saturday morning like an
hour after it happened there just
happened to be a whole bunch of takes
and articles written within like you
know a couple hours just saying it's
totally normal people kill themselves in
jails all the time
in fact it's nothing nothing to see here
in fact by denying that it was a suicide
you're denying the horrible uh
mistreatment of prisoners in our
nation's day right right yeah exactly
care about that's what's really
important not this silly conspiracy
theories yet one of the people wrote
that by the way for the Atlantic [ __ ]
North Atlantic magazine Treaty
Organization [ __ ] Atlantic magazine
was somebody who has a organization
called it was the Center for the Study
of institutions and alternatives which
is a charity think-tank and nonprofit
it's a nonprofit that's about prison
reform and I thought that's weird why
would they have this like on the ready
and I looked into it the guy who runs it
is a trial lawyer for very wealthy
white-collar defendants who uses the
like non profit generated data about
prison in humanity about the problems in
prison in terms of you know basic human
rights being violated and uses it to get
lighter sentences for his scumbag
white-collar defendants he's literally
weaponizing social justice for the
benefit of people who are absolutely and
that same testimony is not gonna be used
in the cases of anybody who's poor they
don't get that benefit you literally is
selling it to the highest bidder
but like you know to the point now is
like yeah after the obscene thing a
whole spate of articles being like no
big deal people kill themselves all the
time nothing to see here let's all move
on let's have a big bowl of strawberry
ice the Joe Biden gaffes thing
is similar because just today and
yesterday seen a couple of pretty big
high-profile article like opinion and
then one thing in cnn.com that was
basically presented as a news article
I'm gonna read that because it's insane
but just essentially saying this is a
Washington Post opinion section by Paul
Waldman layoff Joe Biden's gaffes and
I'm just like what's the idea here that
like I think Weibull pointed this out he
was just like is the idea here
what if if Democrats are nice to Joe
Biden in the primary that means that
Republicans also have to be nice to him
and general yeah bill is like they look
as will only remember that they don't
like a Democrat if Democrats remind them
so yes II wheeshes here a regular plumb
line readers will know that I'm hardly
Joe Biden's Mohan what grazes greg
sargent I think that's the plumb line
thing yeah because I'm hardly Joe
Biden's biggest fan but reporters
coverage of his gaffes is getting out of
control it's both unfair to him and a
disservice to the American voters who
were trying to figure out who their next
president should be and when the
president in the United States is the
most prolific liar in American political
history
he just Pat and then in parentheses he
just passed 12,000 false or misleading
claims and that's a lot of fun open and
is waging a reelection campaign based on
racism and fear the idea that gaffes are
an important campaign issue is
particularly offensive that's what I
don't get I saw yesterday somebody was
making a joke about Biden's brain not
working and a woman responded and said
look okay we don't have time to be
picnic picking about somebody's brain
farts we got trump at the White House
and we need to beat him
and I'm like there are 25 other
candidates and half of them have the
exact same profile is by they have the
same issue positions they're white men
they are straight they have everything
you think you need to beat Trump they
also don't have advanced dementia why
are you so fixated on this [ __ ]
and like it's like for progressives like
the it plumb line that's like the
progressive Washington Post blog right
plumb line I think is uh it's ostensibly
neutral okay and stuff but yeah like the
progressives or Democrats or whatever
this idea that like you know when Donna
when it when there's a threat like
Donald Trump
he's running a campaign based on like
racism and fear fine that's all true but
like it's the primary right now that's
like the point is that we all know the
goal is to beat Donald Trump but like
you can't say in the middle of a
Democratic primary like everybody just
let's ignore like the huge glaring flaw
with the leading candidate no like this
is where you're this is where you're
supposed to [ __ ] vet the candidates
and make sure that you nominate the
[ __ ] the right the one with the most
support the one that makes the most
[ __ ] says like this thing if you want
to beat Donald Trump the way to do it is
not to just be like let's pretend Joe
Biden's brain is fine everybody ignore
what's right in front of your [ __ ]
your days because the people you're
gonna be trying to get to vote for you
the general are not as weirdly invested
in this as you are so they're not gonna
have the brain screen to be like now
he's fine we're gonna go look at him you
realize with the sort of what the core
matter is is a Biden's pitch implicitly
is I'm the most electable one I'm the
one who does best in the hypothetical
trial poll Heat's against Donald Trump
but the reality of the matter is Joe
Biden has terrible political instincts
yes his last two presidential games were
huge [ __ ] disasters he won one tough
race for the United States Senate and I
guess for some local position before
that in Delaware in the 1970s and since
then has just coasted every single
[ __ ] time yeah in a machine state
where they just trade off power by
predetermined lot and they don't
actually compete with one another he's
not had to win a competitive race or not
been capable of winning one since the
[ __ ] 70 and he ran for president
twice before once the 1988 once in 2008
and they were both glorious failures
which saw him scrape around 1 or 2
percent and in the case of 1988 involved
incredibly embarrassing plagiarism
scandal where it was revealed that he
just took an entire speech that was
about his biography from the [ __ ]
British Labour leader Neil kenick so he
won of course uh two elections for the
vice presidency drafting off Obama
that's it people were voting for Obama
you were the other guy there and he's
still doing that he's still [ __ ]
drafting on Obama
that's why he's leading all the [ __ ]
polls he gets the nomination it will be
Obama's fault the same way Hillary was
so he is responsible for both of them
getting the nomination and then losing
by giving them his like in pitcher as
the popular guy first he cleared the
lane for Hillary and then after she ate
[ __ ] if she can't run again he's gonna
you do the next best thing which is
draft off of people's residual affection
for Obama well it's a good thing he
won't get the nomination then I mean it
kind of fits though doesn't it I mean
it's just it's October and we're
watching those two sundowning old men
jabber with one another
it kind of is what I don't know it seems
like it's what we're headed to well this
is a good thing we actually picked over
the other day if it is Trump Biden in
general the debates should be between
Don jr. and hunter Biden absolutely it's
like that that is a contrast that the
Democrats can win with yes Don jr. and
Eric Trump's idiot fail sons to
experience pleasure or get off they pay
like a hundred 200 grand to do a [ __ ]
vanity hunt in Africa where they walk up
to an elephant that's like chained to a
stake and just shoot it in your [ __ ]
head
yeah and then carve out those pictures
of those toofus cus beavis and butt-head
posing with the tail of like a giraffe
that they just severed looking like a
[ __ ] absolute animal that treats its
family better that is more deeply
empathetic and more intelligent than
either of em and they just they just
kill beautiful exotic animals for fun
and that's how like you know they get
off an experienced pleasure and they
post on [ __ ] the gun idiot message
boards about it about how they're a real
hunter it's like that's not even hunting
there's you're not even doing anything
and they think that they're [ __ ]
badasses for two of that [ __ ] they think
that they're outdoors but they think
they're Teddy [ __ ] Roosevelt how much
[ __ ] guts does it take for [ __ ]
Don jr. - yeah just put a cross bro to
the eyeball of a [ __ ] Lynx compared
to hunter Biden walking into Skid Row in
LA to buy crack getting a gun put to his
head and then coming back to buy more
crack over the rest of the week do you
think that jr. would do that no
his [ __ ] gabardines at the very
prospect if they went if the [ __ ] car
slowed down too much and his window was
rolled down in front of skid row he
would [ __ ] his [ __ ] pants oh yeah
yeah Don Junior's like you know I like
looking at a stock portfolio and
shooting elephants for fun like hundred
buttons like I smoke crack yeah that
base you have fun for me that would be
smoking crack what I like to do to
unwind is uh spoke crack my day you know
standard work day for me is uh smoking
crack it's about it about it nice to
meet you though
no but hunter Biden but also a beast
John Jr Oh destroy him yeah all he has
this like fork and jokes that he like
got programmed into his head by Charlie
Kirk Oh triggered much hunter that would
have ever yet he would just say
triggered and then hunter would be like
you know I wish Felix are here to like
channel the hunter energy but he'd
basically be like you're down in the
dirt and I'm [ __ ] like sealing away
in the Sun looking down on you like an
angel
[ __ ] you my life is [ __ ] beautiful
now I've been in the gutter
you don't know [ __ ] about me [ __ ] you
triggered no I know I know I didn't
steal that [ __ ] VCR besides no one
uses them anymore I'm [ __ ] beautiful
everybody it is Joe Biden's only success
yes
alright let's hear alright I wanna I
want to read this this article because
this is the this was this was actually
shocking to me this is in this is at
cnn.com in the politics section I don't
know if it's labeled as opinion or not
let me just double check I I don't think
it is I think this is just presented as
a news article in the politics section
of cnn.com it's by someone named Maeve
Reston I guess is a reporter for CNN and
the headline is Joe Biden here's your
taunts about his age but he's busy
running for
it this article is as close to just a
straight press release from a political
campaign published as journalism as I've
ever seen it is really quite stunning so
this is Maeve Reston in CNN writing
about Joe Biden Boone Iowa as Joe Biden
worked his way down the rope line at the
Boone County Fairgrounds Friday his
campaign was dealing with what has
become a routine problem
the Trump campaign had seized on Biden's
mix-up of two words during the previous
night's speech and that fit neatly into
Trump's narrative that the 76 year old
former vice president isn't equipped for
the mental rigors of the presidency
because he's quote plan not playing with
a full deck of course Biden's get back
to that is like Trump's playing with a
deck but it's all jokers you know that
would be an incredibly powerful back
because Joker's are wild yes it could be
any car it's like every hands a Royal
Flush there Biden knew the questions
were coming but here in boone he was in
the zone for laughs relaxed and
seemingly untroubled as he offered
well-wishers his skilled hand as they
squinted in the bright Sun trying to
position their iPhones for selfies with
Uncle Joe
it's an ease that comes of years of
experience with both crowds and scrutiny
and one that he intends to use as he
continues to make his case for the White
House he's just a regular guy just like
us wants the best for our country and
our people and that's what we all want
said shell decribe ow who described
herself as a 28 year old stay-at-home
mom who works with special-needs
students during the year she and her
friends were much more interested in
Biden's message about rebuilding the
middle class which he describes as his
North Star than his gaffes so I guess
you know may have found you know a
hard-working single mother who thinks
Joe Biden is just like her like I'm more
interested in his the policies and I
thought also smoked crack yeah he's more
injured in his policies than the gaffes
and it says Biden locked eyes with Gary
Craven who told the former vice
president that he'd recently lost his 48
year old son Todd after a struggle with
alcohol withdrawal the Veterans
Administration failed him
Craven a Boone resident said in
recounting of their conversation to CNN
he added that his daughter recently
retired from the Air Force after stints
in Iraq Afghanistan Jordan Korea and
Somalia with a medical discharge due to
post-traumatic stress disorder she saw
too much Craven said Biden leaned in
close gripping Craven shoulders can I
get your number and call you the former
president vice president asked them an
aide dutifully took down Cravens number
and said biden would call him from the
car a little ways down the rope line
a reporter shouted a question about
Thursday nights word mix-up in which
Biden misspoke by saying poor kids are
just as bright and talented as white
kids before immediately correcting
himself president Donald Trump's
daughter-in-law used the mix-up to
question his mental acuity the reporter
noted tell them it's the second
anniversary of Charlotte Hill coming up
so they need to divert to something
Biden replied referring to the fatal
street violence that occurred in 2017
unites the right rally in Virginia Biden
often rebukes the president's handling
of the incident
Trump's perceived encouragement of white
supremacist with his response that there
were very fine people on both sides
while campaigning the reporter persisted
are you able do you think to go through
the whole campaign with this kind of
scrutiny on you yes I have to it's
legitimate scrutiny bought and replied
he turned back to the aya woman who was
trying to take a picture with him fire
away mr. Biden they say these gas ding
your electability another reporter
interjected well that's gonna be
determined pretty soon isn't it Biden
parried back he kept moving down the
line handing a $20 bill to a little girl
named mark Macy Grebo for ice cream
telling her he owed her big for being so
good as she listened to his entire
speech under the hot Sun give him $20 to
a little girl to get one ice cream kind
of sauce
yeah what's she doing with that cash I
really haven't again I wish Felix is
here because I feel like you could he
could he could vibe off the story of
Biden telling a girl are you here you
are honey oh yeah Craven the father
Biden promised to call dismissed the
attention to the former vice president's
so-called gaffes he's a human being like
the rest of us instead of just a
Democrat Craven said when he asked why
he isn't seriously considering any of
the other Democratic candidates I've
read his book I've listened to him speak
going back as far as the Obama campaign
I work 40 years as an electric utility
lineman a foreman and I understand that
experience counts
and some of these people I don't believe
have reached the level of experience to
where they can handle the job the Trump
is going to leave us
he continued I don't think it was
possible for one man to destroy the
fabric of the country I'm just a fat old
retired guy from the Midwest but I just
throw my hands up with Trump
I think the Joe from what I've seen in
red is probably the finest man who has
ever served in our government [ __ ] from
what I've read Joe Biden is the finest
man who has ever served in our
government I mean it's not so much a
question of oh don't you know about the
crime bill don't you know about xic I
mean eh he probably doesn't and B he
might even have agreed with those things
he's probably relatively conservative
for a Democrat but what is the positive
case that he's that good of a guy what
what is he clinging to in making that
assessment where what does he what where
is the evidence I don't get it he's just
a dude he's just a senator
there's the vice president he didn't do
anything I don't get it
he didn't like foster a peace treaty or
something you didn't have a hunger
strike I don't get it what is going on
why do people like this there's like I
said like a subhead like there's a new
section to this article that's just
titled voters connected with Biden and
it goes on the next the next the next
like looks you know subject subcategory
or new you know subject line in the
article is a Biden on the trail and it
goes it's not clear yet how effective
Trump will be in softening Biden support
with his attempts to describe him as
sleepy Joe or lacking a full deck
Biden's campaign is clearly taking care
to address what could become a dangerous
liability for his campaign when he spoke
outdoors at the Boone fairground on
Friday for example he used the
teleprompter and free clear it to notes
he made through his way through the
speech perhaps cognizant that another
mistake would be unhelpful as his rivals
attempt to build the narrative that he's
too old for the job and still mistakes
were made over the weekend at a gun
control forum on Saturday he said twice
that he met with students who survived
the shooting in parkland Florida the
issue the incident happened in February
2008 more than a year after he left
office but in comparison to a 73 year
old president who has used physical hues
exercise and
prefer riding around in a golf cart to
walking Biden walks at a clip that
sometimes makes it difficult for the
throng of reporters and cameras to keep
up he's got so much core potency you
wouldn't believe it so I'm just gonna
skip to the end here it says when he
arrived at the fair twenty minutes early
and his staff was trying to move him
toward the soapbox the former vice
president glanced at his watch and
looked perplexed we're going to stand
there at the soapbox for 20 minutes he
asked his aides he made an executive
decision there was time for ice cream
Nach that's how that article ends
there's time for ice cream Joe Joe Joe
we're gonna have ice cream now Oh boys a
Monday night we put the pill for this so
I mean again I don't I don't know what
to make of that I mean like it again
super easy to do super easy bit can you
imagine
CNN Politico New York Times Washington
Post writing an article about Bernie
Sanders in the same way that that that's
obviously no no god no never
if Bernie had one quarter of the
goof-ups that Biden has had there would
be stories everywhere about is he okay
yeah like if if if Bernie had spent the
last weeks having as many missed
statements you know or gaffes whatever
you know verbal writes or whatever brain
farts do you think that like the the
press take away coverage of all that
would be it doesn't matter yeah I scream
ya know or like time for ice cream
Bernie yeah the idea is those gases only
matter to media political people he's
connecting with the real folks they're
more interested in hearing about his
universal health care plan that you know
whether he can string a sentence
together
oh yeah there's another article about
Bernie's losing the the corn kernel
primary at the Iowa State Fair and
whooped in it he's getting whipped
pretty bad we walked by it the other day
very very poultry corn kernels Biden
obviously muscular corn kernel yeah
almost a full mason jar of corn kernels
but again it's like like the corn kernel
Paul is like even worse than the polls
and only call people with landlines
you know
this is only his only calls people with
corn kernel access to corn kernels which
is usually the top 1% skews old that the
corn kernel poll is what I'm trying to
say yeah if you if you pull the hundred
people and ask them do you have access
to a corn kernel right now the people
who said yes would be older I like and
why older wider well they're wider than
the general population I think it's safe
to say to vote in the corn kernel poll
you have to you have to place a
Werther's original or peppermint candy
in a big bowl you know the Iowa
Republican Party is trying to make corn
kernel the official way to vote the
actual elections another voter
suppression mechanism you have to bring
your own kernel say like I don't want to
give too much away for a better Iowa
State Fair experience oh yeah absolutely
yeah yeah yeah Iowa crowd to uh attend
with well I mean if there's anything
else if you wanted to feel a little more
time we could just talk about the fair
generally in terms that we would not
talk about tomorrow because the crowd
would know what the fair is you know
what I mean all right like explain to
the people what Affairs like yes it's
like it's a fair point
because what a state farad you might
think oh I've been to a County Fair I
get the gist
no no State Fair is a whole other beast
it's much bigger it's very involved it's
they say you know you say your mama's
parish fair Oh cut that the Iowa State
Fair is massive I would say like my one
sort of observation but the crowd at the
Iowa State Fair in Iowans in general is
that they are really into like fighting
incurable diseases oh yeah there's a lot
big presence of people who are like
let's let's let's [ __ ] kill cancer
let's kick the [ __ ] let's get you know
like I said a lot of you with these
sores it was like you know hashtag to
and the digit to n dolls and I was like
what's the end alls movement and they're
like I send Alzheimer's and I was like
oh okay Joe Biden supporters no but like
yeah like
a lot of people who are like really into
yeah just taking on the incurable
maladies that the plague says a species
they're very into that yeah and also
slit their shirts or any indication I
think we're gonna have these diseases
licked pretty soon they're very into
fighting incurable diseases and Slipknot
they love Slipknot it was amazing it
really did remind me that Slipknot is Oh
Iowa's ICP they are the hometown heroes
their homeboys yeah they played they
played the State Fair on Saturday night
okay now here's something you are gonna
you are gonna hear that we saw we saw
Warren and Bernie Warren was there on
Saturday Bernie was there on Sunday I
think a number of people have pointed
out that Warren had the biggest crowd at
the Iowa that was Lyle's estimate yeah
yeah it was hard to see the Bernie had a
huge crowd - I don't know if I can like
confidently yeah I couldn't compare the
size but they weren't definitely got a
lot of energy a good crowd so did Bernie
I think maybe Warren had a slightly
bigger one however if you hear that in
media accounts I would just like to add
that you also have to take into account
that Saturday was Slipknot day at the
fair and there was a massively more
numbers of people there to see Slipknot
yeah there might have been some Slipknot
curious people in that crowd you don't
know this is a piece that Felix that I
were obsessed with back in 2015 when we
were riding together this is the fix
Chris the fix Cilicia august 13 2015 8
reasons I love the Iowa State Fair you
want it let's give it to us get it right
now I am an an unapologetic Iowa Homer
with the exception of that time my
fresno car got stolen out of a parking
garage connected to the hotel Fort Des
Moines in 2011 the atletico Chris the
state has been nothing but good to me in
the dozens of times I visited it wait a
minute so you start from Iowa hell I
wrote a piece outlining the 12 ways that
Iowa rules oh she's one at a time number
two on that list was the Iowa State Fair
which gets underway Thursday runs for
the next 11 days in order to stay fair
which I've attended four times on
non-consecutive occasions
put together a list yes a list of the
eight things I could have listed 80 I
love most about it also if you're going
to the fair you're gonna need this the
Des Moines Register Yaya Paula
all right here they are ready mmm number
one the Des Moines Register soapbox
every candidate running for president
will stop by the soapbox it's really
just a platform surrounded by haybales
deliver some version of their stub
speech these speeches which are heavily
attended by the media and much more
lightly attended by actual fair goers
range from the hilarious / sad throwing
of flying discs by fred Karger into the
sparse crowd to the genuinely important
the best recent example of that latter
category was mitt romney's terrible 2011
turn at the soapbox when he uttered the
now famous / infamous corporations or
people line i will say to chris's
observation about the Des Moines
Register soapbox he is right and I was
like a little surprised like you know
these are all the political candidates
are coming through the crowd I mean it
was like half of your media yeah and the
crowds for these are like considering
that like every day at the fairground
there's like at least 50,000 people on
the ground if not a hundred a day yeah
for sure uh very sparsely attended it
this really is like a mostly a media
thing like I said Sanders and Warren got
pretty big crowds but keep in mind like
the line to see the butter cow was like
at least ten times as big as Mayor
DeBlasio or you know John Hickenlooper
even quarry buzz honestly about the
length of 40 de Blasio's people gathered
to see the [ __ ] giant hog alright
let's see the rest of those reasons he
loves the State Fair to the cat also I'm
gonna say I agree with one yeah I'm with
Kris on it I love the soapbox to the
cast your kernel votes an empty jar for
each candidate each fair goer gets a
kernel most kernels wins wins what
presidency yeah that's it that's only R
okay all right I agree with that yeah I
disagree kernel suck 3 the pork
producers tent let's start here it can
get very hot in Iowa in August combined
heat with the required shot of every
candidate for president standing over a
hot
cooking pork and other assorted meats
and you get photographic gold also lots
of sweats I have to say the pork chop
out of stick was very delicious the
border I say was delicious I don't know
what the [ __ ] he's talking about he's
just talking about the pork producers
what's in the tent pork pork they
produce pork of the tent for butter cow
yeah this one doesn't need much
explanation it's a cow made entirely of
butter just in case you need more
incentive Donald Trump in the butter cow
will have a historic summit at 1 p.m.
Saturday oh this is still part of that
period where crystal izi was the biggest
guy loving how wacky and Mimi the Trump
campaign was I think it was was wearing
a mag a hat at some point as a joke
and yes the butter cow has his/her own
Twitter feed although sadly it doesn't
appear to be active I agree with the I
agree with question it sucks that the
butter cow got banned for being a Nazi
okay number 5 the hogs this is politics
but holy crap are these hogs big we had
the same reaction as crystal is ax to
the Hogs no there was some nurse'll just
warming up big hugs there I mean their
testicles are the size of Bali balls is
really impressive III agree with Chris
yep yes
Pro hog 6 awkward photos of politicians
eating corndogs okay no one can look
cool eating a corn dog wrong like no one
I know that's all he wrote
I took a fight we videotaped me eating a
corn dog at the fair and it's I look
like a [ __ ] pimp I will say though no
[ __ ] though Iowa State Fair that was
the best corn dog corn dog it was like
on a whole other level than any other
corn dog I've ever had it was delicious
delightful wonderful fair food right and
it really absolutely lives up to the
hype of Iowa so crisp I think he just
got tuckered out midway through writing
these because the rest don't even have
explanations number 7 donut sundae
ok and finally number 8 jamie-lynns be
what did no explanation of that well she
played at the Iowa State Fair that so
it's not gonna lie yeah there you go
those are Chris's top eight what are
your topic yeah what are our topic
things with the fair I said the corn
dogs pork chops
oh the the 27 degree beer yeah yeah yeah
that's a marvel I just grabbed the mic
to also agree the 27 degree beer they
have this beer stand there that has like
super cold water like kept in motion so
it can be below freezing and they put
the beers in the aluminum tall cans in
this super chilled water and usually
when you get something that says
ice-cold beer you know like yeah fine
cold beer or whatever but I swear to God
every time this is 27 degree a beer hit
my tongue it was like a little taste of
heaven it feel hot doubt it cleaned out
ideally my body temperature dropped to
3d yeah it was wonderful it is you know
baking hot like it's just flat no almost
no shade is oppressively hot at these
state fairs and there's like you know
tens of thousands of people around
everywhere and you get that 27 degree
beer and it's like yeah like you said
like ice-cold beer fine whatever we all
love a frosty one you get that just a
Bud Light in a big Styrofoam cup and
that 27 degree it's something that I
didn't know how badly I needed it until
I had it oh [ __ ] it paid it was it was
totally worth it okay here are my top
eight number one 27 degree beer for the
reasons that you have all stated number
two Des Moines Register soapbox but
overlap with Chris's on that one number
three harassing the candidates at the
media scrum next to the Timon register
soapbox number four pork chop on a stick
it was delicious
excellent excellent pork chop number
five [ __ ] and pissing little tip for
fair goers if you lie to acquire a press
pass you get to use the human
recognition media zone walk out with
your colleagues at ABC News and NPR
while [ __ ] party out your dude
we realized I mean maybe this is maybe
this is a bad to tell people but you
could just go in there and get a [ __ ]
media pass it requires nothing you just
say I'm from X and they just have here
side here they give you a pass it's fine
to say it because there were like
assorted like mega and toilet paper USA
people trying to get in the media area
to like the yell Jenner Michael Bennett
or something they were getting turned
away and they failed at this this task
even they are too stupid to think to try
to get him edia pass really dog okay
alright number six number six butter cow
yeah but it's coming about yeah it's
never you gets everything you expect
honestly what do you the butter cow they
also had I think quite exquisite butter
sculptures of Big Bird Oscar the Grouch
up and another annoying girl the new one
come on come on dude that's a no growth
alright number seven surprising amount
of train content here oh no no like the
thing is that I always say fair though
the reporter is always talking about you
know the corn dogs at the pork chop of
the steak and all that [ __ ] but they
never really forced the candidates to
observe model trains which I think would
be far more explanatory and enlightening
then give like for sick J in zli to a
pet a large hog or something like that
because you know it's it so you go
inside there's like there's a big we saw
multiple mild traits that's like the the
big one was the model train Association
and it's its it's like a it's a city
it's like its it's a it's a it's a city
there's there's a very role area but
there's also some mixed use at a in the
kind of city center like interesting
division of industrial and commercial a
drive-in movie theater had a haunted
house had beekeepers they had all these
incredible like mid-century Americana
details of like the old coca-cola ads
like light-up neon signs on the top of
holding General Electric Maxwell House
coffee I would say that the the model
train associations exhibit at the Iowa
State Fair top ten museum I have ever
been to in my life oh yeah for sure
piece of [ __ ] out of the Morgan Library
yeah [ __ ] off Louvre I will say Iowans
please do us all a favor and start
forcing the candidates to walk through
the model train zone and just give their
observations that is a great idea
because I think more so than you know
the the pork chop or the livestock or
whatever the way they interact with the
trains will tell you everything you need
to know about them yes if yes if you're
them you know just sort of walks through
and they just sort of like you know nods
playability mmmm that's nice
walks through nice model trains yep
can't trust them sicko sicko but if you
see someone coming in and the Union
Pacific line look at that is that diesel
I worry I warned you though one guy who
would pass that test is Joe Biden that
[ __ ] loves to [ __ ] train
that's true now I see Joe bite this is
an opportunity for Joe Biden to make one
of his infamous gaffes
when he confuses a diesel train for a
diesel electric train Oh Oh number
number eight uh yeah all those uh big
boys we saw in the livestock areas large
boys I mean most of them were cows to be
honest no animals are boys oh all right
well I I concur with uh with Virgil's
iowa state faves yeah for sure but I but
again you know if you're if you are an
Iowan listening to this you have the
power to force the can eights to do
whatever dumb [ __ ] you want they are
here to grovel for your vote they don't
know what the local customs are you can
make [ __ ] up please make a train custom
and they have to like drink milk
directly from a cow suckle on that teat
they have to they have to take a shower
in the horse shower
[Laughter]
Bill de Blasio's just standing there
soaping up while they hose him down I
think or the washing our drama [ __ ]
photographers taking pictures of it all
so that's gotta be the new tradition
Iowa State Fair you're getting hosed out
buddy
hose down this is wrangling a bill de
blasio also you have to go on the ferris
wheel with one of your competitors with
another candidate and hold hands if
anything happens that's it I woods you
can make it happen they'll they'll do it
you're in charge
we're know like like in in the the horse
and and and pig barns there's areas for
like they display them and like they do
like a dressage that's a good idea you
know we were walking to the horse barn
and there is like you know like all
these whole roll of stables but it was
like the horses and the girls who show
them we're all getting like their hair
and makeup beauty and spots I think the
candidates there should be like a big
dirt circle and they should all have to
walk out and like you know trot with
their legs up yes yeah you know jog run
maybe like just just shows off their
their beauty in their their show off
show off the goods there should be
someone with a stick you know there are
judges there who are like gauging
whether or not Joe Biden is you know
Delaware breed standard teeth yeah but
yeah just like a little handler with a
little stick who just sort of wrangles
the politician keep trotting keep moving
around showing off their beautiful
manners do good they go to sugar cube
yeah they're there they're lovely
muscular haunches and then they're there
they're there bulging full utters I will
say this if they did that if they had
the prance around like that Josie stack
wins cuz he has got a lie the beautiful
coltish manner he is graceful he's like
it yeah sir
oh yeah just be cultish Lee prancing
around the playground he would destroy
it he would win in a landslide so yeah I
guess a closing thought
Versalles correct people of Iowa you the
power is in your hands in so many ways
it's Gaddy with it please
yeah get-get little get kind of liddie
and make and make make these hogs work
for you yes you know you know I would i
knows how to treat hogs and you just
gotta treat the politicians like the
Hogs yes put him in a pen have people
walk by and sort of ruffle their hair
and squeeze their little snouts I guess
that wraps it up signing off from a more
full Iowa report at our live show on
stage at vaudeville muse to nights and
our film documentary about the Iowa
State Fair that should also be coming
out yes for that a quick plug I think
tickets are still available for HP
Lovecraft us doing Call of Cthulhu live
Providence August 3rd you know what it
is August 23rd ticket link in the
description venmo in the bio ah cheers
everybody from Des Moines signing off
boy clink hang off link hang off boy
clink hang off boy clink hang off boy
clink hang off
