but I know Alice it's your point about
it's kind of like over and over again
there's been like just these rehearsals
among American liberals about hoping for
some kind of like institutional
mechanism to save them from conservative
politics other like they whether it was
Fitzgerald or Muller or like and then in
other areas like the Erskine Bowles they
always want like some sort of Commission
or or some sort of non partisan Savior
to just come in and be like they're the
bad people we're rid of them yeah and
what they what they want is for the
adult in charge to come down and say
this side is obviously right and like
you should go to timeout yeah that's it
like and it's it's a also it's like it's
an allergy to doing politics it's an a
yeah it's an allergy to trying to win
power and then when you have power and
an allergy to using it well you can't
you you can't accept that he won fair or
that he can only be defeated through
politics without admitting that he also
was put in power by politics yeah
specifically your politics and the
failure of your politics so you can't
sell people on let's do my politics
again to unseat him so you have to act
like there's some sort of asterisks that
doesn't implicate you which is this in
this case is Russia right and that
provides the excuse to be like you can
still try my horseshit that lost to this
because if he was just the world's most
corrupt and comically oafish guy ever
which he was a guy of just a trail of
bankruptcies and criminality and obvious
fraud and he and he weight like he walks
up to the [ __ ] podium for one of the
debates with Clinton and like paper
towel rolls he stole for the bathroom
are falling out of this [ __ ] sleeves
and then he still wins your politics is
[ __ ] and over but if you know some
hackers hacked did hack the Gibson then
it wasn't your fault yeah and I mean
what what's funny is like again it just
it was so much misplaced energy because
if you wanted to put an asterisk it's
not Russia it's [ __ ] Kony like he's
the actual asterisk yeah like and you
know he's not like a resistance hero
anymore but no one is like dragging him
through dog [ __ ] [ __ ] electoral
[ __ ] collar yeah yes it's like how
many times does
yes it's got me let that calm started
there are so many that there is voter
suppression yeah exactly there's a
billion [ __ ] things yeah but like so
if you want like voter suppression then
I mean you'd have to actually do
politics to riot yeah you'd have to
actually contest elections and win them
and I mean like all of this that we're
talking about like this all fits
perfectly into your piece about Mitch
McConnell as sort of like the kind of
defining political figure of our era
because like all of these threads sort
of run through him as this guy who you
know rose to be leader of the Senate and
he'll the only thing he like really
believes in is becoming leader of the
Senate but in order to do that it
depends on the total like anything
possible to keep republicans in power
like even though the majority of the
country does not want them in power and
that is really his genius that you
capture in this space yeah is like that
he has figured out a way to not like
just basically defer all legislation or
regulation to courts that are now being
stuffed with actual vampires yeah yes
yeah and that's that's one of the like
funny things about him is that he wanted
to be the leader of the Senate which he
did and now people are they sort of
wonder you know I I almost feel like
when he when the Republicans tried to do
their health care appeal and when they
jammed through the tax cut I almost feel
like McConnell didn't really want to do
that like he was just like like he
doesn't actually care here's someone who
doesn't care about policy basically at
all and just wants power for its own
sake and then like Republican you know
Republicans theoretically had the power
to you know eliminate Social Security or
something and they they didn't because
they knew that would hurt them electoral
II but yeah his whole career is like
like has been advancing to run this
institution that he has now effectively
dfangs from its ability to pass
legislation or do anything well you talk
about um like the example of like his
probably his his most famous achievement
was after Obama was elected in 2008
flatly stating it will be our goal to
stop him from all singing any
legislation
and then as you point out like one of
the things that they denied him doing I
think him and all of his advisers
desperately wanted to do was to cut
Social Security and Medicare and a big
grand bargain to like you know lower the
budget deficit yeah it would it's like a
really incredible moment in American
politics where the the popularly elected
and popular Democratic president and his
entire administration is like what we
would like to do is reduce Social
Security benefits that's what we want to
do and the Republicans are like you know
we can't make a deal with you we just
can't we can't make that deal with you
because if we the act of making the deal
itself would be seen as a positive to
you even though it would be our
legislative or policy goal and it's like
if those are your politics I mean
obviously you can't negotiate with that
and the incredible thing is it took
Barack Obama six and a half seven years
to actually realize that against against
you know all odds and common sense and
hope for a decent future Obama and
McCain sort of came together at the same
time to make sure nothing would ever get
better
however in the end says McConnell has
built a GOP machine that is as immune as
it can be to the ballot box because he
is smart enough to know that Republicans
cannot as currently constituted win fair
elections often enough to retain power
and like this couldn't be more obvious
now that like now that like finally it
seems like people are kind of starting
to get the [ __ ] message about how
[ __ ] disastrous the electoral college
is and are trying like you know there
are rumblings that we should get rid of
it but I think like the the desperation
in response in defense of the electoral
college have you been following that
yeah that's so funny yeah I mean cuz
like the the the arguments that are
people are coming up with to preserve
this obviously idiotic and fraudulent
Democratic institution it shows you how
much they know that simple fact to be
true it's the most mcconnell IAM thing
cuz like there's no effort put in being
clausa bowl yeah exactly you don't care
if you see it did you see matt lewis's
take on this which one was mallalieu
athens i think ok matt lewis beep oh
sit that stupid electoral map oh you're
just a Red Pony man the count even he
just says like you know without the
electoral college like this map won't be
good enough to elect a single Republican
it's like of course you [ __ ] idiot
square the mileage is not equal two
people there are more people in this zip
code right now than there are in the
entire state of Wyoming wreck yeah if
you tell them that they just say well
that's not fair that's my favorite thing
I saw was like without the electoral
college big states will bully small just
like that's literally like a child
looking at the mat a map of all 50
what's stopping Texas from beating up
Oklahoma it's thinking from them from
the era of the founders when there was
an assumed unity of interests between
large states and small answers that's
not yeah case there's not like one small
state agenda than all the mean Reds big
states are gonna beat up on
it's literally like looking like you're
arguing for the electoral college and
you're like oh oh but wait till the
tobacco planters get a hold of this it's
some of them are so baffling like
there's a surface possibility to the bat
loosely as stupid as this because just
look at that map but one guy was saying
things like electoral colleges getting
rid of the electoral college will be
terrible for a state like Mississippi
yeah what are you talking about you know
what happened it would be malpractice
for a campaign to go to Mississippi why
they don't go there every [ __ ]
dumbasses like there a lot of the cooler
that's the other that's the funny thing
about the electoral college as it
currently is is that there's a [ __ ] ton
of small states that no president yeah
so what the hell difference does it make
but you know I do think like part of it
is ideological on the part of
conservatives who want to defend it
because they know the advantage it gives
them I think a lot of it and I've come
to realize this about a
really dumbass thing centrists believe
like they just don't want to let go of
really stupid myths they learned in high
school America yeah and like it's really
just like they haven't read they haven't
like read any critique of American
history they all they have is their like
high school textbook level understanding
of American history haven't even gotten
to AJ Sopranos layer he's exactly Amen
we could sub gate them fifty men we
could sub gate them subjugate and make
them do whatever we want that doesn't
sound like a slave they have not even
reached a Jay Z level and they're still
on like yeah they're on high school
textbook high school civics and they
just think like and so then all their
arguments just like can't escape that
box of like well they like they I was
told as a child that the founders
invented the electoral college and it's
good because it forces small states and
they're like they're just repeating half
of you can't really admit that the whole
project was just this slap - idiot
festival by a bunch of guys with
tertiary syphilis and lead poisoning
right which is why didn't even know
Jenni McCree on it was like this is the
thing that like the compromise they were
forced into positions which means if
conditions change you can maybe get a
better compromise yeah you better better
a more reasonable accommodation because
times are different but no it was it was
it they they these ideas are not
compromises they're all ideas that had
to be invented
they were very others like the electoral
college was invented as a way to get
these guys to agree yeah it wasn't like
somebody who had a Eureka moment where
they woke up and said AHA the electoral
college and then everyone told everybody
and they were like my god you're Cheney
and like anyone anyone who's making a
plea to the founders intention on this
like should also then want the electoral
college to be made of above a bunch of
people who like go sit down and debate
say the math resident and they say that
if you want to talk about intent you'd
way they intended it is there wouldn't
be any vote if he knows that yes yeah
there would be an electoral college that
voted yeah and so like like the state
way the state legislators would appoint
they like the electorate they would have
packed the electors but there would be
no compulsion to vote most of it would
be like you'd all send them off and they
will come back with a guy and that be
you had no say in it yes you said you
gotta say in who you could elect your
state legislature I think but there was
no candidate that anyone was bound to
vote for on electoral college you know
by in the electrician we should do the
next election that way just a shot just
to see what happens I want to do the
next election Jeff Dunham it would
probably be like dad Jean imagine you
like the New York State Legislature
would send to the Electoral College to
like go vote for whoever you want John
McCain I swear to God just go vote for
whoever you just tell us tell us when
you pick a president we'll just be
waiting
