hate being right all the time damn it
stuff first
but what's worse than being right all
the time is when nobody listens to you
and they do the exact thing you told
them not to do
yeah so it's almost like not enough
people listen to this show and then do
everything we say it's problematic but
if they had followed our advice they
could have perhaps avoided this week's
most mind-numbing and idiotic right guys
last episode remember when we said don't
be afraid to let your body die well you
could have avoided all this no we are
honor the last basically the last 10
minutes of our most recent episode
before this one we talked about how you
need to just be just steal yourself and
be totally dismissive of spurious
allegations of anti-semitism when
they're directed at Jeremy Corbyn and
then on Monday I woke up and realized
damn we've got the wrong character cuz
it's Ilhan Omar this week ya won that
lottery and in it probably even dumber
than the Jeremy Corbyn anti-semitism
[ __ ] well I mean the fact that it's
happening on Twitter inherently makes it
Dumber that's for sure well I'm just I'm
glad that we've set a precedent
lobbyists have never used money to
influence anyone I just really enjoy
lobbies they love being in lobbies yes
second thing you guys you know yeah I
think I support Palestinians more than
anyone and you know that because I say
that after 440 tweets I just call
somebody the moral equivalent to Himmler
for saying that AIPAC has influence on
people you know then I say let's support
Palestinians y'all let's raise awareness
to Palestine well I gotta say like that
that this this whole idiotic controversy
was going on cuz Alon Omar said in
tweets replying to what is it mine or D
Whip Kevin McCarthy it was over the
issue of you know of lobbying and then
someone was like you know who makes him
do that she was like AIPAC it's all
about the Benjamins and people and that
led to about the dumbest 24 hours on
Twitter in recent memory yeah we just
people real brain death just like if she
had been describing like I don't know
US auto manufacturing Lobby the NRA core
lobby yeah so apex the only Lobby that
doesn't use money that's amazing
do they have glamouring powers okay
becomes more anti-semitic and exactly
and then like I mean and there was just
like just a cascade of people projecting
this sort of anti-semitic intent and
it's like oh no no what she said about
AIPAC is true but she's using tropes you
see the trouble she's using tropes about
they are just that trope about Jews just
throwing money around left it right yeah
yeah it's why they say like the Jewish
car it stops on a dime and then use it
for lobbying purposes here's a couple
there's a couple different tax people
took with this again responding to ill
on Omar's flatly objectively true just
statement of about how lobbying works in
DC and how AIPAC has a huge influence in
DC that is largely dependent on how much
money they spend there's a couple tax
people took on this the first one the
DOMA people will just say are you
actually saying that AIPAC gives money
to Congress people because that's
illegal and you know when you saw that
you could just write that person off of
me that you know they're bullshitting
you know they're lying to you because
you know those people understand full
well that a pack of course does not
directly give money to political
candidates but they manage an entire
network of PACs that do just that right
the other one was to people who
pretended that they want to agree with
her and just be like actually yeah AIPAC
is bad and we need to speak up against
them but you just can't use certain
tropes or like my experience as a
extremely well-off Jewish person living
in America you need to you need to step
back and listen to my experience and
this is hurtful which are the people who
wanted to agree with her but they had to
hold out this idea that she harmed the
community in some way now keep in mind
these are people who not speak for any
community they're just talking on
Twitter about how they feel it's like
they're coming to you as a
representative of like a labor union or
any other group with constituents
they're just saying I have appointed
myself a spokesperson for this community
that you've harmed in some vague way
and you know we need to talk about that
and this is exactly what I was saying on
last week's show is that like no no you
can't--no don't even count into that
because that's even more [ __ ] than
the idea that the idea that Elon omar
statements harmed anyone in any way is
even more [ __ ] than the idea that
AIPAC doesn't give money to politicians
all right
the greatest quote ever about Twitter is
it was applied for a certain situation
but it's universally true dog boner
Michael Hale said it he said when a
celebrity dies on Twitter it's like
watching a group of the same 20 people
trying to jam a single turd down one
clogged toilet and but that is just
everyday now it's every day because
every day there's Donald Trump will
tweet like Max Baucus is so handsome he
could be in the movies too bad the
Muslims want to put him in a headscarf
and people will start like @midnight
hashtag game or something or just
jamming the same turd down that same
toilet and it's just the most disgusting
display of social climbing and and
networking and just jockeying to be seen
by like either a Sam B writer or like
whoever manages hiring at cap who there
could represent anyone no one there just
solely representing themselves to either
get a job or get some awful serotonin
rush from people liking their dog [ __ ]
filth that they put out there no one
there can speak they can barely speak
for themselves they probably should yeah
they need a conservator honestly yeah to
leave their homes that stuff doesn't
even bother me as much it's the kind of
like totally guileless response of an
attempt at good faith from nice rubes
who lack any sense of cynicism like how
do they not just walk out of their door
and meet someone saying hey can I hold
your purse for a second it looks really
nice like how has that not happened to
them the aoc response to it was girl you
have got to wise up yeah it was
ridiculous it was a she's quote tweeting
max Berger says truly wild how many
non-jews feel comfortable telling me
what
is and is an anti semitism if you're not
a Jew please try to listen to Jews
sharing how they feel not all the
reactions are in bad faith and she's
like responding lots of people here
proclaiming to be woke trying to police
communities on what they are
/ aren't allowed to be upset by oh my
god am I on am i oh not like a
fanfiction community girl you got to get
your [ __ ] together you've got to get
your [ __ ] together I was Gregg's and if
she keeps doing that she's done for
that's it she won't make it
she won't make it she's pretty much all
alone out there anyway you can't please
them all the only Jew I listen to is
Felix I do not speak for everyone I
represent I rep my experience is
universal if I say you know I feel
unsafe like when certain people say that
a certain brightly colored battle royale
game is for children I present evidence
that many the median age of the pro
gamers who play it is actually about 23
uh you know I feel unsafe when math says
that police communities what does that
mean first of all there are communities
that are literally bright really so
called down with that show and then
second of all I like Scala like saying
like I don't believe you is not policing
someone also people need to get this
standpoint concept just doesn't hold up
it's absurd cuz okay it's Jesus or not a
high exactly it's like I listening to a
Jew okay but what about alright it's
Norman Finkelstein that's the Jew I'm
gonna listen yeah that is my chosen June
why means to standpoint through Felix
its Norman Finkelstein we already
decided Shh but it already fall apart
here because the same people they're
like you have to listen to black women
you have to listen to yeah right vote
for black women support black woman
support block well I don't know what
that means first of all but okay I don't
know what representative Omar is she's
not a black woman but just the moment
she opens her mouth about something that
makes you uncomfortable
she's there's a weird thing that happens
there were the moment she says it
she's David Duke yeah she's under his
breath ik but then the moment you
finally [ __ ] isolate her and try to
terrify her and [ __ ] beat her down
and as a member of her own very
small caucus I like [ __ ] abandon her
oh she's fine now well what the [ __ ] was
it what was it was it was it
unapproachable II anti-semitic well if
it was then why is it okay she's like oh
my bad why she's learning and that's
that's the that's the really nauseous
noxious Lee she's prostrate you're
straight yourself before like the crowd
then you know they'll leave you alone
for a second yeah but in a second that's
the thing is that any the people I get
most I mean all the cynics in the in the
in the house Baris and the scumbags like
you're doing your job congratulations go
collect your paycheck but the people who
profess to honestly care about the
Palestinian cause and stuff like that
and they're like but we can't use tropes
like [ __ ] do you think that
there's a trope that exists on earth
that you can evoke to criticize Israel
that won't get called anti-semitic that
does not exist there's no language for
criticizing Israel that will not get you
called anti-semitic by somebody probably
in a [ __ ] bunker in Tel Aviv and
Corey I mean Ryan grim over two pieces
the intercept about that very little
scene documentary about the Israel lobby
in DC that sort of came and went after a
big struggle with whether it even be put
on air anywhere where they have these
APEC guys on tape bragging about how
much their money spends in [ __ ] DC
yeah like this is what lobbyists [ __ ]
do and AIPAC happens to be a pretty big
and powerful one however I don't think
it's like a as far as AIPAC and Israel
goes I think it's like I don't know like
it's I think a US policy is directing it
not vice versa well yeah as real as our
client stage right like it's not like
like AIPAC is like making you know
America do this America like AIPAC is a
front for America yeah you know and
Israel as our client state so if you
want to you know pin that down be
welcome to it but there are malign
influence anyway you cut it and they
should be addressed as such but the best
is is that they put out a Peck put out a
fundraising email off of this saying
this horrible anti-semitism about how we
use Jewish money to influence things in
Washington yes you really should use
some Jewish money right now
I mean well are they just I mean maybe
they're just fundraising because you
know I'm feeling
they've hit my PayPal yeah and okay you
want to talk about they're not gonna
spend that that's yeah it was about
they're gonna spend it what the [ __ ] are
you talking about yeah they're going to
Sephora with it again
Omar is being targeted because thus far
has been a very courageous voice in
American politics holding elected office
that are saying things that are flatly
true about the world and America's place
in it that cannot be acknowledged by an
official DC and that is why the
Democratic leadership condemned her
immediately well that's about to get
beaten out of her because she's all
alone and all of these supposed you know
supporters are gonna hang her out to
[ __ ] dry because they've got no back
I'd like to see a let's see any
statement from Bernie Sanders alone aoc
statements already have not exactly
inspired confidence about don't hold
your breath on Bern honestly if if she
had said nothing it would've been better
it would have been better
yeah like saying nothing is still better
than its she's [ __ ] threw her to the
wolves
because here's the way out of this we're
gonna apologize no never apologize that
is the Chapo cream oh it's true and here
and here's and here's the the net effect
of that amber just today we got to see a
lon Omar
do something genuinely unheard-of in DC
politics which is confront Elliot
[ __ ] Abrams to his face about the el
mozote a massacre everything healthiest
chopper UPS in El Salvador to his
[ __ ] face and it pissed him off like
you could tell everyone in that room was
like how dare she and she was she's
first of all I love she called I want to
play that clip actually first of all I
love that she calls him mr. Adams chapo
rule number one never get anyone's names
right
chapo rule number two always be
disrespectful to people and getting in
people's names wrong on purpose or by
accident is a fun way to do that but
watch that [ __ ] clip because it is
it's like Haley's [ __ ] comment in DC
to see some [ __ ] scumbag piece of
[ __ ] mass murderer like Elliott Abrams
get his coat ruffled for even half a
second by some woman that he would put
in a [ __ ] camp if he had even half
the [ __ ] inclination or power to do
so um
you all for being here and thank you for
your testimonies mr. Adams in 1991 you
pleaded guilty to two counts of
withholding information from Congress
regarding your involvement in the
iran-contra affair with for which you
were later burned by President George HW
Bush I fail to understand why members of
this committee or the American people
should find any testimony that you give
today to be truthful if I can respond to
that I am it wasn't a question that was
not that was not a question that was my
I reserve the right under my time it is
not it is not right that was not a
question you can attend on February 8th
who is not permitted to reply that that
was not a question thank you for your
participation on February 8th 1982 you
testified before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee about US policy in
El Salvador in that hearing you
dismissed as communist propaganda report
about the massacre of el mozote a in
which more than 800 civilians including
children as young as two years old
were brutally murdered by us trained
troops doing that massacre some of those
troops bragged about raping a
twelve-year-old girl before they killed
them girls before they killed them you
later said that the u.s. policy in El
Salvador was a fabulous achievement yes
or no do you still think so
from the day that President Duarte was
elected in a free election to this day
El Salvador has been a democracy that's
a fabulous achievement yes or no do you
think that massacre was a fabulous
achievement that happened under our
watch that is a ridiculous question
about yes or no no I yes I am NOT going
to respond to that kind of personal
attack which is not a question yes or no
would you support an armed faction
within Venezuela that engages in war
crimes crimes against humanity or
genocide if you believe they were
serving US interest as you did in
Guatemala El Salvador and Nicaragua I am
NOT gonna respond to that question I'm
sorry I can count on one [ __ ] hand
the amount of time some 40 years
something like this has happened in
Congress Maxine Waters questioning the
CIA years ago about drug trafficking in
South America this is actually this is
more than 40 years the [ __ ] Church
Committee and and what what you would
have to go back to [ __ ] Paul
Wellstone maybe it's it is don't go to
any small planes Marv maybe I mean it is
you see why though you see why the
knives are there do you see why they're
so [ __ ] out for her she is the
bravest elected official out of this
current crop unquestionable and this the
other thing that this shows is you see
that you saw today why they have to clap
her and also you see the end result of
taking any of these spurious accusation
seriously because what happened we'll
see how long she lasts and then people
will be like you know well she was
really great but she took a rightward
turn towards things like you know what
you wouldn't hold up no one would but
the end result of course today after
this brilliant moment of you know giving
making him feel uncomfortable for like
ten seconds which is more than he's
[ __ ] used to yeah he should feel a
lot worse than that yeah he should be an
addict and Tiger cave is immediately all
the people who are like mmm I think she
should be more careful or she's trouble
we should release drugs she should use
trope sir we need to have a more nuanced
discussion guess what everyone
all the neoconservative right is
I wonder what it is about Elliott Abrams
the son of Jewish parents that makes her
so upset I'm gonna kiss you right now
disgraceful ad hominem attacks by illa
Han Omar on my CFR or colleague Elliott
Abrams she doesn't seem to realize he is
a leading advocate of human rights and
democracy not a promoter of genocide
more evidence of the loonie left i
cautioned democrats about from one max
boot the maximum amount of boot but yet
this is the end result of that you can't
talk you can't call out a literal war
criminal
oh yeah that's anti-semitic yeah it's
aunty says she's using tropes about jews
and mass murder I'm gonna go to Elliot
and see if he's okay yeah I see I'm just
like if I can had only pulled out nice
at home at Jerusalem he might have
gotten off this is the end result of it
because like there there is no way that
you can acknowledge these truths about
America's foreign policy or even our
domestic policy without people coming to
cut your throat and they're gonna do it
to you in exactly this way
which is what I said just on Sunday
about [ __ ] Jeremy Corbyn and guess
what they gave you an object lesson in
that this week with MS Omar you can't
everyone wants to be [ __ ] nuanced
[ __ ] off there's no [ __ ] nuance
there's just absolute truth yes you
don't have to listen to everyone's
feelings and I know that sounds very
folks don't care about your feelings but
you know what or just so cause something
is offered in good faith doesn't mean I
have to take it or the person advancing
it seriously yeah I die [ __ ] don't
and how's the most of this was in bad
faith but I think like even more
sickening as the people who were in good
faith right yeah we need [ __ ] Chelsea
Clinton being like thank you so much for
talking let's have a dialogue who the
[ __ ] are you you're not in Congress
you've never had a real job there was
there was something that was one of the
most incredible things I've ever seen
maybe just she's always neck-and-neck
with Meghan McCain for hey are Jason
Thomas at least accomplished public
figure Pratt at least performed on a
show Spencer and Heidi and Heidi Montag
they at least did something more than
them as you said most mediocre public
figures in American history compared to
Omar who
what a [ __ ] story the daughter of a
refugee who comes here who doesn't Bend
an inch and is elected and just always
goes out on her shield leaves [ __ ]
everything they're not carrying I mean
caring obviously about this type of
thing but caring more about her
principles than is Nancy Pelosi going to
strip me of my committee assignments to
question someone like Abrams and
everything else and then just what is
Chelsea Clinton done but post green
pancakes great a children's book about
resistance she has never had a real job
I have to emphasize that she has worked
for different hedge funds and and
nonprofits all directly controlled by
either the Clinton family or close
friends and donors well I I don't want
to be as we now know she named searches
I don't want to be too hard on she's
insane you show up in the White House I
don't want to be too hard on Chelsea
Clinton because she has accomplished one
thing getting Adam Freeland to delete
this account
I mean people called her ugly in the 90s
and no one has ever recovered from that
that didn't happen to anyone else so we
have to listen to her I gotta say like
that is the most sympathetic thing about
her oh I remember there vermi a not
attractive child and being about her age
like a little younger and hearing Rush
Limbaugh a child yeah a dog what a piece
over again but she's a 40 year old thing
here's the thing she should know by now
that you don't name 'search you should
look for mentions of yourself like at
some point you're inviting the abuse
into your life well she's a vegetable
that's her whole thing is she's the
martyr like her her move on Twitter is
to get an insult and then do like a
highroad like well it's it hi you know
hi pizza gate 47 I know that you think
that me and my family eat children's
brains in the basement of town at ping
pong but all I do is eat delicious
cheese pizzas thank you very much like
she's just trying to preen and show that
she's above the inn
it's like she goes high they go low she
goes high you're insane your no chasing
your haters you learned nothing it'd be
like if you camped out on Rush
Limbaugh's lon
it's it is like her entire like online
presence is like yeah she'll find like
rifle Patriot 1952 who'll be like I'm
just going to dialysis so I can live for
the day the Chelsea Clinton is executed
for treason and she's like the only
thing I'm executing is a playlist with
Jay Cole so on and people in like yeah
then like clap back then like the
nephews and nieces of rifle Patriots are
like you are such a classy man you are
clapping back all these haters
beautifully forget a mediocre Chelsea
Clinton I think you know credit and you
know solidarity you know must be had
with Ilan Omar yeah and you know like
this is the reason they want to strip
her of her cuz I didn't ask you or
she'll be [ __ ] right-wing in a year
you know I and this is why they want a
stripper of her committee thing so she
doesn't get the opportunity to [ __ ]
call out Elliott Abrams I mean [ __ ]
calling out to just tell the truth yeah
[ __ ] evil face for one time in his
only really gonna use that trope his
evil face Wow there you go there you go
yeah evil face classic anti-semitic
caricatures there you go
[ __ ] off spare me your experiences and
your [ __ ] feelings about this [ __ ]
[ __ ] I'm gonna use the phrase I'm
gonna use another trope never been the
need of these [ __ ] people even
slightly yeah you're not even bow your
head or wink it's not at this slightly
it's not it's not a [ __ ] bull session
you know it's not it's not hanging out
in the quad where everyone wants to be
reasonable yeah there are real stakes
here you know maybe not to the specific
maybe not to your tweets but like the
the general contours of these arguments
this is life or death learn to identify
people who are not on your side just
because someone is you know nice to you
but mean to the waiter it doesn't mean
they're nice you know I'll put it into
perspective for you if people who are
ostensibly on your side because their
display name is something like I want
gritty to
corncob Charlie curve Oh someone who
will probably be raising money for a
Republican candidate in ten years they
are using an apartheid client state of
the United States as a wedge issue
against someone who wants your life and
life of your friends to be better there
you go very easy that's how to look for
okay hey I hate to be right all the time
but I must I must continue
