and you see what's around at the
twilight's last gleaming whose broad
stripes and bright stars we're so
gallantly streaming through the night
that our flag was still there oh say
does that star-spangled
[Music]
[Music]
the whole
[Music]
[Applause]
the debate will begin right after this
short break
[Applause]
they're eventually there we go hey
everybody welcome to the bait stream we
could out of timed this better is its
commercial thank you for coming
welcome to chapo Trap House live debate
I'm out here to welcome chapo and I
can't think of a better way to do that
didn't you just do this
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
he's ready for some democracy hey
everyone good evening Traverse City
where we are streaming live from the old
town Playhouse smart at the Traverse
City Film Festival a beautiful Northern
Michigan and good evening to our twitch
viewers this is night 2 of the second
Democratic presidential debate in
Detroit for the chapel elections unit
I'm Virgil Texas with me his man about
town Matt Chrisman yo and our special
correspondent to trader Brendan James
hello we only allowed him on stage after
he wore a dunce cap for 48 straight
hours while we pelted him with abuse
we are officially streaming the boring
bad debate this is good there's no
stakes it's nothing but ten jackals
barking at each other it's awful
monstrosity there's no no one need to
root for anyone I don't think last night
was that much better because that was
just Bernie and Warren slaying level one
and PC after anything the see but it
still got me a little heated as you guys
will yeah Matt we watched in our hotel
room and Matt was quite literally
rolling around on the couch screaming
like screaming to the point we were
worried we'd get you know like some
would knock on the door by about half an
hour and I was just barking at every
time John Delaney came on-screen yes
about the barking Adam not even making
words so I don't think that would have
been a good public performance so yeah I
think it's better that there I'm gonna
be a little less invested in this one oh
and we have uh who do we have on tap Joe
Biden of course former vice president we
got we got everyone's favorite shitty
grandpa Kamala Harris who you know
famously went up in the polls after
attacking Joe Biden the last debate
uh-huh
I mean I assume they're gonna try to
play them to like a guy they're gonna
cage match they're they're gonna break a
pool cue in front of them drop one piece
whoever emerges alright here we have
Andrew yang a candidate
and the rest yes yeah Kristen Gillibrand
punches literal 0% well buddies and none
of them who should be here this is a
waste of everyone's time and it's supid
they didn't even exist and now let's
waste the time can we get the sound up
yeah let's listen to these idiots by the
way I really do enjoy us talking about
our democracy before having just a
fascist flag [ __ ] rally right
beforehand yeah to set the stage sure
mind you yeah you can't change any of
this we live in a militarized Hell State
good luck enjoy your little talk party
but at the end of the day we're ruled by
the military this is essentially [ __ ]
South American Hunta I'm tall as [ __ ]
I'm taller than everyone else on stage
that is the entirety of my wreck my
qualifications while I'm here the Statue
of Liberty just exploded a race of
Morlocks has misses with the subways had
started eating people on board Broadway
if it's possible could we get captions
on oh yeah you spilling the tea and
we're all as we pointed out last night
the opening statements are really one of
the worst parts because it's just kind
of useless time in which they would have
given this in their first answer anyway
so it's amazing this [ __ ]
sighs it says it's America I say abandon
all hope ye who enter here this is
really sad this is Wow humming me out
some of these people are just running
for president so that people have to
listen to their stories yeah my kids
don't call me anymore
so I'm running for president okay okay
okay dad
all right we've heard that's that's good
dad I got I gotta go I gotta go pick up
the kids
dad thank you thank you yeah I get it
yeah I know
single pears not realistic yeah I get it
I understand my partisanship yeah I
guess ha ha thanks dad
I gotta go I love him though because
it's like he's also he's boring dad and
also Anton Chigurh at the same time yeah
what's the LA what's the most you ever
lost in an election oh boy here we go
I'm sorry run meeting did he find those
glasses yeah what the hell you don't get
that statement frames when you're
running for president I can't hate on in
Slee because he is talking about climate
change which is very important but at
the same time he's just such a dork
yeah when we were at Netroots it was
like what was it Gillibrand Castro and
then Elizabeth Warren who is the you
know the crowd favorite clearly and then
they tucked Inslee at the very end after
Warren had blown the entire place out
and everyone was just streaming out of
the room while he spoke and it was very
sad and I think he's hoping this is you
know his last shot cracking through to
me if he just went full black pill like
yeah we're all gonna be dead in 30 years
yeah I would just like to be in the
White House for a while yeah duelers
don't I would like to know where like
the the basements are that I can live
out the rest of my life yes oh yes I
could be useful in the coming climate
Wars valuable information about the
sewer system on Seattle ten years ago I
literally was running ads that Trump
would run right now yeah and I hope you
don't remember that about immigration
wait this isn't made of plastic no it's
not there's a whole essay about how bad
plastic what is it made of them that
metal it doesn't feel like metal okay it
feels like it's very thin metal okay
geez this guy
what happened to the streak is it's
where it is it it's it's on the side oh
okay
like Jean Grey is not whoa I don't think
I can tackle that kind of slander on my
timeline can you remind me like what
what is the gabbard get case like why
does she
what would her supporters like her for
what's the deal because she's apparently
anti-imperialist yes she also loves
Israel she loves Israel and I think she
also backs the the Modi part - she's a
BJP Hindutva yeah in so a Hindu - I
don't get it is it just Syria like she
doesn't want to do serious people who
want the truth about chemtrails mostly
right yeah she will blow she will
declassify the HAARP weather machine the
object
she won't defund it though that public
service is not fundamentally about any
of us it's about you and your family I
want you to know that if I'm elected
president that I will work hard every
single day so that you and your family
can have good health care when you need
it so that your children and
grandchildren can get a good education
so that they can reach their dreams and
that you can have good job opportunities
whether you live here in a big city like
Detroit or in a small town in our
country I know we have a wonderful
special nation but the too many people
are struggling and I know we do have a
special nation it's true
it's very special it's very special back
to the future we're going back to the
fear I guess we're going to the future
I'm availing the DeLorean right here
with the flux capacitor whoo he didn't
well yeah holy cow so did well in the
last debate let's get some bleep loops
going in the shat for the robot man
[Laughter]
imagine [ __ ] a computer that looks
like Megan Fox it could be your future
with the issue president you should just
come out with a stack and just start
Fanning it at the crowd that you got
that's the way to get people to remember
yeah just be like my ubi real good right
now confused seeing him when it's not a
meme with chillwave [ __ ] you know I
understand that it is true like the
whole thing about the death of retail
that's a real thing and yet somehow I
was walking around down here today
there's a [ __ ] punch store that's
been open for 70 years or something how
the hell do we still have fudge stores
with the Internet how the fudge stores
still exist
Andrea donated his neck to science okay
here we go the malfunctioning chucky
cheese animatronic notice they make a
movie about the 2016 2020 campaign all
you got to do is get common to shave the
mustache and we're set it's somebody he
people are heckling it is he getting
heckled
I don't think it's about him I think
it's a separate thing yeah but he
clearly has beta energy if they're
willing to interrupt and a let's use his
tie heard them during yang - that's
actually they're pretty smart these
protesters because that's really white
right the nice guys who are gonna let
you do what are they what are they
saying I don't know
Biden would not would like authorize the
[ __ ] SEAL team incursion like the
[ __ ] Spetsnaz that gas that theater
and there in Russia yeah I think they
were demanding sensible solutions to
increase Americans access to prosperity
yeah yeah they're really worried about
tungsten subsidies they been gas though
it's okay now
cuz they'll just all of a sudden stop
talking what the [ __ ] happened deeply
wounded were wounded could you put on
the closed captioning I believe you
click it right there in the lower right
does he got a lazy eye have I never
noticed that before his eyes don't seem
like they're they they go slightly
different one of them sort of over here
cop mall on the case it's a sound at the
police it's interesting she's all black
and Tulsi is all white at some point
they are going to have some sort of
wizard battle that's inevitable yeah
remember the copy of the original stand
remember the stand Stephen King fighting
in the desert yeah it's gonna be them
this is the worst part
[ __ ] shut up I know oh god I just feel
like I'm being I'm getting like audio
chemotherapy I know
ripped into my ears I know
fight March we're gonna fight this is
our fight song remember that worked out
yeah this is good I love fighting I mean
if they're gonna say we're gonna fight
for you I want somebody just say I would
literally punch Donald Trump in the face
oh here we go he might Oh grandpa's at
the horseradish I really looking forward
to this because when they have them all
together on stage it really looks like a
bunch of adult children trying to
convince their dad it's time to go to
the home yeah it's a it's a retirement
community dad he's gotten a line of
staples down the back of his head where
they gathered up all the loose face yeah
he's like hold it up can I just say I
think he's looking kind of nice with it
don't do it apart right now I think he's
looking low-key nice his skin is pulled
so far back how could he even see yeah
he looks good we get it oh my god if
he's the nominee it's just gonna be so
funny all right up there can you hit the
caption who are you talking to clearly
no one's listening you know the people
running right you've said that hundred
times and they have not they might have
thought that was a bit I was doing so I
want to make it clear this isn't irony
well clearly alright so this is the no
irony zone
Vergil clearly does not have the Alpha
postured charisma to get anyone to do
they're confused they think I'm talking
to the audience so let me just say if
anyone running the thing can put on the
closed caption that would be appreciated
then we can we can watch them say like
purple monkey dishwasher artichoke
okay so where we are now with this
healthcare of course it's all health
care last night it was basically Bernie
with a small assist from Warren saying
that single hair was just thing here
because none of these people are for
single payer right it's all [ __ ] so
Harris is trying to present yourself
yeah I don't know I know she's lying but
I wonder yeah this is the whole
public-private obfuscation thing you got
to keep a spot for the health care
insurance companies to make a ton of
money that happens by the way after I
said it no we don't we what you they
wasn't irony we all know the alpha dog
in the pack is right now it's been
established scientifically here we go
when I'm I take an MRI first a little
bit horseradish just take a buffalo
nickel down to the old Szabo he'd pop
you open give you a belt a rotgut and
just mess around and your innards until
we pulled out an entire fish skeleton oh
[ __ ] oh well she looks huge Yahweh is it
just because Graham's been hit with
gamma rays but I think that's just us
just reach across it just pop it like a
grape I think it's for anyone vote
against this gigantic woman
some men are threatened by large women
oh and all the art from fans in America
just switched the support
Harris I also want to maintain a
insurance industry to make billions of
dollars off of it that's very important
they love that they love it she does
look huge is that just us from force
perspective or is there like doing a
split screen every one of those that's
the rule it looks like it's like the
size of a watermelon
she's just gigantic huge looks like the
poster of a foreign film yeah this is
like one of those Polish movie posters
yeah yeah yeah it's this giant hulking
woman when I present an Act legislation
to have Lumberjacks but put tabs of
butter on their feet and then skate
around on a giant skillet to make my
flapjacks who wants to see me dunk a
basketball yeah man his hands are
massive got an extremely online update
if you guys can hear me up here
apparently Hassan just got banned from
Twitter twitch Hasan hey that's no
competition man one goes down one goes
up we're gonna run that [ __ ] soon until
I have a few more of these and do
something that bans us - that's not
gonna happen though I'm good now I'm a
good boy I'm a goody good boy let's get
some of that cherry whiskey up here
that sherry whiskey by the way very good
yeah dangerous dangerous very dangerous
[ __ ] Who am I why am I here who's I want
I will enact legislation to stop whoever
is burning toast all over the place
I just keep smelling toast wherever I go
what stops now I think I said this
before but he really does look like
somebody stuffed a bunch of Chiclets in
a foreskin yeah also it's [ __ ] and sucks
and everyone will hate it yeah but it's
cheap then we can build one fighter
bomber that dissolves in the rain like
[ __ ] cotton candy where is Gillibrand
on health there she is she's here I mean
where is she on there where is she what
where is she on health care is she like
waffles just happy to be here yeah she
happy to be working look whatever you
guys want that's fine is she wearing a
Snuggie oh I think our stream was taken
down - what is it like it must be a
copyright thing last time what the [ __ ]
you can't own a presidential can you
can't own a debate people christen our
pin our stream got taken down
he's probably dealing with it
yes so this lady she have a jalapeno
popper I'm her caller it they wops
upward and keeps you alert I think or is
joepie tiny has HEPA that little small
beam this entire time he's a small beam
no he's like he should be look I'm just
a small beam who wants to be president
Ken Ken this small beam has a presidency
and have some Hecate poppers in the
White House okay so here is op jacking
up co-pays and start checking off
co-pays yes you just glaze over don't
you
this is the [ __ ] Islands absolutely Oh
rub it all over me yeah yeah
Oh tell me about the co-pays do you see
my co-pays gonna be $1,000 that's
horrible that's awful that's a that's
copetz you can never eat most people
will be able to ever use that assurance
yeah this is kind of like just a
horrible pseudo version of last night
where Harris is technically supporting
the more progressive policy but we all
know she doesn't really mean it and then
everyone is like fighting her on it but
there's no stakes because it's all a lot
oh good here we come Oh core thank God
let's see I needed some human touch here
yeah yeah let's have Microsoft Sam give
me some inspiring words Microsoft Bob I
mean I'd be the guy who raps in a 1980s
radio commercial or like an appliance
dealer yeah
wouldn't you look cooler with a headband
like if you're a ball guy you should do
something to accentuate your hand sure
here's earring necklace yeah you don't
know sir
like a good like a red white and blue
patriotic headband would really milk I
am okay first off you're trying to make
him into a Harlem Globetrotter and
second of all that's [ __ ] up I would
be confused if he showed up with hair
yeah I think him being bald makes sense
I'm just saying a headband look at all
the captions have increased yeah he's
such a beta he can't even keep the cab
no I think his face no I think it's like
he's spinning out so much truth and
facts that they can't handle all the
captions
it's like blocking out his head there's
so much facts and information holders
who think actually care when they're
confronted with numbers can't be very
many we have not elected a bald
president since Eisenhower yeah here it
comes it's a fact Cory Booker liberate
Europe and we'll talk this is just not
going to work okay here we go
all right she's like Gandalf the white
in the versus Sauron she looks like a
Brazilian televangelist good white suit
yeah it's popping here we go yeah now
we're talking might be useful in this
debate Tulsi is spilling the tea you're
sipping it are you here for it sipping
I'm here for it frankly great I wish
they would like instead of doing the
side by side with who's currently
fighting just everything that pulse is
giant what's going on
by the way they cut the captions on
Tulsi that's enough imagine yeah wait
how big she is compared to cabal up we
need a wide shot right now to establish
just scale these people it's like when
they have like Tyrannosaurus is this big
and then Allosaurus is this big now
here's a human
there's by this you look if she's that
much bigger than Biden and Tulsi is that
much bigger than her you know what's
great is that we're talking about this
but I'm almost certain everyone in the
audience sees them as normal size and
we're just discussing it's funny to us
so deal with it it's like hey come and
watch these guys just have an aphasic
episode watch their brains melt he's
kind of Clinton with his voice these
days sundowning where's he going no
comeback crap all water it off to the
Golden Corral with no pants again he's
putting his hand underneath the salad
door look at how we ask them these guard
folks this isn't good I don't get how he
can come on this stage with a straight
face and say oh no we're not gonna we're
not gonna have Medicare follow any of
that [ __ ] but my plan will cover anyone
that's literally what Obamacare is
supposed to technically legislatively
you have a hundred percent coverage and
it never happened it failed and he's
been saying you can keep your doctor
like the actual line that everyone hated
this yeah that's the other guy from he's
not even the interesting one yeah it's
got a big ear it's figure trying to
think it really looks like you're right
all right dad those eyebrows you know
Arrested Development Ed Begley Jr
character with the alopecia I don't
think those eyebrows are on right I
don't think they're straight tonight
look at him yeah maybe look like there
marker I just woke up hair is ready I
have to go pick it up he looks like if
Dracula managed to Fuddruckers
[Laughter]
alright now now we're cooking with gas
that was a good answer by the way I
liked it I'm fired up and ready to go I
can't wait to hear more remember last
night when someone said diabeetus yeah
who said diabeetus like a member who it
was but they did the wolf for Brimley
dude it was not me say that it was you
did not say that you didn't I'm not
Wilford Brimley have we still been
censored for truth Chris yeah are we bad
for truth we literally have our First
Amendment rights seems from us we should
periscoping or something because this is
hot fire no one else is talking about
how Kamala Harris is very big and very
specific optical illusion that is
leading us and literally only us to
think that she looks big we have
everyone else in the room to think that
we're all dying of brain disease we have
been redacted we have indeed been banned
for truth I know you guys can't see this
but Kamala looks like she's wearing cute
giant foam hands yeah literally things
are larger when you're closer I wanted
to get like a really incisiveness
yes I made and these guys really blew my
mind by telling me sometimes we need to
close to something it looks a lot bigger
than if it's farther away also object
permanence and for anybody who is just a
reading the local penny savers and says
oh the the debates
knowledgeable commentators they really
blew my mind when they said that if you
put your hands over your eyes
that person doesn't disappear just sit
back and accept it folks it's what
you're here for tonight I fought to give
you appetizers can I get another drink
this is not irony also show temporarily
we've already established I'm the one
who has to tell them to get a drink I'll
get another drink they can't because
they're [ __ ] prophet extracting
machine there it's incompatible there
there Dracula's who don't work at
Fuddruckers choice you're doing a
[ __ ] hamburger stand cuz I remember
when Harris originally came out for
medicare-for-all
and was a CEO would you eliminate
private Hellinger's he said yes and then
walked it back the next day so yep oh no
I didn't mean that yeah I don't last
night Bertie goes on says he you notice
I said would you eliminate private
health insurance would you ban it and he
said yeah [ __ ] yeah I would hook them
yeah now it's the difference between
[ __ ] and something approaching truth
with these glasses Insley looks like one
of the husbands on a real housewives
show yes he's like he's sitting there
like drinking a giant margarita while
his wife is screaming in his ear Lisa
Rinna is two-faced
I swear Tecate follow those glasses in a
men's room last night I thought it would
make him smart seem smart some of the
square roots
that's a right triangle you idiot dope
The Simpsons good show yeah we just got
pulled for doing another yeah that's
copyright as well sorry there's no
reason we should distinguish I'll tell
you right now
I'll tell you about health care you
really does slur is worse he sounds
shit-faced tell you I'm like us right
now
[ __ ] liar mr. look gay beer and you
told me then it wouldn't be more than
two degrees Celsius it wouldn't be more
than two degrees how about some meat
bucks folks in the form of David
Buster's gift cards by the way I like
how he's going no tie he's due he should
just say we're retrofitting the nation's
Dave & Buster's you get $1,000 card
every month but the games the tickets
you get can be redeemed for things like
food and health care and gas and housing
that's how you do it you gamify basic
human needs if you think about it like
half ilysm is basically a game that
we're all playing it is [ __ ] don't say
that you're [ __ ] it's too twisted no
that's why they redacted us cuz I'm
telling the damn truth I will take
another water - yeah
[Music]
yes how about we be the party that's
going to disrupt the status so why is de
Blasio doing this like what's the baby
is large yeah honestly sighs I think the
Bozzio doesn't realize that he's not
liked and is kind of perplexed by it
because he did get things like a $15
minimum wage pass or what was it a a
parental leave yeah he just got a text
on his phone that's in his pocket that's
Staten Island his sunk
yeah and he's debating with [ __ ]
Count Chocula to not do that this is
we're getting near what Matt was like
last night rolling a revered ad they say
that's like Oh to cost so much money
that is still less than all cost to
maintain the current system yeah with
its carve-outs for [ __ ] private
health insurance profits yeah thank you
we've been rewarded with water thank you
if Ben who keeps acting up
de Blasio should just do the thing where
he puts his hand on his head [ __ ] Paul
ma'am this tries to punch him and he
just can't kick there mericans do not
have access to spicy meat-a-ball Biden
hasn't really been on screen a lot it's
interesting mistake that's an early
sleeping in between classes I think not
only is he sleeping he's wearing a
Victorian napping cap but he pisses off
every time there's a feather floating
down to his mouth and he blows around
every now and Election spaz president
future
in the future one it's like yeah you got
your ass kicked by Trump how'd that go
oh yeah so here's how CNN [ __ ] up
they're doing a thing where on every
topic we have to hear from every single
candidate yeah which is obviously
asinine because you'll cut to someone
like Tulsi gabbard's looks at you and
it's like you know I'm the imperialism
lady right I don't really talk about
health these people have branded Nicias
and they should just wait until they
have some right you should ask them
about their niche it was like last night
where Tom Perez Biden's dish would be
how root beer used to taste better back
in the 50s but they use real sugar yeah
use real roots you it went down to the
pharmacy and you got it right out of a
cap but he looks like he just asked
Kamala Harris yeah but where are you
from which he probably did backstage
only dead oh we're losing this we're
being redacted what happened to the
[ __ ] thing we lost the thing oh it
was redacted that just means it's more
exclusive for everyone here and they
should be grateful for that thank you
someone said he said malarkey I just
looked at Twitter he's trying to double
our key he said malarkey well he's
playing the hits yeah yes this plan is
pure sassafras I'm surprised we haven't
had a candidate who's just idly looking
at their phone in between questions yeah
I'm gonna get you into it and he's gonna
end up dropping like an obscure racial
slur that hasn't been used since the
1850s yeah
could you imagine Felix on this stage
like he would be the first candidate to
just be on his phone course on your
debate they call on him they callin him
an ego he Foods Park clapping in duo's
no they call him he goes yeah what
what's up
this would be good good see this is a
good match he talks about emigrate he's
the immigration guy yeah that's one of
his main things then you're gonna ask
Andrew yang for some day ever yeah he's
gonna go
if you turn immigrants into gigabytes we
can have a flash drive yeah
oh that's good you can just fill it in
if I want I want a lower yeah I want a
[ __ ] I want to follow our president if
you like be President I'll lead that's
great president you may think I'll show
up and do it you're not actually gonna
even do it I'm gonna stay home CNN is
doing a really bad job because we did
this before we did this exact same thing
in the last frickin well that's thing
they're just doing the same thing again
they had they had [ __ ] what's this
nuts
Perez come out and do another speech
where he said I don't even know I don't
mean last night I mean the MSNBC debates
no but tonight he said Oh McDole old
Nick McConnell had a farm yeah I don't
know if you heard that oh I'm saying we
had it out on immigration last yeah has
anything changed since then these are
different people but the questions
aren't even that in truth the question
just saw hey talk about immigration for
a bit okay what question would you ask
I'm actually they would ask targeted
questions on each person I would try to
I was like a difficult question what
would you do about the over inflation of
over watch skins okay you first off
you've no idea what you're talking about
I would have spent it to straighten the
right I browse that's the question to
sir can you please just yeah he's
looking like he's looking like [ __ ]
Joan Collins yeah no but this is the
problem is late and I don't remember it
except with her on the Republican side
last time there's 8,000 candidates
running so Tom Perez gets out and I
assume he said the same thing tonight
but last night he goes the thing we have
that they don't have is unity unity
keep us together anyway please welcome
800 candidates onto the stage and they
all have different [ __ ] views and
they're gonna fight for two days I
remember when Don Lemon
during the Malaysia flight thing had a
psychic on to talk about whether a black
hole that was pretty funny scooped up
the plane and that was doing a [ __ ]
moderating debate yeah I know it's true
that's what's [ __ ] up but he shouldn't
have said it why do you think the
president so mad at him yeah that's why
he's stopped telling the truth he's
gonna be fired for truth like we were we
can't let it out that we know about the
black holes folks the Bermuda Triangle
we're gonna turn it into a Bermuda
trapezoid why would you only have three
sides we share more sides how about this
bermuda dodecahedron so many sides yeah
they're not the Bill Clinton thing yeah
but no he wouldn't hold it like this
she's holding it no she's not it's out
here excuse me she is absolutely holding
the thing next thing she's gonna go like
this he got a point to do his goddamn
seat this is what it was this was the
vibe last night stop talking to this man
this is a guy who if you end up getting
caught at a party talking to in the
corner you fake a heart attack you say
I'm sorry I'm literally dying right now
I'm gonna call 9-1-1 and then once they
put me in the [ __ ] ambulance I'm
going to just open the door as a jump
out I'll go with you to the hospital I'm
actually going that way anyway
I should continue the story in the
emergency room
I knew Woody Allen that's my favorite
it's when no one in the audience laughs
but I get a good one out of you the
comedians who like when they think in
the band laughs you know remember at
Netroots when that was very funny
Quinn hug Gillibrand was on stage they
had questions from like local you know
activists and and and someone came out
with a baby and she made a beeline right
over grab and grabbed it was smooching
it is completely natural and not at all
put on or staged I think we should allow
immigration from all of the people of
the world free ziens Dalmatians
citizens of the Holy Roman Empire even
the vile Saracen can be made into an
American citizen if they try hard enough
another heckler yeah this goes for you
as well you have to be respectful you
don't even [ __ ] think about that what
are they saying
as long what are they hollering about
okay the children okay that's good they
should
I hope this happens like throughout the
night look at his [ __ ] teeth I know
I'm trying to think of like a part of
his body and it doesn't [ __ ] dinner
plates yeah I don't know if you agree I
always thought he looked a bit like
frankbooth in blue velvet yeah Dennis
Hopper and when he especially that scene
where he just says let's [ __ ] and
spreads his arms out I'll [ __ ] anything
that moves all means-test anything that
exactly single-payer [ __ ] that [ __ ]
medicare advantage
now let me hear this if you cross the
border illegally it's a progressive
candidate you look like they're made out
of like a urinal tile yeah
he's licking them too he's really
parched what do you say
he's P clap back that's all right now
okay and I'm here for it I'm here for
the clap back why I didn't even looks
horny at that he's horny when he's been
owned is how can you defeat him in that
in that case look at this nose like he's
pressing his face against the windshield
I think the nose actually shrunk due to
the face is interesting to me he said it
seems like a very so hard
Noah's got sold I didn't realize that
was an option he's of course none of
these people are gonna go onstage and
say call for open borders right I think
that if you're a pic and you're willing
to put some damn clothes on and take off
that blue makeup you should be able to
be an American citizen there is it good
I have a steaming pile of [ __ ]
he's like answering those slightly he's
just answer a question [ __ ] than the
PERT president censoring those questions
that emt's asks you to make sure you're
aware of your name yeah what would he
answer somewhere over made some he made
some mistakes but he's a good man
tulsi voted to restrict mid-eastern
refugees I do I'm settling in I do it
Mayer Castro for it at minimum bidding
up
on immigration not letting everyone else
get away with I have a hard time
crediting and it just feels very cynical
well of course it's cynical he's running
for [ __ ] president exactly so why
can't credit him for them yeah but if
he's functionally useful look at the
open collar gee it said I like it he's
[ __ ] nutty with it it looks like he's
running to be president of the poly
Kuehl folks if you elect me every cuddle
puddle will be have a fully catered but
this is offensive to me in three ways I
literally forgot Cory Booker was running
in since the last time he was on screen
it looks like it looks like if a dune
sand worm put on a suit no I agree with
you Brendan I feel like when he's not on
camera he doesn't exist and know exactly
where's it there's not a man there yeah
I know he only appears when the cameras
on yes Biden looks baffled that he's
there
it's that singing the colored guy who
comes and tells me to take my medicine
every night what are you doing on stage
Cory Booker is stealing from me why is
my night nurse here he notices the
cameras you stole my soul he's not with
the 17 cents on the nightstand Garber oh
God
you know every time he says that his
voice breaks the exact same element love
that memory Cory why is Bagger Vance
here I mean you know this has been all
probably to say but what you see is you
know Biden is basically he's the pitch
that I'm not gonna be with any of this
fufu single-payer lightly you know the
yokels who voted for Trey I'm gonna be
Trump ish for them but vote for me if
Trump is on the corrales I mean that's
your version I mean you know and he
could win just because there's enough
people who don't like him in the country
but it's so pathetic I don't know it's
all his campaign is like a Netflix
stand-up comedy special from a washed-up
fifties comedian yeah
it's called you know what in the hell is
a trigger warning that's know if if five
minutes up being the nominee the one
who's gonna decide the election is no
voter it's gonna be the Federal Reserve
yeah it's gonna come down to whether
they pump up the economy and drag it
across the finish line in which case
Trump wins
yeah or they let it blow let the bubble
pop and then Biden wins that's it
well you throw you check me out enough
to drink
and [ __ ] sea levels rising what
difference does it make what happens my
[ __ ] liver in sleep 20 years Matt oh
you said I could sleep in your shed Matt
do you remember the guy that we saw in
Philly who was just handing out like his
own Canada yeah that's Inslee it's true
only he's the crazy tell you should tell
them that story they don't know the
story well they probably don't but Matt
Matt and I were walking were walking
through Philly and we saw this guy and
he was like baking in the Sun you know I
was like 90 degrees Netroots nation
liberal yeah we went to Netroots and
this guy was handing out you know flyers
for his personal presidential run and we
thought oh this would be good so you
know we grabs you like oh one of our
lovely big East Coast cities you know
someone
handing out a political pamphlet okay
that's a crank that's you know you're in
for something funny yeah it's gonna be
fun he's gonna talk about the aliens in
his head or whatever and how they're you
know they're they're fooling with the
the price of gold or whatever not ski
ISM yeah or just well yeah yeah
something we we agree with an endorse
how many out like Trotsky is yeah but
then we we read the flyer and it was
just like here's my four point plan to
fix everything and it was just like
sensible policy on a health care climate
change is a big issue and then just you
know like you know taxes and it was just
as you put them out even the cranks are
out of ideas like that's Inslee Inslee
is this is marginal candidate who should
be entertaining and fun but all he's
basically saying something credibly true
and serious which is the climate change
is gonna be for us what's baffling to me
he's like to debate nice there's twenty
candidates there and arguably no more
than eight have any justification for
being on this stage so for those twelve
other candidates why aren't they just
out having fun with it and going as
crazy as possible sure you've learned
now because of Trump everyone feels like
there's no downside to running for
preservation
there have to be consequences so we need
a Logan's Run type system where if you
run for president and you pull at less
than double digits for more than three
months you are euthanized
you've got to raise the stakes like like
just literally killed nope if that's the
case these [ __ ] aren't gonna be
up here digging around and wasting
everybody's time
yeah no Trump but Trump showed that
there's no downside to running for
president everyone can run for president
it's actually good for you you know cuz
it means you could get a book deal down
the line or run for another office or
something like that but Trump is also a
maniac ran for president this this
unmediated kid who just said whatever
bharat I think was on his mind that's
usually something from television at
daytime television or an email forward
for that he believes is from Bill Cosby
and
so why are they only getting half the
lesson run for president but don't be a
crazy person yeah yeah so that nobody
notices you like there's all these
people on stage none of them is gonna be
here for the next election like because
they have a higher or the next like half
these people are gonna be gone by the
next debate because the higher standards
why is it one of them up here saying if
I'm president first day I am announcing
a blue-ribbon presidential level special
counselor investigation of Jeffrey
Epstein yeah to both parties who and
where his money came from what's
happening on the island we're gonna send
SEAL Team [ __ ] six to turn that fire
island inside out we're going into the
[ __ ] tunnels we're finding out what's
under the ground we're going through his
camp that he he is we're going to his
cabinet Interlaken do you guys know that
he had a [ __ ] private cabin and a
children's [ __ ] art Scott art school
in the woods up here go in there go to
his [ __ ] saying that would make
people like actually stop and take
notice instead of being like we need to
lead so that we can achieve wow that's
totally gonna get you above 1% yeah yeah
because you know the analogy I guess to
the word to where the Democrats are in
this primary right now watch those old
above music videos that's what that shot
is like it's just for me it is like the
two thousand twelve or sixteen
Republican race but in those cases you
actually had spikes where like Herman
Cain Oh
wackjob nine nine nine nine or and then
[ __ ] item nine nine nine they would
they would spike and they would actually
cut through cuz they would say insane
[ __ ] and that's how it should go if
you're gonna have 18,000 people but with
the Dems they all say absolute pablum
and none of them ever raise themselves
up beyond one it actually is so boring
it does make me want to see Mike Revell
on the stage yeah why not just so that
he just talks about 9/11 the whole time
lowering the age of consent that's very
funny you realize the teens would not be
there yeah like I'll wear that though
there's no teens like telling me I can't
say this yeah oh yeah the Kaiser did
9/11 yeah
and that's an actual match for Biden
this is the one commercial break there's
the break this is your chance to leave
yeah oh yeah oh I gotta go deal I gotta
go do a thing by in the bathroom
you
it's a gift like a school for gifted
artistic youths right and it's beer here
he has because he was a big donor a
private cabin at interlaken yes yes and
I am in the while I'm here one of the
things I want to do is go and
investigate it
and get inside Joshu leather a little
shoe rather reporting but you gotta go
get ghillie suits yes we're gonna catch
a predator ship yeah we're gonna we're
gonna set up a sign up a dumbass Jeffrey
Epstein the police genius children he
was there with his [ __ ] creepy little
temple cabin as he was yeah anyway so
you gotta you get a little slice of EPs
seen yourself up here in northern
Michigan yeah got another way you don't
know you guys are doing a great time are
the camera in the middle of it they just
stopped working
maybe the service stopped providing them
do we have any answer on the captions
where we are we still fired for truth we
are so fired for truth reporting it
we're recording recording it were the
whole thing's gonna be a video and if
everyone looks under their chairs they
get one they can corey cash in this one
could have another beverage two mics
that's why I'm the producer thank you
Chris I'm just stick around during this
intermission should we do crowd work
what do you talk about if you had a
question but I've seen he already got it
okay well obviously
well let's knock did you guys see that
he not only thank you the story came out
today that apparently he was talking
about how he wanted to like spread his
seed for a genetic reasons but even
better is he said that like cuz a lot of
rich guys want to you know to cryonics
because they want to live forever
because they're soulless monsters and
like you know they only have them it's
oh you don't want to live forever well
of course but I am oh not Jeffery up see
but apparently he don't only wanted them
to freeze his head they wanted him also
freeze his penis his egg-shaped penis
his egg-shaped penis okay what a we
wanted to yeah he wanted to spread it
see his DNA as he put it so he basically
wanted to be Robocop with a human bit
well I called him with the harem thing
he said I called him immortan Jeff from
the fury road that was good because you
really can't picture climate change hits
Jeffrey Epstein is in some giant
respirator with long gray hair and he's
spreading his seed which is disgusting
yeah and I'm sure that'll be addressed
right now as we go back to the
democratic debate in Detroit here in
Detroit Michigan Chris said they also
take that Sam cedar stream I hear Cedars
still up is that true oh great Sam cedar
always one step ahead he's cornered the
market cedar might not be a partner with
twitch which is I think they were going
after partners that were yeah you guys
went mainstream wait he's not a partner
I don't know he might not be we all want
to hear about some twitch paternal
policy yeah read that TOS yeah we
apparently did not oh thank you tagged
Biden's teeth like a 1980s subway car
wow what a spicy one
inadequate inadequate damn he snatched
his now I know because he literally
wearing a wig dashes plugs it really is
something that Joe buying this whole
campaign is you know the policies that
have not been working for the past 50
years we're gonna keep doing those no is
it's the Simpson it's the classic
Simpsons bit we'll dig our way out Big
Ups to pretty much explicitly know we've
been doing this for a while we're just
gonna keep doing it Biden 2020 dig up
stupid things I have not write these
Obama sent him in 2014 to Central
America and say don't come we're gonna
[ __ ] you up
yeah
major and minor those are your words
yeah major running for class president
vibes there is the Biden and Court and
Booker is that it's circumcised and
uncircumcised Oh what the [ __ ]
he loves touching people he's God yeah
he sure loves touching people Oh
Booker lost an opportunity there to just
say don't touch me yeah oh that was
really humiliated by this [ __ ] don't
do it anymore Jesus I like the frist
part if you know hey stop Noma not so
much but the frisk sign me up
stop and more frisk in if you ask me
unlike myself I've never done that
unlike Owen has never said the Joe Biden
isn't he in a position he's not going
for the gut Biden's big now is that
we're before no one else sees this will
you talked about it for 20 minutes
we talked about it the idea there heads
oh how many [ __ ] back rubs Joe Biden
given to Rudy Giuliani oh yeah famous
unsolicited shiatsu massages has he
given Rudy Giuliani I say can we get
volume up on the debate sir he says sir
like one of those YouTube car video guys
every other word is sir let's find
respond no don't find respond Jesus for
Biden Biden yeah I think vice president
what's is nuts what Steve a police
reform plan because we have a police
system that is broken and we need to fix
it and whether it's the case of someone
like Tamir rice or Michael Brown or Eric
garner where the Trump Justice
Department just decided not to
charges we need to ensure we have a
national use of force standard and this
tie is making me hungry he's right
though I mean those are two good reform
now of course I mean he's got he's I'll
tell you about cops the [ __ ]
I'm just trying to get home let me say
that true truck to drive I'll tell you
how many drinks I have I had I better
driving if I've had a few Steve the
drunk from Deadwood 2020 back in my day
cop would let you sleep one off in the
drunk tank and they wouldn't even charge
you haven't been this is super super
specific but they haven't really been
showing Jake Tapper a lot or letting him
ask
I need more Tapper in my life I want I
want a I need to look at that Saudi ass
[ __ ] thought [ __ ] nutty with it
tonight but he's not shown on the
cameras stopped and went on Twitch
anymore I'm sorry I guess we're not but
we have to make up for it going into DP
is his snap C de Blasio was too
interesting cuz he cowers in fear every
time he says something critical about
the NYPD and then has to wait for the
police union to condemn because the
Justice Department was pursuing their
prosecution
and the meantime what I'm working on is
making sure and I have for five years
there will never be another tragedy
they'll never be another Eric garner
because we're changing fundamentally how
we police from now on if anyone gets
murdered by the police in the city of
New York it'll be by a Robocop or drone
what's the company in Robocop
OCP OCP Tommy consumer products down
with OCP so to what degree I haven't
really been paying attention to be
honest to what degree have they is Biden
representing the Obama era and to what
degree has everyone been attacking him
as you know this in the last few
questions he hasn't really invoked Obama
as much as I would expect him to I'm
yeah he's trying to be his own man well
he is we he's referred to the Obama
admitted to the various decisions of the
Obama era bureaucracy well we'll all the
shitty terrible decisions of the Obama
we got yanking robot police have not
heard from Harris in a while what
happened to your neck
so it is Gillibrand yeah I've always
said that I've always said I don't
Hillebrand yeah I always said Gilliam
I've been looking like an idiot Jake
Tapper's are [ __ ] ugly who should be
fired so the president united states is
gonna fire a member of the New York
Police Department yeah I mean you have
the ability to do that what a bunch of
[ __ ] horseshit the thing is this is
all it's like oh I'm gonna do this thing
that you saw the TV you didn't like I'm
gonna fix it you don't have the [ __ ]
power to do any of this [ __ ] I belong
ciosed offense I don't actually think he
can fire that cop so that shoe [ __ ]
means the president can't so this is
what we experienced at Netroots where is
like all this catnip for progressives
but it's like who gives a [ __ ] you can
say whatever you want I'll fire the cop
remember those Doritos how they used to
taste yeah bringing those back yeah
exactly
whatever you want I'll say it it's only
the [ __ ] debate Simpsons is gonna be
good again when our president it's not
bad now it's not it's different it's not
bad it is bad one yes that was an ad oh
it's a dog [ __ ] shut up right now it's
not bad it's just a different show it's
a worse show it's a worse process
because it's called the golden era cos
that's the best [ __ ] era
so with necessarily program so we're in
agreement I'm saying it's not that bad
it's worse than this guy most [ __ ]
guy
they're almost every other animated show
on TV is better than it false Oh better
than Bob's Burgers is better than it I
would call them on par wrong false I
will call them incorrect
Oh God the busing oh jesus [ __ ] trip
what's better
Bojack hottest wonder of 1973 what's
better the depression horse show or
lates Simpsons Simpson seasons 30 31 the
horse show is worse than anything is
currently being broadcast thank you
thank you thank you he's entitled to his
opinion no matter how wrong it is as are
you all talk about busing do you feel
that Jack Nicholson's monologue at the
beginning of The Departed was racially
insensitive I hate about this is this
debate is Trainor by the way thing was
mandated by the courts it wasn't even
something that the [ __ ] president
would even have any [ __ ] say on this
is all just [ __ ] horseshit it's just
like white this is so aggravating
is trying to get high off the fumes of
the MSNBC debate I don't know what that
means what are you talking about it's
like okay you've been doing drugs for
life for five hours and you know you've
been up and you're down again and maybe
you've like done that roller coaster
thing for a few hours and now it's like
okay do I have enough serotonin for like
one more go
why can I roll again it's 4:00 in the
morning but everyone else kind of wants
to and everyone's kind of looking at you
and you're like yo [ __ ] it you let's
just mix up some ketamine and cocaine
and just go [ __ ] crazy with it I
don't have work tomorrow that's what
this debate is like Joe ketamine here
what's that thing here they just grind
up cherries and like snort him I don't
know just planning out the rest of our
night Brendan okay did you happen to
pass a bespoke whippet Emporium oh here
we go
here we go whoa being spilled I'm sippin
it cheese being spilt I'm slurping it up
folks I'm here for it I sip your tea you
Eli I drink the tea of lamb for Bambi's
tract the same glass is the J kafir do I
have to get a new pair of glasses she
doesn't have a flag pin what the [ __ ]
not neither no she does it's under her
hair
well that's disrespectful to write see
this is where it gets interesting
because like Wow tulsi is a meaningless
candidate who has no coherent ideology
like she is now going to be a mouthpiece
for people who have legitimate
criticisms of Eros while they don't
actually support Tulsi and this kind of
like strange divide and conquer her room
and board when she does yes yeah are you
gonna check [ __ ] not in her
first race when she was a Ranford da of
San Francisco she literally ran a
primary against a reformer who is in
office and won why you always lying
I wish I'm a little I'm not really
sympathetic to her but I am sympathetic
to de Blasio because I wish she would
just say on the stage I'm literally
scared of the NYPD
they won't murder me like Frank Scorpio
you ever see that movie he'll set me up
and I'll [ __ ] catch up you know
they're all crooks and there's no
oversight they just sell their the
biggest heroin traffickers in the city
Frank Scorpio is the villain all right
you know what the NYPD is doing right
super common Serpico is the comics core
Scorpio will do very well running for
president you know the NYPD is doing
right now they're [ __ ] rank-and-file
membership is pissing their pants about
children with super soakers yes they're
trying to pass a bill they are demanding
a league they are saying they are
demanding to be billed to bug Leo you
know let us take the gloves off and
teach these these are these liquid water
bandits
so lessons look some of us are descended
from the Wicked Witch of the West and if
we covered contact with h2o in a
tactical situation they might be
adversely affected that's a way as to be
dissolved I was walking down my street
the other day and I I genuinely for two
hours the cops are trying to catch a
turkey on my street and failing badly
what's it a turkey it was actually a
guinea fowl you know they would have
shot it if they've had good enough and
not hit it it was a guinea fowl and they
would spent two hours Michael Bennett oh
Jesus Christ
what he is he is the [ __ ] debate
equivalent of the [ __ ] ASPCA
commercial with the Sarah McLachlan song
you just wanna die [ __ ] shut the [ __ ]
up dude
[Music]
some comfort please put Michael Bennett
down Michael Bennett has been suffering
put him out of his misery
79 Michael Bennett alive that's far too
much his eyebrows are falling off more
and more every arms oh he talks like EB
Farnum Michael Bennett was raised in a
presidential candidate bill we have fun
he was forced to fight John Delaney who
came from the same litter Delaney
Delaney should be at every debate like
no matter what 90s comedy movie trailers
record scratch yeah he's he's like the
neighbor and bewitched like he's like
he's always yeah yeah so the audience is
getting that uncle Arthur right he's a
q' member as a cue code right there
they're [ __ ] they suck bunch of punk
[ __ ] that I could be to minify I hate
them I could personally destroy them
physically much as I respect them I tell
you at cory booker Heuer must've outside
because of the position there we go who
spit in the fire and tied aloof and all
anti diluvian I think he had to live it
all into folks he's shit-faced and not
regular alcohol he's pouring rubbing
alcohol through a loaf of bread yeah you
know he's doing that [ __ ] I actually
think he roped me because he still talks
about the ship from his first book which
was all nonsense and I wanted to nail
him on and he literally told me I don't
really believe that stuff anymore but
here he is talking about it oh yeah
virtual interviewed yang I mean do you
have any special insight to yang based
on what's here look as much like he
doesn't have a neck in real life as he
does on TV oh yeah big time
[ __ ] does not have an I mean
he's a nice guy he looks like it's just
like a torso coming together to a point
with a face in the middle they're
thinking about yang is he's a nice guy I
don't think he's totally cynical I just
think he doesn't know what he's talking
about he's a Silicon Valley guy none of
them do they're all he's not really a
Silicon Valley guy everybody who has a
child is an entrepreneur in Silicon
Valley brain worms have I've ever heard
it but the thing is under any kind of
scrutiny it doesn't hold up and he just
says I don't I don't really think that
that's my insight inside is that it's
easy to bully him if you interview him
probably you've gone in to say some
crazy [ __ ] if I wanted no he's a nerd
this would suggest that I would like him
if he had agreed to it not to be
right now what airline food folks have
you ever had it what's the deal with
that why do we park and driveways why
don't they make it out of the black box
but but but who's looking like they did
best out of this [ __ ] [ __ ] what who
do you think they'll say tomorrow like
did best hidin you really think so I I
don't know because the rest of these
people are at 0% the only one they only
care about the DA will seize on some
insurgent on either
I think Castro Castro's gonna get high
marks here's the thing Castro's the safe
guy to say afterwards oh he did really
well it doesn't matter it doesn't change
the [ __ ] 1 to 3 percent I'm not saying
it matters I'm saying what are people in
the media class going to take away from
this because we know it doesn't matter
everyone in this room hopefully how
would you help cities that Trump has
insulted backrubs yeah gonna go there in
my van and I'm just gonna give everybody
just a nice little homey back rub that
was the fastest I've seen from
acknowledging white privilege to going
to white Savior [ __ ] yeah I recognize I
have privilege and that's why I need to
help you all yeah yeah that's why I will
be tipping 20% tonight
she's done this speech a lot what wait a
minute wait hold on women you should say
God I'm glad she's in heaven we could
make communities stronger yes I really I
really think she say that I really think
Gillibrand is getting a high off her own
supply which is why I'm glad she's at 0%
yeah no she's except Ebel talking about
Amy Klobuchar as like a Targaryen but
really it is Christie Gillibrand who has
the real like mother of dragons the one
who would burn down King's Landing her
viral answer about Hawaii working right
now yes in in defense of black lives
matter of focus on policies for the
benefit of minorities why is it was a
bad that's not the right [ __ ] all I
got was that just knows the purse joy
and the funny thing is like that that
person who asked that question that
woman with like was teeing up like a
pretty easy [ __ ] answer if here's
someone like Bernie Sanders says no what
you need is a unity yeah of people
united by their class interests I love
the insanity of this why don't we all
just go home and [ __ ] drown ourselves
in a [ __ ] toilet what why are you so
white care about climate change so much
what's the big deal you know that thing
that's literally killing everyone on
earth you know the thing where there's a
[ __ ] fire in the Arctic right now and
[ __ ] Greenland is melting like a
[ __ ] snow coat in a microwave talk
about why why do you care about climate
change so much dude what's your [ __ ]
problem
well why why you got to give a [ __ ]
jesus [ __ ] christ let's hear his
answer for climate change
holy [ __ ] strap
coming off okay give me the deal
[ __ ] about nothing.the Paris later
he was abandoned it was [ __ ] PR it
was useless hear him out
here oh my god I just remembered take
the black pill no this is straight
[ __ ] oh my god have you considered
bubble cities hey you know those Mars
colonies in Total Recall let's do that a
new life the funny here we go come on in
silly come on this is your only point if
being here do it spit that [ __ ] fire
dude I know you're shit-faced but you
could pull it together and make this
happen
all right here we go charging stations
oh yeah that's it
four hundred billion dollars sounds like
a lot doesn't it but it's he's talking
about carbon capture which he has no
proven ability to work which is a lie
that's Obama said the same thing and
they never stopped subsidizing fossil
fuel gibberish meaningless we're all
going to [ __ ] die we're all going to
die but have another drink please
thank you this is not an eye or anything
but Matt shouldn't have another drink
just us by the end of his term he was
bragging about how we were the number
one oil producer in the world
I just wanted to audit up people - [ __ ]
it thank you for that we are staying at
a place called the black wolf lodge the
Black Lodge so no Great Wolf rates great
wolf lodge which is an indoor waterpark
geared towards families and children and
last night we were watching the debate
with Matt having a few drinks in a hotel
room and he was about like this this
gyrating and screaming at the toughest
lungs and I was just picturing that in
the room next to ours was this terrified
family with two young children lying in
bed their eyes open it's going my mommy
is John Delaney we're like this
now he wants to hear something I want to
hear about the global-warming this is
the only thing that actually matters
watching his story you know what
Clorox oh yeah smart oh shut up I hate
the smell of that [ __ ] genuinely what it
was like last night and I I don't want
to endorse anything that comes out of
Matt's mouth after this folks I can
explain Matt is peaking right now what
do you do you can't see about Oh Matt
sees senator Gillibrand with a like
totally fluid outline right now yeah
market forces [ __ ] market the forces
baby here's the real thing that makes me
want to die is whenever they talk about
we're gonna be like the world leader
Warren does this too they talk about
we're gonna be the world leader in this
[ __ ] well if it's a competition between
countries and we win and we have the
best carbon you know like the best clean
energy well what are the countries that
have bad clean energy technology gonna
do they're gonna [ __ ] take everything
else out of the ground that they have so
either way we're [ __ ] it cannot be a
competitive framework it has to be in a
global cooperative framework or we will
all be here held by the market forces
leading to every drop of oil and natural
gas being pumped into the [ __ ]
atmosphere alternate view I think we can
beat them folks
[ __ ] [ __ ] you yeah it's the
lens we look through every issue which
is why we didn't talk about until we
were an hour and 20 minutes in this buck
yeah except for everyone in this room
most people have tuned out of the debate
like they're they've switched over and
that is always where they put the
climate change discussion I don't know
why I'm sure it has nothing to do with
any kind of programming agenda but
that's what they do oh and the Eagle
lookin [ __ ] he does I was
thinking about what Muppet he looked
like it's an eagle there's no question
about this I wish ever in the audience
was his drunk as we are it's actually a
lot better I don't think he's going to
say that
oh boy de Blasio is also telling too
much truth in these Marchetta Max
Headroom is broken into the stream oh
this isn't good folks I love a peanut
just one I'll take some of those
this is crowd work I'd like another the
longest city what the [ __ ] is that I am
president of I'm I am mayor of the
girliest city in America these do drag
don't think I want somebody just be like
Michael better just be like actually let
is good for you just speak up for lead
it's good it makes your brain strong
makes your brain powerful you gotta let
brain you literally cannot be defeated
in a fight ever seen the x-men folks
they were exposed to different types of
chemical imbalances and they had powers
you take enough lead when you're a kid
superhero name to Dixon Ticonderoga Jake
Tapper horse horse face piece of [ __ ]
[ __ ] you [ __ ] [ __ ] piece of [ __ ]
hate you one of the kids piece of [ __ ]
on earth worse than Fox News million
times did anyone see Mike's newest movie
Fahrenheit 11 nine two of you thank you
thank you
he makes a pretty good case about
Flint's water crisis being manufacture
yeah governor Snyder yeah it is it's
like the British Empire they
manufactured famines throughout the
nineteenth century yes
our stream has already been canceled so
we can say that we tried found guilty
and then we flee ejected nothing like
let the courts do their work it works
not if you drink some of the water three
cross state lines at some point your
policies ambitious enough to energize
power to hear that selamat I'm he's
getting he's getting spicy Detroit's do
it great take a [ __ ] lap Joe Biden
Dan Snyder has recreated Robocop in
Detroit way to go we're the peanuts I
see I see I see
I challenge President Trump by vice by
being horribly anti-immigrant ten years
ago Greyhound bus or I may not be John
Candy but I have taken planes trains and
automobiles all over this country purple
and blue
poll after poll Democratic voter is
saying that having a nominee who can be
President Trump is more important to
them than having a nominee who agrees
with them on major issues and right now
according to polls they say the
candidate who has the best chance of
doing that of beating president vice
president we need to get these higher
and I can do it the way we win this
election is we redefine economic
progress to include all the things that
matter to the people in Michigan and all
of us like our own health our mental
health our clean air and clean water how
our kids are doing if we change the
measurements for the 21st century
economy to revolve around my colleagues
just on their phones right now just sort
of where we are the god Krishna has come
down to earth to judge the sinners
Daleks must be destroyed
here we go this is her whole deal now
yes we're getting older we're finally
getting some Tulsi only took two hours
and she said it for four seconds you
know I will I will say that's the first
time we've heard Russians tonight
because I don't think anyone knows I
think everyone knows that that doesn't
actually play you know Obama won
Michigan by 10 points
yeah it was easy and she lost it she
sucked so bad and she like Hillary
sucked ass also she has kuru from eating
children you can't say that because if
you want to win the nomination you
probably know that she has that's the
the
fifty-fifty if any of these people get
nominated he will win if anyone on stage
now gets nominated he will win bet on it
yes ooh yes please yes oh okay here we
go
let's talk about this now let's watch
this [ __ ] oh [ __ ]
interstellar - electric Boogaloo that
Tommy Lee Jones it is alright can you
cut the sound please already off can you
got the sound please how many out like
how many are you ready issues in space
then can you cut this out
on put the sound back on here we go this
is for you it's all for you Jodie Foster
should weep dehumanize ourselves and
face the bloodshed another question it's
it's ten are you how long do these go I
don't actually they should just pass
around the phenobarbital laced flavor
aid and end this oh my god is he twisted
no he's right I think no he says these
go for two hours and 45 minutes I did
not know this is gonna be that long yeah
yeah alright we'll be here for the
content I'm not leaving this book we
have to keep it you know we have to keep
this going it's gonna get dumber from
here on gonna be really shitty if you
think this commentary was smart guess
what
I feel like Sheree candidate and you
guys are all the [ __ ] captured
prisoners and we're the ladies at the
garden party brainwashing you know this
is a Jane Fonda show at the Hanoi Hilton
wait what Thank You Braco can you
guarantee raising taxes wouldn't hurt
the oh my god the finger thing means the
taxes if you're a Democrat again you
accept this framing and you accept this
[ __ ] line of questioning and you
don't immediately say [ __ ] you you don't
know what the [ __ ] you're talking about
you're just like people the Laffer you
are not going to be the [ __ ] nominee
you cannot be the standard-bearer Laffer
curve taps out at like 90 percent they
expel Ernie a [ __ ] trillion dollars
in [ __ ] tax cuts for the wealthy and
nobody batted a [ __ ] eye not even the
deficit freaks like Rand Paul which by
the way you were right on they're all
liars they're all full of [ __ ] Ron Paul
would have voted against it because he
is a genuinely insane person
trade deal the trans-pacific partnership
the central one was the international
corporations
I wish Marianne were here yeah I mean
500 or vibes man I shouldn't say what
you need to be asking is how we will
remain in love with China yeah on the
world stage I wish we could have
switched Yang and I could be getting
some [ __ ] five some orbs right now
I'm feeling incredibly dependent oh I'm
getting I very odd I feel like Chernobyl
firefighter right now I feel like my
bones just absorbing radioactivity I'm
just slowly melting like a [ __ ]
candle I could really use some more
power I'm gonna look at her Twitter feed
let's see what she has to say I'm gonna
look at what Mary I'm gonna just read
some Marianne tweets to regain the
energy of yo just walk into the lake
with [ __ ] rocks in our pocket like
[ __ ] Virginia Woolf alright
we're staying at the Virginia Great Wolf
Lodge
I wanna politics that goes much deeper
I want a politics that speaks to the
heart because the only way to fight you
keep talking about how we're gonna fight
Donald Trump you can't fight dog
whistles you have to override them and
the only way you can override them is
with new voices voices of energy that
can only come from the fact that America
has been willing to live up its own
mistakes atone for its own mistakes
clean make amends for some mistakes love
each other
love our democracy love future
generations something emotional and
psychological that will not be emerging
from anything on this stage it
emerge from something I'm the only one
who's qualified to bring forth the shits
boring
how come Nathan hotdogs offensive what's
the question
it's TPP stuff every person on this
stage is lying about trade deals by the
way yep they're all gonna do the same
thing talking about it you know we have
to make sure that we have the most
competitive workers on the world stage
yeah what does that mean why does it why
would anyone care about that unless you
control a multinational corporation what
the thing is is that what do you mean by
competitive you mean by productive
American workers are actually incredibly
productive if you mean competitive the
only thing that they are competitively
in a disadvantage on is wages if you
listen to that you are a game board
you're either waging raising wages
elsewhere which you don't have power
over or you're lowering wages here way
to be competitive thank you for that
astute observation well hey people are
applauding so must be right right just
giving us all that vibe here he comes
here's my [ __ ] looking like a [ __ ]
Bennet is a thought
he's a snack he's a POG he's a big booty
[ __ ] I'm happy to see him is gonna be
the good part where they talk about tech
like it's some kind of [ __ ] Stanley
Kubrick monolith ya know technology is
very important
yep we got to do that we got to do the
thing with the economy right
yeah that's true oh [ __ ] dad I gotta go
dinner's on the table sorry yeah I get
the call I'm sorry yeah I know
technology yes yes we absolutely have to
invest America yes dad I gotta go I
gotta go
yeah the airports yes absolutely
I [ __ ] it I know you've been telling me
about the airport said yes dinner's
getting cold right now I'm actually kind
of on thin ice I thought these were fake
an alien my wife I've told you this
I can't he has it out for me I know I
understand he's gone he's gone he's gone
as an entrepreneur you know he said that
I was an entrepreneur technically we are
well I hate entrepreneurs yeah I I am an
entrepreneur I hi Bernard yes we are
some of the most contemptible people I
mean we should be killed there's 100
percent how many people on the Army
should be just eat lead in front of a
brick wall yeah there's no question
about some dignity to it
oh no blindfold no I think should we try
begging weeping for death weeping for
life or than just being shot in the face
Oh everyone on this stage deserves
nothing better than that
no we deserve more dignity toward that
yeah there we go
divot eight bucks cash money yeah ma I
keep my money real good
good-bye yang bucks real good right now
since 1963 when we have to equal fast
forward to the year of our Lord 2019
meme it's a meme corporations to post on
their website whether they are paying
women equally for equal work to they
will be fined pandering all of that is
pandering that's a thing all of the bay
guard said is pandering split screen
give us it there we go I want the split
screen with Biden the entire debate
because he's looking a lecherously look
at anyone no matter who he's talking
could be Cory Booker
it could be [ __ ] jay inslee he's
gonna look at him up and down like I
tell you right now I'll tell you right
now it's looking good the earth spokes
me okay folks
and what if set is literally there is no
sense wait really
yeah do what thou wilt folks it's all
the law Deadwood is a good show
yeah I got some Deadwood heads out there
Dennis no Crowley oh yeah
Joe Crowley choked it was so also lost
his primary
give me that trapezoid give me that
policy that will always be undermined by
being able to put pit people against
each other because some people don't get
it won't you boy even though there's no
such thing as something where rich
people get it for free because they pay
for it with higher taxes so it doesn't
[ __ ] go for them for free anyway it's
not a thing they made it up a lie let's
hear for it
let's hear for means-tested folks who
loves doing [ __ ] trigonometry to
figure out if they deserve to live they
do these like 15 second round things in
the last election like debate I don't
really think it was this rapid-fire I
don't know if I liked it or if I don't
you're fake friend Chris you are a fake
friend
oh why why would you say that I don't
want to interrupt this but you know
what's crazy is honestly here have you
ever watched like a clip of Biden from
like the 80s when he was running Oh Alan
okay if anyone wants to do this go back
look at Biden running in the 80s like
what 88 right that was the first
presidential run he is he's he's been
Uncle Joe do you know by like the onion
and stuff recently and he's like this
kind of Mima bowl guy who's eating ice
cream with sunglasses on and all that
but if you go back in the 80s he was
incredibly shrill and there's like a
video of town of a town hall or
something in a bar where he's just
screaming it at people asking questions
like perfectly innocent ones like he's
incredibly unlikable he's not at all the
sort of figure that they that they
engineered him to be once he be white
the white people whisperer
yeah and ranting Joe yeah like Obama's
best friend and you know I'm wacky and I
I say things when I shouldn't know I
said it's a big [ __ ] deal you know
that that whole like yeah and and it's
interesting to me and I've never gone
back and done the research like when did
that transition actually happen I mean
of course the the bulk of it probably
happened during oh eight but like this
whole idea we have of Biden is more of a
performance than it even appears to be I
don't think actually we have to worry
about it I don't think most people
actually buy into that image I think he
really it's pretty clear that his poll
numbers are buoyed by the number of
people who don't have a greater idea of
where we are at in our political system
then I would like to go back please this
is scary and rad and I just want to
return to normalcy yeah even though that
state is unsustainable yes I I do want
to say this I wish at least one person
would ask him about his [ __ ] bill to
criminalize ecstasy [ __ ] you
president Vice President Biden why are
you opposed to good vibes literally and
she leads a bill that created a new
invented a new crime for anyone who runs
a music venue and would provide
something like say water for people or a
room where if you're like [ __ ] having
a bad trip you could chill out and say
that no no that means the police can
[ __ ] come and [ __ ] take your [ __ ]
makes you an accessory to [ __ ] drug
use Louis this is going on can we get
another round I don't think that there's
any glasses in those frames I think I'm
doing the Lisa Loeb thing I'm sorry look
like he's the kind of thoughtful he's
doing Rick Perry [ __ ] right now is Jake
Tapper by the way oh that is so [ __ ]
fake he doesn't have real [ __ ]
glasses by the way check tap Jake Tapper
look him up he's a [ __ ] [ __ ] he
spent as an [ __ ] is his entire career
one of his first articles he was at
salon.com he went to an Iraq war rally
and he went around going like I just
don't see what everyone's so angry about
they tried to explain to me why it with
the war was a bad idea but I didn't
understand it and then he wrote some
weird article about he dated Monica
Lewinsky also and like made it about him
he's a [ __ ] [ __ ] he's a he's
always pulling this mock horse face of
incredulity and every thought
he's a pause whatever we have to stop oh
he's in the entire ho whatever the
answer to this is yes yeah we'll be
there for 5,000 years
no matter who there will be troops in
Afghanistan when it's the only dry land
left on earth oh god I wish this would
ends yeah I really wish this was over
now yeah we really don't want to
continue making content for you well you
can as you can tell it's getting worse
jesus [ __ ] christ this is the patch
of content
I'm amazed everyone is still here which
is that what are you honestly for
staying because I are you here now
hug your loved ones you only have a
brief moment left you just listen to
these people you know that the [ __ ]
time limit on human civilization is
maybe 20 years at most and you're
spending your precious time watching
these monstrous idiots lie to you go
home look into your partner's eyes start
digging in your backyard to create some
sort of Bunker type scenario learn out
if I can grow hydroponic plants that can
survive in deep temperatures get a water
source burn of some Iran my guns Iran is
being mentioned let's see what they have
to say in true yang talking about it's a
computer by the way the position and I
would deal with Iran by giving every
irani in $1,000 the position of everyone
on this stage thank you is that Iran
should have a nuke another thing where
just say Iran should have a new
differentiate yourself say Iran should
have a nuclear weapon in fact if they
can't build one we will give them one
okay we've we should give them like 500
of them look it's late we have no
standards
is anyone skiing tonight skiing okay
well you can come speak to us after this
show yeah we don't know what that means
at all yang like anti-imperialists at
all what's his deal I don't care anymore
it's like we've been here for eight
hours why are they still talking
did price really go be trapped here
are we trapped here too look at this
surprise everybody this is an MKULTRA
experiment you're all being programmed
to assassinate dissidents you're gonna
be like in a rally or the thing or in a
bar someday and you're gonna hear the
word Mockingbird and then you're gonna
go find a hidden gun in the toilet and
shoot somebody in the head yes you ever
seen The Naked Gun
yeah have you Reggie Jackson yeah
Skylar alert I must kill the Queen if
any of you learned anything from this
debate nobody nobody nobody trying to
[ __ ] up the phone already report on that
one I'm not trying to [ __ ] another thing
but I mean is it honestly like MIT could
we do something else then just watch it
is this isn't I are there other streams
I would like to switch over I would like
to watch a little bit of touka and birdy
in honor of was canceled [ __ ] I
would rather watch eight a psychopathic
Nazi 12 year old kill people in
fortnight and then do like the custom
emoji dances that are coded references
to Hitler then watch this right now the
feel extreme is going to be on tomorrow
night we have a Tapper fan in the
audience we're getting paid for this
right oh we are not getting paid for
this what what can't they just cut to
black and then a guy in if we get a
uniform comes on and says democracy is
over this was annoying anyway I nobody
liked it nobody likes gonna have a
stupid military dictatorship and then
you'd have to watch any of this ever
again
that's all you wish I wanted I want to
interview one of the candidates who was
a veteran let's ask them why they
enlisted in the military because that
deaf to become president yeah military
like her or pootis obvious but some of
the other ones are this total psycho
like a Joe Sestak right who's a navy guy
at Bravo he's a career psycho sad bro
yeah and it's like well why why because
it was a nice white uniform that's it I
could buy a uniform I wear a uniform
every day in fact everyone wears the
uniform every day doing Russia gate now
someone wheel out a [ __ ] no no no you be
quiet because this is important thing I
want most of the world why can't I look
out oh yeah red but right we're gonna
get we're gonna we're gonna match stay
alive we're gonna we're gonna get him
Maddy Maddy we're gonna just say oh good
okay next question
if it's exactly that we don't have to
hear I agree with the other pablum
[Music]
see this is interesting because
basically the Russia Gate stuff doesn't
play like with polling in the in the
2018 midterm show that what resonated
with voters for Democrats was health
care and jobs and stuff like that
Russia stuff didn't really play but they
still that you can tell they want to
talk about it they want to get to it
so they've saved it for the end where
apart from everyone here including us no
one is watching
we're like like they they get to have
their little like moments and everyone
gets to talk about it and say that it's
[ __ ] the Soviet Union is controlling
you know The Manchurian Candidate blah
blah but like ultimately this is well
yeah of course that would be the the
dream but like this is this is where
everyone gets to just cosplay for about
five minutes
are you also BER they I think they are
yeah as a special treat for during all
of this we're gonna be pumping of
vaporized fentanyl through the
air-conditioning vents and we're all
gonna have a nice time we're gonna just
take take some deep breaths close your
eyes
and you know whatever happens mother
mother mother please mother mother
mother mother please Jim Joe laid out of
your lives anyone knows the great
entertainer 1% you're 0% just come out
and say hey you guys realize how [ __ ]
everything sucks shed yeah our ruling
class is composed of literal reptiles
from a foreign land
we just took more live in the Hollow
Earth can't sacrifice human children to
have a
actually long lives if we can get
Maryanne in the next debate
I will counsel her to talk about Epstein
is I think she would he's that's the
dark magic that she's Bo's do she should
talk someone needs talk about Epstein
she's a priest of light this guy on the
other hand has had several fondue
parties with Jeffrey Epstein in the
basement of the Denver Airport yeah
parody parody yeah yeah truth fact no
well we've already been written every
time when it comes on it's like one of
the [ __ ] parents from peanuts
wah-wah-wah-wah-wah anybody have any
ideas about what we should talk about
now fortnight Felix isn't here so that's
a that's a no everyone shout out and
what's up they get what culver no wait a
minute there's a Culver's around here
where it where's the Culver I got Pizza
Hut for one faraway winery I love Culver
it's know you said that before you've
always said that I stand a legend yeah
they're comparable they're on the same
tier for sure where would you place
every like burger you know or whatever
fast food all right Shake Shack is
really good put it is also very
expensive for a fast food burger so it
does kind of in its own category I would
say though in and out and Culver's are
hot s tier five guys is like below that
and then I like a good like you know
like McDonald's then burnt everyone's
cheering for that Carl's jr. or Wendy's
is pretty good
- but they're really more of a good
restaurant than a burger place at this
point I give you got a win if you should
get the chicken always Arby's rules the
[ __ ] horsey sauce is amazing and the
[ __ ] the the the Greek gyro is
actually kind of good it's actually
correspond you thank you not having that
they have two other words one of them is
just like the roast beef yes that's not
that good the other one is Turkey like
loose turkey that's a but the one that's
like seasoned Greek meat I think that's
pretty good
it's got two Zeki if you especially if
you live outside of an area where you
don't have access to you know like like
a good vibrant Greek cuisine scene which
is sure if I'd say most of Michigan get
that Arby's gyro it'll be delicious
highly recommend it now despite the
night done with this can we go wrong you
got you guys should wrap up no it's over
right people it's over you guys should
wrap up say goodbye to everybody
oh really come on thank god we could go
I feel like a close [ __ ] Patrick
McGoohan in the prisoner yeah is there a
closing statement I don't care we need
to know that America is good because
America is great and we're going to come
together to make America even greater
through a tax incentive a small business
market market forces folks depend on
them love them learn to love it is it
really over
no it's not over leads to [ __ ] art
but Dwyer themselves on national
television no see that's the thing if
you're just a Rando who's like oh I'm a
governor of some [ __ ] state and I could
just run for president and I'm gonna be
at 0% it's like I don't know maybe
you're depressed why not just kill
yourself on stage like that would be a
statement yeah yeah I mean I'm not the
seppuku yes I'm not trying no cool I
think it's [ __ ] interesting I'm not
trying to make light of depressed Cory
Cory Booker does the gut and then
Rosario toss it comes off from the other
side with the waka shocky
its cuts his [ __ ]
absolutely that would rule yes that's
about it all right we're done
yeah all right hold your families close
you don't have them much longer can we
just kill it it's over
stop it just kill it let's laugh no we
should watch no we should go to the
goddamn end of it no come on man no oh
shut up shut up we are soldiers of
Khan's they don't want it do you want to
end I don't think anyone wants it if
you're not in this why don't worry no no
we have a job to do Oh both shivering
that goddamned wanted this watching this
is actually how you could tract chronic
Lyme nope
you don't realize but that is literally
a dig on me because I have chronic Lyme
disease
no you two now spend five spoons
to come to this tonight and I hurt poor
you have a poor diet I am you're lazy
that's not good live disease I was
eating the cherry pork earlier I don't
know why we just abruptly stopped okay
what say I'll say this don't kill
yourself and everyone around you wink
wink
parity well we're not on the street okay
thank you close well I mean I I know
that's smart
well I think it's already sold out
though it's already sold its already saw
the show's already sold out isn't it
this was sold out oh there's Sean Friday
we're gonna do recording a show with
Michael Moore will be here and we'll be
talking to him about [ __ ] this we're
gonna try to talk ourselves out of
killing ourselves and so yeah there's
still apparently tickets available
you know all right might have a drink do
you have anything oh yeah
so where's everyone coming from tonight
cool Cleveland yeah Wow
do you want to select sign things I
think we have a rocky dinars in the
green room I'm not gay
we'll save you or you will sign an Iraqi
dinar for anything I don't want that I
don't stand by this promise we'll be in
front of the place we'll sign you to
copy of Moby Dick I'll be dick yeah okay
you want to do like a thing where we do
say hi do I need to sit down okay Matt's
getting upset it's over I know I know
thank you for coming that's your alter
thank you so gel that your Democratic
president okay today you're the real
heroes you're the real presidential
candidate
