hey everyone we just got back from
probably our most efficient trip as a
show-up state to Ithaca New York usually
when we go on tour tensions run high
we're all irritated by something we all
miss the creature comforts of home but
something just clicked this time there
was something we all felt wash over us
among the gorges of upstate New York a
shared emotion or an aura I'm talking
about good vibes past Wars we've had a
surfeit of bad vibes not this time this
time our vibes were perfectly aligned
when you're walking downhill to am drunk
at high past unfamiliar houses in an
unfamiliar town that's good vibes when
you're walking beside a rushing stream
at the bottom of a gorge just hugging
bottle caps and spent jewel pods into
the water
that's good vibes and it made me realize
that we've carried on neglecting our
vibes for far too long we talked about
some aspects of political praxis on the
show listening to podcasts posting about
comic book movies you know doing
politics but there's an entire political
dimension that we've yet to address now
I'm a supporter of Bernie Sanders I want
him to win the nomination in the White
House that course of events aligns with
my political goals but I recognize there
is a vital debate going on for the
future of not just the Democratic Party
but of the emerging left majority
against austerity I can see liberalism
against the ravages of the climate
crisis there's been much discussion
lately about the likes of Sanders and
war and expanding the Overton Window
where socialized medicine that
forgiveness a green New Deal ice
abolition and so on become mainstream
positions and we're not for the spoiler
Factor of the dozen plus other
candidates in the race I could see how a
good faith debate between these two
politicians would be salutary for the
left and in that spirit I think it's
time for the Overton Window to expand
even further I think it's time to lift
the curtains of that window and peer
through it to pierce the veil of reality
and observe the realm beyond full of
shimmering orbs Matt imagine imagine if
you will the classic two-dimensional
political alignment chart the axes our
economy is social
shoes now matching a imagine adding a
third axis expanding it into a
three-dimensional political cube now
imagine adding a fourth axis turning
into what scientists call a time cube
there is one candidate who will
accomplish this if you listen to last
week's premium episode you heard our
introduction to Democratic presidential
candidate Marianne Williamson
she's a spiritual guru a fellow
best-selling author a fellow friend of
Oprah and she is the first true meta
physician to be a major Party
presidential candidate as Nate Silver
has recently declared like Sanders
Williamson is following a truly
revolutionary path in politics most
politicians will talk about the
Department of Energy but not our organ
energy they talk about our political
linemen but not our chakra alignments
they talk about Third Way politics but
not third-eye politics Williamson is
different her discourse is the perfect
antidote to neoliberal HR speak and
centrist obfuscation her her positions
include lifting the vibrational
frequency of the universe creating a
unified field of energy on invisible
planes dispersing the thought forms of
insanity that are tearing us apart and
enjoying good vibes with your friends as
we all know God is then as people of my
generation approach middle-age the late
30s we are increasingly concerned with
existential questions Who am I can I
trust my senses our dreams real without
religion we suffer from a deficiency of
mysticism the sort that has existed in
every society certainly we must focus on
material forces but we cannot deny this
prime we'll need this pull current
political factor for most of us we
filled this void with politics anyway
Trump supporters have the Trump prophecy
everyone else is just eating the lotus
flowers of online perhaps your faith
lies in the book of Robert Muller
perhaps you think your salvation will
come from posting Twitter threads that
are like um okay buckle the [ __ ] up
y'all because today we're talking about
how the lego movie is just [ __ ] gross
the survivors of imposter sin
if we are to find a way out of the
subsuming of politics by spectacle to
return to a politics of materialism who
better lead us there than a spiritualist
with aggressive social democratic views
conversant in the language of political
mysticism now Williamson isn't perfect
her position on PDS is terrible and I'm
not sold on her stance on the mind-body
problem but good anti-capitalist make
similar criticisms of Sanders AOC like
them Williamson expands the political
time queue paving the way for more
sophisticated transcendental politics
did you know in 2016 Williamson endorsed
Bernie Sanders here's a quote from her
open letter to Hillary Clinton I want a
woman president really I do a lot of us
do and yes you're so qualified and yes
we've known you forever and yes you know
what to do from day one we all get that
but none of that is good enough to get
my vote or the vote of a lot of people I
know we only want to vote for you if you
run like hell away from that corporate
box you've landed in I'm telling you
Hillary the American people have become
hip to what's happening we know now that
Wall Street runs the country and we
don't like it and for many of us we
don't want to vote for you if Wall
Street runs you too and you might be
worried what if she takes votes from
Bernie that's a serious concern here's
the thing
Bernie's target demographics and Mary
Ann's are very different Bernie is
pursuing young voters working-class
voters african-american Latino voters
Mary Ann appeals to a different demo
entirely one that we categorized in our
best-selling book I'm talking about the
wine mom you might have someone in your
life a wine mom in osteons who nominally
nominally agrees with Medicare for all
with breaking up the banks with a
guarantee jobs program but [ __ ] hates
Bernie Sanders who's going to reach that
person it's not gonna be you she's
already reported you to the FBI for
being alright because you said that
Chelsea Clinton's never had a real job
you know who can Oprah's spiritual
advisor
imagine Mary Ann sitting down with your
wine mom knees two knees her face full
of page
confidence asking her how can you hate
Bernie Sanders when you and he are
connected by a vibrating strand of
energy like an umbilical cord imagine if
you will a political movement that could
make Matt crisp and finally relax with
divine energy before last week's premium
episode marianne williamson needed over
10,000 unique donors to qualify for the
first primary debate as of now she needs
fewer than eight thousand there's a hell
of a lot more than eight thousand people
listening to this show so if you can I
hope you will join me in donating just
one dollar to marianne williamson to get
her in that debate I know you love to
give feedback you can even write in the
comments of that donation from a Chapo
Trap House listener
I want the or show me the orbs sanders
williamson 2020 she told me the order
[Music]
for a rare rare time after one of
Virgil's monologues I do not have a
rebuttal you know hi I have a statement
and support uh you guys know my favorite
video of all time right you know what
I'm talking about
fake la [ __ ] clout charm right you
mind if I read the greatest tweet from
one of the stars of that video faze
banks go right ahead
another mass shooting 30 minutes away
from where I live
12 people dead for absolutely no reason
could have easily been me could of
easily did you where the [ __ ] do these
weirdos come from when are we gonna get
our [ __ ] together
[ __ ] vibes okay this is similar to
Bernie okay because like people don't
know the language of democratic
socialism they don't know what means the
production is they don't make me mess
with them and their friends are in a car
and it says get in comrade we're seizing
speeds and production but they know in
their hearts that like Comcast sucks
they know their lives are [ __ ] they
know that they're constantly humiliated
and not just because they're sending
girls you up messages at 2:00 p.m. they
know that so that there's something out
there and do you think these banks like
fully understands Williamson spiritual
science no most people don't most people
do couldn't spend you know a [ __ ]
week in an advanced tester ology program
they couldn't tell you what part of the
Orbis which but they when they look at
mass shootings when they look at cloud
chasing [ __ ] when they go to a party
in LA and it's just so not them they
know that there's something wrong out
there I think there's a silent majority
behind Williams like Virgil stated and
if Bernie could harness this he won't
just be a president he will be like in
that Virginia Heffernan si an actual
white-hot ball of energy that Hillary
never could yeah I would also add that I
was initially very skeptical of Mary Ann
and her divine wisdom but that [ __ ] is
almost 67 years old and she looks like
that so she she looks like
amazing he is so hot she is insanely hot
at 67 so she knows something yeah know
something she's got a vibe she's got
some sort of vibration around you know
Marianne could easily publish a
best-selling book for money that's
called like you know the the beauty
secret like a cheapo diet book but she's
never done she's not like one of those
Christians who writes a book that's
called like the King David workweek you
know biblical productivity methods yes
all I mean just gimme that I agree
definitely that that Williamson could be
the bridge to the wine moms but there's
another demographic that I think could
really benefit from some exposure to
hurt wisdom and that is the disaffected
white male NEET internet psychos are
yeah who started as Trump guys and are
now kind of disillusioned with all the
real hardcore Nazi [ __ ] and are
migrating the yang the yang is the
middle course of their evolution away
from sort of the spiritually dead realm
of online where the it's brutal
hierarchy and the only thing that
matters has perceived intelligence and
ability to be totally callous and have
no real soul like that's the strongest
guy is the guy who doesn't feel anything
to a world where they access their
spiritual realm side and realize oh I
there's nothing more to life than just
being miserable on the internet and yeah
they need to move from yang to
Williamson it's happening in stages like
the lumpin is crawling out of the morass
out of the primordial eggs yang is the
first is the first step Williamson yes
yeah absolutely
they're gonna open those third eyes up
and and I think one of the ways that we
could aid in that and we sort of regain
this out a little bit before the Cornell
show by you know inaugurating a dank
Marianne Williamson memes - yes for
Marianne memes for Marianne and like the
first one I thought of the classic one
were it's the soldier kneeling to
protect a sleeping child and like and
there's I got just a hail of knives and
bullets going into his back and then you
just take the text all the knives and
bullets negative energies bad vibes
incorrect frequencies of universe
vibration the soldier marianne
williamson the sleeping child all of us
the galaxy brand meme was made for her
absolutely okay guys I think it's time
for you know our equivalent of the
plumbers Act plumbers are great we have
to repurpose gritty to be about vibe yes
those gritty vibes also the the the the
Frog prophet meme another one perfectly
made for Marion hats imagine hit the
draggled the bedraggled the popper on
the Left yang gang and it's neat bucks
acceleration ISM automation alienation
on the other side with the smiling fraud
profit Williamson gang and it's orbs
good vias positive vibrations you know
spiritual consciousness if every yang is
movie he's but he's a ready player one
no one likes that no you don't want it
you want it you don't want to watch that
[ __ ] movie again but if Marion
Williams is a movie it's the Wachowski
sisters seminal classic from 2012 Cloud
Atlas it's a very orb movie I'm not yes
no cap it is has anyone actually seen
cloudy it's incredibly cheesy but it's
disarming and moving it here's one
getting looser we're going beyond the
veil yeah so yeah I guess this uh will
kicks off our you know transition into
being full-time Williamson wonks you
like Williamson Wong sir Williamson wags
more I don't know I think it needs to be
workshops okay well put a psycho dots I
don't we don't need a cutesy pun name we
just need to say who we are what our
beliefs are we need to learn our lesson
from reformist sheepdog Hills like
Jeremy Corbyn and Nicolas Maduro you
know take a little take a little tip and
their marketing and applied to a real
radical like Williamson this is it boys
well you know people need you know
people who speak in plain language with
clear moral priorities about how you
know death is an illusion and reality
exists and you know
four dimensional space known as time
which is actually an illusion
bread-and-butter stuff yeah this is a
good lead-in to something we haven't
done in about two months
election update since we last talked
about the Democratic field has expanded
to twenty candidates I tip my hat to
Matt who called that a few months ago
you have any found Kearney the clown car
is just filling up right now I feel like
a soy boy clown world nearly a half
dozen more are still considering a Steve
Bullock
remember that guy yes Steve Montana
governor mocks his name is Steve bullet
yeah Bullock pull it like like like Seth
Bullock oh he's from Montana too so I've
got to support him he's pissed yeah I
think Michael Bennet is still flirting
with it
yes de Blasio Terry McAuliffe actually
finally said he wasn't the ec Abrams
hasn't actually said no ah yeah man
let's get them all in there get the
other Castro brother in there let's go
for it so we think it'd be helpful we
put together I put together a little
field guide to help identify your damage
your newest Democratic presidential
candidates here's to the crazy ones The
Misfits the rebels the troublemakers the
ones pulling at 0% not 1% 0% pulling
under the the teenage meme meme campaign
what do you say you ready no let's do it
right here than I've ever been okay
leading off Seth Moulton camp
congressman from Massachusetts
representing a district north of Boston
Iraq war veteran Harvard MBA member of
the New Democrat coalition he won his
seat in a 2014 in a primary against
incumbent John Tierney during that
campaign he was endorsed by General
Stanley McChrystal the lugar centers
bipartisanship index ranked him the most
bipartisan member of Congress from New
England while from New England he's best
known for two things one is he
supposedly doubt one of these military
awards and downplayed it all very very
bashful because he's not one of those
guys who you know just tells war stories
all the time he just uses that as a
springboard to run for Congress it's
probably best known for this gracing the
front page of the New York Daily News
wearing his combat uniform
holding an AR caliber assault carbine
rifle with the caption in quotation
marks no civilian should own this gotten
from his op-ed I trained for years in
order to use my weapon properly and long
before I ever aimed it at an individual
I had to leave little tiny individuals
when they're harder to hit before before
I ever aimed at an individual I had to
look at pictures of dead and mangled
bodies in order to understand the
magnitude of what it meant to pull that
trick and how cool it is this is like
when when like you used to watch like
televised scared-straight and the kids
were just confused
yeah so believe me when I tell you there
is simply no reason for a civilian to
own a military-style assault weapon it's
no different than why we outlaw civilian
ownership of rockets and landline which
is [ __ ] - I should have a tank
absolutely he also unsuccessfully ran
against Nancy Pelosi no speaker notes
that crying always think of someone oh
you're getting mixed up with Tim Ryan
Tim Ryan Moulton like led that led the
insurgency or something I thought they
were both in on it him and Ryan they
might have been they might have been
scheming together I think their own in
their own gam both Rhodes I know he's a
guy who's like his he's one of these
days who's trying to get the the the
Democrats are going too far left lane
right he's like we got a we got a
remember that we're a party of two
country of two parties that we need to
be reasonable I think so although all
the white guy no name congressman are
basically gunning for that Lane
he's also seems like an anti-gun guy
which leads to our next fellow yeah I
just wanna hit like I am I am the
politics editor of Chris Evans his new
political website and I take it off
supporting Donald Trump because I did
too good of a job of it and now they put
me in charge of supporting Seth Moulton
I just wanna point out Seth Moulton was
in the military so if any Republican
presidency he's a [ __ ] or likes
terrorism he could just post a picture
of him in the army
they would never do that like if someone
was in the army that's like instant
instant like the Republicans have to
respect right yeah like that yeah that
thundering man John Kerry and yeah
nobody
Democrats keep thinking this is gonna
work though right look we have a tough
guy and it's like they don't care oh do
not oh I'm not a patriot
I watched thousands of hours of crush
video learn to fire this weapon sir I
want to see a Seth a Seth Moulton
campaign ad whereas just like it's him
and he's pointing a military-style
machine gun yeah I said it yeah I said
it in AR style but an AR style machine
gun with it with it with a clip full of
cartridges hey he's pointing it at you
it's like directly like you're just like
staring down the barrel of a gun and
he's like hi I'm Seth Moulton if you see
this image you should only be in a
country other than America media get
turned into you know what you see what
she sees the she in that question is the
famous
National Geographic Afghan Moulton and
pipa dead judge could do this thing like
you know I've walked around foreign
countries with this gun it should never
be in the streets of America but when I
you know my anti-police brutality
campaign which I've raised awareness of
true swatting people I'm like under
federal indictment it's the same thing
uh number two
Eric's wall well Eric swallows
congressman from Northern California
he's another guy who won a primary
against an incumbent Democrat this time
Pete Stark remember Pete Stark twenty
term incumbent who was reliably pretty
left during the Bush years best known
for being an atheist like Moulton
swallows pitch was that he's young and
unprincipled according to his biography
quote the September 11th terrorist
attacks occurred during his internship
inspiring him to public service where is
he interning like with the he'll
probably Chico's Blackrock Eagle trust
in his first term he broke House Rules
to post a vine of himself voting against
an anti-abortion bill in 2015 he
launched the bipartisan sharing economy
caucus with genuine evil person darrell
Issa sure
they're always shows a very big fan of
people sharing their cars with him I
love sharing I love sharing the economy
it rules
isn't that just communism socialism
sharing economy yeah at his campaign
launch while Wilson I pledged to lead
our country with a team of rivals a
blending cabinet of Republicans and
Democrats not because it will be easy
and we may have to send out a search
party to find more Republicans who can
put country over party rail ahead I
pledge to lean over and grab my ankles
again wait when what year was this uh
what when he said that yeah he said that
like week ago okay cool that's good to
know we've learned things since I well
you don't think that between kathleen
simplicity our lee kirk we can get the
best solution for people you know if you
get sebastian Gorka and Samantha Power's
I guess we could you know get something
going here Secretary of State Megan
McCain they could have an Eric
Gillibrand Bannen collaboration look we
learned from the adventures that
sometimes the most unlikely allies are
the greatest of friends so I think the
same thing applies politically by 2040
one cabinet of rivals would be half
proud boys and a half like gritty avatar
guys I'm in favor of that if the cabinet
meetings are held at the bottom of the
ocean swells also trying to be the
Antigone guy yeah like we said that's a
smart that's a smart market that's a
very emotive issue know what everyone
loves that yeah and it doesn't threaten
any major donor bases uh next one-third
congressman Tim Ryan another [ __ ]
white guy Connor Tim Ryan representing
separate people yeah they're the same
guy Tim Ryan represents a district in
Ohio that includes Youngstown he worked
for friend of the show Jim traffic and
before succeeding him Ryan which means
that he just like was in charge of
delivering giant bags of oxycontin and
and like counterfeit doubloons to to his
tractor farm he was in charge of the the
teleportation device that beamed him up
the use they used to use like the glue
stick to swaddle that [ __ ] to
pay on his head uh Ryan's probably best
known for voting for the Stupak
amendment which almost derailed
Obamacare by restricting the use of
federal funds for abortions you remember
that [ __ ] man I remember Stupak
gotta love Bart Stupak on 2016 he
challenged Pelosi from the right for the
position of House Minority Leader and
he's also a published author in 2015
Norway big bill in 2015 he published the
real food revolution healthy eating
green groceries in the return of the
American family farm which is one of
those hey you fat piece of [ __ ] [ __ ] you
books the promote I love books like that
that like just tell you no hog face
people hey don't eat three slices of
white bread with every meal the
promotional copy starts with this we
Americans love our food it's part of
what has made this nation great and we
don't enjoy food we just kind of like
sit glumly over a trough to numb the
pain just shovel GMO corn fry like corn
Ryan's into their mouth while watching
you know young Sheldon puberty years
there's no enjoyment it's our it's our
love of food that made this country
great but here's the thing hot damn
that's good
right in his country create by being a
big [ __ ] why I try to remember there
was this there's a there's a restaurant
chain that I once went to the website of
because those are always funny and the
and the copy talked about like what they
believed in and they said you know
America loves eating and eating out and
we reflect those values nothing
represents America more than just like a
really pushy guy making an aggressive
soy face who constantly talks about how
good he is at eating [ __ ]
Erica America loves eating out Ryan is
also competing for Mary Ann's voters in
2012 he published a mindful nation how a
simple practice can help us reduce
stress improve performance and recapture
the American spirit
this is
author bio congressman Ryan has a daily
mindfulness meditation practice
he has been an outspoken advocate for
promoting mindfulness practice as an aid
to dealing with a variety of complex
problems facing the nation during his
tenure in the House he has helped to get
mindfulness and social and emotional
learning programs established in several
schools in his district that would be
awesome if they replace all those stupid
fake job retraining programs for laid
off factory workers with mindfulness
training I'm pretty sure that's his
pitch because it'll have as much of an
effect people to stop eating corn and
meditate more mindfulness has to be like
the most insulting thing that like rich
people have come up with in the last 15
years just like you know don't think
about what your life's going don't think
about how your kids are just gonna
breathe poison air and die and how you
know president G is probably their only
hope you know just you know think about
the now think about how fortunate you
are to be watching you know The Good
Wife to the good ex-wife just live in
the moment it's so [ __ ] insulting of
course is [ __ ] cornball holes into
that [ __ ] what I don't understand it's
like this sounds like a dude who
represents Marin County not [ __ ]
Youngstown Ohio yeah go to this town
that's been basically bombed out for 40
years to people who have not even like
with had a whiff of a job in a decades
and said have you tried mindfulness and
farm-to-table dining they keep adding
him people would youngest out and try to
get their kids internships with the
town's fent dealer it's it bland the God
for God and this is what he's giving
them what a [ __ ] prick look those are
the congressman let's go up a tear to
the governor's jay inslee governor of
washington state
he's the climate change guy in 2007 he
wrote a book called Apollo's fire
igniting America's clean energy economy
his whole pitch is as a governor he has
all these practical ideas for making the
green New Deal work if you go to his
website he doesn't have an issues page
he has a page called climate mission the
problem is he hasn't actually released
any policy
also he gave a billion dollars in tax
breaks too but we known don't clean
energy superpower Boeing Boeing is a
third oldest company that's trying to
dissuade anyone from taking airplanes in
the plates that makes them crash and
then you have to pay more for it not to
do that
yeah as a leftist you have to support
Boeing I'm sorry they certainly are
heightening the contradictions yeah Bo I
support Boeing Lori Loughlin and ninja
and Q not as a leftist I write for slate
now well you want a guy the other he's
the the the climate change guy the anti
climate change guy well he wants to just
have one debate than just about climate
change right yeah well yeah there should
be oh yeah come on what the [ __ ] this
next guy is the Pro climate change guy
John Hickenlooper governor of Colorado
his whole stories he started a brew pub
in Denver and was against weed
decriminalization for many many years
oh right they've Xing out the
competition here's what's fun about
Hickenlooper he loves fracking so much
he wants to kiss and cuddle fracking he
directed state attorneys to sue local
governments that ban fracking he
appeared in a paid ad for the Colorado
Oil and Gas Association saying that
fracking is totally safe and here's my
favorite
he drank fracking come testifying for
the US Senate 2013 Hickenlooper said the
following about fracking fluid you can
drink it we did drink it around the
table almost ritual like in a funny way
it was a demonstration they've invested
millions of dollars in what is a benign
fluid in every sense almost ritual like
yeah like fossil fuel spirit cookies
like when they would spray kids with
like DDT yeah he's doing pizza gay for
Frankie I'm happy for the variety to be
honest I do like the ritual aspect of it
though I mean like that's getting into
certain American mindset sit around a
table and pass pass around a cup of
fracking yeah but that's dark magic well
yeah I mean that is the thing that I
like about Hickenlooper he is the most
black pill Donald is the god of death
you
just totally given up if you
accidentally called you know your work
life whatever the [ __ ] that is I see it
on Twitter a lot I think it's just
something people made up if you call her
mom if you accidently CC your boss like
a picture of the you know the brown spot
on your [ __ ] that's been there since
you were a kid
vote for Hickenlooper none of this will
last there's only one God and His name
is death for the variety like you said
you can't really tell most of these
other guys apart at least there's one
evil yeah I think they should run I
think they should do the It's Always
Sunny thing like we're Mac and Charlie
you know like applied with one resume
yeah yeah no they should all they should
gonna they should either do a human
centipede or get one big suit where
they're all connected my god yeah that's
a gigantic shirt that has five yes like
the night that's that's so much combined
yeah experience and bipartisanship they
could really turn this country around
rounding things out there is one last
candidate who recently joined the race
former Vice President Joe Biden we've
talked about Uncle Joe on this program
in the past and he is probably the least
Mary Ann out of all the candidates
including Donald oh yeah so on Mary in
the 80s he wanted to triple the drug war
he said we needed a d-day not a Vietnam
for drugs and lamented too many drug
users users were having their cases
dropped like that do tart a he went with
that policy too
and 2000s he wrote the strongly anti
vibrate Act a bill targeting ecstasy
users and have the effect of making
venue owners afraid to implement harm
reduction oh god what a [ __ ] buzzkill
like he is just for his uncle buzzkill
that's his whole life has been just
making everybody's time less chill and
you know what I've said on the show
before that he's gonna start draining
support as soon as he announces and I'm
starting to think I'm wrong and that
he's actually gonna be the [ __ ]
nominee and that he's gonna lose the
Trump partially because that's the
greatest thing I can imagine happening
is his polls ads that's what I've been
saying since the beginning because it's
like all this [ __ ] that we talk about
like all the people who are like you
know argue
Oh wards actually left to breathe you
know I actually I'm uh my dream
candidacies you know [ __ ] jay inslee
and Andrew Gilliam the from the left
none of that matter is the average
person just takes Joe Biden his epic and
he's gonna win and then he's gonna lose
Trump I've been saying that since the
jump I mean it would be a commodity
rakes type situation just the same thing
repeated exactly over again with the
same result I'm sitting with my guns on
he's gonna bleed support he's he's not
making it out of this primary and also
remember it's a [ __ ] marathon not a
sprint everyone [ __ ] makes up their
minds like a week before the caucus or
the New Hampshire primary the epic yeah
that's the thing it's like you reminds
them of Obama people want to go back to
normal they don't really have for some
reason but it is it was it's everything
seemed more stable during the Obama
years hard not to fault them they could
at least you know have a nice like you
know waspy dinner where no one yelled at
anyone else and you can you could tell
that like these primary voters are not
ideological because so many of them
their preferences are ranked 1 two
Bernie Biden or vice versa
keep this advice when Kamala Harris
announced everyone freaked out about it
right you know she's gonna be the one to
beat then better she opened her mouth
then Beto announced and he was the one
everyone was scared of look at him on
[ __ ] Vanity Fair oh you know
everyone's so [ __ ] stupid and
image-obsessed that they're gonna vote
for this [ __ ] guy he said like four
percent now because he's currently the
Christ little gerbil teeth
no one likes him way down from his peak
but I've said this since before there
was like the cattle call I'm like
Biden's gonna be a problem yeah I think
I think I'm starting to think that keep
this in mind there are two ways you can
pull the race generally speaking without
getting into stuff like Blake of likely
voter screens and [ __ ] like that two
ways you could pull a race of [ __ ]
twenty people one is to to read the
polling respondent all twenty names and
then have them specify which one they
support and in polls like that Biden
gets like thirty percent nationwide but
the other way to do it is just say um
hey so who are you gonna vote for
democratic you know primary the vast
majority of people like like 55
60% have no response to that question
Biden gets like 13% when you ask that
nationwide in in at this point in like
2003 Joe Lieberman is like 50% in these
polls
yeah that's Rudy Giuliani is like 4050
percent at this point in 2007 but for
birdie has a comparable name recognition
to Biden kind of I mean after running
four years ago uh it just makes me worry
that like he's hit a ceiling you know I
think people are also going to just sort
of be extremely cautious that's the
thing it's safer are these terrified
little gerbils they're so scared the guy
they want to beat the big bad guy
they'll do anything that it takes oh
they'll get a different big bad guy yeah
exactly
like the way that they all every [ __ ]
still to this day amazes me on 2004 you
had a large field it wasn't as big but
it was probably 10 people you had Dean
leading for most of it leading up to the
Iowa Iowa caucus and then spontaneously
without any kind of precipitating
incident really a week or two weeks
before everyone just goes over to John
Kerry who had been pulling a single
digits and had had to take out a
mortgage the government carry anything
going Kerry and Edwards right they carry
one in two in the Iowa caucus went four
months Dean and Gephardt right were the
one in two old and it was just like
there's this this like [ __ ] reptile
fear response all clicked off in their
head as it got closer to the actual vote
and they were just so terrified of the
prospect of Bush winning again there's
like who could we get that's like army
man army man he will protect us and it's
like how does that not happen again
honestly I think in that particular
instance this was just a matter of the
Howard Dean campaign just [ __ ] it
well they were there was a bamming the
big story was Dean gap art you know
winning millions of dollars in attack
ads on each other and they basically
destroyed each other before Iowa that's
true but I mean there's no way to
guarantee that that's not gonna happen
again
no sure but I'm saying which we just
don't know why the way yeah what's gonna
happen the [ __ ] last week of January
2020 yeah but it would be funny if Biden
got it and then lost it would be kind of
funny yeah Oh
this one was from New York Magazine
today this is sort of a it touches on
Biden but it's about the 2020 candidates
and it's sort of a piece of the the
things we did the last couple New York
Times articles about a Neera tanden and
then all of the sort of stop Sanders
momentum that near a thing she was
clover charm I didn't punch him I shoved
Jesus [ __ ]
this is like of a piece of that this is
from a New York magazine this is about
like a Wall Street and how they're
freaking out about the 2020 Democrats
and it says here you know like there is
tremendous fear said one banker who was
there this is it like you know and
another one of these dinners where
they're just like you know scheming to
stop Bernie or you know scheming to be
like America seems to think we have
undue influence over the political
process how can we meet together in
private to stop the candidates we don't
like from ever getting getting getting
purchased working goblets full of blood
yeah so he says there's tremendous fear
said one banker who is there are the
candidates who have long cultivated
relationships with Wall Street such as
Cory Booker in Kristin Gillibrand
were struggling to gain traction and had
grown more hostile to finance as their
party had Joe Biden leading in early
polls had Anna comforting history in the
Obama White House and a reputation as an
establishment Democrat but had never
until a few months ago maintained any
meaningful relationship with Wall Street
so this is before he announced his
candidacy there was just one other
section that I highlighted here and says
here before Trump won Hillary Clinton
had out raised him by a margin of more
than four to one among the financial
crowd which had long regarded him as a
pariah because of his shady record and
bankruptcies now the anti corporate
anti-wall street direction of the
Democratic Party is driving Democrats
into the Trump camp which is in most
cases the last place they want to be
said Catherine Wilde or CEO of the
partnership for New York City the
business group that counts among its
members all of the city's major
financial institutions the fact that
he's raised as much money as he has is a
reflection of how many Democrats are
holding their nose and supporting him
because they feel demonized by the
Democrats
so yeah this is the Wall Street guys are
just like they're gonna do the thing the
same thing we've been saying over and
over again why are you making us vote
for Trump why are you making us do this
and you just pick Cory Booker why
wouldn't you just pick someone we can
trust what's wrong with you people
and then right here at the sort of last
graph here it says over coffee recently
in Midtown an investment pro with a long
history and democratic politics describe
the struggle to resist the unexpected
pull of Trump what matters more he asked
looking up at me my social values or my
paycheck hmm I wonder which one you're
going for like a tube sock full of
oranges just gonna hurt you hurt me a
lot more than it's gonna hurt you know I
mean like I actually kind of like that
they're getting that stuff out of them
because you can't moralize that you're
just like look this is how people behave
rationally we've create a society which
incentivizes this stuff and you can get
angry about it or you can just be
extremely practical and be like well
they have the money and we have the
numbers and we have to play that game
it's certainly better than [ __ ]
you're not going to shame them they
don't have shame fake like conscious
capitalism where they're trying to to
say what we represent values here and in
Wall Street and a Donald Trump is in
opposition to those horseshit after you
just did a profile on a Warren Buffett
that was really interesting and it led
with I have more fun than any 5,000 year
old man you'd meet and he's like I mean
like first of all they had like three
people interviewing him it was super
weird and it's like I'm going to drink a
coca-cola now and they're trying to like
humanize this like alien yes it's
[ __ ] reptile man yeah three five
interviewing him like like cavemen
hunting of mammoths I go to an A&W Root
Beer and get a delightful soft-serve ice
cream then I personally oversee the
eviction of people from my trailer parks
that I own it's the only thing that
gives my ancient penis interaction I got
a hand it this is the one thing I gotta
hand it to Joe Biden on I was just
thinking of he's just been in the pocket
of the fire sector for
like 78 years pretty much this whole
state yeah yeah his entire state of
characters who are clipping through
fence posts to do this for about a
century and he's net worth is that he's
like 250,000 really believe him when
he's like Wall Street's good for America
because he's not getting [ __ ] out of it
yeah he's no nation but he say like
Mitch McConnell he doesn't lift a
[ __ ] finger without like some just
you know blubber neck piece of [ __ ]
giving him an oil field in Kazakhstan
under it escrow but Joe he's they're
just giving him a coaster he's it yeah
he will turn this country into just a
[ __ ] feudal Hamlet overruled by
insurance companies in order for him to
just wear a [ __ ] engineers cap on the
Amtrak true believer and in many ways he
is very much like a like a trump that
hasn't been copied too many times
Wells Fargo gives him a bank calendar
and he thinks best deal I ever made like
yeah Joe Biden in the Senate just every
every legislative session would like
pass pass a bill through committee that
was like yeah the bakery possesses your
house they all your kids are Ward's of
the bank and yeah Wells Fargo Citigroup
and all them they just round Joe Biden
up and they'd be like Joe any appetizer
you want like you just gotta love the
perks of the job because he keeps trying
to like dig his own in ground swimming
pool and hitting the septic tank a
little Marianna Joe he's you can't say
he's like he's is a corrupt person just
morale it but like he's not cynical yeah
he's a [ __ ] he's an and peace him Oh
with hair plugs oh my god his teeth I
mean I talk a lot about the teeth
because I that's my new phrenology now
is that I mean I said from the beginning
bado you
could tell how evil he was from the
teeth now we have Buddha judge with his
terrible terrible teeth Biden's caps are
the most alarming he was like he looks
like Matt Dillon and there's something
about Mary Biden's cosmetic surgeries
are like he was try not to get fired as
the lead in a soap opera for 40 years
well you know that weatherman
the Biden the way you know the Biden is
a absolute just glassy-eyed psycho its
subway is that if you look at any
footage of him when he ran for president
the first time in 1988 when he had the
brain hemorrhage and then he plagiarized
Neil Kinnock speeches and got bounced of
a flight would disgrace one of the worst
campaigns ever and you look at his
hairline and then you look at it now
this guy was in front of the entire
nation with just this absolutely arid
scrub land of hair at the top at the at
the front of his head just just a
Chernobyl exclusion zone of decimation
and then he just shows up one day in the
middle of 90s like hi everybody what's
going on with just it's all back yeah
it's like how the [ __ ] you gonna pull
that [ __ ] he pulled Piven he pulled a
piss
he's like I dare you psycho dare you to
say something yeah because like every
normal person Slyke you know what I
should have seen that I was I didn't
really pay attention to this and now
it's too late
ya know everyone knows only a complete
maniac is like [ __ ] it I am gonna braise
this out and dare you to [ __ ] comment
on it it's like you know when he loses
he comes back in eight years and he just
looks exactly like boy boy West Coast
[Laughter]
Dan is everywhere you speaking sort of
like an East Bay Mexican guy accent like
what the [ __ ] he's like no this is how
I've always been I could definitely see
him wearing a do-rag at some point to
try to like get get down with some local
voters Joe Joe Biden and bado challenged
each other to a wave check don't know
what that is but I'm sure it's funny so
my ultimate prediction
the thing about Biden winning out of
just pure cynicism that's a joke
prediction my real prediction for the
primary is that the night king
Hickenlooper and last dragon a me-too
Targaryen
- holy Battle of Winterfell st. Paul
Minnesota Song of Ice and Fire baby
sure just um one other thing from this
New York magazine piece sort of some
against it very similar to the New York
Times pieces it's captured the way
Bernie Sanders just has [ __ ] you money
it's this point like like his ability to
raise money my mommy real good he's not
just freaking these people out because
like nobody's courting that like he
doesn't have to come and kiss their ass
or then put you know or adopt positions
that you know are palatable to them or
go to Lloyd Blank finds [ __ ] summer
house in the Hamptons for a chicken
dinner it's also sort of displacing
their sense of social Worth and I just
want to read this part it says here
meanwhile parts of the Democratic field
we're doing the same with candidates
focused on building Sanders style small
donor email driven funder fundraising
machine Sanders raised ten million that
way in just his first week as a
candidate it's kind of stunning how a
bunch of these people running for
president haven't gotten ahold of a list
of top past contributors and said what
can I do to get this person fumed a
hedge fund honcho out of the loop for
the first time in two decades it's sort
of basic political IQ everyone wants to
seem relevant one prominent investor
told me but for the first time he or any
of his friends could remember we're just
not [ __ ] relevant we're not that big
a deal of of deal anymore
none of us a lot of the donor community
is worried about losing their
presidential perks and ambassadora gigs
to baristas said veteran New York
Democrat yeah they're doing violence to
the spaces of I don't think that's right
I like that he's like losing it to
baristas like a lot of their guys like
baristas are their biggest enemy yeah of
course like it's their biggest like sort
of social enemy and like the person they
interact with who's like lowest than
them on a totem pole yeah they still
have to deal with I feel on the hook too
- yeah I'm so sick of these hipster
baristas talking down to being my wall
street friends you know there aren't
Starbucks or adjusted [ __ ] be poor
they're rocking out to Mumford & Sons
I'm so sick of these hipster baristas
speaking of them small donors and the
staggering amount of money that Sanders
and now other people are trying to raise
from this model of getting a lot from
getting a little from a lot based on you
know like email and turnout Sanders with
something like 400,000 small donors
right now [ __ ] baristas right there's
a very they're gonna [ __ ] get in
there like they're gonna carry out their
[ __ ] barista agenda on all of us
you're so tiny my donors are so tiny I
want to put you in my pocket ah beans
this is a I saw this really great take
today on Bernie Sanders you know money
money making this is courtesy of the
National Review and J cost under the
headline the problem with Sanders small
donors subhead he is now winning the
money race thanks to activists but do we
want voters on the fringe setting a
party's course which is the answer is if
you're the National Review and talking
about the Republican Party yes
absolutely what does the fringe mean
like he has more donors yeah the French
masses but I think they mean that they
don't have any money and so therefore
they really don't know the fringe that I
think they mean an enormity of sense is
that you have the people who deserve to
have a say in politics because they have
worth by virtue of their wealth and the
people who don't have any and as such
should not be making any kind of
decisions or having any influence on
politics but that's like reverse
engineering a definition of populism by
income yeah they love it he goes he says
here the corporate Titans gave to
politics not out of kindness of their
own hearts but to acquire access to
government that the average person does
not possess this kind of financing
strikes at the core of our Republican
ideal that every citizen should be equal
as far as the government is concerned
and since the Progressive Era there have
been countless efforts to bring the
special interests to heel which we have
opposed of every step the emergence of
the Internet has created a legitimate
alternative which Sanders is making the
most of rather than if politics financed
by special interests Sanders is drawing
funds from an army of local activists
whose commitment to the cause induces
them to
chip-in $20 here or $40 there taken
individually the activists cannot
compete with lobbyists from the
telecommunications or healthcare
industries but their numbers are so vast
that in some they can prevail propel
Sanders into the front of the money race
call me a contrarian but I have my
doubts about this mode of financing -
again he doesn't that he [ __ ] doubts
about the other mode of [ __ ]
financing that's worse yet obviously not
his name is Jay cost he's these them he
wears a blazer with dollar bill with Jay
cost he's one of those finance guys who
just has like a none creative writer
named him I'm sure that when he when he
opened the newspaper to see the Citizens
United decision a single tear rolled
down his [ __ ] cheek he goes yeah so
yeah I have my doubts about that yeah
let's leave that aside he goes again
stipulating that donors have access or
influence that average voters do not
possess is it really better for
activists to be the main source of
Finance corporate lobbyists are going to
invest in politics for their
stockholders interests but activists
have a wide array of a wide array of
ideological views that are often out of
step with the rest of society the
Sanders voters in particular are far to
the left of the average American and
probably the average Democrat - we
complain so much about political
polarization these days and I think with
good reason but to what extent does the
polarization in the last generation lead
back to this revolution in campaign
finance our grassroots extremists
pulling candidates to the ideological
fringes by increments of $20 a piece
it's very possible again like ember as
you bring up his definition of fringe
here seems to swing wildly back between
masses of people of which are so
numerous that not even the millions of
dollars from corporate lobbyists can
compete with but they also happen to
hold views that are entirely fringe like
Medicare for all of course which is you
know a fringe view held by about 70
percent of voters in this country yeah
well but I think yeah he's just saying
that there's motivated and being
motivated makes you a suspect
yeah glassy-eyed psycho but again like
the elevation is suss but like the only
motivation could be trusted his
self-interest like all these rich ass
forget self-interest like William F
Buckley and the National Review was
founded to make sure that the fringe
the conservative movement took over the
Republican Party and I did yeah and
they've changed American politics
because of it and then now now that uh
you know if Sanders wasn't raising any
money and was just like another Dennis
Kucinich they wouldn't have to come up
with a new narrative about how actually
small money donors are bad so he closes
this out by here saying all of this
speaks to some inconvenient truths that
Americans have fully have failed to
fully grok I love when people use our
alright nerd politics is very there's so
many words v Barry
politics is very expensive somebody has
to pay for it and whoever does is going
to get special access who do we want
those persons to be special interests
activists someone else we collectively
don't know as we tend not to think to
that much about campaign finance maybe
if a socialist captures the Democratic
nomination in this cycle we'll think a
little more clearly about whether we
want our local hippies bankrolling
politics he says who do we want you know
running politics special interests or
activists it's like oh I don't know yeah
if you want like a bunch of people
collectively coming together around an
idea of a public good that they are not
personally invested in but is you know
the product of their lived experience
about like the troubles of living in the
this decaying capitalist hellscape or
just guys who his entire life their
entire livelihood and the livelihood or
their idiot [ __ ] kids depends on the
world being drained of all its resources
and turn into a [ __ ] cinder
I wonder I'm having a hard time can't
think of it so that Bernie money is good
money real guys money's really no good
right now and it's it's it's causing a
lot of agita among I want him to do I
want him to do a Instagram thing of him
going to to a like a buffet and just
press like the soft drink dispenser and
having it come out as being my money
real good right now
we also never debase himself in such a
way no no II also the great photo of him
shopping was great getting some
Progresso soup yeah yeah now why would
Bernie makes it rain he just pours soup
directly I drew his driveway
that's all I'm saying so ya know he is
uh the amount of money I'm the polling
he can use the poll continues to give
people a lot of heartburn and I hope it
continues to do so and I more than
anything I hope he does get the
nomination so everyone who is going to
spend probably the next month just
angrily interrogating you like will you
support the Democrat will you support
the Democrats feeding Trump is the most
important thing ever having to find a
way to back out of that rather shoddy
moral commitment Howard Schultz all
along I had no idea he was such a
brilliant visionary I just I've I feel I
have to support him and the apotheosis
of that is this thing I've been seeing
going around this weekend it's been
pushed by Alyssa Milano and George Takei
but they're trying guidance decay oh my
god yeah Alyssa Milano and George Takei
are trying to get people to sign on to a
pledge to not say anything bad about any
of the candidates running for president
I assume they mean Democratic candidates
yeah but they're like will you sign a
pledge now to to not criticize any of
the Democratic candidates I criticize my
best friend's there's no way I would not
criticize like that's an absurd
expectation also what relationship do
you have to politicians like well I mean
well I think what they seem to think is
that like again back to the Bernie
Hillary thing they seem to think that
Bernie's critiques of Hillary made her
unelectable yeah so they're like if all
the Democrats if no one criticizes each
other or attacks each other at all then
like no matter who emerges will be as
any unified they will emerge sort of
like you know a shimmering a being of
light I mean that's the thing on the one
hand this does seem like a very cynical
ploy to try to protect corporate
Democrats like Joe Biden from the sort
of interrogation of the record that
might lead people who are haven't really
been paying too much attention until now
to be like oh this guy actually sucks
and I don't want to elect him like what
happened to Joe Lieberman among others
but on the other hand a campaign with no
criticism no negative talk about any of
the candidates kind of sounds like good
vibes to me you know it just sounds like
a sounds like a campaign of like just
cool vibes we're all just sitting around
talking about you know what could we do
about well I mean I would want to go one
step further and say let's just not talk
about any of the candidates let's just
talk about our emotional states you know
just share that you know that's very
Merry and just talk about how we feel
well as you said like they're gonna do
um a debate thing where it's it's
selected randomly because there are so
many people like it's sort of not fair
to do like the tiered system yeah that
the last time and with Mary Ann on the
Mary Ann debate I think you said like
they should just come out and just say I
love you she's just like Mara
I I see I see this pledge is a very
cynical way to stop Mary Ann honestly
like I don't think it's negative
rhetoric but Mary Ann knows exactly the
time and in exactly the manner every
candidate die will die it and this is
one of her biggest advantages if she
gets on that debate stage and she goes
up to like you know Jay in Salinas like
you know cardiac arrest aged 90
surrounded by two of your least favorite
nieces he just dead your stops in his
tracks no that's that's dark magic
that's what Hickenlooper practices
otherwise she'd be hopeless against
Hickenlooper don't Hickenlooper you know
he goes to the rituals and he drinks the
[ __ ] blue and he reads the entrails
of all the animals killed by fracking
and that's how he gets his portents what
what if Hickenlooper and and Williamson
formed like not they don't become
running mates it's not like a cruise for
your Rena thing but it's like for this
stage of the primaries they have a
non-aggression pact like there are sort
of the magic caucus yeah yeah yeah yeah
what if a shadow baby is birth to attack
one of the candidates who is the most
vulnerable to a shadow baby attack maybe
bado
I the shadow baby could cast a spell to
protect the image of a tunnel on the
side of a brick wall and then Joe Biden
just runs right into it yeah here's my
proposal for the debates at the start of
it and at the end everyone kisses they
all okay I say a pair off and they kiss
try to be impartial it favors Williamson
who do you think is the best at love
energy and how about this instead of a
debate a cuddle puddle yeah they should
all be on just like you know there's a
grabber the podiums no podiums just
they're all hanging out on thanks
pillows yeah yeah no they should have
beed bags they don't stand on one of
those I'll take Molly beforehand how
about that everyone takes Molly and then
they'll always talk about their feelings
could you imagine what amy klobuchar
would say if she was feeling
particularly good vibrations any closer
sure would show what would show uh
psychedelics don't worry she just come
up with new ways to abuse people it
would just open up her third eye and
she'd be like oh I could staple
someone's sleeve to the desk and hit
them be like the tech guys who go on
ayahuasca journeys and come up with new
ways to overwork people yeah or or it's
such a powerful experience for her so
overwhelming to have you know the her
sort of inhibitions removed that she
ends up snapping Tim Ryan's neck like
Lenny with the [ __ ] rabbits I mean
yeah maybe Who am I to say maybe she
takes LSD or Molly and she just
completely loses it she we seen Amy
we've never seen before and she comes
out there and she just said has a policy
proposal so crazy it's something like
you know I think middle-class families
should be able to refinance their
medical debt - mm ruh the 2001 monolith
she came back with that Jim might see a
new Amy let Amy be Amy Amy yeah let's
Chapo be chapo I should also do chapo
chapo can only be chapo it's true all
right well I've many plugs we leave uh
yeah the European tour the American
Expeditionary Force is coming to your
town there's only five towns in Europe
so fortunately we're hitting them all
London
sold out Thank You London we might be
adding a second show Glasgow and Berlin
both sold out I've been lured and bought
tickets are still available in Dublin
and Madchester go to Chapel Travis comm
slashed order and a legend and a
supporter the greatest sport forever
known as mankind
ayo so come out and see us in Manchester
the city of football further plugs May
19th at The Hideout in Chicago episode 1
me Burt ovo and CJ will be guest
starring it's Wednesday May 1st house
where housing works Manhattan housing
works in Manhattan sold out sold out all
right there might be a standby I don't
know what he's also I will be at the
Strand this probably won't go up in time
it's going out tonight
okay well I'll be at the Strand tomorrow
to host bhaskar's and Cara's book launch
the socialist manifesto it's at 7
o'clock I'm gonna ask them the
hard-hitting questions
what about Venezuela no ask about
Venezuela
I'm gonna ask about how he feels about a
poo why do you have an iPhone yeah yeah
and it's about that well yeah yeah so
come on out it'll be fun it's good book
good conversation
Felix isn't you one coming to the bell
house oh yeah kind of early to plug that
let me check uh July 22nd at the Bellas
that's what's up you guys want to be on
that by the way yeah sure yeah till next
time guys bye bye bye
