so I guess like your ear I'm going with
the dipstick we're going up his nasal
cavity like a [ __ ] ice pick lobotomy
we're just gonna tap it with that little
medical hammer right here but here's
where I'm going with this this is what
we realize is it like I feel like
something you said this when we were on
the tram see or Chris maybe you did we
are going to be thinking about Donald
Trump from every day from now until we
die probably yep long after he's dead
and let's be honest he will probably
live to be a hundred and twenty years
old for sure I mean he's lived this
[ __ ] long he's definitely gonna live
another 30 or 40 years oh and you're um
we're gonna be thinking about him
forever and there's like there's no
escape now I know what was his name
Michael Bennett at the Iowa State Fair
his big pitch was like if I'm president
you won't have to think about me for
weeks at a time just go back to sleep
you look like politics don't think about
it the White House not a thing I'll just
show I'll just pop up once a month be
like hey it's the president everybody
but he just won't like the president
will move like I will no [ __ ] boring
I will just put you to sleep I won't be
on your brain even if Michael Bennett
became president tomorrow we would all
still be living in Donald Trump's brain
oh absolutely no escape and I had this
vision of myself like he's already
changed the way we talk Oh
sorts out I do the hand gestures it just
starts out as a joke but I just say now
totally unwind I rot eclis things like
bye-bye
very mess yeah you you you hear us
getting infected with it on the show
what you're hearing forming and you're
literally hearing it more and more
yeah and it's just like you know
politically correct automobile companies
these things are just in my Manny Manny
french-fry they're you handsome generals
oh the greatest casting it's like a you
know the scene in the Soylent Green
where they put Edward G Robbins in to
just leave yeah that's only create a
factory and they just it's like you're
on a bed and it's just showing you one
of those like time life music collection
ads but for like Trump's Greatest Hits
generals like you know your favorite I'd
like to be the handsome quarterbacks
agent you know like the chairs aren't as
big as they used to be you know whatever
and I just had this vision of like yeah
me on my deathbed surrounded by friends
family loved ones like you know the the
morphine is hitting uh you know got one
foot out the door and I just begin to
mouth something and then you know like
maybe my beloved you know child son or
daughter old she's like what's that he's
saying something she they lean in I just
go [ __ ] Graydon Carter's bad food
restaurant and that's that says the DMT
is released that's what I'm gonna be
thinking about probably washed up psycho
that is a really good psycho yeah I know
you're not realize about Trump is like
he's like the kill Barney president
because he's like he like he would have
just been The Apprentice guy in like the
building guy but the thing that like
sort of made him him in the more modern
era like after Atlantic City and all
that was like having a feud with Rosie
O'Donnell just be like she's disgusting
Pig maniac it's this it's like as like a
56 year old man at the time having the
same impulses like yeah like a fifth
grader who's like I'm gonna [ __ ] kill
Barney with a sniper rifle sound like
like an adult man who's like [ __ ] Rosie
Oh Joe and you know we're thinking about
this and it's just like we is you know
are so far gone now like we've been
talking it like like I said in the last
episode we are at level 9 of a James
Ellroy novel right now and I don't know
what happens when we hit like the final
chapter when we hit level 10 like this
all just seems like we're just we're
headed to a terminus that like we it
seems like it's never gonna come but
like we know
it's out there somewhere and we are so
far gone now that like think about every
previous American president during your
lifetime and like what shows like SNL
have had to do to make fun of them which
is essentially pick one sort of odd
mannerism or tick that they have and
exaggerate it to like a ludicrous degree
like George HW Bush that was the first
one I remember and it was david harvey
nag and that mac and there's you know
that million pints a lot you know and
like it was just a sort of slightly dumb
impression bill clinton he d percy bit
his lip and you know hammer for me and
Mike Hammer yeah he's a fat horny guy
who's you know kind of sort of dishonest
george w bush you know strategic that
was funny
barack obama you know he was a
homosexual eats dogs SNL did that right
no they did lee not that's why obama was
oh my god obama was honestly worse than
trump for SNL i mean just it's just as a
comic character because you could tell
that they like think they had that kind
of I guess they probably had a racial
anxiety I receive an amazing they had
they were one that [ __ ] Fred Armisen
do blackface but they wouldn't say that
he ate dog just like go all the way
instead of being no he's kind of a nerd
or whatever the [ __ ] or just like you
know like the little little scandals
like George HW Bush bombing on the
Japanese Prime Minister that was pretty
good or Lewinsky or you know any of like
the dumb little things but like just to
again it seems like it's 10,000 years
ago that he's been president but like
just every single thing every these
little moments that we've talked about
her last about on the show we don't
realize like how far we've gone down
into this like hyper normalized reality
of like absolute absurdity and depravity
like and I I I haven't fully process it
like I'm just all you know I'm going
down the waterslide basically yeah yeah
we're is a escape velocity like at the
point where there could be no more
acceleration and it's like there's some
thing we're hurtling towards and it's
probably a brick wall honestly well it's
when it shows up it's gonna be so fast
that we're not even gonna be able to
notice it
