someone else who most definitely does
not want your life to get any better and
basically would like life to just sort
of like reached its apex of goodness in
around 2008 to 2016 those were the days
I'm speaking of course about Joe Biden I
mentioned on the previous episode that
we wanted to spend some choice if
robinette by Joseph P Biden no not even
a woman's name it's a female dogs yeah
it's got a thing and I'd like to spend
some time with the life and career of
Joe Biden because he is currently
polling at the top yeah a list of
Democratic contenders I'm basically I'm
sure just based on name recognition
allowing that the at this point the the
patterns pretty easily represented
Lieberman was leading in 2004 because he
had been the last VP not even VP but VP
Ken Sanders is right after Biden I think
probably largely also on name
recognition yes now that's true he was
you know like a very visible presence in
the last election but I think it is
worth spending some time on the life and
career of Joe Biden because basically
his career in American politics is
uniquely awful in almost every way and
to start to prepare for this I I went
back to one of my Bibles one of these
tomes that I you know thumb through from
time to time when I'm feeling down and
need to connect with some of the wisdom
of people who've come before me I'm
speaking of course about Alexander
Coburn's a colossal wreck a road trip
through political scandal corruption in
American culture and I knew Alex would
have some good words about Joe Biden and
I'd like to start by doing a very rare
anti reading series by anti reading
series I mean I'm gonna read you
something that's actually good
this was written an awkward dude 23rd
2008 around the time Joe Biden became
Obama's running mate change in hope are
not words when associates with Senator
Joe Biden a man so rightly symbolic of
everything that is unchanging and
hopeless about our political system that
a computer simulation of the corporate
political paradigm Senator in Congress
would turn out by
in a nanosecond the first duty of any
senator from Delaware is to do the
bidding of the banks in the large
corporations that use the tiny state as
a Dropbox and legal sanctuary Biden has
never failed his masters in his primary
task find any bill that sticks it to the
ordinary folk on behalf of the money
power and you'll likely detect Biden's
hand at work the bankruptcy Act of 2005
was just one example in concert with his
fellow corporate serf senator senator
Tom Carper Biden blocked all efforts to
hinder bankrupt corporations from
fleeing their real locations to the
legal sanctuary of Delaware since Obama
is himself a corporate serf and from day
one in the US Senate has been attentive
to the same masters that employ Biden
the ticket is well balanced the seesaw
with Obama at one end and Biden at the
other dead level on the fulcrum of the
corporate capital another shining moment
in Biden's progress in the current
presidential term was his conduct in the
hearings on judge Alito's nomination to
the US Supreme Court from the opening
moments of the Judiciary Committee
session into January 2006 it became
clear that Alito faced no serious
opposition on that first ludicrous
morning Senator Pat Leahy sank his head
into his hands shaking it an unbelieving
despair as Biden blathered out a
self-serving and inane monologue lasting
a full 20 minutes before he even asked
Alito one question and has a lot of
half-hour Biden managed to pose only
five questions all of them ineptly
phrased he did post two questions about
Alito's membership of a racist society
at Princeton but had already undercut
them in his monologue by calling Alito a
man of integrity not once but twice and
further trivialized the interrogation by
reaching under the dais to pull out a
Princeton cap and put it on a Delaware
newspaper made deadly fun of him for his
awful performance eliciting the
revealing confession from Biden that I
made a mistake I should have gone
straight to my question I was trying to
put him at ease Biden is a notorious
flap jaw his vanity deludes him into
believing that every word that drops
from his mouth is minted in the golden
currency of Pericles vanity is the most
conspicuous characteristic of US
senators on block nourished by
deferential acolytes and often expressed
in loudest sexual advances to staffers
interns and the like why did Obama too
pardon one important constituency
provided was no doubt the Israel lobby
inside the Democratic Party Obama no
matter how fervent his proclamations of
support for Israel has always been
viewed with some suspicion by the lobby
wonder why for half the lifespan of the
State of Israel Biden has been its
unswerving acolyte in the US Senate that
was Alexander Coburn writing on August
23rd 2008 . about Senator Joe Biden you
know that's the freakiest thing about by
genuine unnerving weird thing about him
that makes me makes him feel like a lot
of these guys just like you're a lizard
man he always bragged about the fact
that he's one of the poorest senators
right he never had a lot of money he's
got like a six-figure net worth they
made a lot of that into that of a
[ __ ] loser well that's what's saying
it's like he was an absolute crook and
and corporate bagman for all the
insurance companies and credit card
companies that run Delaware and he
didn't even get any [ __ ] he didn't
get a boat out of it or anything what
kind of freak is like yes I will be your
pathetic I will be your Renfield in the
Senate and no no thanks your your
gratitude is all I need to be fair
though your money goes really far in
Delaware that's true yeah yeah do you
know just I just want to ride the train
I don't need a boat do you know how much
like a crooked Cook County yeah alderman
makes but that cycle mad at Michael
Madigan is just [ __ ] dumping out
stacks and this is Biden it's them it's
the power and it's the it's the press
that's what he yes give a [ __ ] he is
actually more disturbing them and that's
just purely correct you should have been
here's the personality of a Jake Paul
he's [ __ ] but I love that Alito thing is
great don't you hate it when you try to
play good-cop bad-cop and you you're
like oh I just did good cop good cop
yeah how did they [ __ ] left him on
the Judiciary Committee after they need
a hill [ __ ] ah are you are you
shocked Democrats it's breathtaking how
badly [ __ ] listen let's go over that his
role in Judiciary Committee he did he
was instrumental in stopping Bork from
getting
the Supreme Court yeah but I mean let's
be honest that was kind of a layup you
just look at that guy's weird flesh
beard you're just like no and he was
operating a different time when we
didn't think that like he was political
Bork was was political in a way that was
not common for work would answer the
questions about like nominee that women
should be killed for getting an abortion
and it was it was Teddy Kennedy and his
big balloon head and his his speech that
really nailed the coffin on pork anyway
so we'll give Biden half credit for that
however his performance during the
Clarence Thomas hearings or world
historically awful and probably the most
important thing he did as head of that
committee at the time controlled by
Democrats was not allow any of the other
accusers that I need a hill and there
was at least two others who were willing
to testify about Clarence Thomas found
would not let them and then his examine
is his question is across examination of
Anita Hill was also horrible yeah yeah
definitely like very hostile treated her
as a hostile witness for sure yeah come
on Thomas we'll be on the Supreme Court
for another thirty years thanks to Joe
Biden let's talk a little bit about
let's talk a little bit we talked about
he is consummate back man for the
banking industry and being from the
state of Delaware he voted for something
called the riegle-neal banking
efficiency act 1994 which allowed
commercial banks to do business over
state lines and then he also voted for
the gramm-leach-bliley Act financial
services Modernization Act of 1999 which
famously overturned glass-steagall which
separated commercial from Investment
that worked out well so 2008 economic
crash you can he had his hands in that
as well probably more famous if you're
familiar with Biden now cuz he's taking
more heat for it you should be taking a
lot of heat for the bank bailout in 2008
as well as all of these you know
financial modernization acts as well but
he is taking a little heat now because
of his history with the crime of bills
and being a ma like being bad cop
finally being bad cop but basically just
to america's swollen underclass you know
people who sold like a dime bag of crack
and got thirty years
[ __ ] time guys that remember to do it
but at the wrong time he's the father of
the crack powder cocaine disparity cent
disparity yeah yeah it was everyone was
so excited about it to the Heritage
Foundation for example gave him a
ringing endorsement
this is this is now from a Jacobin
article by bronco maher said 'ok one
episode in particular sums up Biden's
record in September 1989 George HW Bush
delivered a speech outlining his
National Drug Control strategy in which
he called for harsher punishments for
drug dealers nearly 1.5 billion towards
drug related law enforcement and more
prisons more jails more courts more
prosecutors at every level throughout
the country at the time the Heritage
Foundation gushed that had constituted
the largest increase in resources for
law enforcement in the nation's history
and it's now remembered as a key moment
in the escalation of the war on drugs
for Biden however it was a half measure
quite frankly the president's plan is
not tough enough bold enough or
imaginative enough to meet the crisis at
hand Biden said in a televised response
to Bush's speech in a nutshell the
president's plan does not include enough
police officers to catch the violent
thugs enough prosecutors to convict them
enough judges to sentence them or enough
prison cells to put them away for a long
time it's not creative it's not
imaginative enough where are the
trebuchet to launch them into brick
walls where are where are the giant
human sized mousetraps where you put
crack in the middle and then they slap
into their spines listen to this Biden
was already a tough on crime evangelist
before this speech of course in the
1980s Biden worked with his quote old
buddy arch segregationist throm Strom
Thurmond to pass several bills that
fundamentally reshaped the American
criminal justice system justice system
in the direction of more incarceration
they along with Ted Kennedy had worked
on earlier unsuccessful proposals that
raised maximum penalties removed a
directive requiring the US Sentencing
Commission to take into account prison
capacity and created the cabinet-level
drug czar position in 1984 they passed
the comprehensive Crime Control Act
which among other things abolished
parole and post a less generous cap on
goodtime sentence reductions and allowed
the Sentencing Commission to issue more
punitive guidelines just following up
that little hyperlink about his good
buddy Strom Thurmond I came across this
anecdote
Joe Biden were delivered Strom
Thurmond's eulogy as strong as on
request saying of it
he says some of you knew my relationship
with Strom did I ever think when I got
here I would become friends with Strom
Thurmond he stood for everything
everything I got started because of
civil rights yet on his hundredth
birthday again evil people never have
been on his birthday shortly thereafter
on his deathbed I got a phone call from
his wife Nancy
she said I'm standing here at the
nurse's station Joe with the doctor just
left Strom keeps eyeing the nerd he
asked me to call you he wants a favor I
said of course Nancy whatever he wants
he said he'd like you to do his eulogy
well I never thought never in my wildest
dreams that this place these walls the
honor that resides would put me in a
position where a man whose career was
one of the most interesting and modern
asked me to be as eulogist Leonardo
DiCaprio and Django Unchained was one of
the most interesting and honorbound
characters particularly hilarious
because you know Strom Thurmond must be
so dumb to think that Joe Biden is a
good speaker loss makes you wonder if
his wife after years of resentment
wanted to get in one last [ __ ] you at
the very end she's like I know who's
gonna do the [ __ ] eulogy it's the guy
who's gonna only talk about himself for
the entire time that was yeah because
he's the one of the most narcissistic
maniacs on earth by the way he says that
his career started in civil rights
that's kind of true one of his Oh big
issues when he ran for Senate in the
1970 was opposing busing so he is
correct this that civil rights did in a
way politics I want to return now to mr.
Coburn again because wouldn't you know
it he has written quite a few wonderful
paragraphs about mr. Biden and this will
bring us back once again to the issue of
the Israel lobby
Alexander Coburn writing in July 10 2009
after he's become by president writes
appropriately it was on the topic of
Israel as Vice President Biden first
tossed aside unmanly prudence
even given the zeal of almost every
member of the US Congress to satisfy the
Israel lobby Biden has always been
conspicuous for his slavish posture
towards the holy state accepting Obama's
offer of the vice presidential
nomination last summer he announced
emphatically that he would not have
considered accepting the invitation if
he had entertained the slightest
suspicion that Obama was not 100 percent
in Israel's corner in fact the Israel
lobby did entertain these unworthy
suspicions which is why it pushed
strongly for vide Biden as veep
it wasn't far into Obama's first months
in the White House that the lobby began
to feel that even though Obama's chief
of staff is rahm emanuel their
suspicions were justified the president
dared to mention in public the plight of
the right of Palestinians to some form
of state he said that the settlements on
the West Bank had to stop true he didn't
say anything categorical about the
actually existing illegal settlements
he seemed too eager to parlay with Iran
to de Muro on the topic of its nuclear
program
on July 5th George Stephanopoulos
interviewed Biden in Baghdad for his
Sunday morning talk show on the ABC
network and promptly put the question if
the Israelis decide Iran as an
existential threat and they have to take
out the nuclear program militarily the
United States will not stand in the way
Biden lunged for the driver's wheel and
swerved US government policy in a whole
new direction we cannot dictate to
another sovereign nation what they can
and cannot do when they make a
determination if they make a
determination their existentially
threatened and their survival is
threatened by another country the White
House spent the next two days
categorically denying that it was giving
via Biden Israel to go ahead to make a
unilateral attack on Iran the United
States is absolutely not flashing Israel
a green light to attack Iran US
President Barack Obama told CNN in
Moscow on July 7th then in the same
Stephanopoulos interview Biden
sucker-punched Obama again addressing
the failure of Obama's stimulus program
to halt the surge in unemployment and
prompt recovery a failure has the
failure that has that has the president
tumbling in the polls in devising this
program Biden confided to Stephanopoulos
the Obama administration had misread the
extent of the economic catastrophe it
inherited the truth is we and everyone
else misread the economy the figures we
worked off in June of in January were
the consensus figures and most of the
blue chip in
is out there so once again back to Biden
and his wonderful views on foreign
policy and on banking you know the onion
remember yeah he's like cool grandpa
he's like Washington Trans Am and the in
front of the White House that's adorable
yeah dude and he's just so dude when him
and Obama would get out there and they
would just like Obama would be like the
be the straight man because he was
adulting like a boss but then Biden
would be like yo I'm like a [ __ ]
line-break joke from weird Twitter
checking out pretty good
I do have a soft spot I have to confess
too for Joe Biden because like me he
over uses the word literally and so I
also like a youtuber yeah I feel a
kinship to him on that I mean Matt you
you hate YouTube but like all the all of
them being centralized there Jake and
Logan Paul everyone else in team ten
Shane Dawson that's they can just do
that for the rest of their lives and not
become shitty center-right politicians
that's true until Logan Paul becomes
president of the Neo American Imperium
well I've been in Logan Paul's here I
attempted to become the rest butan of
team Ken I wish you luck sorry one last
quote from Coburn here he says no one
thinks Biden is running the country and
maybe this is the core of Obama's Biden
problem almost all politicians are
narcissists and Biden more than most is
narcissistically vulnerable it's why he
says so often got into trouble for lying
about his achievements it's why as a
senator he couldn't stop talking yeah
and then he got so buffaloed by Obama as
his friend that he allowed him to talk
about a running for president in 2016
when he probably could have beaten
Hillary and definitely would have beaten
Trump which is what his pitch is now for
2020 is we can just do 2016 all over
again and that it'll be exactly the same
and then those 70,000 white people in
the Midwest who flipped and and led to
Trump's election they would vote for me
and he's right that that probably would
have happened in 2016 but you know
things are different now fun is it gonna
be to watch him figure out during a
debate or a speech that his window has
closed it's gonna be funny because it's
pretty clear that like there's no
appetite for I mean where he goes that
there's yeah when these goes out there
and says Millennials are a bunch of
[ __ ] and should stop whining so much
I mean what the food is that even for I
mean even evil
well a mcComish are yeah he's no last
drag he can't even [ __ ] touch a
me-too Targaryen yeah no I mean that
that's just a small sample of his career
but if we could just go through it again
slavish ly devoted to Israel and
anything they do they want to launch a
preemptive nuclear strike on Iran he
says go for it live your truth he a big
supporter of the Iraq war initially
before then of course becoming a critic
and saying oh it was in competently
executed of course
Bank deregulation there's generally
being a courtesan to the credit card
industry and every other corrupt
corporation that has a mailbox in
Delaware that allows them to evade
taxation or regulation yeah same
tough-on-crime psychotic prison
sentences for tiny amounts of drugs
the violent thugs super predators I mean
honestly he's made he makes Kamala look
almost good in that regard I mean she I
mean then again she was in the front
lines carrying a she's obviously
throwing them in jail using the laws
that he passed she was so there you go
who's worse they're working together
that's the it's the army
