are you tired of the pacification of the
American male he's too afraid to defend
themselves saying [ __ ] like violent
shouldn't exist
alright but if you say it to that
[ __ ] shut the [ __ ] up so I like it
I believe that men should enjoy the
finer things in life like badass women
and great coffee and straight with
America a lot of people have opinions
about what it's like to be a police
officer but they've never walked up into
i-502 Elmo oh my god why do you arrest
you because we didn't break the [ __ ]
law
if you're a guy that leads the female
and lifts weights which in Manly well
[Music]
obviously we've been approached by a lot
of different companies and you know like
advertisers or whatever we never wanted
to sell out because we wanted to do it
for a product that we believe in and
absolutely know that when use yeah we
use believe it big stuff
and there is a black rifle coffee cup is
I I drink air for the ar-15 French Roast
it's called that because that's the you
know we use to shoot French people
that's why it's a roast
they're explosive rounds but um no it's
like the only coffee company like I said
that's tactical it's owned by operators
and strength by operators like if you
see some sort of hipster vag drinking
this coffee I'll pull down his pants and
suck the coffee out of his dick it's not
for him and very little in this world
this you know if you're out there and
maybe you're thinking gee I would love
to drink this coffee but I'm not an
operator I weigh 340 pounds my knees are
shot I sweat getting the mail well don't
worry
drinking this coffee makes you an
operator
it's magical in that way you can buy
this thing and then you can be that
person it's miracle really yeah but like
if you drink this coffee and disrespect
people in law enforcement or in the
uniform like spit it out immediately if
I see you doing it I'm gonna pull down
my pants and show you my area ass
because that's what I think of you you
don't hipsters make me [ __ ] the coffee
out of your day okay don't make me do it
rightful coffee company BRCC lock and
load
Brenden are we recording awesome only
it's the only coffee company that has a
blog on their website as a control and
commenting policy no I started got the
the blog's like the rants from the
owners the company is [ __ ] amazing
like these people like it's like a
little carmine they write like living at
her mind talks like he's like we find
ourselves in a vicarious position
[Music]
all right I'm gonna read now from the
this is from their actual blog on black
rifle coffee company and I just want you
to imagine a Decker reading this Decker
reading this the president Davison
because it's like this is better than
that as god-fearing Americans we have
put ourselves in a vicarious position we
have allowed a precedence to be said one
that suggests laws written by our
forefathers and elected officials are
not worth the paper they are written on
what is next the communist States of
America I know that is far-fetched the
example that has been set from the top
down these past eight years clearly
depicts an image that is nothing short
of scary to elect Hillary Clinton would
be rewarding her efforts to strip
integrity and democracy from the
constitution of the greatest nation on
the planet she will continue the
apologetic demeanor and degradation of
national security that will inevitably
open the doors to the savages that wants
to see the United States fall use code
name bile rat to get 20% off ar-15 we're
with a noah coleman tech editor of vice
news hey if he was tech editor of ice it
would just be like I took mushrooms and
played Final Fantasy for 40 hours did
you did you get to do any cool [ __ ] like
that for uh for your job no comment okay
I don't want to expose agents in the
field we're talking we're here to talk
tech but before we get there I want to
talk our tech because we're now at chapo
mark 2 this is our first episode with
our new professional audio setup so you
may hear in this new quality of audio
that I in fact don't sound anything like
Ben Shapiro I have a full deep manly
voice and that like you know our heavy
breathing will just sound all the more
like we're lying next to you yeah I'm
not because I'm not like leaning into
the mic to be heard I am more relaxed
more racial slurs may just slip out
I'm in my easy chair and I go you know
what I call Turkish people
I call them half Arabs and no matter
what happens I know that you will all
keep telling me that my audio sucks
because you're in a massive program of
gas lighting like I said we I want to
talk about Silicon Valley the culture
and ideology of Silicon Valley with
someone who knows what they're talking
about but first I need to ask you know I
think what I think is the most important
question related to this topic and that
is what is up with Elizabeth Holmes's
voice yeah we thought it's got to be a
put-on
right people don't even know that they
have a basic human right to be able to
get access to information about
themselves and their own bodies that can
change their lives I honestly I have no
idea her whole personality her like
public effect it's like I I don't get it
where did she get the surgery to get the
anime eyes I I I'm not sure I don't I I
think it's I think it's all not ghosts
ghosts in the blood centrifuge she
sounds like Lauren Lavoie no I mean like
we should we should we should we should
get the the audio to edited in but
there's this clip from her going on mad
money but this is like when the scandal
sort of was yeah this is when she first
went on to like defend her honor and I
think she chose mad money because she
was like well Jim Cramer's a friend or
something well I mean Jim because every
everyone looks like a hundred times
saner like next to Jim Cramer okay if
she went on like a book on PBS you know
you would think I'm not so sure what I
got in the same reception but yeah you
know she looked normal
come here yeah Jim Cramer's got his
[ __ ] sleeves like rolled off to half
his shoulders he's got coke drift
[ __ ] violently rubbing his nose no
she's uh she's going on there to like
defend herself and the company but I
swear to God like there is like a couple
seconds about halfway through the
interview where she drops the weird like
dad voice that she does we put on her
website that would be disgusting and it
was published in San Francisco paper and
fortune I talked about it in an
interview I did with Forbes
[Music]
Nick Nick said her voice sounds like
like a kid calling this teacher
pretending to be their dad accurate
she's like she's like well obviously
were a company that has you know more
strict testing than anything but you
know honestly from time is really it's
really odd it's like she drops it for a
second but yeah she sounds like buffalo
jill jim cramer great big fat person
wait what are you about I want I want to
ask you like can you give to our
listeners like a the executive summary
of the amazing Theron o--'s catastrophe
and skin yeah so like the story goes
back like a decade so she's been working
on this for a long most normal people
most normal people boring people when
when you go to college you go to your
freshman classes you go to your math
class your your gender class your second
gender class your third gender class and
then back when Elizabeth Holmes she
realized very quickly that she was meant
for more and so she went and she she she
linked up with a chemical engineering
professor or something like that and
it's all it's Stanford right yeah she's
at Stanford and she comes up with like
this big idea and her big idea is what
if we could do blood testing cheaper and
with no needles and she like I don't
know whether it's true or if it's part
of the mythology but
somehow like she has a fear of needles
gets worked in at some point along the
way but she's 19 years old and in the
classic Silicon Valley fashion she's
like there is this incredibly well
regulated like industry that involves
the health and livelihoods a million
people in this country and I could
totally do it better it's like I may
have like the chemistry expertise of
like what you would expect a 19 year old
to have but by god I'm gonna make this
work and so she she launches their nose
and so she is able to raise money from
and this is kind of interesting she went
around and raised money from a group of
investors none of whom were like
considered like one of which is like a
well-known investor DFJ draper fisher
Garretson and like they're a well-known
investor mainly from like the last comm
bubble but like everyone else it was
like Larry Ellison's personal venture
fund it was like kind of a weird group
but whatever she raises the money and
over a number of years like she raises
progressively larger rounds that set the
company's value ultimately at nine
billion dollars that means that on paper
Elizabeth Holmes was worth like
four-and-a-half billion dollars so the
line that you kept hearing over all
these years was that Elizabeth Holmes as
the world's youngest self-made female
billionaire which like you know like she
leaned the [ __ ] in she's on the
conference circuit everyone loves her
startup except nobody knows what their
noses technology actually does they like
thier nose like she's like very vague
about all of it and they signed a
partnership deal with Walgreens and they
get like blood testing centers in
Walgreens in Arizona like she worked out
some deal with those regulators the
Cleveland Clinic you know a prestigious
medical institution like links up with
them in some capacity and ultimately
like last October a Wall Street Journal
reporter an actual like journalist
Pulitzer Prize winning guy named John
career oh shout out real boss he to God
yeah exactly
he drops this huge story that's like
basically their noses technology has
struggled it's not like really clear if
it works
their chief like researcher scientist
guy committed suicide it's possible that
it was my using scare codes no I'm not
no no no there is no like it's I like
you the reporting that's come out of it
suggests that like a lot of it
to do with like the pressure he was
under at work which was to make this
thing work that couldn't work and so you
get this portrait of Elizabeth Holmes
that comes out and it suggests that
she's just like the master operator it's
fascinating and so over a series of
successive stories from the Wall Street
Journal it just becomes clear that like
their nose is like it's kind of well it
looks like it's technology doesn't work
and that this nine billion dollar thing
was like a total like a portrait that
emerged in the Vanity Fair article that
came out last week which was incredible
was one of the most that it was like
maybe feminist was the most audacious
con in American history well it's it's
wild because now you have and there's an
FBI investigation there's another DOJ
criminal investigation there's an SEC
investigation and it what's interesting
it like the detail is bringing out to me
in that article is when I talked about
how he was getting the Defense
Department involved in all of this and
there was some huge gonna be some huge
contract for the Defense Department and
uh Mad Dog Madison character on Chomp oh
[ __ ] so there's so there's an
interesting tie in here I would like to
name some members of the Thera nose
board right now we have number one alpha
dog Henry Kissinger who former Secretary
of State George P Shultz and lastly
former Republicans Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist who by the way he was
the guy who diagnosed Terry Schiavo on
the video and so bill diagnosed or
dissected cats as a child and by the way
I believe he was the only person with a
medical degree he is a doctor Bill Frist
MD he was actually the only doctor on
their board so she wasn't able to get
like reinhard heydrich
i mean if i recall a curt Schlichter i
mean she picked all these board members
who was cool yeah I mean so she picked
all these like people close to like the
US government and in part likes a lot of
the reporting that's come out suggest
that these kinds of people helped her
avoid the kind of scrutiny that she
otherwise would have gotten like for
example there was she had had some
contact with the military and they
looked at using ther enosis technology
and they were like no and they notified
the FDA or something and like an actual
like Regulatory Authority who then
looked into it and then like Holmes was
able to like contact somebody she knew
either through on her board or somebody
else she knew
- like help make that go away so in a
lot of ways it's it's like having these
people on her on her board enabled her
to get perpetuate this thing for like
almost a decade and and the most one of
the most amazing details in the Vanity
Fair article is when they talk about how
she hooked up with Mad Dog Madison then
like the people in the Army had a chance
to look into the Thera knows technology
right and they discovered very quickly
that not only could it not work because
the technology didn't work or like the
the just it wasn't there it couldn't
work because it violated the laws of
physics like invade like it was like not
just technologically wrong but
conceptually in policy that's always
been the hang-up for a military like
human rights laws are like no problem
but physics it's exactly there are
people in the military at the bottom of
the day who do care about physics okay
well they care about they care about the
law and a lot of physics is to me about
this is because most of the big
financial scams over time are basically
just fine boils down to financial black
boxes you know you say you invest some
money with me you'll get X number and
because they're doing a pyramid scheme
or something it works so people have no
way of knowing so they all they see is
the returns and so what's great about
like a fairness in some ways it's kind
of instructive to your point is how
thoroughness the the excuse that Holmes
and others used in defense of the
company is look like you look at LabCorp
look at quest Diagnostics those places
like they have a huge Lobby they are
like the status quo they like do not
want our code we cannot let our
competitive secrets they're the
establishment exactly they'd it out what
our secrets that have decided that
they've shown how the loss of physics is
no longer apparent to you it's like the
if like their nose hadn't lost all
credibility like further into the 2016
election Holmes would have found a way
to like rhetorically align herself with
Bernie Sanders I'm 100% serious I think
I think like I actually wish I could go
back in time and work for Miss Holmes
because I have the way to do it
[ __ ] this like you know status call blah
blah blah it's The Breakfast Club and
you're like I have you know we came in
here a killer Mad Dog
maddis a jock Bill Frist ah the brain
Henry Kissinger and Princess Elizabeth
home fact that it's impossible never
stopped anyone I mean it's like this is
like Silicon Valley at various times I
mean so I want to like on some level
draw like a slight bit of a distinction
which mean like what thoroughness does
in the rest of the valley like there are
notes in a lot of ways is pursuing
something that like isn't your
conventional Silicon Valley Project like
your average tech company in Silicon
Valley it's like a bunch of people who
stare at computers and like will never
go and hear a piece of hardware will
never go near a piece of medicine it's
like not like what they do ever go near
another human being yeah exactly like
it's hoodies up like locked in like you
got it call the police the moment you
see a homeless person and so we're I
think Elizabeth Holmes like was able to
kind of succeed like like the reason
that nobody just like called [ __ ]
was because they were doing a thing that
a lot of people didn't understand they
were able to find a group of investors
who maybe were not that scrutinizing and
additionally like everyone like like
like the story like it was it's it's
like really when you think about it it's
like an accrediting feed of marketing
like she mapped out exactly she like
made sure she was on every some ager
conference circuit she made sure that
like you know she was like included in
every list of like important young like
women in industry like she totally
especially in recent years as like the I
feel like the the level of discourse
especially in Silicon Valley about like
the under-representation of women and
people of color has like gone as like
it's dramatically increase or it's
become much more hype no I was when when
I read the Vanity Fair piece I went back
and I looked at Elizabeth Holmes Twitter
timeline and I was just scrolling
through it over the past year and she
didn't tweet much but what she did tweet
would be like today's the anniversary of
Rosa Parks like refusing to stand up on
us you know on a bus like and then it
was like you know hashtag women power or
like stuff like that oh she I mean okay
you want to know that like the ultimate
like Elizabeth Holmes hashtag women
Power Move in March of this year or like
I mean I wrote the story but she hosted
razors for Hillary Clinton excellent
what would you say like you know she
appeared with there's a photo of her
with Chelsea but like this is in this
year the journal the first Journal story
happened last October there had been
many reports much more detail but all of
the sketchy stuff going on there in
between then and she was she hosted an
event I remember it was it was I mean I
I wrote the story this past March but
yeah she they kept the thoroughness like
headquarters well you talk about the
triumph of marketing and kind of self
branding and promotion I mean to me my
favorite thing about her is that she
just started dressing like Steve Jobs
and talking about him all the time and
wearing like a black turtleneck and I
think she really managed to convince a
lot of people that she was the next
Steve Jobs I mean it's it's like but
that just shows you how skin deep like
people in Silicon Valley and the Silicon
Valley press like tend to look at these
kinds of people like that they really
like legitimately if somebody gets like
the valuation of their startup high
enough and they begin to wear a black
turtleneck and they go on TV enough and
they replete like the same like like
like meaningless platitudes that like
yeah there's Steve Jobs and that's where
that story that got woven in at some
point about how well she didn't like
needles as a child she wanted to
eliminate meals it's like oh all of our
iPhones don't have buttons on them
because Steve Jobs didn't like buttons
yeah those stories are supposed to
inspire us like this person wanted to
reshape the world in their image but
that to me is kind of terrifying but
like a handful of these [ __ ] in
Silicon Valley could just like you know
what I don't like cabbage I didn't like
Chinese people for that now I I didn't
like broccoli so I just got rid of it I
just invented a predatory seed I mean
like immigrants I didn't like gay people
that was like that's how they could have
resold it was oil they like I don't like
food I mean let's be clear the Adolf
Hitler story is like growing up he's
like looking in Jews and he's like
there's gotta be a better way
like someone has to [ __ ] do something
and it's like Hitler in a black
turtleneck at like the Munich ideas
festival in 1937 up by the Helen of
Cyclone one molecule could change the
world
we've already before well we all out did
20 minutes it's a half an hour to get to
Hitler quick baby
you know pivoting off that like Noah
like Silicon Valley's become such like
like the the name the location it
represents so much it's like become a
metaphor it's become a stand-in for so
much like in American culture and
capitalism so like like what do we mean
when people say like refer to Silicon
Valley well that's a that's a very
question I think I mean to my mind like
the thing that people kind of when they
say and they refer to it is like they're
referring to like this software and
partly hardware industry centered like
that originated in like the South Bay of
like the South San Francisco Bay Area
and then has come to encompass San
Francisco as well but like software in
particular I mean like Facebook Google
like Apple make software to but looking
like the iPhone and like apples
obviously like like if not like a
participant valley the center but like
fundamentally like all of like this
rapid quote unquote disruption and all
that other book and all that other like
kind of claptrap is largely like it's
drawn to like recent advances in the
last 10 years in software and just like
how quickly I mean frankly how much it
can save in labor costs like
fundamentally that's what it is like how
much information and data is now worth
because I also read again in a Vanity
Fair article a statistic that's sort of
blown my mind it said Silicon Valley has
has generated more wealth in the last
like decade or something then and like
than anything else in human history I
mean I would III remember that line
I mean it's Vanity Fair so I guess I got
by a fact-checker so okay I mean like
well crossing fingers there but I mean
what's definitely well I you should
actually be a fact-checker and the Conde
Nast Empire so chances are
it's probably [ __ ] well I will say
like the iPhone is the single biggest
profit engine of like a single product
ever like it's fundamentally like like
Apple it made Apple into the most single
valuable public company in the world
the Saudis by the way are still the most
but Aramco their oil hell yeah [ __ ]
yeah but they got the number one spot
including public and private but like
it's I think with like take Apple and
the iPhone for example like the iPhone
more than anything I mean it's its
Jenner it's created so much wealth and a
lot of which is just cash that's sitting
in Ireland or whatever yeah I mean Apple
Lake isn't spending it like I encourage
anybody listening to this to go to Yahoo
Finance and look at how much cash on
hand Apple has and think about you know
how many people that could feed excuse
me it's it's a disruption fund okay we
need a disruption I mean this is this is
what I we sort of want to say like okay
it's it's a place it refers to what he
said this this model of kind of like
information capitalism but it's also an
ideology that's gotten bigger than the
sort of products or apps or information
itself and like it the ideology of kind
of disruption and newness it's like how
would you describe that I think like so
one dude Afghani war Azov had like kind
of a cute way of describing it which is
like solution ISM which is that Silicon
Valley is constantly fumbling toward
finding solutions for problems that
don't exist which is sort of true but
like I think what's a little bit more
like on the nose is that Silicon Valley
is like rapidly automating and making
more efficient processes like everywhere
in your life like it's all the way from
like you know like a really boring big
data company whose job is to like
process information incredibly quickly
for large kinds of industries like our
for like hospitals or like gorillas in
the Congo or whatever or you have like
like on the other end of it you have
like Soylent which is like literally
making more efficient your day to day
life and making it so you don't have to
eat or really drink even and so that you
can like have like a whole meal because
you just you can't be bothered to like
goat and make yourself food or buy it
Soylent protein to carb ratio is [ __ ]
pathetic though [ __ ] it's abysmal
what's that's what makes it so amazing
to me because I think that one of the
reasons that thier nose did so well for
so long is because even if you would
explain to people you know it's actually
impossible to do that they've been like
yeah okay but I think a lot of them in
their heart of hearts in Silicon Valley
really believe that they are not bound
by laws of physics I mean I think that
if enough brain power is put to these
questions they can transcend what we
think of as like reality Peter Thiel has
called mortality an ideological concept
I mean but I think that like the way to
look at it is that like Silicon Valley
more than anything it's like this
perfect model of capitalism because if
you look at the way that they think
about these problems it's like well what
what how do you measure success it's not
by whether it accomplishes like some
like meaningful goal it's that like is
this wildly profitable and so like take
like or it's like wildly successful I
mean I think like the best example of
like the counter like rejoinder you're
saying is like look at Elon Musk like
this guy like everybody thought like you
want to launch rockets and you want to
like build these electric cars or
whatever like that's that's crazy nobody
can do that
and like every all the short sellers in
Wall Street like bet against him like
eight years ago and somehow he made it
out of that jar like he figured out like
how do you do it didn't his rocket just
blow up though I mean yeah I mean I'm
not coming on chapo traphouse to defend
the sanctity of Elon Musk's name but
what I do want to say is that like there
are specific times when you see
something succeed like that that does
break the rules that it gives
inspiration to all these like code
jockeys or whatever and they're just
like oh like yeah this is exactly like
like of course that makes sense and so
then it gives them like the that's how
like they get into like you get these
really dorm room II conversations that
will lead to startups about like well
what if we could have a Bitcoin powered
self-driving car that you could rent out
to other people which is a real thing I
read about today I'm going to create a
toilet that analyzes your stool and
takes venmo I mean you joke but like
smart pipe yeah
is like a thing well I'm gonna take I'm
gonna take a flashlight that text
through the temperature of your shaft
what kind of mood you're in
[Applause]
it's like bleach
oh [ __ ] if [ __ ] Hamlet's dad it had
some art cop I don't know what has
happened to it but there was a
Kickstarter for that ring that was like
supposed to allow you to like virtually
like sign into your computer and like
stuff like you were supposed to like
just use your hand gestures to like
power all of your devices and it just
never [ __ ] happen but people people
just thousands thousands yeah my one bit
of advice to anybody listening to this
is like generally don't back things on
Kickstarter the patreon patreon give
your money to great wealth no seriously
it's just like one of the things that I
feel like Silicon Valley has done though
is that because it is like one part of
it's probably the only part of our
economy it's the most like like it has
the most like cultural power right now
it's so resonant because it just makes a
lot of money everybody wants to like go
to learn to code and work for Google and
uber and so on that like it there's so
many things that can just like adopt
that gene and like get away with crap
and like Kickstarter is a place in a
land where that kind of snow patreon is
the real deal folks oh yeah they support
creators but no I mean like I were
making fun of it yeah like a man Amanda
Palmer right watch your [ __ ] tail
Amanda you and your [ __ ] husband Neil
gamer I haven't checked it recently I
wonder if we're beating the erotic video
game people I hope we are
like the numbers like the number one
podcast in Canada [ __ ] you get that oil
price back up [ __ ] no but like I said
we're making fun of it but we're
certainly a part of it like yes my life
fertilised it's not like hey you know
it's it's a cup it's a vibrating
conquering that like turns on your
lights you mentioned that it's it it's
doing away with like the the old kind of
like labor of production and and labor
itself and you mentioned that the
self-driving cars now I wanted to ask
you about this I saw you recently took a
spin yeah I was in the driver's seat and
one of the self-driving
[Music]
I'm Johnny cap where can I thank you
tonight drive drive would you please
repeat the destination Oh anywhere just
go
don't please [ __ ] [ __ ] you I'm not
familiar with that address would you
please repeat like you're sitting in the
explains to me you're sitting in the
driver's seat of a car but like you're
not working the pedals your steering
wheel so you have to have your hands oh
so basically the way regulators look at
it is that they're like well this is
just like glorified cruise control so
you have to just have your hands on the
wheels at all times so keep them at
night and through shal yes stuff here so
yeah any self-driving car that you have
to have your hand on the wheel of yeah
well so I mean but this is like the
thing is that like you don't put your
hand on it you like hover over you hover
in oh my god you're handing a car and
you get an accident it's like reverse JG
Ballard whoa literary reference Wow but
out so you you get in the car and like
you start driving and like and then a
light will go on and say like all right
you can activate the self-driving
feature and so there's like a little red
switch if you've ever played a Need for
Speed video game or seen a fast the
Furious movie yes you'll recognize this
as the NAS button but yeah in but an
uber it's like that it activates
autonomous or so they like one name for
it I forgot but you hit that button and
then it's like it turns it on and then
you can put your hands back and you let
it hover but like the thing is is that
like the car is a better driver than I
mean it's probably not better than Dale
Earnhardt jr. I don't know about the
quality of NASCAR [ __ ] better be a
better driver than Dale
[Laughter]
yeah yeah better than Tony Stewart who
is gonna be revolutionising the way that
we make pancakes
when you turn on the self-driving
feature it's like it's a really good
driver yeah I mean this is this is the
thing about it like I like like don't I
would have been conscience thing I would
caution against thinking that like this
is like fluffy [ __ ] like it's not at
some point you're gonna be able to not
have your [ __ ] hand
yeah absolutely the goal is over does
not want any but like think about it
this way when I ride in that car or like
when those rides because so Ober has
just launched its pilot program and so
they're picking up people within certain
spots in Pittsburgh and so they have
where all the technology comes from yeah
Pittsburgh baby I was just in Pittsburgh
I gotta say highly underrated City City
shout-out to Johnny is good shout-out
you rock Pittsburgh represent so like
you you Hoover does not like ultimately
Travis kalanick he tweeted once that
like he wants burrs whole fleet to be
self-driving by 2030 and so the idea is
that like and anyone muscat Tesla's
talked about this like the sort of
long-term vision that all these car guys
have and car and tech cart car tech
companies is that you in the future are
just like you own a car and that car
makes money for you when you're not
using it because this other serve it
will be like giving other people rides
who need to access it I have a question
wait okay wait what okay so I'm always
like looking at the legal framework of
things I love legal frameworks but work
hours real framework hours smash that
[ __ ] amicus brief button
alright so we watched we talked about a
movie last episode and a crucial scene
in the movie Terrence Howard was getting
some [ __ ] top while driving his
car and it enabled the cops to pull him
over and be racist to him and his wife
in the future self-driving cars would it
be a crime if your wife gives you top
while you're like hover hand and you're
stealing
it's a very important question is really
important I would probably I mean like I
I hate to be a player-hater
I hate to like you know find cracks and
racial science but I gotta say it
probably would be a crime okay so why
this bull [ __ ] what's even the [ __ ]
point Havanese yeah destroy this thing
so I'm kind of confused about this so
you're saying that because one thing
that it kind of puzzled me about uber
wanting to do self-driving cars is
because I was like well their whole
profit you know structure is involved
around the fact they don't own any cars
so this is a full on the car so but the
thing is is that like owning a car and
having people constantly go through it
like kalanick has kind of said this
before he said like the perfect uber
like situation is like an endless ride
so imagine like a self-driving goober
picks you up drops you off and
immediately goes to another ride and it
never has to stop and it came drive for
like 20 20 hours a day and then for
those final four hours what does it do
it goes back to the uber garage and it
charges because it's an all-electric
vehicle because all the car companies
kind of accept that like the arc of
history is long and it bends toward you
know the electric car and so fiery death
and destruction actually whatever yeah
so the like like in this case like that
like Tesla's vision is that you owns has
and other people like pay for it which
is like a weirdly have and have-not kind
of vision but whatever it's like and
then like uber though think about it
this way like like we went from in music
for example like we used to download
mp3s and [ __ ] and so you set like you
whether you like torrent to them or you
bought them on iTunes like you owned a
file independent of whether or not
there's like DRM or other software on
there you own the thing but now like the
fastest growing way that people listen
to music is they pay 10 bucks a month to
like have access to a library so with
uber the idea is that you would pay to
have access but who knew but who
actually buys the car
uber would ultimately in this case but
but like I make what is what is more
expensive seriously what is more
expensive having a car that you own and
that if it's electric won't have crazy
high maintenance costs like internal
combustion engines and will just like go
around constantly picking up people with
rides and you can use a smaller number
of them
because they're much more efficient or
like splitting the fair with tons of
drivers who are like a pain in the ass
to deal with because their labor they're
humans flesh and blood and why would you
ever want to actually you know employ
that does make all of their [ __ ]
whenever they're wedging themselves
Remora like into a new new market
talking about how sin sanctimonious
tones about how concerned they are for
people to be able to make a living and
how they're making it possible for
people to make ends meet by being who
bur drivers when secretly their entire
[ __ ] profile is to eventually fire
them all well this is so this is what's
so crazy because if you think about like
a lot of these companies like and this
isn't just uber like this is this is
like what Silicon Valley like I I feel a
little bit like like I'm like I'm being
very dark about this but if you look at
cities across like the u.s. like whether
you're in Tucson Arizona or Cleveland or
New York like increasingly like the
software industry will come to your town
more and more people are gonna work in
it and it's going to automate
progressively more jobs it's not just
gonna be like manufacturing kind of jobs
it's going to dramatically change like
the way why call their industries work
as well and like we were totally
unprepared for that reality just for
like mass labor displacement I mean that
is like that is the Marxists a dream
that's what's supposed to happen in
Marxist to teleology is we get to a
level of technological advancement that
makes work basically unnecessary and
then we socialize the production of all
of these machines but we have private
ownership of all these machines
technology is it really kind of
compelling argument about how like uber
and a lot of the competing right hailing
companies are kind of like the early sub
private subway companies in New York and
what ended up happening to the subways
is like they they they got like they
became public so I think like it's it's
there's like a really interesting
argument about how like what Uber's
ultimate goal is their end game like a
lot of these other kinds of companies
like globally is that they want to
privatize mass transit there's a really
good Travis kalanick op-ed from earlier
this summer in which he talks about like
the limits of mass transit and I say
good only because it's instructive to
like what the company wants to do it's
like worth reading and he makes this
argument about how like yeah mass
transits inefficient but like here is
like what we're gonna do and he lays out
this vision of like imagine like a ride
that never stops going and that you can
like pick out get an A
with other people you pay a flat fee and
it'll take you these like these little
it'll take you much more quickly it's
kind of on demand and it's like it's
like a pretty like it's kind of jarring
to read it but what weird way yes where
did you get the money to pay to take the
ride though like how did you get the
money to pay to write around in the
magic robot car me no I mean the person
in this field yeah no I mean that's
that's but this is like does the
companies don't answer like this is the
thing is like no tech company is gonna
answer that question and you in like I
mean really kind of like obvious reasons
like like just like uber wants to I mean
this is by the way like there's some
interesting like on like not like on the
flip side but like there's some
recognition of this reality it's like
why Travis kalanick like goes to bat for
Obamacare because he recognizes that
like if we're creating like a perma
class of people who do not have like an
employer provided insurance than like
where's that going to come from and how
are they eating in a [ __ ] pay for
that I mean this is again mama cares
yeah it's [ __ ] awful it's [ __ ] so but
like again this is like why we come to
this place where this really kind of
weird dystopian future
we're like more and more wealth than
ever before is being generated and the
fruits of it are gonna go to like an
increasingly narrow slice my people who
give it to Elizabeth home it's like
gabbo but with blood Jesus here's my
here's my vision of a dystopian future
based on what Noah was just telling me
okay I have my electric car it's my
electric car I've paid for it but I pay
for graduation I'm paying it off by the
fact that when I like I get in the
electric car I get I go to work I get
out of the car the car just keeps going
and picking up other people like you
said the ride never stops but it's my
car and like they're just in there
pissing and coming and just speeding
food and here's that here's the backing
up all my [ __ ] here's the smoking
cigarettes it's like taxi driver he's
like the day with my electric car came
back to its pod I had some nights I had
to wipe the blood and go off to seats so
here's the best part about the uber I
took a ride in it was just like my
record it's clean
I I went in when I got in the
self-driving Guber there was like a
little camera on the sunroof and I
looked at that I looked at the camera
and I and then I asked the engineer and
opera vehicle like operator I was in the
car with and I was like what's that for
in his like oh it's just like so we can
observe people who like get in the car
check out their behavior and I was like
you see notify people about this right
and they couldn't tell me at the time
but then I talked with like like a
spokesperson later and they're like yes
we like tell people in the email that
like they get recorded but it made me
think that like oh because like in this
future where everyone's just like in
this endless ride or whatever like like
what if someone just like like just like
pukes cuz like you know like there's no
self-cleaning car yet so what happens
and I realized oh they're just gonna
film it and then they're gonna build a
person over to arrive and you're still
gonna have to clean up and they're like
vomit and if you had sex in the car they
put it on there streaming porn site and
charge people to watch that yeah I want
to I want to just be like always working
I'm in the car I'm caning I'm at home I
just never want to stop camping this is
cam boys boys I'm cabin man the future
is so bright
we gotta wear shades oh yeah what do you
say cap it off there yeah before we go
hold on I have to go in another room to
be racist but someone is calling oh we
got we got a call it's Elizabeth home
yeah wait a sec we've been slandering or
this entire episode but maybe we should
Elizabeth thanks thanks for calling in
you're welcome Elizabeth Elizabeth I
have the next best thing for you and I'm
wondering if maybe you would consider
investing it let me ask you are you
familiar with stevia
Wow yeah are you from what are you do
you know that stevia is gonna
revolutionize health care I'm doing all
about Maitreya do you also know about
the fountain Elizabeth all right
on me several times bogging out dogma
that explains that violet like a champ
Elizabeth I actually Elizabeth now
you're in the room with us do you mind
if I perform the violin that was great
Elizabeth thank you for coming here and
letting me perform the violin on you I
POS coming up
it was supposed to make the world safer
with self piloting Airlines who will
eliminate all risk of terrorist
hijackers it's sometimes people have
other plans
[Music]
yes the chief throw camera the safe
piloting airplane program I can do
anything
[Music]
only one man reload it he put his
personality on the thumb drive before he
died it's on the plane can figure out
how to stop it
you're saying the programmer isn't
al-qaeda and use bin Laden's personality
for the plane program I'm afraid so sir
this fool we have to get you on that
plane caliber
you treat table in the upright position
around 511 you point all
killer and
if there are any listeners who are
Hollywood producers hit us up in the DMS
yes let's get this made and now we're
now joined by our second guest Edie
citron Edie what's going on oh nothing
much you know just just sitting here
imagining planes from tropa USB drives
which Osama bin Laden honor the usual
it's usually what I get up to on my free
time it's wonderful to be here I love
Chapo traphouse the last thing I had
before being violently slammed with
another car yeah you got into an
accident on the Bay Bridge listening to
us right yeah during the shortly after
the discussion of the employment
benefits plan for the jokerz employees
well yeah you're on the Bay Bridge but
you're also you know a Silicon Valley
guy that's why we're having you in the
show yes so I gotta say you're also
you're also the co-host of Felix's other
podcast the scumbag podcast yes I gotta
say I wish you would stop doing I'm
worried about our beautiful boy Felix
I think he's overextended himself and
needs to cut down on the number of
podcasts he hosting well he does around
417 a week I don't know if I disagree
but the scumbag is a good therapeutic
exercise for him I'll tell you when I've
had enough I can quit whenever I want
yeah the topic we were discussing on
this week's show is tech and Silicon
Valley and what I want to do with you is
I want to we want to have you on I want
to do a reading series with you yeah we
need your input on this this piece that
was on The Daily Beast this week under
the under the vertical of politics 2.0
and this is sort of like a tech guy
manifesto about how to quote disrupt the
Democratic and Republican parties the
way
uber has eviscerated the taxi business
oh god they have time it's it's one of
the most malformed pieces I've ever read
I was hoping
you could help us sort of translate into
human um a lot of what this guy's saying
but maybe a lot for our listeners could
you give us an idea of what you do and
your connection to the the tech world so
for about eight years
I made yet another mistake in my life
and I became a technology publicist and
somehow along the way my broken brain
did not quite stay broken so I stayed as
a [ __ ] on Twitter
anyway I help people get in and out
whatever for money it's good business
allows me to hide from the world and I
do but more importantly to the
conversation I do live in Oakland I work
in San Francisco I've been around the
valley for a while now both living here
and not living here and I actually have
to say this piece is amazing on so many
levels in its myopia but also its self
confusion this is a guy having an
identity crisis as you read it and it's
just amazing it really is it's it's one
of the maddest things I think I've ever
read and I think we just need did you
adjust this by just diving in the title
of the piece tis like I said it says the
title is time to take a Silicon Valley
hammer to the two-party duopoly by a guy
named Dave mani are you familiar with
Dave manis work before this I remember
reading one of his other [ __ ] pieces and
I loved as well that he's not actually
in he's like the worst kind of Silicon
Valley person in that he doesn't [ __ ]
live there he was like Denver and yeah
I'm looking at his bio now and it says
anyone Manny writes about the
information driven economic revolution
we're all living through and his founder
and CEO of Colorado based
Deek digital I am so [ __ ] hard right
now have you done any PR work on behalf
of Deek digital I'd world era marketing
firm and if they called me I definitely
take the call but I'd invite possibly
everyone on this podcast onto it and
claim
you like my advices no I actually looked
into a deep digital on their website
right now and it says we help clients
create and distribute expert commentary
for major media outlets and now the
other thing I notice immediately about
deke digital is they have one of the
worst logos I've ever seen for any what
is sensibly a tech or tech related
company it's just sort of like these
like plain blue letters that are dotted
with red dots and it just makes me think
of like a tampon company or something
like that well I'm a [ __ ] idiot so I
sat down and I went right I'm gonna find
out why it's called a digital and it's
something to do with hockey it's a
sports term yeah sports and like every
[ __ ] marketing person does sports
analogies is like a full-court press
good light like Cecil green man like TIG
like definitely full-court press that my
god
touchdown Hail Mary his logo I think is
trying to be like a hockey puck going
around an X but he's like things like
like when the TV commentators they draw
on the screen to like break down a
football play that's kind of what it
looks like but I guess it's a hockey
term that he's going or I was more
thinking it looks like one of those
pharmaceutical commercials so it's like
like let the X is like when you take
these three pills the your cholesterol
goes down the cholesterol is the X the X
is the depression that follows you the X
is your morals this job is to promote
writing marketing basically like like
get yeah but his way of marketing this
article I remember seeing this after it
was put out people went to his Twitter
feed is he literally just tweeted it a
link to it to everyone on earth saying
if you've got a moment check this out if
you've got some time just check this out
individually to like 50 different
accounts is if he if people are paying
him to do that on some grand scale I
think they're getting ripped off it's
not paying a process server
I will go door to door and beg people to
read your marketing material well met
okay he's I click the what we do on deep
digital and it says we follow a
three-step formula to drive new client
development and revenue growth for our
clients and it also says their clients
this is under the banner who we serve
which I love it it's like a Twilight
Zone - sir that man except instead of to
serve men it's to serve the financial
services and healthcare industries yeah
but they're there there are three rack
there what is it they're three step
formula is step one content strategy and
facilitated content creation step two
content distribute content distribution
and media placement step three
targeting and lead generation bog Edie
could you help translate this into human
being for me yeah sure
all right content strategy what the [ __ ]
you gonna write facilitate content
creation someone's gotta [ __ ] write
at content distribution put it somewhere
media placement place it in the media
targeting and lead generation
unintelligible he's connecting thought
leaders any things he is emailing
someone saying what the words you want
soaked about what you do and then
writing some [ __ ] blog and then he is
emailing a contributing editor which
does exist they exist all over the place
clearly a [ __ ] daily beast and yeast
is more like it Wow
and he's then I don't know targeting and
lead generation Wow
like I'm reading this page and all it
says is just it takes significant effort
and expertise to get the most out of
great content our clients create and
it's one of the things to bring to the
table we're good at helping our clients
activate their content and that's in
quotation
I gotta get my content activated at
least twice a week or I can't sleep yeah
yeah I mean I don't really know like a
way sir those bullet points generate
leads okay what it's just just get leads
just what leads I don't know no needs to
be specific these are the leads these
are the deep digital leads you're not
disrupting enough can slow it down this
proposers a you always be disrupting I
reinvigorate they're not to get referral
networks so cool your ex is they don't
have any [ __ ] money they just like
talking to angels investors but wait
it's just there's like five more bullet
points that if I try and read my Jesus
Christ but this this is a great one that
makes literally no no sense though
increase website SEO performance like
that has nothing to [ __ ] do with any
no no you add like Jessica Biel topless
to all of the content gallery is every
third word in the article I'm about to
say that I'm gonna get technical but any
normal [ __ ] person can understand
this you're agreeing your websites SEO
performance by putting your content on
someone else's website that's not how it
[ __ ] works that's like having someone
else [ __ ] your wife and say me
judgmental mocking it
it's called polyamory okay it's a valid
lifestyle choice they are pro pro [ __ ]
on chapo Travis no but that's it content
marketing is actually just poly it all
comes back aids full circle it's like a
nest answer it rhymes I like where this
guys coming from now I'm reading it well
I don't know digital
it's a it's it's an X in the center and
then two arrows pointing at it from
opposite direction it's just a logo for
that yet actually the red dots three
separate dudes and the X is your wife
let's get into it this is yeah this is
Dave Manny on how Silicon Valley is
gonna disrupt democracy yeah he begins
this year settles it the two-party
system in American politics is ripe for
radical burn it down internet fueled
disruption but goddamn Joker the two
parties might have been towering
sequoias of the US political system but
now as they stand dead and hollow yeah
no this is a northern California
reference right no no it's definitely a
reference to it's like Sequoia Capital
is a VC that's definitely what he was
thinking because Sequoia tree is he does
look III know what they are but he
definitely doesn't I was thinking of a
tree yeah oh yeah he probably like
googled what the Sequoia mean oh it's a
tree it's a towering tree that stands
dead in Hollow and ready to have one of
our self piloted airplanes who's not
flying into it which again is a
misunderstanding of a [ __ ] Sequoia
tree when they stand dead and Hollow
they still can grow back based on the
bus yeah a Sequoia can not be Hollow it
wouldn't be a towering if it was hollow
on the inside as a matter of metaphor is
[ __ ] stupid he continues the 2016
presidential nominating process has been
like one of those disastrous Alpine
blowdowns a freak storm that leaves
millions of trees worth of tinder dry
kindling wood on the forest floor just
waiting for a hot dry wind and spark
again I don't know what he said like
what it I can't wait Korea is it's not a
place that snows yeah no snow capped
mountains next to sequoia trees this is
like when Karl Diggler is like the
candidates need to get on tinder
I goes as we watch these two horribly
flawed and widely reviled candidates
bumble down the fine till ninety days of
their scandal and ghasts Thrun runways
millions of us are asking each other two
questions is this the best American can
do and who's got a match again like the
mixed metaphor is going on here rivals
Thomas Friedman and he's he's saying
Gavin we want to play west of the runway
die hard too but ed runways that's like
a VC term right yeah like it's just by I
guess I don't really like that specific
paragraph of like with tins dry kindling
wood and all that [ __ ] this is just this
it's a 13 year old style fried egg thing
it's just [ __ ] I need to like some
[ __ ] metaphors I wait so simile he
said like [ __ ] alright and and it's like
sitting there just throw him he's like I
said Sukhoi I need to put some wood in
forest [ __ ]
he's like before interest fire it's it's
great though because it is exactly light
because on a wider level Silicon Valley
having content and this need to great
content for no goddamn reason they think
they have to so they do it they do this
and a lot of them have had to learn to
write now I'm not saying they succeeded
but they've had delay they be like I
better write something how do people
write [ __ ] similarly okay what's tall
trees and you can you can you can hear
and almost feel the gears turning in
this guy's head I can't really do this
well the subhead of the next section is
called fuel the burn is a well-known
phrase that we all are familiar with but
he goes bond and put it on a Roman
political counter that he does not
mention in the pace he says but how how
do you burn down a system with a hundred
and sixty years stranglehold on our body
politic I believe it's time to adopt the
approach of America's favorite societal
pyromaniacs the technologists and
venture investors of Silicon Valley okay
he says America's favorite pyromaniacs
I like that he's just assuming that
everyone loves these people and like
there is such a thing as your favorite
pyromaniac Oh Steve he burns down vacant
buildings in the neighborhood we all
love him pyromania generally considered
a negative trait in the person it's part
of the dark triad America's favorite cat
torturers many continues he says we need
to take their strategies and tactics for
disrupting and dismantling ossified
industries and put them to work to
eviscerate the two-party system in
deadness Reiter in this political system
thank you very much let me just finish
this paragraph he says in dead
earnestness it's time for a party in the
clouds open song for the 1980 a party in
the cloud a citizens political party as
a service a 21st century fast agile
digital movement built on the foundation
of a powerful social web organization
and communication platform not a party
of insiders or elites a party that lets
the idiot fringe be the idiot fringe
from both left and right and instead
seeks to serve the citizens in the
middle in fact let's just call it the
citizens party citizens united I would
call it well I think there's a number of
things to say about this such as that he
says not a party of insiders or elites
and we'll get to how shitty that is as a
statement within this piece anyway and
then immediately goes on to make one of
the most [ __ ] elitist statements
possible yeah yes idiot fringes anyone
who are not dead set [ __ ] in the
middle he's not a party of elites or
insiders but
this is the next paragraph as venture
capitalist Hank vigil of seattle-based
Acquia ventures do you know that is
actually Acquia ventures five Isis
ventures I'm not familiar okay yeah
fiveaces a squee a-- okay I got it
Hank vigil not an insider he said after
all it's not like a pornstar
vigil pink vigil it's what he said to me
after a long discussion where I first
broached the subject to him please then
I call me again I think what you're
talking about is creating some kind of
technological infrastructure that forms
a kernel capable of attracting talent to
create the swarm dynamics that overwhelm
the traditional model yes Hank yes that
is exactly what I'm talking about
swamp dynamics what the [ __ ] is our
sworn swarm dynamics next phrase nobody
in politics has ever seen yeah no yeah
it's also like they've also never said
spoon Monday moondoor House hat like
other terms that you would say if you
had a stroke I tasted smell burning hair
is that my daughter my grandmother a
little boy again you know just like
normal things you say when you have LSD
poisoning swarm dynamics swarm dynamics
is what allows drones to gather together
to batter down state and federal
election law barriers to entry and bring
candidates and policies to the fore that
actually represent mainstream American
thinking and burn those two big old dead
trees right down to their jet-black
stumps and plenty of time for November
2020
expect to the the forest fire thing he's
gonna use drone swarms to cause a
massive flash gathers sequoias have fire
resistant Bock
let's burn down a tree that's been
around since the Parthenon was created
in the name what that tree also the idea
that they will be replaced by a single
party which that's the hallmark of
democracy that we all know and love the
what is he say a single a run and
created by a guy who lives in Denver who
went to Stanford Business School yep all
of us coverage I can't wait until all
the federal budget goes into the next
fairness like that this is like the next
one-party system like every level be
like alright we're investing three
trillion dollars in this thing that
takes a picture of your [ __ ] and
tells you if you have cancer okay I'm
skipping a little bit because this is a
long piece it's insanely long but I like
this line he says I want those of us who
find the Byzantine arcane presidential
caucus primary delegate nomination
system to be mindlessly archaic and
broken to go out and do something about
it something big and muscular and
bristling that he'll add girth be
something that we're robbing something
that reminds me of my wives chiropractor
something big and muscular with a
healthy preference base and preference
for economic prosperity innovation and a
tolerance for a sense of shared purpose
and destiny a single party dedicated to
shared purpose and democratic archaic
you know I hate like lining up and just
like you know expressing my preference
for like one of a variety of candidates
and I have to choose one that's best for
me my god
and like the parties nominate like these
candidates and it's just like oh it's so
archaic I know why can't simply do
someone something better why can't I
just turn my TV on and there's an
[ __ ] and a turtleneck saying I'm your
new god I want that's incredibly
streamlined I want to go back to when
this guy says you know the Democratic
and Republican Party don't represent the
mainstream you know
it does yeah uh like Benedict Evans then
everyone's like Benedict Evans they're
always complaining about seeing homeless
people in the carpet store they're
inside for a hundred hours a week that's
the normal person is like it's actually
repressed psycho who shits his pants
when he sees homeless people well we
we've seen I mean in the other parts the
article that were probably not gonna get
into he makes very clear that his
conception of what that 60% majority
opinion is is good old-fashioned
fiscally conservative socially liberal
like that's what most parties absolutely
represent well beyond that it's that
that is actually incredibly unpopular
nobody that's basically libertarianism
and libertarianism is intensely
unpopular in the United States yet we we
don't want people don't want to give up
either their racism on one side and like
their obsession with race and class and
especially gender hierarchies and other
people do not want to you know give
control the economy over to billionaires
and plutocrats and that's just and
people have combinations of those
beliefs but like the one where you
strain out all the racism and sexism and
homophobia and you strain out any kind
of populism that's sixteen [ __ ]
living in Silicon Valley and working at
the Cato Institute that it's not sixty
percent of the United States population
we have this - most we have the two most
unpopular presidential candidates in
modern history just the two shittiest
candidates that if like both of them got
lost at sea tomorrow like people would
be ecstatic and Gary Johnson cannot even
sniff like twelve percent and he's not
even if like six percent come election
day cuz no one believes in this this
ideology there's billions of dollars
dedicated to just promoting it and no
one no one even likes this guy enough to
get hit this [ __ ] [ __ ] on TV in a
debate for Hillary - koffe and Donald
Trump to call her some type of racial
slur and if you do want a softer version
of what he's describing where you're in
favor of business
and you want few regulations and you
want growth and you focus on growth but
you don't like racism and you don't like
cess ISM guess what that's the
Democratic Party here's another really
good line that I liked he says
21st century America is a place where
consumer things increasingly just work
oh yes oh I really wanted to talk about
this like the galaxy note 7 explodes I
mean he says and any physical good that
exists can be on our front porches 48
hours from now imaginable and
unimaginable entertainment and social
options are available to us anywhere
anytime with a few taps of the magic
screens in our pockets now this is
similar to what Noah said to us an hour
in our first interview about how Silicon
Valley is about sort of creating
solutions to problems nobody knew they
they thought they like nobody knew that
they had and to a certain degree that's
true it's made everything kind of
convenient and entertainment energy to
an extent and consumer things I suppose
it's easier the problem with America and
policy is that everything outside of it
doesn't like outside the consumers fear
of like getting [ __ ] delivered to you or
watching things on TV doesn't work like
health care or app what's great though
is the fact they focused on education in
health care and Silicon Valley is
actually the funniest [ __ ] partners
article because of the two industries
that tech has failed the most they are
the ones there is one yeah disruptive
quote unquote which just means [ __ ]
stark health insurance company it's
called Oscar health and they're
struggling to stay alive they don't see
their hold on Oscar I applied to work
part time and Oscar Health last summer
when I had no money and I lived on a
racist woman's caught they made me do a
three-hour interview for a part-time
position and they never [ __ ] call me
back
[ __ ] them I hope they suffer but they
dying because surprisingly good you
can't just get a bunch of well-meaning
22 year olds
two tried their [ __ ] health insurance
company and then education every single
initiative involving digital education
has been well okay every single I'm sure
this one succeeded somewhere
Udacity [ __ ] failure I think it was
other Udacity or you Debbie now had a
massive failure with the San Jose
algebra course just complete failure
across the board digital education
within classrooms is a complete [ __ ]
mess there's no like if there's an
increasing there's an increasing amount
of actual research showing that giving
kids like tablets and screens to learn
on is actually extremely detrimental to
education and and learning and in the
traditional sense and let's not forget
the a hundred million dollars the Mark
Zuckerberg gave to I believe the new
Oakes School District yeah yeah that
completely went [ __ ] nowhere solved
now what are you problem yeah Newark
Newark 100 percent across-the-board ray
it
yeah all those kids are and there's like
second series of funding for their app
they're doing great yeah but the thing
is like he wants to well we need to
apply the the disruptive power of
Silicon Valley to politics but the thing
that and he by the way he calls politics
at consumer markets not to my health
care is it there are things that are not
consumer markets and that's what they
can't get their minds around but even in
areas where they are consumer markets
and he keeps going back to Airbnb and
uber and comparing their fight to like
the Citizens parties fight against
archaic party nominations and and ballot
access they're [ __ ] parasites they
launch themselves Remora like onto
existing structures and suck the [ __ ]
money out of them that they cannot
replace the structures they can only
exist by buy-in interposing themselves
within a given system the idea that they
could replace the system is absurd they
there's nothing there there's no sanae's
there's nothing in within them that can
allow them to actually replace these
things when all they do is just
parasitically suck off of them and
what's amazing as well as the both of
those companies you've named uber
especially have done everything
can too and by the way he's criticizing
the political system that uses a great
deal of money to influence people right
just so we're clear to change things for
that benefit that's exactly what Oprah
has done
uber literally brought in one guy to
just just shove around the insurance
industry so it was more convenient for
them to [ __ ] over their drivers they
have you [ __ ] tons of money to stop
categorizing their drivers as employees
so they don't have to pay like they are
just as bad as the system he claims that
they should be replacing what's the
citizens party's answer to say a bunch
of out-of-work taxi drivers you know
doing a demonstration the only is it you
know drone operated pacification units I
mean it sure as hell isn't anything
that's going to respond to their issues
because what would that require it would
require the kind of things that aren't
nimble and supple like say you know
government sponsored employment or
things like that like that supple that's
not agile [ __ ] that [ __ ] I think as you
get into his solutions he there's a some
head that says but how and I like it
because he says I'm not suggesting
somehow that Silicon Valley can save our
political system I've just three
thousand words saying well let's get
into his like he has a numbered list of
like how it would work he said he says
ok if I were to give you my outside
observers take on the algorithm for
building a revolutionary and disruptive
organizations from scratch that's not an
algorithm is an automated these are his
ten core elements to creating a
revolutionary movement this is like the
right here this is like the ten crack
commandments made by a guy who calls the
police and his mom every time that he
sees a homeless person yeah Brett
Brendan can we get a little just like
drop that pretty low beat on the ten
crack commandments and let's go into it
now number one
start with knowledge of the full
technological stack the available tool
kit and what existing participants in
the marketplace are doing with it
already he says come to that you come to
the fight armed and aware and the
political market hasn't yet been
disrupted not in the valley sense it's
been co-opted by some ill-intentioned
mount of acts but it hasn't been
directed ok crack team in the crack
commandment number two identify high
energy high achieving highly intelligent
aggressive inquisitive and hardworking
individuals and organize them into two
or three a person insurgent teams these
are your like revolutionary Vanguard
yeah this is like from my little red
book right wait a second not not to poke
holes in this argument but isn't that
describing like the street teams of
people that go around political
candidates talking to people and saying
well they should vote for them which
have existed for many years no he's
talking about the founding team oh cool
so how many of these [ __ ] - two
three-person insurgent cells so
terrorists I guess they're disrupting
democracy they're insurgency terrorists
no big deal yeah they're terrorizing our
corrupt ossified democratic system okay
yeah crack commandment number three
encourage these teams to identify huge
commercial and social centers and target
them for disrupt no I'm actually I'm
changing that but he says identify huge
commercial and societal problems and
dysfunctions and seek out and break down
the root causes have said dysfunctions
this is where it gets really weird
because he's like saying get your two or
three man insurgent teams and send them
to major population centers and identify
choke points that can be disrupted
number four
pool capital to back the teams to
identify and create small
technologically-driven demonstration
footholds while identifying plausible
products and service roadmaps for the
climb ahead
but I'm just gonna keep going I'm just
gonna keep going number five attack the
climb test the footholds and either keep
climbing or pivot insert your better
footholds is he back to a tree again I
don't know the thing that stuck out to
me and that whole [ __ ] [ __ ] slurry
was acquire the capital
oh it seems like that's that you're like
a soupy where's the who's paying for
this and why would they want to do it
like the idea that this whole thing is
gonna be powered by people who are
purely altruistic who just really want
to see an air B&B in the Senate I mean
yeah that's not how this works
people know politics because they have a
vested interest no man you identify the
most aggressive and altruistic people
you can find and said number six warrior
monks when successful approaches become
apparent slam the accelerator to the
floor and aggressively poor human
financial and technological resources at
the opening for you LEM you HIPAA casts
on the pouring machine number seven yeah
reach for reach for alliances
partnerships expertise and more capital
to build scale or quickly there's thanks
capital Wow it's not like you were
accumulated using you know exploitation
and bye-bye capitalists with vested
interests in maintaining the ability to
continuously number-8 provide real value
to build a community of fervent
followers and foster the virality of
your offerings agree gibberish just pure
I think it's good that they let somebody
recovering from a concussive injury
write a column like I think this is a
good are we pretty sure there's not like
the dying words of Dutch Schultz
number nine use scale momentum and
community to batter down barriers to
entry and regulatory doors what doors
are usually made out of wood that comes
from sequoias that are dead in hollow
set them on fire let out the doors light
the forest on fire
give your chocolates to your children
lock the doors pull up the zippers wipe
around the windows paint the paint the
for disruption on your door everything's
fine I smell burning hair this last one
number ten number ten oh I like this one
number ten fail-fast
intensively collected Delia and what
works and doesn't and iterate iterate
iterate to magnify six hopeless martin
o'malley iterate iterate iterate okay
everyone enjoyed that reading from mine
come find a community isolate the
community and then export export export
put the community and a chem analyzed
the community for the best people let
them live the eternity eternal the
eternal wandering regulator puts his
tentacles all over the world he is
responsible for all the troubles in my
life and his his paganistic rituals
where he takes blood from innovator
children and stabbed us in the back
before our world historical victory
against the forces of western europe he
will be burned down like the door that
he presents there's just one more clip
from that and believe it or not this
goes on forever after he identifies all
this [ __ ] he there's two things i want
to talk about he talks about what are
some potential problems to this vision i
was gonna get in the way and one of the
things he says is [ __ ] where is it
fundraising and he says no illusions
money makes the political goal won't go
round
the same way it does the business world
Waveland are five-star fundraisers in a
new technological centered party
architecture might look exactly like
they do in the duopoly huh or or they
might look more like YouTube or Twitter
stars individuals whose content or
analysis or informed commentary make
them emerging authorities on emerging
candidate like that match Greer is gonna
back this arias you know like he's gonna
get done setting his pubes on fire for a
vine and then he's gonna cut a check to
these guys guys hey youtubers I just
want to say I love all you but what I
really hate is our corrupt ossified
political system let's get out there and
you have to keep doing right now is like
doing a set with improper or you are
just wasting energy you're not getting
any [ __ ] bigger and you are not
confusing the [ __ ] body all right
all right here's the White House's
fridge I never [ __ ] use it the new
White House one carpeting everywhere
carpeting everywhere yeah our national
motto will become life must goon this is
the last thing I want to read from like
I said mine come 2.0 but he said this is
in the the possible problems that this
could this new vision will encounter and
it just says legal and he says no
illusions here either if you think you
burr or Napster or 23andme
have faced huge legal and regulatory
obstacles you ain't seen nothing yet
and that's thought of it too I will shut
the [ __ ] down
okay he says the citizens party will
need the same hardball mobilization and
legal skills demonstrated by the likes
of uber to get its users to help
overturn the do aa police barricades so
a sort of a pushed if you will yeah yeah
group of motivated people who are
willing to stand in front of the organs
of state that overthrow them imagine
that imagine Saddam Hussein at the bath
party meeting and he's like he takes all
the people out of the audience and he
goes you are all getting enact
regulations that prevent disruption to
prove that you're loyal to the
disruption agenda I want you to get in
the self-driving uper and collided in to
the traitor I've identified a place for
the citizens but it really seems to be
just a updated high-tech version of like
the plebiscite that ratified the seizure
of power of Louie Napoleon or something
it's like you know every couple of
months a blinking light will come on
your Apple TV and it'll be like the
government has proposed allowing you
know of free market at human organs
click yes or no and then that's your
input it's just a mess and he describes
the technology in it and it doesn't even
this man's office the SS cloud computing
and software as a service references are
just technology models starting points
there's no illusion that a group of code
is going to stand up as a political pie
but if we're designing a 21st century
political organization around 21st
century technologies in order to
dominate a 21st century landscape Jesus
Christ it's quite likely that we we
create what we create will have its
foundation and sophistic digital
platform in a sophisticate so what he's
saying is a website we need a website oh
man i mean you know i think it is right
it's it's just another way of making
money
it's just capitalism and you should
always be worse off when capitalists
begin to believe that they are you know
artists or visionaries in any way
writing for it if they just
did coke and went to strip clubs like
the [ __ ] on Wall Street yeah Jesus I
seriously would too and Felix and I have
discussed this before but people out
here don't seem to know how to like
enjoy wealth they don't like they don't
spend money unlike the yeah the crazy
opulent [ __ ] is disgusting
but I'd respect it more if these people
went out and like just had these crazy
coke parties and like bought boats made
of gold that could naturally sail I'd
expect that more than the people who are
like you know I'm just changed in the
world I just I need to change the world
and it's I don't mean the people who
like donate money to charity like all
both of them it's is they talk about
like the world of startups like they're
like they're saving someone's life when
really they're more likely leading to
someone's suicide okay I think we should
probably wrap it up there for this week
we put a bow on a Silicon Valley it's
over I think either yeah
no more silicone Valley we had a great
time in Silicon Valley it's amazing we
need a minute and what we need a minute
for is to prepare for our live show
Saturday the 24th [ __ ] live
show at G's headquarters chapo dig cast
live check our accounts tickets still
available but they are going fast please
if you're in the New York City area come
out and see us on next Saturday night
the 24th and I don't want to make an
official announcement we have we're
working on another plan for another live
show something to do with the debates
very soon after that so stay tuned for
more chapo live news
[Music]
so Edie thanks so much for joining us
thanks for having me
Matt Felix till next time be by
what I do is I get my we never buy it
and it's usually bone-dry cuz that's on
us you're not buying water weight and
then I put a little orange peel in them
or something you know get a little moist
so it's not gonna you know just burn up
and I roll it up into a little ball and
like this gonna come apart and voila
and I load it and someone doing a little
test see how many hits being a queen can
get off this alright
compared to what you guys are doing you
know
[Music]
[Music]
that's what that's one baby and you know
I'm gonna go for a lot more than that
