I'd like to kick things off this week
this little news item that confirms once
again Matt Chrisman our own prophet of
doom needs to be more responsible with
his powers I'm speaking of course about
news that President Trump suggested
multiple times to senior homeland
security and national security officials
that they explore using nuclear bombs to
stop hurricanes from hitting the United
States according to sources who have
heard the president's private remarks
and been briefed on a National Security
Council memorandum that recorded those
comments Matt would you like to take
responsibility for why you made this
happen well I look and the funny thing
is this every time every single time
this happens I do not remember it first
of all yeah not his fault he's more like
the Oracle of Delphi it's just like he
has a bunch of diet cokes and maybe like
half a tab of acid and it just comes to
him it's involuntary thank you he's
drunk he's drugged up and controlled by
like a Katra of rhino priests that's
right you were the one buying me one
adult human being on in Brooklyn that
still drinks regular coke that's right
that's why he did say no somebody had to
point this out I don't know how they
found it I don't know how this happened
but some random hero online said hey lol
look at this after that story came out
and it was from August 25th 1917 two
years to the day from when this story
was released where I tweeted no matter
what the squawking libs and the media
say launching and nukes at hurricane
Harvey is a ashtag Alpha move Thank You
president Trump hashtag mega and I had
of course just tweeted that and then
totally forgot about it somebody
reminded me of it and people like oh my
god
your powers are too great but people
need to realize I'm not making these
things happen I am merely closing my
eyes opening my third eye and then
asking what is the stupidest thing that
could happen and I just because her
hurricane Harvey was coming it was
headed towards Houston and I thought
Donald Trump's president he is the
stupidest man on earth
what would the stupidest man on earth
was also president United States do
about her
and I remember stories from a different
hurricane when it was gonna hit Florida
about local public health officials
having to tell people don't shoot at it
and I just thought well what did you
shoot all your problems exactly but what
would be the US President version of
shooting hurricane launching a new cabin
so I just surmise well he would think
that and it turns out yes that's exactly
what he thought because he is the
dumbest man on earth and all you got to
do is just get into that mind space just
go out of your brain and remove all of
your critical thinking skills all of
your knowledge of anything and just
become us just a like a star child and
just imagine you're the horniest
angriest stupidest star child with
unlimited power what would you do and
then you end up predicting not making
predicting what's going to happen so
this is a Jonathan Swan and Axios it
says here asked how the briefer reacted
the sorcerer called he said something to
be effective sir we'll look into that
Trump also raised the idea in another
conversation with a senior
administration official a 20-17 NSC memo
describes that second conversation in
which Trump asked whether the
administration should bomb hurricanes to
stop them from hitting the homeland a
source briefed on the NSC memo said it
did not contain the word nuclear it just
said the president was talking about
bombing hurricanes some conventional
Patriot missile battery into the eye of
a storm that is more reasonable because
if it doesn't work nothing is alright we
we tried whereas if the nuke doesn't
work then you just have a radioactive
earth the worst atomic hurricane yeah I
love what I love about the sir we'll
look into it line is we'll look into it
is also the thing Trump says when he has
no idea we're talking about and so it
makes me imagine a White House that is
just this constant circular movement of
looking into it it's like the Malkovich
scene were they talking Malkovich is
it's just people constantly opening
doors being like well we can do it we'll
look into it we'll look into it
well sir we're looking into it it's just
everyone bluffing either there
unwillingness to go along with your
insane scheme or their total non
knowledge what you're talking about
yeah either way the only response is
looking looking looking into it we're
looking into it very strongly because
this sure is what's the only thing he's
looking for that's truly just want
someone to call him Sir
you can probably just get away with
nodding and saying that's a great idea
sir and then never following up on
anything and it would never need to go
anywhere which I assume is like 90% of
how his team oh my when it come with us
when it comes out after he's done and
people are like hawking books the number
of things that he will have suggested
that people just said we'll talk about
that and then they just never follow up
on me for God is gonna be astounded like
let's do Jurassic Park why everything
that we'd make so much tax money it's
charged people to see the dinosaurs
which is what they're doing in Dhoom
yeah yeah yeah the Saudi yeah the Saudi
a city of its tomorrow I'm surprised
that he didn't hear about that story and
go why can't we get a Jurassic Park I
mean I was like we did I'm telling you I
would like to get on the record I think
I said this on the show before I am pro
doing Jurassic Park okay yeah
like you know we can make it happen we
can make it safe we can make it
affordable and make it quality make the
cute we can make the cute ones which is
the most important thing we want a
plesiosaur we want a cute little
brontosaurus but the dangerous ones too
just asking for trouble
yeah great the great bovine lizard cows
no you got this right you said the
lesson of Jurassic Park is not don't
clone dinosaurs it's pay dentistry yeah
exactly the guy programmed your entire
[ __ ] park from one like a [ __ ] lot
at Apple to you're you're gonna be a
skinflint pay the man what he's owed
yeah barks gonna be fine
another eccentric Scottish billionaire
ruining the world through contracting
practices I like though in Axios because
it is you know news for smart people
they always include the big picture
section which sort of like you know
let's zoom out it just says here Trump
didn't invent this idea the notion that
detonating a nuclear bomb over the eye
of a hurricane could be used to
counteract convection currents dates to
the Eisenhower era when it was floated
by a government scientist
like that government scientist dr.
Strangelove that was also like right
after they admitted it where they were
like maybe we could use these things to
dig no everyone keeps trying to defend
bad ideas with like hey people thought
that this was a good idea 60 years ago
like that's not a defense that means we
decided against it
no but there was shortly yeah in the in
the 50s right after we developed the
bomb and we're like well what can this
thing do well we can't actually use the
bomb right because we realized very
quickly especially after the Soviets got
it oh we can never really use this cuz
that would end all life on Earth so
we're just going to use it as a
deterrent is there anything we could use
peacefully is there a peaceful time use
for these key weapon we can use it to
relocate island population specific yeah
but there was a whole field of crackpot
science of what I think there was talk
about using them to like it's like a
fast way to like level brush and stuff
yeah like like like farming you could
just nuke someplace and then clear the
land and you want maybe like send people
in it's great for serious you can't
you'll clear the land for the next 50
thousand years yeah it's great being in
DC once at the Smithsonian and seeing
some kind of like talk or like it's
basically when they do like their
equivalent of the the water world
extreme stunt ride it you know for some
Sony and science and they the scientists
come out and he was talking about in the
50s oh he was old as [ __ ] he was talking
about in the 50s he was working at like
Los Alamos or something I applied
nuclear physics lab and he was like yeah
we had this high-powered on point
radiation generator and during our lunch
breaks we would just take that sucker
outside and put it in a trash can and
throw some hotdogs in the bottom and
heat and heat him up for lunch and I was
thinking like that sounds like a
terrible idea and then he was like and
that's how we got the microwave and it's
just like them you being like what else
can we do with radiation hot dogs great
now that's a consumer product it's true
you guys are everyone thinking too small
it's pathetic but my favorite quotes
from that Axios article cuz they asked a
bunch of people and apparently none of
them could deny it cuz he actually did
say it but the spin was so good this one
guy says a senior administration
official had been briefed on the
president's bombing suggestion defended
Trump's idea and said it was no cause
for alarm he's
goal to keep a catastrophic hurricane
from hitting the mainland is not bad his
objective is not bad
so yeah about the road to you know
things being great and fine and okay
being paved with good intentions it's
true like Lenny you course and Lenny
just really thought she was pretty her
hair was really shiny and he just wanted
to pet it and then this other person
says what people need here when people
needed the president do is they say I
love the president who asked questions
like that who's going to ask tough
questions it takes strong people to
respond to him in the right way when
stuff like this comes up for me alarm
alarm bells weren't going off when I
heard about it because but I did feel
somebody is going to use this to feed
into the crazy present the president is
crazy narrative I just like he's asking
the big questions okay this is like you
know like like like business mindset
book so they're just like successful
executives just create a space for like
you know no idea it's too out-of-the-box
yeah let's just have a rap session just
throw it out there throw some ideas out
there or it sounds like like a preschool
or kindergarten teacher trying to in a
parent-teacher conference trying to
level with the parent that their kid has
ADHD and the gentlest way of being like
well let's start off and say he's got a
very inquisitive mind so uh when he put
the class hamster in the blender he said
he wanted to see what it looked like
this year the myth has been so
persistent the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration published an
online fat she fact sheet under the
heading tropical cyclone myths page
let's say it's apart from the fact that
this might not even alter the storm
this approach neglects the problem that
the release radioactive fallout would
fairly quickly move with the trade winds
to affect land areas and caused
devastating environmental problems
needless to say this is not a good idea
I mean yeah that that is the problem
with nuclear weapons essentially really
it's also the problem with hurricanes
they don't hold still if we could just
get them to hold still it would
fine we're gonna build a wall around the
Hurricanes yes you know what he's so
into walls why isn't he going that
direction
don't you imagine if they did that and
then like not only did it not affect the
past of the hurricane it just made it
like a category five radiation storm
this made landfall and just created just
carve this swath of like totally like
Chernobyl uninhabitable for ten thousand
years
gotta kill all the dogs sorry no that
wouldn't happen if they were
conventional nukes I don't think it
would be that long
but you might get some mutants out of it
that'd be cool you're still gonna we're
still gonna have to kill the dogs
yes see mutants ready no no we're gonna
create the MER race
