[Music]
two weeks ago at a town hall in Nevada
you spoke with a veteran who is
suffering from Huntington's disease who
has health insurance TRICARE but it was
not accept no longer being accepted and
who is over $100,000 in medical debt 139
and who told you his despair was so
great he would kill himself yes what was
going through your head when you're
talking to that person outraged outraged
that in this particular case a man would
put his life on the line to defend our
country was thinking of killing himself
because as it turns us he's being
hounded by bill collectors that's the
state as an interest phone and since
then we've been talking to people all
across this country whose credit rating
has been shot we have five hundred
thousand people who go bankrupt can you
imagine the insanity of a system we are
diagnosed with cancer and because she
diagnosed with cancer or another serious
illness you go bankrupt does anybody
think that that is not insane and we are
the only major country on Earth that
doesn't guarantee health care to all
people I intend to change that
I've seen videos of other people who go
up to you with town halls and they give
the most depressing story so the stories
that we're all familiar with at this
point that medical debt or other kinds
of debt have driven them to despair
bankruptcy or even to prison and there's
something almost feudal about that that
this system is so impossible for your
average person to exist in that will
screw it I guess I've got to ask Bernie
Sanders what the hell to do you've
talked about being an organizer in chief
how do you empower how do we make that
change let me answer that in two ways
that's a great question on one answer
but I want everybody to know that we are
the only major country on Earth doesn't
guarantee health care to all people this
is how crazy and dysfunctional the
system is it is indefensible we spend
twice as much per person on health care
as the Canadians or any other people
around the world
five hundred thousand people go bankrupt
thirty thousand people died one out of
five people cannot afford the
prescription drugs that doctors
prescribe and why is all that going on
you know why so that the healthcare
industry could make a hundred billion
dollars in profit last year that's why
it's going on and right now the health
care industry with all their billions of
dollars running ads all over the country
putting funding into phoney think-tanks
trying to defeat me and Medicare for all
so that's issue number one issue number
two you asked about organizer in chief
then I use that because obviously
president is commander-in-chief in the
military and I will accept that
responsibility but to be organizer in
chief means the following and I'm the
only candidate for president who will
tell you this and that is the system
that we have right now in this country
economically and politically is not only
rigged it is profoundly corrupt
profoundly corrupt you're dealing with
crooks on Wall Street who destroyed the
economy eleven years ago and then got
bailed out you're talking about an
insurance industry that makes billions
out of human suffering truck companies
that fix prices a fossil fuel industry
think about this fossil fuel industry is
producing a product oh just happens to
be destroying the planet mmm
slight problem there right okay how do
we change all that and the only way we
change it is by millions of people
becoming involved in an unprecedented
grassroots movement that is what our
campaign is about every other candidate
will probably say they oppose special
interests things like that and you're
going when you want to eliminate private
health insurance you're going after a
multi-billion dollar cash cow then
riches a small number of people yes even
if you are elected president how does
everyone else steel themselves for this
fight to take down a massive private
interest well that is the $64 question
we used to say when I was a kid 64
dollars not much anymore maybe the 64
billion dollar question I don't know all
right you've raised the
question is how do we change society
that's really what you're asking and
it's not just the healthcare industry
which is enormous ly powerful it's the
fossil fuel industry what about the
military-industrial complex what about
the prison industrial complex what about
the 1% in general whose wealth has
sought in the last 30 years while the
needs of working families the wealth of
working families have gone down how do
you deal with all this if you study
history the only way that real change
ever comes about is when millions of
people stand up and fight for it they
fight for justice
that's the labor movement it's the
women's movement it is the civil rights
movement it is the gay rights movement
it's the environmental movement and when
we talk about our campaign uniquely
being us not me
what I mean by that is that no president
of the United States and not Bernie
Sanders or anybody else can do it alone
that these people on top are so powerful
that the only way we bring them down the
only way we make the kinds of
transformation this country absolutely
requires is when millions of people are
prepared to stand up and fight back and
as organizer in chief that's what I
that's the fight that I will help lead
you've talked in the past about the need
for a movement like this one that is not
necessarily tied to electoral politics
that's looking past what whichever
election is right in front of you how
does your campaign contribute to the
construction of that movement I mean
what we're doing right now so what we're
doing right now what we are doing and
I'm really proud of this
we have revolutionized kind of campaign
fundraising in America it used to be not
so many years ago you know that what
Democrats forget Republicans what
Democrats did is they had these huge
super PACs in which billionaires and
corporations put all kinds of money in
they went to wealthy people's homes and
they sat down with a bunch of
millionaires and billionaires only left
with a few hundred thousand dollars
we've revolutionized that our campaign
at this point has
more individual donors and they're all
by and large the overwhelming majority
are small donations we have more than
any candidate in the history of American
politics you have three million
donations over a million individual
donors and the overwhelming majority of
them are working-class people we have
well over a million volunteers states
all over this country in every
congressional district in America so
what we are doing is doing exactly the
opposite of what Trump wants to do he's
trying to divide us up we're bringing
our people together black and white and
Latino Native American Asian American
gay and straight the whole thing
immigrant non-immigrant to stand up for
a progressive agenda and that will last
long after my presidency and that is
what we need if we're going to take on
the power elite in this country people
have a screwed-up sense of power today
no it's not their fault that's what
they've been told that's the the effects
of the spectacle resentment has taken
the place of class struggle how do you
reorient people especially the 100
million odd who don't vote toward the
idea that there are those who labor and
there are those who profit fantastic
question and you know one of the
problems that we have is that in most
schools certainly in corporate media and
certainly in the United States Congress
we really don't discuss power do we we
really don't I'm going to talk about
health care about education we don't
talk about who has the real power in
this country and why it is and I just
think about this after all of the great
speeches and all the plans that we have
heard over the last 45 years you know
what average American worker today in
real inflation accounts by dollars is
not earning a dime more than he or she
did 45 years ago meanwhile massive
talking about trillions of dollars going
to the top one percent in increased
wealth so what I think is when people do
not hear politicians a talking about the
pain in their lives
all right we're speaking right now you
got 87 million people who hesitate going
to the doctor
because they cannot afford it I've
talked that God knows too many people
have lost loved ones because they didn't
go to the doctor when they want you're
talking to people to talk to a guy week
ago he has been paying off his student
debt for decades and he's worried
they're gonna garnish his social
security check in order to take money
out of that to pay off his student debt
you got people all over this country was
scared to death about the implications
of climate change are you got all of
these issues out there and politicians
don't talk about it and then politicians
don't have the guts to get to the root
of the problem who has the power and why
is are the rich becoming much richer
while working people are going nowhere
in a hurry you alluded to this just now
for the past 40 plus years wages have
been stagnant productivity profits are
up manufacturing jobs shipped overseas
welfare gutted cost of education health
care up Goods throw house housing public
goods but in private hands if Mary
serves you were first elected to public
office about 40 years ago I'm not
suggesting you're responsible for these
trends but in your mind you know it's a
question of your view of history who or
what is responsible I'll tell you what's
responsible this is not an academic
question what is responsible is an
unprecedented level of corporate greed
and corporate corruption all of these
things trade agreements and I opposed
all of them that send good-paying jobs
to low-wage countries not an accident
huge tax breaks for the wealthiest
people in this country not an accident
massive cuts to education so that young
people are forced to assume at the state
and federal level Pell grants are forced
to assume more and more of the burden
it's not an accident breaking up of
trade unions not an accident making it
harder harder for workers to form a
union this is not an accident I talk to
these guys I'm the what's called a
ranking member of the Budget Committee
they come before my committee and they
say
what we would like is more tax breaks
for the very rich and large corporations
in fact we think that this is true large
corporation shouldn't pay a nickel in
federal taxes income taxes oh and by the
way we want you to cut Social Security
Medicare Medicaid and education because
we're worried about the deficit that's
from the lips of Wall Street and the
corporate elite that's what they want so
you're asking me how would happen that
is exactly how it happened and with the
decimation and the attacks against the
trade union movement those folks who
were able to fight back are less able to
fight back and by the way I'm glad to
see an increased militancy in the trade
union movement and we have legislation
in there with substantially increased
membership in unions we're at the point
where even working-class people might
see the price tag on one of your
proposals and think oh that means higher
taxes from me and I think that's an
indication of how dominant the the the
taxpayers revolt and Reaganomics has
been in destroying the idea that there
are there is a certain profit stream and
some amount of that is going to go to
workers in the public purse and some
amount is just pure profit for a small
number of people and I apologize if this
sounds like I'm repeating an earlier
question but how do you make the case
that you're thinking about this the
wrong way well you don't attack look and
these issues they're not discussed
terribly often in Congress they're not
discussed in schools so you know why I
understand why people think the way they
think right now is an example of that
you know as we fight for Medicare for
all the health care industry we'll spend
hundreds of millions of dollars in lies
they'll say all Bernie Sanders wants to
raise your taxes well does that happens
Bernie Sanders wants to do away with all
of your premiums all of your co-payments
all of your deductibles all of your
out-of-pocket expenses and Bernie
Sanders wants you not to have to pay
more than two hundred dollars a year for
your prescription drugs which means that
Bernie Sanders wants you to pay
substantially less for health care than
you're paying right now but I got folks
like Joe Biden
actually and the healthcare industry all
Bernie wants to raise your taxes saw a
woman the other day in Iowa she is
paying 20 she was blood Spain she's on
Medicare now $20,000 a year in premiums
20,000 that's okay hey that just taxes
for the insurance company that's great
we love that but if she paid 10,000 more
in federal taxes that would be terrible
that's nonsense there is a left moment
in this country and people of my
generation and the next generation
overwhelmingly opposed the way things
are for the youngest like this is a
matter of life and death and there are a
lot of reasons for this climate changes
one your campaign is one the election of
dropping the urgency that created is one
but for a lot of people specifically my
age that's the financial crisis that's
the recession that's the meltdown of
2008 and Rahm Emanuel famously said
never let a crisis go to waste but the
consensus on the left is that Emanuel
and Geithner and summers like didn't let
that crisis go to waste because I
entered the job market in 2009 I was six
figures in college debt and no job
prospects but I saw the news that
everything was falling apart and that
The Wall Street guys were about to jump
out of the buildings and I thought okay
well you know we have a popular
Democratic president and a big
Democratic majority these are the
conditions that made the New Deal but we
didn't get anything like that
analysts some analysts are predicting
recession is coming what would you have
done in 2009 and I guess if there is a
recession what would you do well you
know I'll tell you in 2009 I and maybe a
half a dozen of the United States
senators we went to the White House to
met with Obama
I suspect Geithner was there others were
there
his Larry Summers I suspect was I don't
remember exactly his whole financial
team and what we said is you and the
Congress have got to take these people
on these people are criminals
these people have destroyed the American
economy now they want a bailout we have
got to take them on and use this
opportunity to transform the financial
system of this country we got to break
up these huge financial institutions
that have acted illegally and have so
much power I believe that that was in a
moment to do that and it wasn't and I
will tell you right now it's part of
just check it out on the website I will
if President break up these huge
financial institutions which I believe
could once again melt down and cause
another very terrible recession the
reasons that people are on the Left
today that that people who are rejecting
capitalism seem at first blush to be
different from the conditions that made
you when you were a civil rights
organizer at the University of Chicago
in the 1960s that was that was a
different millio than today but you have
so many young left people who are
rallying around your campaign so I want
to know this is kind of an open question
but how did your experience with core
inform your politics today well it was a
profound experience I grew up in a
virtually all-white neighborhood in
Brooklyn New York
it was my when I went to the University
of Chicago it was not only getting
involved in the civil rights movement
with African Americans it was also
getting involved in the labor movement
it was also getting involved in the
peace movement to be honest with you and
as I've said many many times the
University of Chicago is a fine
University I learned a lot in classes I
learned more outside of the classroom
and I met some fantastic people in that
community who told me I talked to me a
whole whole lot about you know their
views of the world and that shaped my
that shaped my politics and what I
believed what I saw in action then was
coalition politics and I'm a very very
strong believer in coalition politics
and that is it is not just the need to
end
racism in this country the need to end
sexism in this country the need to end
homophobia in this country was
xenophobia or religious bigotry it's the
need to bring people together
working-class people to fight for a
government an economy that works for all
of us and not just the 1% and that's
what I am trying to do right this minute
Hurricane Maria the devastation in
Puerto Rico over a thousand deaths
coming are the heels of decades of wall
street pillaging of that country then
you have concentration camps in the
southwestern border ice raids devastated
minority communities across the country
I think these are all symptoms of the
same crisis crisis of capitalism and an
ecological crisis and people who are
younger than I and the the Greta
generation they see these images and
they realize this they have not been
born into a comfortable existence even
in this country how do you avoid the bad
future that every day it looks like
we're careening towards look I wish I
could give you a magical answer to make
you feel great and totally confident in
the future I can't we got a idiot in the
White House who thinks that climate
change is a hoax when the scientists are
telling us that it is the existential
threat facing our planet and if there's
any silver lining in this Virgil it is
you know I brought forth by far the most
comprehensive plan to tackle climate
change and maybe just maybe if we can
rally people all over the world and we
saw just last week millions of people
marching in countries in every continent
on earth maybe if we had strong United
States leadership and that's what I
would provide as president my message to
the entire world is is you know what
we're spending a trillion and a half
dollars every single year on weapons of
destruction designed to kill each other
maybe just maybe we might want to pull
those
resources led by the United States to
combat our client our common enemy which
is climate change but this is a
frightening I mean you talked about
Puerto Rico we could talk about you know
to Katrina we could talk about what
happened in the Bahamas you could talk
about Charleston South Carolina it is
impossible for any sane person not to
understand the crisis that we're facing
and I will you know my proposal is the
boldest it will create up to 20 million
jobs it will tell the fossil fuel
industry they cannot continue to destroy
the planet in 2015 this will be my last
question in 2015 you quoted Pope Francis
decrying the cult of money and the
dictatorship of an economy which is
faceless and lacking any truly human
goal what is the goal of an economy the
goal of an economy is to create a better
life for all of us all right it is very
much the opposite of trumps view of life
and his friends which is you know a lot
of the billionaire class not all who
think that greed and lying and cheating
and stealing is the function of human
life I make as much money as I want to
make billions I step all over people I
used my power to cut Social Security
Medicare and Medicaid I believe that the
goal of human life that you are richer
emotionally as a human being when we
have community when we care about each
other when we love each other when we
are compassionate not when we're
stepping on other people when we bring
people together despite superficial
differences like the color of our skin
or a sexual orientation when we create
that kind of what dr. King called it
what pretty calls the community the
community of love I mean that is the
goal and that means making sure that all
of our people have a decent standard of
living which we can certainly do that we
lead the world in addressing the
terrible poverty that exists in the
developed world that we bring the planet
together to fight climate change when we
do all of those things we become better
human beings I think we become a happier
human beings more satisfied
human beings that's what I think has to
happen thank you so much senator
Virgil thank you very much
[Music]
