I want to dip back in now to the Caleb
saga and I have to I have two of these
letters that I want to read now on the
show you guys ready yeah let's do oh
yeah
the first one is entitled letter to a
mensch in training it begins my beloved
Caleb there was an awful story in the
paper a few years ago a 16 year old
Brighton High School student it began
has been charged with slashing a
fourteen-year-old girls face with a
razor blade in Dorchester Park leaving a
gash that required more than a hundred
stitches to close the story was on the
front page of the Metro section along
with a large photograph of the
fourteen-year-old her face is now
disfigured by an angry red scar
stretching from her forehead to her lip
she said she and some of her friends had
been challenged to a fight by another
group of girls and had been told that if
they didn't show up the other girls
would find them and beat them on the
street I made a point of showing you
that story so we could talk about it
such violence and intimidation are far
removed from anything you've ever
experienced Caleb but you're no longer
too young to know that many other
children are not so fortunate including
some in your own backyard when we talked
about that news story I told you that
safety is one of the reasons mama and I
send you to the Hebrew Academy instead
of public school you've never seen if
this fight never mind a gang brawl with
razor blades when you first read this
story you weren't even sure what a razor
blade was here's the kicker he describes
this like you know violent razor
slashing and some shitty neighborhood in
Boston and he said I wanted to talk to
you about this Caleb and discuss this
news article with you here's the kicker
he says now as a nine year old well is
this after the the terrible phase that
we talked about I believe this is pre
pre his bad mouth and your face a stop
no he said the opposite effect it had
the opposite effect because he wanted to
scare Caleb straight but by like opening
- the big scary world kaleb's like I
wanted so I want to see a fist fight
there's one more there's one more
section from this article I want to read
so he says like you know bah bah bah the
most your parents and teachers can help
you do is equip you to make the right
choice so we work at it always keeping
an eye out to reinforce the better
angels of your nature again he's [ __ ]
nine years old when you brought home
your report card in December I wasn't
thrilled with the grades you had gotten
in behavior or self-control and respect
for your teachers which is why I offered
you an incentive if on your next report
card all your behavior marks went up you
would be rewarded with one of the I spy
you like so much there's a link on I
spot is this I Spy is a book of picture
riddles train emoji choo choo hell yeah
three is that three weeks ago your
second report card came home and what do
you know
your conduct and character it improved
across the board way to go
good work Caleb good work you know do
you remember the just the dread Italy I
don't know maybe I'm unique in this
regard but the dread you had over the
report card coming home and that you
just having your parents see it and
having you know to explain yourself and
then imagine knowing not only will that
happen but it will then be published for
the entire at least the entire city of
Boston to read in reading a national
paper after that it sounds horrifying
yeah mister ajikko just making sure
we're running through a spell check
about your you're calling about your
[ __ ] son here yeah before everyone in
America reads it alright we're sending
it out okay so that was the first one I
think that's sort of a preface to this
one which is really good it's called
testing the sales is the name of this
letter it begins as they all do my
beloved Caleb
not long ago I stumbled upon a document
you created on your computer it was
title
oh no oh boy Oh No it was titled rules
and suggestions for stealing candy sure
enough it sure enough what followed was
a series of pointers on how to fill
sweets and rule number four for example
advised clean up after yourself don't
leave a big mess or others will know
that Caleb is now 11 I feel like that it
was certainly a brazen piece of writing
it was also I couldn't help noticing
well organized and carefully spell check
your credit you didn't deny authorship
when I confronted you with it
unfortunately you didn't seem to be the
least bit remorseful for the streets
this is like the end of dead presidents
for your crimes Caleb
of stealing candy which were violent in
nature and Sylla Tory a deceptive you
showed no remorse
I'm sending you ten ten minutes in your
room and then like Larenz Tate and dead
presidents he throws to the chair and
his dad goes all this [ __ ] I did for
this [ __ ]
[ __ ] you and then Isaac Hayes walks up
walk out by places caleb gets on the bus
to Times Square yep steal more candy
your penchant for stealing and pinching
treats is not exactly a news flash
you've been caught at it more than a few
times most recently when I came across a
full-size box of Froot Loops
stashed under the covers in your bed
mama was aghast when I showed it to her
I know she's decided you're well on your
way to a criminal career again sorry not
to be like the most stereotypical Jewish
mother in the world but this is [ __ ]
ridiculous it's 11:00 and they're
finding like fruit loops under his bed
imagine if they found like a pin house
or something I thought you're gonna say
when you see a document on the computer
hey [ __ ] normal eleven-year-old write
out instructions for himself
it's like commentary but I can recall
similar sins sneaking down to the
basement freezer for example spoon and
hand - gorgeous no one was looking
or pilfering chocolates from the food
locker and refusing to fess up even
though it meant letting suspicion fall
in my siblings and now those house and
they're like Caleb for some reason
you're obsessive food I caught you the
11th freezer I have to read this entire
I have to read this entire would I skip
it make me really
I want chocolate I want to read the
document save to folder Caleb underscore
food underscores theft dot XLS these are
actually the top-secret documents that
Eric and Ivanka and Donald Trump jr.
have access to Dow or the Pentagon
candies if that's a got his hand on this
this would be like kids can't let him
see it there's no actual like spit on my
computer screen from reading this but
the Jewish pedophile say really quick
what is a Jewish pedophile say later
don't worry it's related kid easy on
that candy that's funny it's another no
what did you is pedophile say hey kid
you want to buy some candy okay he
continues nowadays it's what comes out
of your mouth not what goes into it that
is more likely to get you in trouble
at times you seem to go out of your way
to give offense spouting ill-mannered
comments or mocking jives that you know
quite well are going to provoke a
backlash as a tween quote unquote I
could be like that too time time and
again I would pop off pushing my
teachers buttons with obnoxious remarks
or inappropriate wisecracks
frequently getting kicked out of a class
as a consequence I wasn't nearly so
insolent at home where my parents
believed in corporal punishment and
lived up to that belief with you it's
the other way around the back talk and
insubordination you save up for your
parents well at school your teachers
sing your praises and tell us how
courteous mature and pleasant you are
your this [ __ ] editor and you're
like are you sure you want to run this
is uh this is 500 words about what it
obnoxious little fat treat monger your
son is are you sure
Dashiell column job entire article is
basically an invitation for all of his
classmates to stuff his locker with
[ __ ] doughnuts and like Elton with
[ __ ] walks down the street this is
exactly like [ __ ] Gomer pile in Full
Metal Jacket when he finds this jelly
doughnut in his locker you know he had a
footlocker you eat it there pays for it
[Music]
[Applause]
his kid is obviously inheriting well
yeah Jeff Jacoby is a chubby
[ __ ] is upset that he has to now
he has to buy treat super king Jeff I'm
quite willing to live with your
occasional peak and petulance if it
means the rest of the world sees you at
your best
I can't say I enjoy our tug of wars but
I understand them that sounds enabling
with the approach of adolescence you
sometimes find yourself feeling
irritable and resentful aggrieved by
perceived in dignities beset by fools
and charlatans whose only skill seems to
be to get in your way or on your nerves
Caleb believe it or not I've been there
too and if you think your parents excel
at finding ways to annoy you now just
wait until you're 14 or 15 we'll be
really good at it then what happened to
Caleb in his bedroom and Jeff comes in
and asked like where did you put the
document probably Jeff's first columns
for the Boston Globe were like how an
adult's guide to finding treats like
that's what created his star he won a
Pulitzer Prize for his Michael my dream
now is that caleb is gonna grow up and
write a tell-all memoir called my
[ __ ] father dude Jeff is a [ __ ]
tyrant I hate him okay we should kidnap
Caleb
well lure him with candy when you were a
baby I loved watching you sleep
sometimes I would stroke your tiny hand
as you lay in your crib and you would
instinctively wrap your fingers around
one of mine clinging to me even in your
sleep thinking it was a lolly did you
sense somehow that I was a safe harbor a
snug refuge from the world storms and
stresses mama and I have tried to be
that that haven to furnish you with the
physical emotional and spiritual
resources you will need on your journey
through life but harbors aren't only
places of sanctuary and shelter
they're also stable places you push back
from them when it's time to head out
into the world
you're 11 now growing steadily more
independent and beginning to test your
sails increasingly you push back instead
of clinging insisting on your way
instead of mine the day will eventually
come when you're ready to head out on
your own wherever the voyage takes you
Caleb
will always be your home port oh my love
Papa I think he loves his inner child
and doesn't Ryo you go that's Fight Club
is this Fight Club
yeah like inner child and he's talking
to himself there are like there are
photos of Caleb Jacobi out there he has
a soundcloud page
hey Caleb I gotta say is sort of like a
lanky right but he could also be picking
up a model kit like a fake kid to play
his son if we think it is a child to
whom he's speaking which makes more
sense because who talks to an
eleven-year-old like that no dude this
is clearly Fight Club this is the sequel
to Fight Club and like at the end of the
movie
Pixies yet yeah well Jeff as Caleb set
up bombs in the Hershey's
[Music]
is my dream where's my mound he's in
he's in the building watch ant with
helena bonham card and he's like you
know after he pops himself in the mouth
and he's like you caught me at a weird
time of my life when I was turning 12
which is a pivotal time in a boy's life
when you really yeah when I'm really
gonna punish myself but ya know it's
yeah where's my treats at the end again
spoiler alert episode 49 the punchline
all of this is that Caleb Jacobi ran
away from home when he was 14 or 15 and
was missing and was found in Times
Square like three days later and more
power to him because that's the ultimate
that's how they found him to trail of
Eminem yeah that is so Freudian he left
home to live amongst candy amazing I'd
rather live free among fan dude good
willing we should use one months of the
show's patreon to let to pay for Killam
to rent a room in the M&M store just
like remember and like those things
unlike MTV or Nickelodeon where you get
to go into the store and buy as much yes
just raise you know 25k Caleb next time
you run away from home come to the trap
in Brooklyn we're gonna give you so many
awesome swears when you go back to your
folks and you'll unleash them their
faces are gonna melt like the end of
Raiders of the Lost Ark will will who is
your new dad he worked in publishing so
he knows like just every bad word yes
more than your bitch-ass biological
father ever did Matt who's your uncle
now he's gonna teach you like beer all
that [ __ ] um you've never had an older
brother I'm your older brother now I'm
gonna teach you sports and misogyny and
fist fighting and racism you're gonna be
racist Katie it's gonna be your aunt
yeah it's gonna teach you yeah yeah
she's gonna teach you about like the
best treats your dad probably doesn't
give you those Hanukkah golden hands
Katie will
Brendan
brendan is your cousin Brandon's gonna
like he's gonna show you Linkin Park
[ __ ] corn all the cool bands what's
the first rule of Jewish Fight Club it's
1999 four months guarding Ray and you
know tell your friends about it what an
Italian mother says eat your breakfast
or I'm gonna kill you the Jewish mother
says you breakfast I'm gonna kill myself
[Laughter]
the most anti-semitic show you ever done
yeah very proud very proud of us this
episode but again the Kaleb Jacobi saga
continues so so [ __ ] good oh my job
so good holy [ __ ]
