so let me begin by asking my co-host let
me sketch a scenario for you imagine if
you will that you are a teenage boy you
have unrestricted access to the Internet
let's say you're sitting in the family
den looking at the the laptop or home PC
and you're on the Internet let's say you
want to look at a photo of Kate Upton
cuz you know she's hot and apparently
your cousin's had sex with her and
you're interested and you know what
that's like you're looking at a picture
of Kate Upton let's see you click a
little bit more you're interested in
what her boobs look like maybe you can't
find pictures of her boobs but maybe
there are pictures of boobs out there in
fact there are for sure pictures of
boobs out there now you're looking at
them now you're cruising you've got a
taste for it though let's say you click
just a few more times let's say now
you're watching pornography you're
seeing you're watching two human adult's
have sex with one another you keep
clicking the algorithm is taking control
of you now you're seeing lesbian stuff
you're seeing penetration you're seeing
double penetration you're seeing ropes
you're seeing epic compilations of ropes
you're seeing it all but let's say you
just keep clicking let's say within just
a few clicks from seeing a glorious
Peter North rope compilation let's say
you're watching forced feminization and
hypnosis pornography and you yourself
are beginning to become hypnotized and
sissified in just basically 10 minutes
from getting interested in seeing Kate
Upton's boobs
imagine you're that child fellas don't
you hate it when you're searching you're
searching old relics and Catholic
enchantments to get the demon out of
your wife and by the end of the
afternoon you've turned into a bimbo
through your computer fellas don't you
hate when that happens
and of course someone who hates when
that happens more than anything is
brother rod rare friend of the show when
last we checked on rod live onstage at
mr. Small's in Pittsburgh we were
checking in on the amazing story of his
friend's wife and her upcoming exorcism
or rather her ongoing demonic possession
was really the
that story but rod is back today with
another with another one that I think
he's outdone himself on headlines simply
have you heard of [ __ ] porn some people
think there's a transgender connection
maybe you don't want to know the
headline alone was enough to really grip
me because it's just the equivalent of
showing somebody your brows or history
and being like you have you seen this
[ __ ] [ __ ] yeah it's weird it does appear
to be the only websites you've ever
visited yeah I know it's [ __ ] weird
when I uh you know when I saw that
headline from the American Conservative
I was like don't need any more coffee
this morning well it definitely logged
in for the day so rod is of course
responding to that big piece in the new
york times by andrea long chew that a
lot of people like a lot of people are
mad at not gonna go into that now but
I'm really more interested in what rod
has to say about it all and basically he
does the thing he does where he
basically he holds a flashlight under
his chin as he's writing and he's like
readers
I cannot warn you in the strongest terms
possible
I cannot warn you enough to avoid the
incredibly explicit content that I'm now
going to describe in full detail which
he does going to do and rod has
discovered something called hypno porn
Marissa fication or bimbo a vacation if
you will will has been bimbo fog
momentarily we would appreciate a
computer okay so why are you gonna route
his giant boobs
yeah his big boobs are hitting the
keyboard oh my okay so he's discovers a
shanwa of porn called forced
feminization through Andre Chu who wrote
in a like an old paper or something she
describes this phenomenon I like how
there was this big article with like a
big controversy that rod like it was
easy for social conservatives to get
into it and like just you know do a bad
faith reading of
choose an article and be like yo trans
people are [ __ ] weird but rod like rod
showing that he's not like just the
no-talent like [ __ ] Eric Erickson is
like hold up give me a second
and like looks for an old Andreea long
chew essay and he's like okay bimbo
fication give me that that's what I want
to talk about yes yeah he did his work
it said unchoose website he posts a PDF
link that's reading rod here he's
intentionally misgendering this person
but they post a PDF link to a paper they
delivered this year at Columbia
University concrete conference and so
he's literally reading college papers
from Andrea Chu the papers title comes
from a comment Chu saw in an online
forum [ __ ] porn we learned from the
paper is a genre in which submissive men
are forced to have sex with other men in
such a way that their masculinity is
forcibly taken from them shoes says this
genre is also called the forced
feminization porn Chu says that [ __ ]
porn explicitly intends to turn male
viewers into transsexuals in part by
instructing them to understand their
addiction to the genre as constitutive
of their own feminization in the paper
two interviews one person who writes
about three years ago I discovered [ __ ]
hypno videos that's hypno like short for
hypnotism which in a nut cell are
flashing subjective images telling you
to wear panties be girly and even take
hormones I became completely obsessed
with these videos this is where rod cuts
in now now imagine a confused
twelve-year-old boy perhaps one
experiencing same-sex desires finding
[ __ ] porn on his smartphone and giving
himself over to it it's only a few
clicks away
imagine that dude I don't I don't want
to think about these 12 year olds
becoming big busty bimbos but I have to
it's my job it's what this magazine pays
me to do think about innocent children
being turned into missing bimbos by the
computer look I'm missing the turnip
harvest here at the compound because I
have to write about the sexy bimbo 12
year now I know I don't want to think
about a sixth grader become
Dolly Parton in nine-to-five but I have
to if I don't think about it no one else
will of course it wouldn't be a rod
column in which there wasn't a
incredibly long reader reader email we
met these are they have a very like
balanced view yeah the bimbo vacations
is he born issue you know I've I've read
a lot of demagoguery on both sides well
I mean again like all of Rods readers
they seem to have a very similar writing
style and point of view to rod I don't
know I think that's a little bit
different every one of roz breeders
seems like Martin Scorsese in the back
of the cab and taxi driver okay this is
the rods reader now and he says read
this comment do you let your kid have a
smartphone smartphone and or
unsupervised Internet access
you might want to rethink that well I
mean yes the reader your brain child's
brain will be putting in ten minutes
ask Felix I don't know dude I'm standing
in front of you I'm probably the member
of the show least likely to be turned
into a bimbo but the member of the show
that most of our listeners want most
turned into a bimbo well that's true but
I'd be like it's interesting it'd be
easy to turn you guys into bimbos but
I'd probably be the sexiest bimbo if
we're being honest I'm sure we'll be I'm
sure no one will attempt to you know
solve that they've already used face
apps it's fine dude the next step is
just turning me into a bimbo and
honestly new year new me okay so this is
rods reader email the third update
really struck a chord with me I'm
familiar with [ __ ] porn having
discovered it in high school
uh-huh dear Ron I am taking my gun with
the old testament etched into it out of
my mouth to write you this and it's much
broader than what shoe is referring to
some background on me I am a millennial
I was raised Catholic and I first
discovered internet porn at a friend's
house when I was 12 years old when I was
in high school when we first got
internet access at home I used to look
to look for porn when no one was around
in the first few years I had pretty
typical straight teenage boy interests
when it came to porn having been poorly
formed in male-female dynamics however I
was very interested in having power over
women and this led me to search for
hypnosis since this was a very small
need
back then I absorbed whatever material I
could find within a few months this led
me to the site of a woman who
specialized in hypnotizing men and
making them think they were women
although the latter part just seemed
gross as I had no interest in being a
woman something about the power exchange
appealed to me even though it never did
before I have a theory that this is a
pattern for frequent porn users they may
initially look for other things but with
enough exposure they desire to become a
passive sexual participant since it
involves less effort on their part he
goes on for egos despite the
feminization aspect I kept going down
this rabbit hole as the thought of being
the submissive one was appealing so I
did my best to avoid the [ __ ] stuff at
first reading stories downloading audios
and later watching videos or women
claimed to hypnotize men just that you
know a PSA for the listener you cannot
be hypnotized into doing anything that
you wouldn't otherwise already do you
can't change someone's fundamental moral
core or identity through hypnosis just a
you know just a warning there yeah yes
anyone tries to hypnotize you and you
commit a murder if in fact you do it you
will be guilty of murder yeah and if the
cop has to tell you bopper else I do
believe that an individual was murdered
here but how could my client who you see
in front of you who is a swaggering
bimbo with using triple G have committed
the murder described a regular man is
doing it that's that's our new that's
our new legal thriller writing with John
Grisham it's about a guy who gets out of
a murder conviction by turning into a
sexy bimbo now I may be a sissified
country though yeah it's gonna be great
it's called double D jeopardy so it goes
on by the time I reach my 20s I was in
deep later in my 20s I also discovered
the free true streaming porn sites and I
was eager to see what content I could
find on them I bet you are the discovery
of these videos led me to reflect on how
my big problem how big my problem had
become it goes on and on and on and
then he goes I don't does he become a
bimbo home rod is reading this just for
his dick out he's like oh my god hurry
up get to the bimbo fication
long story short he never becomes bimbo
fans and he says it was because he
returned to the Catholic Church and now
he has a wife and two children that he's
very happy with now I am a bimbo for God
rod
salutations so big problem he points out
is not enough porn about men hypnotizing
women a broader array for him to choose
from he wouldn't have been forced to go
down these perverted rabbit holes and
find the other one I mean the where this
letter strains credulity is not that
this guy found himself going down a
rabbit hole and discovering some weird
kink or sexual interest he wouldn't
otherwise have discovered through
pornography what strains credulity is
that he's like but yeah definitely then
I then I got back with the Catholic
Church got a wife and two kids and I'm
normal now totally normal totally normal
normal yeah I just jack off to normal
[ __ ] like wound baking cookies that type
of thing
yeah I just i donate i paid tim Norman
Rockwell paintings nowadays he goes I
die right so I don't know who's making
all of this stuff but with all the
videos and message board posts there is
an awful lot of content being produced
that seems designed to reach lonely
young men and recruit them into the
ranks of the transsexual community
oh my god guys now the Tim Miller is no
longer with crooked media do you think
deciders is working on bimbo fiying
young men or deevak deciders get to the
bottom of it and figure out that soros
has been buying our military aged men oh
my god
he closes by said him we need you i am
fortunate that I rediscovered my faith
in adulthood and got my act together I
have since married and I'm raising
children with my wife and by to who is
it not my wife who has not been
hypnotized it still haunts me to think
how differently things may have gone for
me and I pray regularly for boys and
young men who took the other path the
other bathroom just like a huge sort of
like like serving frau at Oktoberfest
just wearing lederhosen
symbolic details and just huge bosoms
and freckle cheeks and at least that's
what I'm thinking dear rod I am now
normal I'm now a member of Opus Dei who
dug up his mom's skeleton and now
worships it rod closes by saying of
course he does what is described here is
the process of demonic possession I do
it rod you've used that one like yeah it
sounds like I'm joking but I'm not like
it's literally like there are like 10
articles off the top of my head where
rod will see like it's like it's just
something like it's like an online
pop-up ad for like a mortgage but
there's a trans woman and in rods like
[ __ ] demons I told you it's like you
can't always use that one the first time
you did it I was like wow that's a new
one but like you can't just say
everything's demonic possession this is
also just a retread horror movie plot
from the early aughts the what if the
devil was in the computer that's all it
is movie called like evil calm or
something yeah I mean how about like a
new one like how about it's the book of
Job and God is like making individual
prop that's with the devil over who will
become a bimbo just like work shopping
here it's not that I think you suck I
just think that your phone in this one I
love the early seasons of rod because
the endings weren't always that
predictable it wasn't always a demon
sometimes it would be a mummy sometimes
it would be a Dracula sometimes even a
Frankenstein now it's like demon demon
demon is that what people want ah oh man
I keep getting it keep saving these
toxic messages Murad rare fans who are
mad he's being recast as a bimbo oh man
I'm just I'm just imagining like rod for
research watching all of the hip no porn
no like [ __ ] like the parallax view
or something just like that breasts are
just growing slowly as I think I think
rod needs to dedicate himself full time
to fighting the trans hypno bimbo [ __ ]
porn menace and by that I mean watch
like every one of these videos that has
ever been made just to prove that it
doesn't work or that you can overcome
the hypnosis and help produce a
wider variety of straight porn so the
guys don't end up going down these awful
you know crooked run roads instead they
could just stay on the nice flat runway
of fem dom and male dom and and play
delivery guys all the good classic
meat-and-potatoes pornography [ __ ]
your stepmom your step hey hey kids you
don't have to go outside and get
hypnotized by some weirdo and turned
into a woman just [ __ ] your stepsister
she's right there so uh that is our
check in on the the Roger universe Inc
do you think like by the end of I'm not
gonna be greedy and say by the end of
2018 but like by the end of 2019 we will
have gotten like an overlap there will
be contact between Roger and Riley read
[Laughter]
Riley read to make normal porn for
Catholic man she is a fan of Jordan
Peterson maybe he could introduce me
yeah yeah I don't know man
III there's so many like crossovers we
never expected and I feel like this is
the next logical one it's sort of like
it's a screwball comedy rod and riley
reid becomes one of those reply guys to
porn stars and they're like rod you have
to understand i don't know when my next
bin bulla fication video is coming out
can we just get them on a road trip
maybe to avian you know they got to get
there they're in New York and they got
to get to Vegas in three days I'd watch
that well Godspeed rod we're all praying
from our speed and again rod if you're
listening please please update us on
what happened with your friend's wife
and her demonic possession yeah you
can't just leave that out haven't having
a having a exorcism at 3:30 you gotta
follow up this is this is what I like
about the rod show is that it's similar
to The Sopranos right like there are all
these huge pot lines and they just
started they never get tied up and
that's realistic like things in in real
life this is David Chase's finest work
because sometimes they're just loose
ends out there like is that woman's
demon okay is she okay and it's this has
become
dominant storyline of rod season six
right by rod rod friended me bad I wish
I could even follow rod I can't
yeah me there's sucks dude tone-tone you
ever having a kid
it became sissified tone it's all messed
up terrible I could definitely see AJ
getting get the fire all right we can't
dwell too long on rod because like I
said we need here for all way to horny
right yeah
