let me tell you something everybody in
the White House all the way from the
bottom all the way to the very top and
I'm talking to you I am talking to you I
will find you
you only begun to see the full form of
the mooch I come to you in the daytime
this Anthony scaramouche you but this
evening no when the moon falls quiet any
shadow falls upon the White House I'm
talking about oh yeah
look I could take the hits do anything
you want to me I can [ __ ] take it but
you bring my personal life into family I
never you never [ __ ] do that
look I'm here to do one [ __ ] job
that's my stated job is to make the
president sons normal by making them
play football oh you said no I'm not
just talking about the one okay you know
when I'm talking all of them Jared
Donald all of them and that's the what
I'm trying to bring to the White House I
you know within a year we're gonna fix
health care and all the president's kids
they're gonna be regular that's my job
and if you ever bring up my [ __ ] wife
again
yeah I will you know we're gonna do a
Long Island style I'm gonna I'm gonna
tell you what Long Island style is it's
when you pretend to lunge at somebody
but you're held back by six of you
larger frames and then you tell them if
they weren't there and your kid wasn't
there and you weren't on parole and you
didn't hurt your back last week you
would [ __ ] murder them
and unless you want that you know stop
you just basically stop bringing up the
scaramouche family let me go let me
break it down freely put it all all in
the line the mooch is a man on his very
last threat I've been denied the loving
embrace of my wife I've been denied the
respectability my job affords by some
risk on
pricks let me tell ya I've got it all
right here
and at SummerSlam in 17 I am gonna shove
the boo radley Trump kid until he's
normal again
I want to explain something I want to
explain something to the people I want
to explain something to the people at
home
okay yes there are two versions of me
obviously astrology astrology is real
I'm what's called a classic Gemini that
means that I have one side who is
scaramouche he's the guy who you know
comes to the White House high-fives
everyone you know
guys guys being guys you know how to go
up to go up there you know like ban in
and say hey banner you get any fatter
you're [ __ ] Irish prick you know just
guys guys making fun of our various
ethnic white heritage is but just turns
to pure hate and spite when it's anyone
who isn't you know from the what we can
get onto the Elijah Muhammad's theories
about you know abdicate did people from
outside of the cave regions if you get
me but at night I become the mooch and
this is the professional wrestler type
character you hear you know every other
address so you know you [ __ ] with the
scare of Moochie and you're gonna get
you to meet
I will not let dr. yeah come down
[Music]
[Music]
hello friends make your chop over this
week it's meaningful menaker joining me
as always
Felix Peterman hello everyone Matt
Kristin hi folks
Virgil Texas hello and sitting in with
us this week a chapo health care
correspondent and expert Tim Foust nice
to be back in the Park Slope mansion
America's leading health care expert
attacked by feral mob maintains podcast
returns so yeah obviously we're having
Tim on because the big news of the week
was indeed the healthcare vote the
Obamacare repeal that now failed
Obamacare repeal asterisk so yell
asterisk so I want to I want to start
there
with Tim and Virgil and just get the
breakdown on what happened this week
what's the status of health care law in
this country and like where do we stand
right now and what does all this mean
the top line is that the ACA reform
movement is still America's Dracula and
it's sleeping but not dead but I I think
Virgil knows a lot more about the actual
parliamentary maneuverings of the week
but I mean like the GOP was dealt
through their own bungling and
mismanagement and honestly lack of a
comprehensive vision for what
conservative health care looks like
other than looks like a [ __ ] like
Thunderdome
they were I don't know rounded or routed
I think effectively this week
yeah the Senate held their voter AMA
this week where they tried to pass some
version of a health care legislation
something that could cobble together 50
votes in the United States Senate and
everything failed their version of the
bill that they've been working on a
secret for weeks did not even make it to
the floor Rand Paul's bill straight full
repeal failed badly and the final
version the so called skinny repeal
which they cobbled together over lunch
failed by one vote when the geese and
John McCain's head commanded him to vote
no on it making him an American Hero
again so the bill has been pulled from
the floor and they don't have the votes
to pass anything
John McCain went back to Arizona to get
brain pills to solve his brain issue but
there's a new proposal floating around
now Lindsey Graham another heroic alpha
male moderate is trying to cobble
together his own version of the Pilon
Tim I want to get your take on this
mm-hmm apparently Ron Johnson has signed
on to it and Dean Heller yeah the
[ __ ] third dumbest man in Wisconsin
is Ron Johnson I actually my cousin is
friends with his son Ron Johnson's son
and he's been in his house and he swears
to me that in every room in his house is
a TV with Fox News on volume up Jesus I
mean here's that guy right that's what
he campaigned as is he's just a [ __ ]
used-car salesman that's what he's
always been but he's not a particularly
bright one Jesus [ __ ] piece of [ __ ]
here's the outline of the rolls of that
Graham is trying to put together Block
Grant federal health care funding to the
states while keep a lot of Obama cares
tax regime they met with trouble about
this Trump demanded that McConnell end
the filibuster and threatened to stop
making federal payments that subsidize
people's insurance plans on the
individual market saying quote if a new
health care bill is not approved quickly
bailouts all caps for insurance
companies and bailouts all caps for
members of Congress will end very soon
exclamation point
so what Graham is pitching there is
basically Medicaid reform entitlement
reform moving Medicaid from being an
entitlement program to a block grant
program which is I think I talked about
this last time when I was on the show
like a block granting Medicaid gives
states a whole lot more latitude to find
ways to deny people coverage yeah it
brings you back to the pre Affordable
Care Act rules for how states could dole
out a Medicaid or eligibility for
Medicaid Medicaid and up so yeah so
overall this play they want to give this
dais way more leeway and expand any
waivers for the restrictions that
Obamacare put on state exchanges and
state health care programs right a big
part of the BCRA was the channel to get
to Anki here but there's a thing called
a 1332 which is a Medicaid Waiver a
state can say hey we want to try to
solve problems this way and do this
thing and it used to be or it still is
now that the state needs to go through
like a long process of
proving people are still covered at the
same rate now they get better care or
whatever through the waiver program and
sometimes that's good like you can use a
waiver to find ways to keep people in
home care as opposed to like nursing
center facilities that's um that's a
good waiver but the the 1332 adjustments
in the BCRA said that states could do
whatever they wanted so long as like
they made a verbal promise that the
deficit wouldn't increase which gives
you a lot of latitude to cut a lot of
care and a lot of a lot of different
ways there's no restrictions on what
care needs to be included so it's bad
it's it's very bad and in the short term
in order to pass this they would still
need 50 votes just to bring the House
bill the BCRA that was passed by the
house months ago back to the Senate
floor and famously John McCain at the
beginning of the week voted YES on
starting the amendment process for that
bill to reconsider it again they're
gonna have to cobble together that 50
votes maybe they'd airlift McCain to the
[ __ ] floor of the house without
hopefully a floor of the Senate without
you know crashing the thing and managed
to get those 50 votes again or they can
try to bug Murkowski or Collins to get
an extra vote but Murkowski is a firm
know in part because the president
called her up and was such a dumbass
boor that just absolutely and in the end
of the chance that she would vote for
this I don't know how Trump's pitch on
this failed I mean like telling children
about a boat orgy he went through forty
years ago like that's I saw that and I
was like yeah I want my premiums to
double now you see the other thing where
he was addressing the Navy and he told
everyone assemble that like that like I
don't know what is the Annapolis Naval
Academy graduation to call their senator
yes yeah to get rid of some [ __ ]
reddit [ __ ] that has been
circulating since the the vote about how
McCain maybe to the untrained eye McCain
voting to allow for debate on the
amendment and then voting against it
later is just him his last act being a
massive [ __ ] media [ __ ] prima donna
who wanted a final dry
hugg job from the washington
commentariat for being a brave maverick
playing with people's lives literally
saying watch the show before he voted
against it
just like his final act of toxic
narcissism they'll say no no by bringing
the vote to burning the amendment to a
vote he was basically making it
impossible for the Republicans to bring
another reconciliation vote that would
only require 50 as opposed to 60 in the
air and that is wrong and incorrect and
not true because they voted down an
amendment the bill itself as they're
talking about will be brought back so
shut the [ __ ] up about McCain's genius
12th dimensional chess use being a huge
media [ __ ] and he wanted a final
[ __ ] tug job before he died and
that's it and that's the entirety of why
he did it and the end Trump was mean his
friends that's it there's no principle
involved as a practical matter McCain uh
if maybe they could cobble together some
kind of weird semi repeal Lindsey Graham
bill and but John McCain would come in
and probably vote for his best friend's
bill
I mean McCain I I read this on Twitter I
didn't verify the documents maybe I'm
wrong but McCain's statement or why he
voted against the Senate bill was
because I didn't go far enough
yeah fundamentally already you know as a
CI he's not like a [ __ ] humanitarian
which means like so I mean everyone
knows you just had brain cancer surgery
treatment I don't think everyone quite
understands like how manually intensive
that is like a bunch of nurses had to
sit around and manually cauterize a
bunch of veins inside of his head like
it's an extremely arduous process with a
bunch of like underpaid nurses working
double duty to give him like pretty good
health care and then he risks his entire
life to fly in a plane to Washington DC
so he can say ah I don't think anybody
else should have that as a practical
matter I think the gram compromise would
probably fail because of guys like Ted
Cruz and Ron Paul a Rand Paul who want
the most evil thing possible but the
president said after the vote failed
earlier this week at 2:30 in the morning
said that all along his idea was we
do nothing let the Obamacare markets
fail and then be able to negotiate from
a point of desperation and a point of
strength
Trump's been telegraphing that since he
got in right so the executive branch
excuse me
so uh the executive branch has a lot
they can do to gut the ACA right they've
been doing this thing since the first
passed the ledge WA was involved back
then doing things to refused refusing to
fund the risk-insurance corridor which
basically is a is a federal subsidy of
insurers they don't kick sick folks off
the plans or jack up premiums and the
reason one that wasn't funded you saw
that premiums one up I think like twenty
percent year-over-year a bunch of
[ __ ] [ __ ] Trump and Tom Price and
Seema Varma who's the head of the Center
for Medicaid and Medicare services CMS
have a lot they can do to make the
Affordable Care Act structures into a
just a [ __ ] limp piece of spaghetti
that doesn't relieve does doesn't do a
lot they can refuse to allocate funds
which is probably illegal but who cares
they're in power you can do whatever you
want refusing to enforce the individual
mandatory fees the mandem mandate to be
fair Obama didn't enforce the mandate
but his was more of an implicit revealed
refusal to enforce whereas trumps is now
is an explicit review is that what the
president's talking about when he refers
to bailouts all caps yes means funding
the risk corridor is funding the most
sick pay yeah and ultimately that's not
I don't think that's a poor
characterization I think you can so like
there was a Pelosi I think it was wrote
a letter a couple days ago talking about
how wish we should build a bipartisan
compromise with the GOP now a lot of
senators are saying right now that
they're in the dirt their bipartisan
compromise means just funding like
subsidizing insurers more heavily
through the a so that's just that's just
basic funding their Congress basic
appropriations for bills that have
already been passed from Congress yeah
but also adding more things in there's
an idea of building like those high-risk
pools giving states like twenty billion
dollars a year or whatever to help like
the quest like fundamentally it is not
profitable to insure sick people right
health care costs keep increasing like
on a per unit level it's
and expensive to take care of sick
people and so when you demand we try to
build a world in which they can be
covered by private companies insurers
you need to then if you want them to be
insured give the private companies a
bunch of money to keep them insured
which is what which is what the ACA does
the ACA cake rate structures through
which the federal government just dumps
money into private insurers on the
condition that they then will use that
money to keep sick folks insured but
also keep their premiums down so they
don't need to kick out healthy people
which would make it also not brown so
Tim looking forward assuming the gramm
bill fails and whatever other
Frankenstein concoction fails will the
president get his way on this what would
happen in the next year or two to these
regional exchanges these individual
markets if Congress doesn't fully fund
those risk corridors I don't know
specifically so I don't want to try to
be a real prognosticator because we do I
think I said this last time but I still
believe it we live in the Enrique
Iglesias zone now where nothing is
forbidden anymore and like knowledge of
the past has no bearing upon like
impressions of the future but I premiums
going up these exchanges yes premiums
went up 20% average you every year like
premiums are stabilizing but like at an
unaffordable level of yes which regional
markets you don't have a lot of insurer
choice and I think a third of the
counties the mandate is that this gonna
send the markets into a death spiral I
it will you've got two options that I
think are both feasible one is the idea
of the death spiral where nobody has
insurance it costs a jillion dollars and
the second version is a I guess tamp
down of the death spiral where you just
settle at a much more expensive level of
premiums across the board because
insurers are scared that there's gonna
be no money coming in from the feds to
subsidize them so they jack up their
premiums and you have like a mini like
it's not like you know it's catastrophic
in any sense of like looking at how
things are in the terms it's not nearly
as like apocalyptic as a version one of
the death spiral but it's not good like
I don't I don't I don't know if like
fundamentally like the Trump has a lot
of things he can do the ledge have a lot
of things they can do elect refusing go
to fund risk corridors for the past
three
resulted in a giant ensure a lawsuit
that's just not moving anywhere because
they were they refused to fund or to
appropriate money to the fund that would
be used to pay off the results of the
lawsuit like there's no [ __ ] laws
anymore I don't know if like I think you
can say kind of blanketly that every GOP
plan and every GOP actors plan for
health care is bad the degree to which
it's bad and the degree to which it's
depraved and barbaric is variable from
horrendous to mega horrendous but
unilaterally the GOP plan is bad the
Democratic plan is let's just keep
pumping money into the ACA
let's keep re subsidizing to make it
work let's stabilize the markets and
that's the best we can do right now
that's from the same cauldron that's
also pretty pretty bad it seems to me
sorry just like to zoom out a little bit
about like these competing visions of
how to handle health care in this
country on the Republican of the
Democratic side like more broadly
speaking like we've struck the beginning
about this about one of the main reasons
the Republicans even with majorities in
the House and Senate and the presidency
haven't been able to repeal Obamacare is
because they don't actually know what a
conservative vision for health care in
this country is or rather I mean Obama
cares failings are because it's a
market-based solution because the
problem is a more is the market the
problem is the [ __ ] market yeah the
thing that people hate that's a great
point the things that people hate about
Obamacare is the individual mandate
which is to stop to the market and the
things that people like is the Medicaid
expansion which is social and
politically politically that type of
social itical II this shows why it's bad
to start at a compromise because what do
you think the Republicans are just gonna
honor that truth that it is a
center-right market-based solution no
they're just gonna say that it's
socialism they're gonna say any [ __ ]
thing that you do is socialism you're
not gonna win points with them by giving
them their plan and putting a new name
on it and putting like a few bells and I
just doesn't make it better
Republican amendments over a hundred
Republican amendments to Obamacare yeah
hey I mean they really you know pay
themselves in the corner for the past
seven years because they're so scared of
their imbecile base who we're talking
about death panels and all the stuff and
because their whole strategy was total
opposition to Obama now that they own
this thing they can't fulfill a promise
that doesn't mean anything to say repeal
Obamacare but also somehow ensure
guarantee coverage make things better I
want to I want to ask I want to ask him
about you know the third option which is
you know what would be like a positive
how do we like expand our imagination to
include a positive vision for health
care before we get there I did want to
bring up one thing that I saw this week
that speaks to this kind of this
confusion on on the right and and just
general hostility to health care of any
kind is that I think that they they
don't like the idea of health insurance
just in general and I'm speaking of
course about this clip from Fox &
Friends the day after the the repeal
failed one of those idiots Fox and
Friends now probably the most
politically influential television
program in American history because it's
the show the president watches and
believes every word of that's probably
where he gets his information about that
look like Long Island is under siege
from ms-13 yeah but the no like so one
of one of the guys like kill meat or one
of those other memorial maybe I yeah one
of those other morons was douchey so the
line was he was talking about like how
he saw these young people celebrating
the failure of the the repeal and like
you know cheering and dancing in the
streets and he was like I don't
understand whether cheering
congratulations guess what the healthy
people pay for the sick people now and
it's just you just described the concept
in sure you just described a great
process which those who have the ability
and and don't need to be paid for can
spend money to take everybody else the
you've just asked you've just kind of
backwards do your way into the idea of
the moral community of the universal
health care
but also isn't every what they want like
if you like cheese it out because
because they have been forced by the you
know the manichaean nature of American
politics to oppose anything a Democrat
put out which means they hate Obamacare
and which is basically a market friendly
approach that deals with existing
insurance companies because they hate
that because it was proposed by a
Democrat that makes them now insurance I
think at this point they believe that
the way that health care should work
we've talked about this before and I
guess I just like to talk a little bit
more about like is this even vaguely
feasible is that I think that for now by
now the right wing view of what of how
health care should work is insurance
doesn't exist you do not pay into any
kind of insurance policy because of
competition and transparency prices are
brought down to the point where you just
go to the doctor when you need to and
you pay for it the way you would pay for
a meal at a restaurant out of your
pocket I think that is how they would
ideally structure health care and how
they think a maximally competitive
health care market would create so which
we tried that model in the 1880s and it
led to much people saying holy [ __ ]
nobody can afford the cost of health
care
we better invent this thing called
insurance us now we're just history is a
farce welcome to the Thunderdome time
baguettes time the past is a fiction no
you're right so but so you've got that
raw kind of like barbarism of there is
no insurance you pay for what you have
like aristocratic notion of how one
handles health care that we already
[ __ ] tried it's it's it's the apex of
the consumer driven movement which I
think I talked about the first time I
was on where you push more and more of
the costs on to the individual which we
can discuss at length but I think we can
suffice to say right now like it's bad
it's short-sighted and it solves none of
the problem creates a whole bunch of new
ones people then choose not to afford
because they can
to Ford it don't get primary or
preventive care and then wait until they
have stage 5 cancer and costs are pushed
up across the board and people are
thrown into like [ __ ] debtors prison
or whatever for medical debt and then a
third of families can't afford to pay
like their rent or their heating it's
obviously bad we know it's bad we've
looked at it for the past 130 years I
mean it also isn't every ad on Fox and
Friends like about new types of
catheters you can get to get like
Medicare to pay for it like that's the
weird thing about like why should
healthy people pay it's like does any
healthy person watch Fox and Friends
like the president the president every
[ __ ] ad on Fox and Friends is like
well here's a new type of bedpan that
will pull up all your weird vinegary
diabetes swag put it into a compost pile
that you can use to drive your liberal
neighbors crazy it's like but all these
people who watch it it's the same thing
about how these people think they're
blue collar because like they don't have
a post-secondary degree but they own
like a plumbing company and they have
all the affectations they think are blue
collar but they still drive a $70,000
truck and are high income they think
that they're healthy because I don't
know they don't need like birth control
or cancer treatment like the two things
that they hate and they're like yeah you
know I just I have a little weight
problem I do have like kind of like a
300 pound goiter that I got from the
great chick-fil-a war of 2012 but like I
don't know why I should have to pay for
somebody who's like [ __ ] up well then
and they're all on Medicare too which
also every that is you know here's how
you can ripoff Medicare for a rascal
scooter so you have more money to save
and lose on gold related scam if you
bought if you bought a sergeant sergeant
Smith's bacon grease covered bullets to
shoot at a Isis and you know there was
obviously a little problem where people
did get trichinosis from these bullets
you're entitled to a lawsuit I do want
to go back to sorry Will's a regional
question about like kind of like the
what's the positive
yeah no Tim I want to bring this up
because you know you've become something
of a health care expert a walk if you
will you've been giving talks on on this
subject about health care and like
obviously look we know what the
Democrats are coming up with is
insufficient but yeah that it is but you
know so whose us to talk about what
would be insufficient yeah I actually
noticed touchin it was for one second I
don't think we've fully kind of
discussed how insufficient the
Democratic plan is not just on the
subsidy level right like we know that
like Republican vision is Mad Max
Thunderdome
but the ill in cages and let them fight
and use the betting proceeds to pay for
one of their [ __ ] surgeries the
Democratic vision is build a massive
infrastructure which is right now the
ACA in which the federal government
heavily subsidizes private companies but
does nothing to actually regulate cost
and let the magic of the market and
smart consumers or whatever yelp they're
[ __ ] like gallbladder removal or
whatever and drive costs down that way
but what that also does is is is that
the Democratic plan of fixing health
insurance by subsidizing the ACA is a de
facto or implicit endorsement of the
status quo which is a corporatist and
employer domination of health care and
health care needs well that's not even a
plan that's just you know we already did
this so we just have to fund it but they
did it fails to be an actual exploration
or an actual like push for making things
better for people in America right
looking look likes like step back for
example if what kind of health care you
are permitted to have and how much it
costs you is derived as a function of
who your employer is and how like
generous your employer happens to be
here repercussions of that one like if
you have the wrong kind of employer you
can't get contraception you can't get
abortion you can't get hormone therapy
that was the Hobby Lobby versus Burwell
case right a closely held company which
is basically a company that administers
and so on insurance has the ability to
deny its employees certain kinds of
health care based upon whatever the [ __ ]
they are that they base it on and then
you saw an extension of that in the
Little Sisters lawsuit like the way
around that as okay so Hobby Lobby or
whomever hires somebody to administer
their insurance and
don't want to provide or pay for
contraception or abortion or home owned
therapy or whatever okay well they can
then sign a form saying we choose not to
approve these things and then a third
party will provide the employees
contraception when they need it but now
it was you know another lawsuit Little
Sisters of the Poor like that employer
won't even sign that form because
signing it would then cause their
employee to contraception like this is
the status quo the Democrats are
advocating for we're like when everybody
has employer-sponsored insurance like
you were still a your body and and the
commodification of the body and the
futures and whether or not you get sick
or poor and the profitability thereof is
still beholdin by a private capitalist
entity well they didn't anticipate those
cases we already have you we've had
things like this for a long time like
one of the big reasons that unions are
struggling right now is because the norm
for how an insurance plan is structured
is you push more and more costs on to
the individual or the consumer if you
want to use the libertarian vernacular
and because these health insurance plans
are more expensive and worse labor
unions have to spend a ton of [ __ ]
time negotiating like their way up from
terrible plans to better plans which is
why they're like having a hard time
fighting for things like safety or wages
or like any of the things we actually
want to aspire like this has been a
problem since the [ __ ] 70s like costs
have been increasing since we began
measuring them and the Democrats have
never provided a positive like
affirmative answer for how to solve this
their best-case scenario is we all have
employer sponsored insurance and the
[ __ ] cavernous whole world of
capitalism where that lives or you have
if you if you don't have an employer cuz
you're busy like being a lyft driver and
a GrubHub person and a postmates which
is which until you learn to code is the
pervert better skilled better wage path
the Democratic Party 2018
you have the insurer pool and the only
way to make that sustainable is to just
give over [ __ ] a jillion dollar I mean
a jillion sounds like a joke but it's
not
I mean Medicare Advantage fraud alone is
300 billion dollars over a decade like
we're wasting a ton of money so I would
say what is it um 30 percent of the
amount of money which the government
spends in a given year on health care
which
I think is like to point something
trillion dollars is just subsidies to
employers and to insurance companies a
couple of weeks ago the better deal
platform one of the planks that the Dems
unveiled was something that you talked
about on the show Medicare drug
negotiation right that's good that is a
good and important thing but like binome
like like you don't champion that as the
end goal that is like one step of money
to get there right yeah absolutely like
Medicare and like one we should have
[ __ ] nationalize drug industry
there's no great yesan to have them
around Tim what about what about all
their innovation though I've got a great
innovation nationalism there are their
innovations they discovered they could
just steal public research and use that
to create a profit and they can a time
release oxycontin Oh Lord that's a good
innovation they got all those free pens
the doctor I mean like this is a tangent
but like Trump would have a great
platform for bringing down drug costs
you say it's time for other countries to
pay their fair share or whatever we're
no longer gonna subsidize the rest of
the world but you know like whatever
like he could do that if you wanted to
but doesn't want to because he's a
[ __ ] piece of [ __ ] anyway so that's
the Democratic version like you like
Republican version is Thunderdome
Democratic version is like Thunderdome
but like you get to have a beanbag chair
at the office because your employer has
full control over your body your health
and your well-being or still commodities
and if you're unemployed or you don't
have sufficient uh employment to qualify
we'll just pour money at the problem but
not actually address the the bedrock of
it but the actual like the the thing
that we know that we want the thing that
we know that we have is to push towards
health justice and the biggest tool like
the biggest mechanism of health justice
is universal federal single-payer
universal federal first dollars and call
yourself a health justice warrior Tim I
yeah so like look we know this this is
what we want we know this is the way out
of this mess right like this is the only
sane and humane solution an electoral II
popular and it's electorally popular and
there it seems to be like there are some
on the Democratic side who are coming
around to this or realizing this or at
least willing to talk about it
of the House Democratic caucuses
co-signed the single-tier at least sang
live service which is way better than oh
nothing else but when you when you bring
this up and when you talk about this I
think one of the one of the the pitfalls
or one of the hurdles that that we are
as anyone who is an advocate for
single-payer has to clear is the
skepticism forget people who just hate
the idea of any kind of social insurance
or sort of universal benefit at all
forget them there are people I think who
agree with the idea theoretically but
have sort of they've allowed themselves
to like believe that it's some sort of
utopian dream that can't happen and that
like you know the pragmatic thing to do
is to just sort of chip away at these
little bits and pieces because
single-payer clap is just not happening
right how do we how do we address the
concerns of the I don't know
pragmatically problematic I'll call them
the scaredy cats
gently I think because fortunately
there's a whole lot of research
information that I think can can win
them over I I don't want to you know
spend time trying to convert those who
are fundamentally opposed the idea of
insurance but those that question or
curious I think there's a lot or room to
talk for so here's a couple of simple
things we can talk about one like we're
already spending the money to pay for a
single-payer health care we can just
allocate the money differently the goal
isn't to cut spending it's to reallocate
spending into better places that provide
more care for more people right now I
think in 2015 the u.s. spent numbers in
front of me but three point let's say
three point one trillion dollars the
entire US like as a country including
private people and individuals but three
point one trillion dollars on health
care of that two-thirds was direct
federal spending of that two-thirds half
was Medicare and the other half was a
combination of Medicare Medicaid and VA
the other half was a combinations of
subsidies to private companies tax cuts
for employers because of employer
sponsored insurance and then like the
just massive subsidization of insurers
through risk adjustment Medicare
Advantage etc and so we've we were
spending a huge
of money to get most of the work done
but that in no way we haven't begun to
address the idea of bringing unit costs
down which is what a single payer can do
right now in the u.s. we pay on average
forty percent more for a given procedure
than like France does a great example of
that is uh is the MRI the MRI is a
machine that prints money basically I
think it has like a year and a half pay
back window so after that you're just
[ __ ] printing fat sacks of cash by
pushing a button and scanning a body it
costs I think I think I got this from
Sarah Kliff at Fox eleven hundred
dollars to run a scan in the u.s. it
costs two hundred dollars to run a scan
in Australia and that Delta is not
because it's a more advanced technology
here or whatever it's because people
that run MRIs put them in hospitals and
hospitals are allowed to build more for
no good reason at all
so therefore costs go up like it got
this entire hierarchy of [ __ ]
middlemen that find ways to juice costs
independent insurers aren't big enough
to cut through those and the federal
insurer Medicare right now like does a
lot of the work but it doesn't trickle
down to everybody a federal single payer
has ability to like massively reroute
and push costs down and really
ultimately redirect spending and here's
a great example of that I was speaking
at a North Jersey DSA a while ago which
ruled way to go to North Jersey do you
say it was really really fun I love
going to no DSA meetings and somebody
brought a very good question of oh well
like our local hospital said if
single-payer passed they'll lose eighty
million dollars a year which is a pretty
slick reinterpretation or spin of what
would actually happen here's a here's
the counter-argument to that those
eighty million dollars a year represents
hospitalizations that don't need to
happen the most expensive thing you can
do is go to the ER or get an inpatient
surgery a hospital related [ __ ] is
the largest driver of health care
spending in the US that's because
hospitals have been aggregating and
merging and acquiring each other for the
past twenty years and now there's fewer
and fewer local care clinics and more
and more hospitals so if you're feeling
sick you go to the ER and you get like
the ten thousand dollars of procedures
there as opposed to going like your
local primary care provider and get
like $100 or $20 or really in the best
world free check up on pushing costs
down that way so here's an example of
how you can do that right now you've got
home health aides right which are people
that come into your house and take care
of your parents when they're sick but
not sick enough to need need to be like
intubated or be like in the ICU or V
inpatient that's great like everybody is
happy when that happens because people
want to stay at home because it's more
humane and nicer you can perform the
like not quite like doctor level of care
with a regular person who's got some
medical training there's gonna be 1.2
million home health aides by 2020
right now they receive on average a
salary of $11 an hour and there builded
Jesus yeah and they're billed at a
hundred and thirty five dollars per
visit so a great thing to do would be to
reallocate some of that 80 million
dollars we spend an unnecessary
inpatient admissions and pay home health
care workers more so they can do better
work for people in the comfort of their
own homes like that's that that net
drives costs down but also provides like
you any kind of health care regulations
to both address cost issues and address
like scope and coverage issues you can
do both at the same time for through a
federal single-payer you can do all
these things that encourage folks to of
a receive better care that's preventive
or less expensive and a more humane way
for them as opposed to pushing everybody
in the hospital but cost skyrocket yeah
it sort of this makes me think a little
bit about some of the very bad
democratic messaging this past week and
it sort of ties into their arguments
against single-payer something that I
saw a lot this past two weeks was this
bill affects one-sixth of the American
economy yeah we really want to make that
decision in secret you know put away
with how clumsy that wording is and how
little people give a [ __ ] no one's
turning out of the midterms for example
that's nearly 1/5 yeah for 1/6 of the
American economy but it ties into these
sort of centrist arguments against
single-payer that health costs are such
a big part of our economy that we can't
just somehow if we do single-payer no
one no one's going to work in health
care anymore
it's sort of like the arguments about
socialism that there will be no more
industry but it does it does make you
think of all those comparisons between
arc health costs and they'll cost of
countries with single-payer just fully
socialized medicine you can't look at
that graph that's seventeen percent and
that share that portion of our GDP
versus anyone elses and think that it's
not just the result of what Tim talked
about the inefficiency is of this system
and the price gouging and profit seeking
of all of these hospital companies with
the drug companies of everyone else and
I don't know how you can look at that
and think that it's sustainable in any
way it's after two massive dumbass
bubbles like just in my lifetime alone
bursting horrific ly we have this third
one that we've been building up this
entire time and the argument for not
fixing it for not deflating parts of
this bubble that mostly just go towards
profit seeking executives is that well
this bubble is a big part of our economy
and we just have to keep it in
perpetuity and that's somehow the
practical outcome that we're gonna have
inflated cost forever and that there's
never gonna be any market panic that
it's never gonna burst all over everyone
and that we can effectively gouge
everyone forever just because I don't
know people can't do clerical work at at
any type of NHS type thing we could
create the economy argument is such a
[ __ ] one because I am totally fine
with the Grossmont of health care
spending I think you want to do more
with that if you bring costs down you
can use that money to do more and like
I'm not neck economist but I am aware
with the idea that different kinds of
federal spending stimulate different
amounts of spending elsewhere in the
economy right like every dollar spent by
the federal government on building a
bomb creates like a dollar or less of
spending elsewhere regular doesn't it
doesn't similar in economy the number
I've read somewhere was that Oh every
dollar of federal spending and
healthcare creates $6 of spending else
because there's a it's a big [ __ ]
intricate intricate world so keep
spending that money but spend it better
you reduce the one thing I wasn't clear
on that I'm gonna go
for I jump into this but one thing I
wasn't clear on um a one of the other
ways a really really big way that the
government drives down health care costs
is by just putting together a list of
how much it costs and keeping everybody
to it right now there is no list of how
much I think costs Medicare is one of
those that's what the thing that the AMA
[ __ ] up I talked about that a couple
episodes ago but like that's an easy
immediate way that you bring costs down
is use is the the government says here's
how much it costs here's the multiplier
is based upon like where you live and
how complex the thing is and that's what
we're sticking to and that immediately
would have dramatic Grammer
gratification but about costing
overnight but really more importantly um
I think a federal sync I said before
that I really want to touch on is the
idea that the federal single-payer is a
giant instrument for health care justice
and you can begin to realize this but a
federal single-payer means that finally
the federal government bears the costs
of providing care like paying doctors
and paying nurses and not providing care
which is people getting sick in people
dying and people getting sicker from
preventable conditions that somebody
else should have cost your insurer
doesn't give a [ __ ] about you long term
because either you will change plans and
go to different insurer or you'll get
old and going to Medicare so their
actual like they care about keeping your
costs down for as long as you are with
them so that they don't need to pay for
it but they're not really like a a
positive actor who cares about like your
actual long-term well-being because
those costs aren't borne by them because
you become not their problem the federal
government which is just a proxy for
like society everybody around you does
bear the costs of you getting sick long
term so I think it's pretty reasonable
to make them be the people that bear the
cost of providing care in the first
place like join those incentives
together and so when that's the case you
can begin doing things that you see
there's this thing called the social
determinants of health which is like
understanding what happens in the world
cause folks to get sick and then trying
to address it I know the New York
Medicaid Medicaid happy birthday'
Medicaid by the way is like a [ __ ]
undervalued unsung hero in America it's
really been tackling these things the
New York Medicaid director Jason
helgerson wrote a big paper on this it's
[ __ ] dope anyway if you have a
federal single-payer that bears the cost
of providing and not providing care then
if part of your population is getting
sick
and dying because the food they have
access to is unhealthy and the food that
is healthy is unaffordable because it's
not [ __ ] profitable to sell
commoditized healthy food where they
live and so they live in a food desert
then the federal government has an
incentive to provide affordable
subsidized or free healthy food that
population because food is health care
if their housing conditions are you know
lack of affordable housing or lack of
housing all together are causing people
to get sick and die because you die from
exposure way faster than you died of
brain cancer then providing affordable
or subsidized health care becomes a form
it doesn't that open the door to this
kind of nanny state ISM that these
conservatives are constantly pretending
to care about right now the government
have an incentive to ban smoking or
alcohol use right now we delegate these
decisions to private entities who seek
to make profit off of it I would rather
delegate it to like the collection of
people that make up government make up
society right another good example right
like a thing that isn't really addressed
is that like if a person in your
population is being assaulted or beaten
or harassed like at home or at work or
by the police or by the domestic partner
then providing like safe havens is a
form of health care like all these
things fall under the umbrella of health
justice that's the actual thing we want
to get to like single-payer is the tool
health justice is the goal and kind of
along those lines like one thing I think
hasn't been said enough but people like
me is that like single-payer is one like
important process one important tool in
the push for health justice but it is
not alone things like repealing carceral
drug laws is a form of reaching for
health justice right there is no reason
that like one it professing a rehab if
they need it or going to get treatment
if they need it and two you put a
jillion people into prison that don't
deserve to be there and that drives cost
of a quality of life and health care if
I couldn't see down to let's talk about
like well the housing like look at like
the [ __ ] Grenfell fire in London
right obviously providing safe housing
and mandating safety norms as a form of
health care that is a movement that is
like parallel like a partner in the
fight for health justice
and lastly like the Hyde Amendment right
which prohibits federal money from being
used on abortion we're appealing the
Hyde Amendment is an extremely important
part of the fight for health justice it
is a parallel fight to the federal
single-payer program like in there's
this idea that you can only have one at
a given time [ __ ] off man I can walk and
chew gum at the same time I couldn't
fight for repealing the Hyde Amendment
and pushing for single-payer at the same
time the Hyde Amendment is often brought
up by skeptics of single-payer as being
a kind of a stumbling block for why it's
not realistic or why a federal
single-payer program in can with the
Hyde Amendment Unruh pealed would be a
disaster for women in in states that
basically are you know extremely
anti-abortion I have a couple of ways to
discuss that one like then what's pushed
to fight both at the same time I think
they go part and parcel - right now 70%
of abortions are paid for out of pocket
with no federal money no private money
no one share of money or whatever
touching them 15 states permit Medicaid
- 15 states have permitted their
Medicaid programs to provide for
abortions because Medicaid is a
combination of state and federal monies
they can say this is the statement a
partner or whatever like there is
absolutely a way you can build a a
single payer program that and like and
you can build it without the Heidemann
repealed you can build a single payer
program that maintains the status quo
but I would posit we push to reject the
status quo altogether but these things
aren't orthogonal they don't necessarily
contradict those who insist that they do
I think are lacking the moral ambition
to imagine a world which we should we
repeal like how the Heidemann and push
for single-payer together but apps
there's no great reason you cannot build
a universal single-payer program that
does not have the same kind of
bifurcated structure that Medicaid has
in which you could then find a way to
use the same loop or the same knot
loopholes the same principles we have
now to let States pave pay for abortions
like that's unimaginative but I do not
think these things are or are orthogonal
and what's the [ __ ] alternative right
like let employers continue to mana you
can who get who gets abortion access
like that's that's why there is a moral
ambition to the cause of health justice
that I think is a
big it's a very big tent issue so
embraced being part of the tent and like
let's fight alongside for all these
things like its it's simple and it's
humane and as heartwarming and I care
about it so much I do not think that
these things in any way at all are
contradicted so you talk about this
being a big tent because I think this
really is a a cross cleavage issue that
can attract single-payer can attract
supporters from non not traditionally
Democratic voters in especially many red
areas in the country so when as a prank
Dane's from Montana put I believe was
Conyers single-payer bill he's not write
to the Senate floor to get Democrats on
the record about it 43 would not go on
the record against it why whereas for
voted no straight out its mansion from
West Virginia Donnelly from Indiana hide
camp and interestingly Bill Nelson from
Florida who's kind of a piece of [ __ ]
really has no reason to do that but you
know thinking about you know someone
like Joe Manchin in West Virginia where
obviously is a very high poverty rate in
that state what exactly is he afraid of
other than condemnation from the
insurance companies one Vergil your
point about 43 not going on the record
against it is a really positive approach
the I admit I got [ __ ] head faked by
the Danes moment I was like hungover it
was my birthday and I was mad as hell
but I think that's a really positive way
to approach it like they didn't go on
record against it and I think that's I
like that a lot um I mean like you've
got a bunch of different what am i
listen the thing that's a little bit
more wonky but I think it's fun to talk
about one of my issues with the New York
state of health a state single-payer
plan on top of like why don't think
states good fun single-payer plan up
programs is that it there's a once you
put together a single-payer proposal all
the [ __ ] worst goals and all their
shitty attack dogs yeah all their like
their armor-clad Nazi attack dogs will
like just [ __ ] jump on you and go for
the throat right and that composes
that's the insurer industry that's the
provider industry which is a hospital
CEOs I don't mean like doctors I mean
specialists and hospital CEOs you've got
entrenched corporatists the idea of a
wash and I pay for things that I don't
get
reap the benefits of etc and then you've
got like I guess like the political
obstructionism of what I see out there
sometimes I guess it's some combination
right I think all of them are
addressable I think you can pretty
easily triangulate well one against the
other in order to get actually do that
all right that gets me to a thing that I
think is really interesting um there's
this idea that I've been asked a lot on
what I gonna give fun little talks about
like well what do we demand then do we
demand single-payer now exclamation
point or do we demand like I don't like
a Jacobin piece and and I watch you
forever and similar things about like
incremental processes to get universal
health care so which do you demand was
that it was that that was the the public
option versus universal health care
kinase Adam Gaffney of physicians for a
National Health Plan or at a very good
Jacobin piece about opposing a public
option I think it's great I think you
look at like the educational loans model
and see how a private interest Lobby
will do anything they can to gut public
option may be effective but I here's how
I squared I like what are you gone for I
think you've gone for absolutely
single-payer now and you accept and you
propel and you pressure the incremental
changes that drive to that goal without
ever releasing right like I think it's
one thing to advocate for we're gonna
make changes to the ACA that's [ __ ]
uninspiring I don't like that I think
it's fine to say I demand single-payer
now and to get there I will do one two
three four five yeah and I want you the
voter base to push me to keep going from
one to two and two that's what's been
amazing about the past year is that this
isn't just opposition to Republican
health proposals there is forward
momentum for single-payer and in terms
of the Democratic Party and perhaps even
some Republicans that raising a public
consciousness has to continue Democrats
have you have to hold their feet to the
fire and that's going to be in primaries
in 2018 and there has to be a
presidential nominee in 2020 who says
yes I support single-payer full-throated
Lee yes the work right now I think and
I've been really really heartened by
like ID like a health care talk in
Houston and like 180 folks came out all
across the board really good like blend
of people across like how different ages
and different genders and different
races that was pretty [ __ ]
nope same thing on Jersey I did a get in
filling plants ago like people want to
fight for this because people are
finally making it clear like here's what
you stand to gain we're all in this
together let me offer you like an
inspirational aspirational vision of
moral community in solidarity across
people and I think that has to turn into
like got two options right either the
Dems give us candidates who will fight
for single-payer or we make them
ourselves yeah absolutely work becomes
making this the litmus issue in twenty
eight and that's gotta be because of the
Senate's rules that has to be across the
country are Democrats can't be afraid of
their current view of this this this
this political continuum that Oh
single-payer sure if you're in a safe
state you can support that but if you're
in North Dakota if you're an Indiana and
you're a rapper senator there you know
you should get a pass on that it's okay
to be that's the moderate position
there's not a hell of a lot of uninsured
and suffering people in these states to
I think yeah I think people in these
safe states representatives of these
state states need to start advocating in
NHS and just like a literal socialized
medicine where the [ __ ] doctors and
[ __ ] are government employees and then
people in mind you know in purple states
and stuff can advocate for single-payer
as the moderate position in my mind
you're talking about basically going to
war with insurance companies I mean the
Democratic Party would have to if it's
gonna be firmly committed to
single-payer that means giving up
insurance company money it's more than
just insurance but yes you're right yeah
and also providers I'm just saying that
sounds like a multi-front war wasn't
that united opposition what sank Hillary
care in 1993 yeah no I this is this like
I see inside of the fight for universal
health care for universal single-payer
first all our health care an
encapsulation of a movement of the
people against the corporatist right
like it's yeah it has to be and it's it
like obviously like this fight is being
fought on a jillion different fronts and
the way it manifests happens over and
over and over again
and obviously like whenever it's people
versus a capitals and people versus
corporatists like people's bodies and
well-being is always on the line but
here it's quite literal in a way that is
gruesome to many like we're not just
fighting for like our insurance plans or
whatever we're fighting for the fact
that right now children find their
quality of health care bound to whether
or not their parent can get a good
employer that's obviously cruel and any
system in which that's like permissible
and I don't mean like oh well let's push
them just on Medicare let's solve the
problem that way no like fundamentally
this is this is a construct in which the
well-being of people is a commodity that
you can buy and sell features off of
that that must go and I think yeah you
can you can make like this pretty full
throated of salt and capitalism in a
safe state and say oh we just want to
take everybody that's propelling
single-payer it's not just the fact that
so many people are talking about it and
agitating for it but I think the
material conditions of health care are
shifting to the point where more and
more people support it because they have
to support it and what worries me is
that a lot of the opposition to
Obamacare and a lot of opposition to
single-payer now comes from people who
already enjoy a form of socialized
medicine some people who are on Medicare
and it's just this very [ __ ] you I got
mine mindset I think we're gonna look
back proposed Medicare for everyone I
mean that's what I think you know drove
some of the early proposals for what
became the ACA was you know we're going
to lower the what is a Medicare
eligibility age the House passed a
public option that you know the Senate
would refuse to pass and I mean that
seems to me why Medicare for all is a
popular selling point it's saying you
know we're not gonna do a new thing or
it's gonna expand on this thing that
works just as a communications mechanism
Tim just one one other detail that I
think is important to point out as far
as chewing gum and walking at the same
time you see a lot of critics or liberal
types who say that this is some I guess
like a brochure list fight that is
either like irrelevant or just for white
people or something like that
well that
my single-player plan yeah right white
so that's probably Steve bannon's you
know I ideal health care plan but
certainly means only but it's certainly
not to let the man's single-payer that
only covers gamer related injuries
already player one plan but but the idea
that it's not this is not a racial
justice issue at the same time as absurd
because of the people who could not
participate in the exchanges post
Obamacare but are also ineligible to be
supported by Medicaid half of those
people are people of co-op salute like
if you go into any hospital to go into
any hospital and you'll see people who
that like it go in any major city in
like the most underfunded Hospital in
the city it'll be filled with people of
color who are there for procedures not
for hospitalization but because they
have to go to the emergency room because
they can't get coverage and they just
have to show up at the hospital and it's
drowning them in medical debt absolutely
Brennan is referring to to me
is probably one of the most nauseating
and cynical things that you hear from
people I guess ostensibly who are
consider themselves liberal but for some
reason hate the idea of having moral
ambition as you I think it's a really
good way of yeah yeah and and when we
talk about making any of these universal
things any of these broad Universal
things that people need to have a decent
life health care housing and education
and making the fight for those universal
making these universal benefits as some
sort of like in racial terms that like
oh this isn't really this is addressing
the needs of white people and it's all
white people who are saying this if I'm
by and large like how do you I mean
again like it's sort of like do you take
these people seriously I don't I think
this should be dismissed out of sight
but like okay if you were to like come
across this argument in the wild like it
should be pretty easy to do away with
right yes every I have I couldn't open
email address and every now and I go
people email me questions and I've
gotten that question before and I
replied basically with a Brendon says
like no like Medicaid expansion under
the ACA disproportionately like when two
people of color because those people
that are being [ __ ] over the most by
health
health care works now I didn't get a
response but I do not understand how you
can look the state of the world and
think that like only white men seek to
benefit from expanded healthcare when
like this entire like [ __ ] status quo
of what I'm talking about like this
portion Utley puts the burden of
existence upon woman and people have
gone right yes what benefits white men
because those are the people who are
most likely to be able to scrape out
from the wreckage of our current system
and this a totally disingenuous argument
as well you know this assault on
insurance like you know the people of
color are on the front lines of it it's
part of why Republican governors totally
just got away with not expanding
Medicaid because it's not their voters
who are suffering one one more thing
that I think while we're on the
disingenuous talking point kick there's
another line you hear that was similar
the to what was used against Sanders is
education plans and how by making stuff
universal you're also giving rich people
these resources and does that make any
sense Snowden Donald Trump's kids
shouldn't be going to discuss a if you
did that you might actually turn some of
the rich people's kids normal if they
had to interact with you know the rest
of us on on a daily basis but B of
course the entire thing that this would
prevent is a two-tiered system in which
if you only gave if you only allocated
resources for the underclass or poor
people but the rich people still were
able to opt out and go for whatever
system they wanted that's separate
you're gonna have the same thing that
happens now still which is that there's
one system for the rich we get a better
deal and then the resources that are
actually spent on the rest of us are our
second rate and that's what we have
right now right it's repugnant to think
back on a Hillary Clinton at the debates
the Democratic primary debates using
that line as a cudgel against Bernie
Sanders because Jeremy Corbyn was that
substantially the same question about
one of his proposals and he said well
that's how we do the NHS and the NHS is
for everyone you know isn't that what it
means to be a baseline Social Democrat
and so for a second for a second you can
say oh yeah is this actually unfair or
in a weird way helping rich people but
the immediate answer to that is if you
don't include literally everyone the
rich will operate a better system
separately
on top which is again free for them
right yeah into it they won't defend it
either the way this works in other
countries and I'm fine with this I'm not
gonna advocate it for but I'm cool with
it it's like things like there is a
there's a boutique market for things
like orthopedic or knee surgery or
whatever high margin high-volume
and so if you're a rich person you spend
an extra jillion Australian euro
whatever the [ __ ] called Ostrow and
you get to go to like a fancy lad
facility with fancy lad doctors and
fancy lad providers and get your fancy
let near a surgeon let's [ __ ]
findings they're still paying into the
interview for system like whatever like
the rich will always find a way to make
things nicer for themselves as long as
we're getting their money to pay pay for
everybody everybody else and we're all
on this thing together
I'm fine they can build their own
[ __ ] like Byzantine like Christmas I
mean if they didn't do it here they
would just go overseas to do it anyway
right one there's one other thing that I
wanted to bring up cuz I haven't been
having playing with this idea so one of
the things that I think Virgil brought
up is how do you kind of penetrate the
medical industrial complex and one I
think it's very easy to lump all
providers in the same category which is
obviously not accurate you've got
hospitals ceos you've got building
departments and the entire
infrastructure there and you've got
actual people like doctors and nurses
and home health aides there's an
argument from some doctors which i think
is easily a connor about that like it
costs so much to go to medical school
they need their huge salaries to pay off
the debt they have afterwards so I think
a strong and I think that's like I
understand that on the individual level
I think the the the the counter-argument
for that is that in a federal a federal
universal single-payer plan is tuition
relief for medical training oh yeah
whether that's med school nurse school
RN specialisation on all that
specialization whatever either make it
free at public universities give them a
work program where they can work in a
rural area or as a pcp for a couple
years to to get their loans forgiven I'd
I don't know this the specific contours
but absolutely like providers should not
be shackled to $300,000 in debt at 7
percent compounding at any will interest
and two decades of paying it off just
provide care to people right now we have
the lowest per capita rate of primary
care providers of anywhere in uh in the
world there's no reason for that to
exist I think that that fight for
education debt relief is part of health
justice as far as ever that's another
way that universal health care expands
the economy by expanding education for
doctors and technicians and so on yeah
sorry that's just an aside of some
something about the same society would
do well I think let's leave it there
just with the caveat that we this is the
twisted dark Society Tim are you gonna
be in Chicago next week
I am I just learned yesterday I am
speaking at the DSA National Convention
on the Medicare for all panel right now
they're projecting a hundred people in
attendance and I would love if that
quadruple so I can wave my hands over
over a big audience so if you are in
Chicago for the convention come hang out
with me me and my girlfriend will be
there she's a even smarter at health
care policy than I am so you can find us
at whatever party and we will shout at
each other happily about health care
with you also I wanna plug my newsletter
what's up my first appearance on chapeau
I'd built out a little tiny letter where
about once every other week I send a
couple thousand words on things that I'm
thinking about a lot of the stuff that I
talked about today came from that
newsletter and also you can like email
me a question and I will
I get three in the morning the weekend
half later I'm just gonna do all the
email so if you want to read more or if
you want like send me [ __ ] feedback
or push back on me or whatever it's cool
it is Tony letter calm slash error errrr
I got the early user name so you can
join that and join like those eight
hundred other people named you usually
go for error no what does that we
usually go for Toyota phone yeah but in
this kit Toyota thing pronounced like
Jonathan we will we will link to the
tiny letter in the show description and
I would also like to add a plug for
ourselves we will also should we plug
this we've like well known as the shows
sold out yeah I mean but we're just
gonna be in yeah we should talk people
that they can't go if you guys see right
now you probably didn't get tickets [ __ ]
you should have been faster just like
you can't attend my talk at the DSA
Convention held in Grant Park and it's
I'm finally telling the truth but Syria
they can't stop me you can't [ __ ]
edit me out when I'm in a park I'm gonna
do it everyone go there you're gonna
learn the truth anyway go to Tim's talk
we'll be in Chicago next week everybody
there everyone yeah I'll see you in
Chicago
I'll see you at Stacey come on
shown its junk alright guys see you in
Chicago
see you there fine
you
