look just gonna say it right off the bat
there's a reason that we're all together
just the three of us for over a year now
we've given you our opinions about the
world about politics about media about
culture and the entire time we thought
we were on in PHP right but we have come
across someone that's changed our
perspective it's very true yeah very
true I'd like to start by begin by
introducing a new a new character to the
chapo canon that you know I came across
this morning well I've known about him
for a while but he was really
distinguishing himself this morning so I
want to talk about him and then our new
character is the dark professor of
course I'm talking about toronto-based
psychologist Jordan B Peterson you might
be some say that someone who is
incapable of cruelty is a higher moral
being than someone who is capable of
cruelty and I would say and this follows
young as well that that's incorrect and
it's dangerously incorrect because if
you are not capable of cruelty you are
absolutely a victim to anyone who is and
so part of the reason that people go
watch anti heroes and villains is
because there's a part of them crying
out for the incorporation of the monster
within them which is what gives them
strength of character and self-respect
because it's impossible to respect
yourself until you grow teeth yes my
influences are well you know sorry to
overload you with my influences but are
they include Immanuel Kant Victor
Frankel Darkwing Duck and Louie
Armstrong I think to myself what a
logical world because someone post the
swastika doesn't mean Wow Kermit the
Frog from Ontario voice very very
logical you're definitely responding to
his arguments that way you're not
helping him right or me in the comments
were doing you a favor they're telling
you everything about them or nothing
about you so Jordan Peterson I mean like
he's a guy who basically he got internet
famous and became the the professor of
the alt-right
and like logic pedants online because he
refused to comply with the University of
Toronto's pronoun policy that that's
basically he Rosa parts of pronouns
basically yeah he would not refer to
people by their preferred pronouns only
by the gender they were born or
something like that and and then he gave
a series of like sort of he's like one
of these like sort of like philosophy
logic nerds that have now found an
audience with sort of in cell shut in
pen guys I think Peterson is sort of an
interesting character I think he's funny
because he is so intensely self serious
and I was like I tried to watch a video
of him being interviewed by Dave Rubin
and I mean and then your browser was
like warning IQ is too hard
collective IQ of this video is too high
I tried I tried watching it and then I
was like skipping around because it was
so [ __ ] boring but like the one
segment of it I watch Jordan Peterson
was telling Dave that frozen is not as
good a movie as Beauty and the Beast
because it has politics and that nobody
will be watching frozen in 30 years of
like beauty of the beast which is a
diverse classic today young men are
taught to take all the negative aspects
of the beast they are locked away in
their mansion and berated with messages
but they don't have any of the benefits
of his life they don't ever care know
what that kid series where I just like
like I said he's been sort of a
character on my radar for a while that
seem like a you'd be a ripe for an
amusing discussion on the show but this
morning when I woke up he had really
distinguished himself because he's now
sort of taking up the cause of James
d'amour
yeah [ __ ] freak face and his lawsuit
against Google for just you know
discriminating against him for being a
white man and having logical beliefs
yeah yeah he's - he's mr. - damn logical
fire him yeah he's like a what he's just
a poster boy for the dunning-kruger
effect this guy he's amazing he had a
tweet after he got webb famous for his
system or vote yea his evopsych google
memo that got him fired where he says
like a bird a country needs two wings a
right and a left wing if one is too if
one is too powerful then it becomes
unbalanced and it can't fly well that's
like dude you know that that is a figure
of speech right I mean that's such a
basic logical error that it kind of
calls into question his entire claim to
being the king of logic I can I call you
on that one
countries are exactly like birds birds
are a mortal issue their own currency
represent millions of people and yet no
I mean whenever your start maybe word
for word thing was society is like a
bird you start out that strong I'm with
you yeah so he was a going to bad fur
for James d'amour and the sort of this
he proposed an experiment for people to
do and I'm just gonna read from him
right now Peterson says google image
search bikini then do the same with Bing
and then think hard about Google's
desire to shape our perceptions
themselves in the politically correct
manner regarding James d'amour and his
lawsuit well and it's just like what
like okay so then people did the search
on Google and Bing and basically both
return as you might expect images of
women in bikinis and like as best I can
tell if I can Intuit sort of try and
what he trying to say is that the Google
results
maybe showed women who were of a you
know not you know sort of plus sizes so
I saw one person do it and the only
difference is there were a couple of
years of Ashley Graham who is a
quote-unquote plus-size swimsuit model
who has been on the cover of Sports
Illustrated yeah I mean she's hot you
know as as a very forward-thinking man
like yeah maybe I will [ __ ] a woman
without exposed hip bones virtue
I'm virtual a virtue busting like Google
was showing more like non-white women or
something like that I think it's really
just that there are a few shots of
actually grabbing the Google one those
other than that the results were pretty
much women in bikinis then people
started pointing this out and then like
people started replying to people who
are like I don't get what these two
image searches are supposed to prove
about how we're being sort of nudged by
Google's politically correct algorithm
or something and then like the people
who were I guess fans of Peterson or
like defending this position we're like
ok Google European painting and then
they can Google and then or you know
like or like American inventor and
you'll see what we're talking about and
then what happens is is you google those
two those specific terms like if you
European painting you'll see a lot of
results of like the same one or two
paintings of like a portrait of like a
moorish person or something like that
and then like american inventor you'll
just see a lot of like black inventors
but then if you actually like click
through to like what the why the results
are coming up you'll see that the reason
that these are the top results is
because like it's all the results
specifically of all right people
searching this term and getting angry
and they all link back to their own
blogs things about how European painting
is now - means black people or something
like wow
not since Benny Johnson out it's amazing
how these people keep getting owned by
predictive algorithms that are all tied
in to their own [ __ ] searching I want
to put it put a little flag in this
Jordan Peterson first came across this
because he was Google image searching
bikini
like that's how he's like all right it's
been a long hard day of logic why don't
I uh you know what Jordan you've earned
yourself a reward how about a woman in
her bra oh I think that uh you know what
no you've deserved bikini like he he
jacks off like me when I was like nine
come yet and I was just like this is it
Jordan Pierson followed it up and he
said just how exactly is this done image
search google european people art you
know that well-known phrase there's you
and then like and then what then what
you get european people art all you get
is a bunch of all right memes about
donald trump and black fever to our
perception i don't know anybody who sees
the king dick of logic and things to the
company like google gives a [ __ ] about
anything other than making [ __ ] money
is just full of absolute baloney my
friend
yeah i love the idea of these soulless
androids at Google and the Google Play
pen make it make a dome wherever they
work like in their in their personalized
ball pits except the cubicles are like
alright today we're gonna we're going to
fool people into jacking off into WOC
and where every time they look for you
know that classic term that everyone
searches for art by haplogroup we're
actually going to show them hotep art of
Jesus being black and say it's from the
Renaissance and then that way
like what do they accomplish yeah what's
these guys who go around their offices
in like a giant hamster ball with a
12-hour Soylent suppository and like
twelve every couple hours they get a
teenager's blood and fused into their
dicks they really care about about yeah
people jacking off to to a plus-size
model you know what's interesting about
this is that like
for both types of right-wingers they
have to believe that stem Lords are just
the most brilliant people alive and if
you're like Ruby like a Rubio Republican
or like them or more libertarian twinged
you're like oh they're gonna save the
economy they're literally gonna fix all
the problems they shouldn't be taxed at
all we should give them every every visa
program for foreign slave labor to fix
everything this is the most exciting
thing nothing is overvalued but if
you're like more alrighty it's like no
yeah they are amazing it but they're
using it to ruin the world by making me
to jack off to them with dreads I guess
yeah it's it's it's once again it's over
and over you see the phenomenon of
people being alienated rightly for theis
massively powerful and totally
unaccountable corporate entities but
then just losing the thread and then
like allowing sort of pre-existing like
their own pre-existing resentments to
sort of shape their analysis of what's
wrong with the company well it's like
how Birchers were against the Vietnam
War not because it was a stupid and
brutal and thuggish entanglement but
because they're like oh no we just nuke
all of East Asia that's what I've always
thought here's an interesting question
is regards like the the James d'amour
lawsuit and you know we all know what we
think of him I mean if you if your face
looks like that you shouldn't be
shouldn't have the Google could fire him
based on that alone yeah because he
should I mean with that no but like the
obviously Apocrypha here is that like
when these logic nerds come face-to-face
with like the you know running into the
Thresher of like real corporate power
then they all get like up in arms about
like oh my freedom of speech even though
that like usually nine times out of ten
their political ideology tends to afford
corporations that yeah their whole
premise is that there is an owner of a
company should have complete control
over what happens within it including
whose employees why however like you
know like the flip side to that though
is us you know cheering Google for
firing a employee for sharing a his
personal thoughts on a company email or
something like that and it's like you
know the line here is I don't know I
mean it's a difficult question to answer
because on the one side you
and say yeah like it's of course it's
Twitter's right to ban you know Nazis or
people who you know threaten people with
death or went on so so on and so forth
and then like when people get banned the
rejoinder is obviously well haha you
signed the Terms of Service and put it
as a private company they can do what
they want
however the Internet is now such that
like three or four corporations
basically do control all the beach on
the Internet yeah and should they be
treated like a public good should they
just be nationalized right and if they
are nationalized then every anything
that would happen would be subject to
strict first Nathan Robinson wrote a
piece about this today that I thought
was very good and it's and it is hard to
say like we're you know where that line
should be drawn between public and
private because it's let's say if you
were effectively banned from Facebook
Google Twitter Apple or you know like
like I said these three companies then
like yeah your speech has been
diminished your ability to participate
in the public sphere is being abridged
by private companies right yeah so like
is that a First Amendment issue I
absolutely think it is and I think that
I do think it's funny that these these
these guys who who preach social
Darwinism and and and and a totally
unregulated economy think yes but the
Internet should be should be a public
good because I got banned from [ __ ]
Twitter because that's how they think
they think in these very they think only
about how things affect them personally
so the only companies that that could
possibly infringe upon their rights even
though they're that's not supposed to
happen even though private companies are
supposed to be the guarantors of freedom
the only way that they can the only ones
that are bad for me it's not you know
it's only the ones that personally [ __ ]
with me it's the only one that made me
not be able to post my boy per memes on
[ __ ] Twitter and it's just it's
another example of how like this isn't
this is it's it's an easy hypocrisy to
point out on either side the who laugh
at Google doing this the people who are
outraged and but the way to [ __ ]
resolve that contradiction is yes
through taking that logic of
nationalizing and and extending it
outward and all of these companies that
have the power to completely [ __ ] people
over and are on
countable and injecting accountability
into it through a public a public
ownership by the way I was a if you
google if you google image search like
an actual term like 19th century
European art or anything specific like
you will of course get the results that
you you know these people would be
thinking of it's just like yeah if you
search the if you for these are excused
and they're awful memes and blog posts
yeah then you will find those results
right and I just I love I love the
thought of Jordan Peterson being like I
was using my computer every time I
searched Kierkegaard because I care
about Western civilization and
philosophy and my research the as soon
as like type K the first letter that
I've said to something called Kincaid
compost water degeneracy I don't have
time for divide [ __ ] I'm trying to
find out about ferret lovak you know
reveling you know as I've been running
more I've you know you know looking into
the craft of writing because I think
that every time you know everyone should
learn the new ten from time to time I
think the only way we grow is by
learning new things so I was looking up
the term pregnant pause but the sort of
thing that I was bombarded with in the
autocomplete it said pregnant Naruto
first of all it's impossible for him to
get pregnant second of all I don't care
what pronouns he uses man he doesn't
have a uterus third of all [ __ ] Sasaki
wouldn't get him pregnant if Naruto was
pregnant and he tried to do the Naruto
run where his belly is sort of dragging
on the ground because it was pregnancy
well he would be giving that baby an
abortion with the it run but maybe
that's what these people want you see
how they conditioned us for this thing I
said like I said I went down a bit of a
Jordan Peterson I went in Jordan
Peterson's hole
and some point this mean that not to go
that mean this is of note to our show I
mean we are founders of the Jared Fogle
Innocence Project would it shock you to
learn that Jordan B Peterson is now
Sandusky innocent curious yes hell yeah
hell yes John Ziegler is like welcome to
the [ __ ] resistance real resistance
yes and then so he was yesterday was
retweeting someone who was like you like
you just like keep opening these quote
sweets they get weirder and weirder and
it starts at Peterson going God could
this be true
the repressed recovered memory industry
is an ethical morass which is true but
that's not what convicted seriously yes
exactly
Jordan assistant coach literally walked
in on yes [ __ ] a boy yes he literally
thinks that they just grabbed like
thirty adults and like God bela lugosi
did dangle I can watch in front of them
you're remembering what Jerry Sandusky
did okay so so Jordan Peterson there is
is quote meeting someone named Diana
Davison who says Mark Pendergrass is the
journalists really breaking the story on
this wrongful conviction of Jerry
Sandusky and at least is something
called the crime report org and then
she's quoting another person named dr.
Oren Amity who goes holy shite although
I strongly disagree with some of Cruz
statements interpretations and claims
especially regarding the Holocaust Jerry
Sandusky is a must-read in the skeptic
magazine oh can you count to six million
accusers of jerry-san sorry back to
Peterson
I just Matt as one of the conditions for
your losses yeah losing the poop
touching debt the ROI more bet you know
I said I was gonna punish you you know
physically and mentally you've done the
physical test touching the cat poop now
I'll put you through the mental test yes
I just want to let put the marker down
for all the listeners I have ordered you
a copy of Jordan Peterson's book that is
now it is not out is not out yet it's
coming out in the 23rd but I've
pre-ordered you a copy and I spill a
little bad for
using this [ __ ] nitwits book sells
but I think it's in service of a good
cause I we might find out that he's
actually the logic genius that he claims
to be I got an open mind well here well
here's a preview Peterson has is sort of
heretofore has bitten written like three
academic books about like you know
religion and mythology and things like
that but he's cashing in on his newfound
like internet success being a kind of
you know the the the sort of the dad for
the all right
you know for a lot of sad pepé online
guys and he's got his book is called
twelve rules for life an antidote to
chaos and I just want to read a little
bit from the sales copy here and he says
here um humorous surprising and
informative dr. Peterson tells us why
skateboarding boys and girls must be
left alone what terrible fate awaits
those who criticize too easily
and why you should always pet a cat when
you meet one on the street so right off
the bat I gotta say I agree with two out
of those three things
skateboarding boys and girls should be
left alone if I just probably he means
by mall security or just you know people
shaking their face terrible at
criticizing people too easily I mean
that's our bread and butter I don't like
to imagine the terrible fate awaits us
well also that's a thing of like well
what does that mean to easily I mean
come on obviously that's it's it's it's
a meaningless phrase because you haven't
defined the term and why you can't when
you meet one on the street folks how
about you pick it up and bring it inside
your apartment and live with it that's
what I believe in that's a good recipe
limeade i'm a living testament to jordan
Peterson's beliefs okay so it goes on he
says what does the nervous system of the
lowly Lobster I have to tell us about
standing up straight with our shoulders
back and about success in life why did
ancient Egyptians worship the capacity
to pay careful attention as the highest
of gods what dreadful paths do people
who tread when they become resentful
arrogant and ventral dr. Peterson
journeys broadly discussing discipline
freedom adventure and responsibility
distilling distilling the world's wisdom
into twelve practical and profound rules
for life
well rules for life shatters the modern
common places of science faith in human
nature while transforming and ennobling
the mind and spirit of its really
shattering all of your preconceived
notions by telling you to stick up
straight this is kind of like an nrx
Lifehacker
yeah yes like and then like sjw media
will tell you to walk in the style of
the virgin young man are not anymore
taught than they after wipe all the
feces encrusted out of their [ __ ] and
they walk around all day with doing else
and it's not just that it's wet when
it's dry it itches you get diseases you
get a rash and then someone goes up to
you and blames you for racism I don't
want people to have do to us before we
move on from from the dark professor we
just play a clip of him where he's like
crying and [ __ ] on the other just
because we've been doing the the voice
and I don't think you guys are really
getting full of facts it's we're here
from the dark at the dark with the Dark
Knight himself you know I'm sorry that
we've been talking like this the whole
time you haven't even gotten a chance to
hear him and it makes me think of all
the people who will never hear his voice
and it makes me very emotional even real
ones cry I've gone around and spoken and
a large proportion of my audience has
been young man yeah you know under 30
something like that and I've spoken to
them a lot about responsibility and
what's so odd about about this is that
of all the things that I've spoken about
because I can see the audience and I can
feel how the audience is reacting
because I'm always paying attention to
all of you it's insofar as I can manage
that so I I get some sense of how what
I'm saying is landing you know what you
have to do if you're going to speak
effectively to people and what what
happens is if I talk about
responsibilities everyone be is silent
just like they are now it's silent and
and not moving right focusing attentive
say pick up your responsibilities pick
up the heaviest thing you can and carry
it and the room goes quiet and
everybody's eyes open and I think that
who's made
we break up I was
thank you for fessor by the way the the
the sort of playlist that you to another
another algorithm that's that's nudging
us in a politically correct direction
when you search Jordan Peterson I'm just
looking just browsing some of the Jordan
Peterson videos on offer
Jordan Peterson and on the meaning of
life for men must watch Jordan Peterson
don't be the nice guy
Jordan Peterson handling your darkest
feelings
Jordan Peterson is life worth the
suffering and finally Jordan Peterson
advice for Hyper intellectual people
settled outdoors man so yeah look
forward to our coming review of the
twelve rules for living well let's you
know what all twelve of them are
knocking that way standing up straight
up a bit it is like five hundred pages
