it is almost the end of Tuesday as I say
these words it will turn into Wednesday
here we are at the 538 headquarters it
has been a long night let's look back at
some of the races that we were covering
this evening we already have some
results we already have a flip it is in
the house it's from the state of
Virginia Jennifer waxen tell me why
we're actually sitting here and talking
about Virginia ham because our model
said that the Democrat had an 89 percent
chance of winning there this is a state
that Democrats basically had to win in
order to take control of the house by
work on stock as you mentioned was one
of the most vulnerable Republicans it
also bodes well for Democrats path
forward in wealthier suburban districts
it's notable that the Barbra Comstock
not only lost the seat but she is really
getting crushed right now by an almost
20-point margin
so if voters in these types of districts
aren't distinguishing between a generic
Republican and kind of their kind of
Republican that could be bad news for
some of these name-brand Republicans we
haven't had any truly toss-up races call
de barbarac Comstock pickup was expected
by former state Rep Mike Braun you see
him right there Mike Brown Republican
will win the Senate seat in the state of
Indiana a pickup for the Republicans
what does this mean for Democrats path
to try and take her back the Senate they
had to have a near perfect night I think
they have a shot at winning the Senate
and now one of their incumbents has
fallen and it was one who might not have
even been the most vulnerable I mean he
was vulnerable there's no question but I
think there are some like Heidi Heitkamp
in North Dakota
claire mccaskill in Missouri that you
know push comes to shove I think people
might have thought Donnelly had a better
shot than either of them and yet here he
is going down and what we're reporting
right now is that Republicans will keep
the Senate ABC News can project the
Republicans will keep control of the
Senate surprise surprise surprise
surprise so yeah should we be surprised
should we even be sitting and talking
about this we should but I don't think
people should be all that surprised it
was always gonna be a tough mat for
Democrats there were a lot more seats
the Democrats had to defend the kinds of
seats that Democrats were having to
contend in were seats that had were in
states that had gone for President Trump
so it was always kind of a uphill battle
this is an ABC News election update so
as badly as things are going for
Democrats in the Senate these are some
pretty good results in the house we mean
Staten Island is a pretty big upset and
a surprising upset in a place that tends
to like President crumb it was a bit of
a reach for Democrats Dan Donovan and
our model coming into things was favored
what's interesting is that it was the
only Republican Health District in the
country that was considered purely urban
based on an analysis that city lab did
that I then took a look at based on our
model and looking at things so it's now
every purely urban seat in the country
has helped identify said okay there are
still lots of individual results to
watch as the night goes on but we kind
of have our two big story lines and it's
sort of what we expected all along yeah
it was kind of a wild ride getting there
but ABC News is now projected and our
forecast is showing Democrats winning
the house Republicans winning the Senate
that looks like Republicans will pick up
maybe two or three seats in the Senate
yeah and that Democrats will win a lot
of seats in the house so it's really
again it's the story it's been all
election cycle tale of two chambers the
results certainly reflect a divide that
we saw in 2016 that we saw kind of grow
and heighten during the Obama years and
this is a continuation
of that story
