at 78 years old Sanders is the oldest
candidate in the field and one of three
in their 70s so will age be a major
factor in determining the Democratic
nominee
we asked 538 s Nate silver do you buy
that so age is a sensitive topic so
let's start with something really easy
to prove the leading Democrats are
really old by presidential standards if
elected Elizabeth Warren would be 71 on
inauguration day Joe Biden would be 78
and Bernie Sanders would be 79
historically 55 is the median age for
presidents at inauguration of course age
doesn't appear to be that big of a
concern with the three oldest candidates
currently one two and three in
democratic polls by in the state at the
top of the polls in the 30 percent range
all year
warrants numbers have only gone up in
recent months and Sanders continues to
rake in cash from his diehard supporters
many of whom actually are quite young
but there's a difference between Warren
on the one hand and Biden and Sanders on
the other hand President Reagan was 77
when he finished his second term both
Biden and Bernie would be older than
that on their first day in office do
voters see a difference between the
early 70s and the late 70s actually they
might one poll earlier this year found
62 percent of voters had reservations
about voting for someone older than 75
that compares to only 48% of voters in
another poll who said they'd be less
likely to vote for someone over the age
of 70
now how Age plays out in practice is
harder to say if a candidate makes a
gaffe or has a bad debate or even has a
medical problem voters may or may not
attribute that to age in polling by
YouGov this week perceptions about
whether Sanders could beat Trump
declined after his heart attack but is
that we're all standing in the polls has
been roughly unchanged and just one more
thing it may be obvious but it's
important to remember that the current
president is pretty old to any
Democratic nominee well might we be
facing President Trump who has 74 would
be the oldest president ever elected to
a second term so my bottom line is this
age won't necessarily cause Biden and
Bernie's current supporters to abandon
them but it may make it hard to expand
their coalition's later on
