[Music]
hello and welcome to the 538 politics
podcast I'm gayland Rukh this past
weekend was all about Iowa for the
candidates in the 2020 Democratic
primary race they gave speeches at the
state fair and at an annual Democratic
fundraiser called the wingding
many of them also spent a good part of
last week Criss crossing the state
laying out rural policy proposals
it was the most concentrated attention
the first in the nation caucus state has
received so far this cycle and that
attention is likely going to ramp up as
we get closer to the caucuses so today
we're going to ask just how important
Iowa is to winning a party's nomination
and then we'll also get into some of the
specifics of this year and whether
things are any different here with me to
do that our editor-in-chief Nate Silver
how's it going going well good to hear
and politics of senior politics writer
clay Malone how are you I'm good and
managing editor mica cone how are you
very nice happy Monday thank you today
we are also going to address a somewhat
touchy subject which is age the three
Democratic presidential candidates
leaving nothing but a number nothing but
a number well we'll talk about whether
or not that's true the three Democratic
presidential candidates leading in
national primary polls are all set Rajan
Ariens and they would all break Trump's
record as the oldest president sworn
into a first term on Inauguration Day if
elected
the press has scrutinized Joe Biden's
age in particular in recent weeks as
he's made plenty of gaffes on the
campaign trail we're gonna look to
science and American voters to address
the question of how old is too old to be
President but let's begin with Iowa and
let's be generally for now and then we
can get into whether things are any
different this year but Claire
traditionally how important is the Iowa
caucus to winning a party's nomination
well I guess no since the modern the
onset of the modern primary which is 72
it has been a very hyped and semi
predictive thing hyped and semi
predicted what a very 538 answer well
um so it's I mean it's a it's a state
where people end up spending a lot of
time doing retail politics aka kissing
unwilling babies and shaking hands and
going to small towns and rolling up
their shirtsleeves and I think one of
the reasons why the media has sort of
glommed on to this is that there is some
some idea that listen in order to win a
bunch of states win primaries you need
to be good at meeting people and talking
to them and so Iowa and New Hampshire
and New Hampshire used to be the first
primary state those are places where a
candidate can kind of show how they are
a good communicator for lack of a better
word and I think it also comes down to
how good is their organization so how
many people do they have on the ground
knocking on doors how well are they at
how good are they at sort of figuring
out who their voters are at a place so
the idea is that Iowa is a good place
for people to prove their mettle and
people who aren't necessarily nationally
known figures one might say Barack Obama
is our most recent big big name to be
made somewhat by Iowa that that you know
lesser-known zkn can can get somewhere
out of Iowa which people like people
like an underdog it's somewhere around
fifty fifty or maybe a little bit above
fifty fifty and how often the Iowa
caucus winner wins nominations it's
actually a little bit more predictive
historically on the Democratic side
in the GOP one where the GOP won you've
now had it become kind of this somewhat
factional offsuit for christian
conservatives and the religious right
which as that has declined and influence
in the GOP it's made Iowa kind of less
predictive so you'll have Mike Huckabee
when you'll have a I think Rick Santorum
actually won once all those were counted
but in any event was not a terrific
state from Mitt Romney yet Ted Cruz beat
Donald Trump there on the Democratic
side it has kind of like Claire said
play this kind of role of being good
state for for underdogs or for
establishment challengers to fend off
underdogs but like it was a big part of
Barack Obama's rise to prominence in
2008 Jimmy Carter who was sort of
responsible for the rise in interest in
Iowa 1976 you know I think I was a good
state for Bernie Sanders and in music in
2016 even though he lost by about as
narrow as you can possibly lose
basically a tie so it's like a good
State for for elevating underdogs and
for winnowing out winning out front
runners who were underperforming so is
because if you look at the history
you're the the the fact that Iowa has
been more predictive of the eventual
winner on the Democratic side then on
the Republican side really stands out
and as he said they'd like the Iowa
Republican electorate is far more
conservative than the Republican
electorate overall and far more social
socially conservative in particular but
does that does that mean so is the
Republican Inlet electorate in Iowa more
dissimilar to the National Republican
electorate than the Democratic
electorate in Iowa is to the National
Democratic electorate you got what I
mean I mean I think that might be
changing the Democratic side also yeah
where you know Iowa is in the context of
general election politics kind of a
purple in fact leaning red state however
people who participate in the caucuses
tend to be highly politically active
because going to the caucus like
actually if you heard galen's interview
with Ann Selzer last week actually takes
an evening out of your day and it
requires a lot of time it's more than
just kind of on my way to work stuff my
polling place or whatever so it tends to
get people that are highly politically
engaged and we are now at a time when on
both sides but including Democrats
people who are highly politically
engaged tend to have quote unquote more
ideological therefore the left then the
Democrats you might turn out if it takes
five minutes to do so on the way to
7-eleven or whatever and so therefore
there is a chance that you would have a
candidate over perform in in Iowa that's
a liberal can
especially liberal Canada that appeals
to predominantly white voters because
Iowa is white so here's an important
question in all of this is Iowa
important because it's somehow
predictive of who will end up going on
to win the nomination because you know
they're just good at reading the
National Environment and it's just an an
indicator of the way things are headed
or is Iowa important because it actually
changes the course of the primary and it
helps somebody get nominated who might
not have been nominated otherwise I mean
the answer is at least some of the
latter right yeah historically
historically seems to be more profound
you would get a bump from winning Iowa
or actually we get a bump if you might
be technical from over-performing your
polls in Iowa and so if you kind of beat
expectations then all of a sudden the
media is giving you a favorable coverage
and that's helpful I mean we've seen in
this primary how just having more focus
on you is helpful and in a big kind of
feel that would seem to matter more
however the new cycle moves so fast
these days we saw after after Iowa in
2016 on the GOP side that like it did
not particularly help Ted Cruz it did
not particularly help Marco Rubio who
was third in Iowa a third ticket kind of
up from his polls a little bit and then
have this debate in New Hampshire and
that was enough to override that and and
eliminate much momentum and so so I do
think it's a little bit more careful I
think we also have to like look at like
when to the extent Iowa is predictive
and again are things being equal you'd
always prefer actual data on people
voting to polls right however it's a
negative of of how white fairly liberal
fairly well-educated Democrats tend to
vote and so if you're an Elizabeth
Warren I think you kind of have to do
well in Iowa maybe win Iowa I don't want
to be a response for the expectations
game right southern I expect those are
she's kind of sort us kind of from the
middle of the country if you give her
credit for being Oklahoma um Claire I
want to ask though at this point which
candidates are prioritizing Iowa because
I think different candidates based on
their strategy
treat different states differently well
I think you see candidates who are maybe
not in the top tier really trying to
huff it out and put in like work and
Iowa
Nathaniel Rica has a piece up today on
our site that that looks at where people
have been spending their time and
someone like better O'Rourke has been
spending a lot of time in Iowa people
may know that he is not necessarily
doing all that great someone like Joe
Sestak who probably a lot of you didn't
realize was running for president it's
been spending a lot of time there Joe
Sestak has been spending 44 percent of
his time since he got in there and then
just you know the top 5 this is by
percentage the share of their their days
they've been campaigning that they've
spent in Iowa it goes Joe Sestak Steve
Bullock that's the governor of Montana
better O'Rourke Tim Ryan and John
Hickenlooper so I think these are
campaigns that are betting the farm you
might say on Iowa there we go Midwestern
cliches and spending a lot of time on it
you know Mary I think marianne
williamson actually moved to Iowa this
was this was rumor a few months back so
I point something out here I'm gonna go
through on wreckages list of which
Democrats spent the most time in Iowa
what the race is of the Democrats
spending the most time there just a
quite bullock white been a white Ryan
white achingly / white club which are
white Bennett white day lady white
Williamson white Bernie white
Biden white Gillibrand white go to touch
white Warren white and then finally at
the Castro I mean so well here's the
question then are non-white candidates
basically saying I don't think I'm gonna
win this state so it's worth it for me
to prioritize other places I think this
is one of the problems if you're a
Democrat about Iowa is that it is sort
of glaringly obvious that the first two
states in the nation are extremely white
places and then you get to Nevada and
South Carolina
where it's like oh these are where the
minority voters are so there is kind of
this weird parceling out although
America is still wildly segregated in
many many ways so perhaps it's just the
American experience but the idea that so
much weight is given to I mean yes maybe
there is something rationals these
candidates know if I work Amla Harris I
might be spending more time in Iowa and
I should say I spoke to actually Connell
Harris's state director in Iowa last
week and they were saying that you know
they're absolutely prioritizing Iowa I
think you saw this past week that she
did like a five-day bus tour and maybe
changing strategy a little bit from what
I've read in the reporting but what he
said to me was essentially of like okay
yeah like California early voting will
start the same day as the Iowa caucuses
this year there are other states that
were focusing on but like nothing will
compare to the earned media hype of
doing well in the Iowa caucuses and that
is important for our campaign justice is
important for any campaign sure yeah I
guess what I mean you know someone like
Elizabeth Warren if we're saying that
the the caucus going electorate of Iowa
is I'm the Democratic side is basically
like white college-educated liberals
Warren makes a lot of sense and frankly
I think if like Harris Harris is also
trying to work that segment to the
population well that's why it's a little
surprising that Warren hasn't spent a
higher share of her time in Iowa as a
percentage of her campaign date she's
she spent just as much time in Iowa she
has New Hampshire which but I'm not sure
if that makes sense strategically I
don't know if she's she's her campaign
has actually been interesting because
they've um her I think some of their
scheduling vibe I don't know what the
right word is here scheduling but is
that they are trying to do a more
geographically diverse schedule for her
so you'll see her going to like taking a
couple days in places where you're sort
of like oh it's not necessarily like a
place you'd think of automatically if
she did her town hall in Mississippi was
it you
yeah so her there's there's been a thing
of I'm you know I'm Elizabeth Warren I'm
not just here to pander I'm going all
over it liked it that's that's like some
of their strategy for image making for
her and there's there's nothing wrong
with that except that I do think people
back to what Nate said about
expectations I do think people will
expect her to do well and I wa because
of the the way they the yeah it looks
there and if she doesn't she's doing
she's doing fine yeah I mean and I will
say like to their strategy there's also
other states and like a lot of the
states are in the south and like a lot
of them happen on like the second Super
Tuesday so like there's delegates to be
had in those states and maybe she wants
to compete with Biden right like she
wants to be the candidate that you've
actually seen if you you know if you're
in these others here well that's the
other thing about why I still fight like
I I guess I'm still a little stuck on
why Iowa has been more predictive on the
Democratic side than the Republican side
and I because it doesn't look like the
rest of the Democratic electorate
nationally which is diverse which is
spread out right and I wonder if it's
because the Democratic electorate and
Iowa looks a lot more like the
Democratic Party power structures than
the Republican electorate does look like
the Republican Party power structures
lost in there yeah basically he's saying
that white college-educated liberals
make up the Democratic establishment and
so it wouldn't be maybe necessarily
surprising that the white liberals in
Iowa are more predictive than the
evangelicals in Iowa are for the
Republican but Galen I mean I got like
four critiques here or something of what
without that theory when one being that
like hey this is a really small sample
size and so maybe it was just looking at
both parties to double the sample size
and that would say Iowa's not super
predictive to might be as you have the
Democratic Party growing less white than
having a state that's 90 some percent Y
is going to diverge more and also as you
kind of have more kind of
awareness of liberal politics in Iowa
you know it's all different now so
that's more going forward than in the
past you know I also think I think
Democrats have historically and I think
this probably gets in a little bit of
like kind of the DNA of the party right
but they're more inclined to favor
underdogs and outsiders than
establishment types maybe that's flipped
in the era of Trump right but the ABA
like a you know fresh young candidate
like Barack Obama or something right has
been appealing to Democrats the outside
are taking on the the establishment but
it is weird though right I mean I think
like a lot of these battles over the
importance of Iowa that you see taking
place in the press are really proxy wars
between like different factions of like
the party establishment you know usually
when someone is touting the importance
of Iowa that's often a signal that there
a warrant or Budaj supporter because
those are Canada two seem to be doing a
little bit better and Iowa and they are
nationally um if you're Biden you might
want to tamp that down a little bit if
you're Bernie you might bernie is
actually doing oddly badly and iowa
given that he almost won last time
that's a different story it's worth also
just saying that the different campaigns
have staffed up in different ways in
Iowa and so while maybe Elizabeth Warren
may not be leading the pack for example
in visits to Iowa it's people like
Elizabeth Warren and better or work I
think Bernie Sanders to some extent too
who have staffed up quite significantly
in Iowa whereas somebody like Joe Biden
has not necessarily done the same in any
case at this point in time what is the
state of the race in Iowa Nate
I see it or getting the handicapping
here right
I mean Biden's ahead in the polls but
not by as much as he as nationally I
mean to me if I actually had to forecast
the chance of Canada winning Iowa then
and Biden in Elizabeth Warren would both
be pretty far up there because by all
accounts Warren
have a very good organization and Iowa
her favorability ratings are as good as
Biden's and she again resembles the type
of Canada tends to win Iowa along a lot
of dimensions so I would think that
she's a Acco favorite you know Bernie
Sanders has been lagging a bit and Iowa
polls the kind of obvious bearish
interpretation of that is that when
people get a closer look they get more
excited about Warriner candidates who
are newer but you could virtually went
out last time he has a good organization
there and so it could be good State for
Bernie to mayor Pete has a lot of car
trips that also resemble some Iowa
winners in kind of a Jimmy Carter kind
of way you know he's from the Midwest
he's someone who if he's gonna have any
path to the nomination I think has to
run through Iowa and then Harris I mean
they were still reporting this week and
she's actually devoting more time to
Iowa now she is the one of the
frontrunners that you think would have
the toughest time in Iowa but the
flipside to that I mean we get this
whole expectations game thing whenever
we talk about this if we're part of the
media we're kind of right part of the
game right which is kind of always a
little bit annoying but like but there
is something where if Harris were to win
Iowa although I think she's less likely
abuse ed another three or four then it
means she can kind of win on unfriendly
quote/unquote turf right
if she wins Iowa then like she's
probably won the nomination right if
Bernie are Warren or Buddha touch win
Iowa then then you'll probably have a
comeback from the establishment in South
Carolina or whatever
I think I'm curious about in this
particular election when we've we've
heard a lot from the Democratic side
about people wanting to elect a Democrat
who's electable and coming from a super
white state I'm kind of curious about
Iowans democratic Iowans you know
whether or not they're thinking about
their independent or conservative
compatriots right whether or not they're
caucus vote is more tied to well could
we could we swing people from Trump to
whomever the Democratic nominee is like
I'm kind of curious if that
super white environment of Iowa and
frankly other Midwestern states but Iowa
in particular if that's a big factor
this year I mean we've we've just spent
a lot of time saying well they tend to
be activist liberal but you know and
that would be I think like a war and
kind of vote but I'm sort of interested
in I haven't you know to full disclosure
taken us a deep dive into some of the
you know like if there's any data on you
know how Iowans have answered that
specific electability question I don't
know but I think that the the white
environment is interesting this year in
particular well and it stood it stands
out a little bit in that context that
that hair is even after our big kind of
first tube a sort of seem to have a
ceiling on her support in Iowa and and
nationally where it sort of makes you
wonder a little bit how much people are
saying to themselves rightly or wrongly
who's gonna vote for the black woman
exactly right but I don't know maybe
maybe her because I get what you're
saying Nate about Harris being an
awkward fit for Iowa at the same time
you know she has a lot of similarities
with Obama in terms of her message in
terms of her approach of the campaign in
terms of being an on my town at it and
maybe the enemy to like to counter
myself maybe that white liberal
democratic demographic in Iowa will want
to embrace a Harris if she if she makes
some sort of you know big coup in Iowa
they'll want to make a statement just
like you know they did nominate Obama
and it isn't like isn't nominating
Warren making a statement I mean that's
the problem I think Warren gets people
more excited and I think it cuz Ivan
goes a long way especially if you couple
that with a good organization in Iowa I
think warns more of a I think her
campaign apparatus currently he's a
little more Iowa it's more of an Iowa
type of campaign Warren has this whole
like you can go read every single one of
her plans in-depth on medium even if
they're not like actually
well that's mincing word but like you
can read about what she thinks
bah-bah-bah so it's it's very much like
to that hyper informed and proud of it
kind of voter so that makes sense to me
that she's like doing yeah met a lot of
people who were just could this past
weekend at the State Fair who could just
list like all of the different
candidates they had seen one woman told
me that like Beto recognizes her now
when she goes to his events and blah
blah blah we do our research in any case
how if we want to make the overall
assessment of how many resources the
candidates are putting into Iowa versus
how important it is ultimately in
determining who wins the nomination our
candidates putting in a the right amount
of resources too many too few like how
depends on who you are
so I guess maybe looking at some of the
frontrunners should should somebody like
Elizabeth Warren be focusing more on
other states should somebody like Harris
be focusing more I think the markets
probably pretty efficient the month the
most interesting one for that question I
actually think his Biden so Biden is in
a similar position to where Romney was
in 2012 where you know he's at the mid
high 20s in some polls he's leading
and so the but at the same time it's
it's not obvious I was a perfect fit for
his candidacy right what we were saying
about Iowa's electorate being pretty
liberal white doesn't fit perfectly for
Biden's
constituency but if you're leading in
the polls then it's like well you might
as well make a play there right so I'm
I'm particularly curious how much of a
play Biden makes in Iowa because it
doesn't look great too exactly to lose
Iowa if you Joe if you've made a play
there yeah yeah if even okay but given
given all of the doubts around in Joe
Biden yeah you think that Joe Biden even
if he was even if he said for six weeks
pre Iowa like I'm not like that I'm
totally I like I'm pulling out and I can
play like whatever it just so it's like
it kind of doesn't send a great signal
if you've been such a far and away
national
now I understand that Iowa polls he's
warned and Biden or much closer or that
they're the he is doing his lead is not
as strong but it's still a bit of a no I
agree with that but but the up but his
options are make a play in Iowa and win
make a play in Iowa and lose don't make
a play in Iowa and lose I get it so
expectation started exactly so so from
his point of view would you rather make
a play on Iowa and risk losing or from
now be like you know what we're not
gonna make a play there yes we'll take a
hit because it doesn't look good for the
front-runner I know I don't think I if I
were Joe Biden we try to maximize my
chance of winning Iowa I don't think
he's gonna get away you would yeah I
think is gonna get away with like well I
hard there I am try hard enough it's not
I mean you know he is running as like
the traditional next-in-line frontrunner
the candidate who he was vice president
to for two terms had no problem winning
Iowa it's not a great state for him
demographically it does skew a little
bit older so there are some things going
for him yeah look he doesn't need to win
Iowa but like but it would be if you are
conceding Iowa then you're admitting
like I'm not traditional frontrunner I'm
like one of a number of choices that you
have and like and I don't know and also
unlike Romney Romney was probably always
gonna win New Hampshire because he's
from Massachusetts and like yeah sure
Republicans are different breed and Iowa
Republicans and probably kind of like
the Romney kind of Republican Joe Biden
I mean New Hampshire is a really tough
state for him yeah tougher than Iowa and
so you start out up for two okay maybe
when South Carolina maybe you win right
and that having already been the
front-runner for a while the broader
public isn't gonna be like oh well but
he only spent you know like six percent
of his campaign days in Iowa he didn't
build up his staff there like they
already the broader public already has
expectations for Joe Biden a winner a
lie the idea that it's I don't think the
broader public has expectations for
anything yet I mean it's were like well
you know it's thank you maybe that's
fair
but the idea that like Nevada and South
Carolina two states that I think Biden
would be decently strong and given
like the Union stuff in in the Nevada
caucuses where he has he is really close
historical ties to labor unions and they
do a lot to turnout caucus goers in that
state and then South Carolina again
Biden has he was the vice president to
the first black president like those
would be pretty strong states for him
but how many weeks and from the Iowa
caucuses to is Nevada fresh this year I
think I mean that's like that's like
just three weeks that's so that's a lot
of time in in our media environment for
people to be like yes the sky is falling
Joe Biden you know is so if Biden
probably has preferences if he doesn't
win Iowa
he's probably okay with Warren or Bernie
winning it because that's gonna set up
this confrontation between the moderate
and a liberals which Biden mind if he
would win or not right but like it's
kind of like part of the rationale is
campaign
whereas if Harris wins that's a big
problem because all of a sudden Harris
can still more directly from Biden's
voters if Buda Church wins that could be
a big problem too because I think you
can maybe get some moderates who know
the sudden have some of their doubts
about buddha church's electability
erased and so you know our club achar or
better wins or Booker I mean you know so
there is like I think buying which much
prefer like you buy we probably love for
marine to win Iowa for Bernie maybe if
he's not going to win it himself oh no
and I would love to win Iowa I'm sure
all that's right Joe Biden is caucusing
for Bernie but I actually think by D
like to state the obvious if Biden loses
Iowa and New Hampshire he's in a fair
amount of trouble declares point that's
a long time to go where you're where
you're having bad news cycles and yeah
he could rebound in Nevada and South
Carolina
but like Biden isn't an overwhelming
front-runner there even now I mean he's
a clear front-runner but it's not like
Clinton in 2016 where he has this huge
right gap it's like a decent guy okay so
so the following happens in Iowa
Warren wins between I'm shin of the
vote-buying it's 25
or Buddha Church gets 18 Harris gets 15
Bernie gets a disappointing 12 and and
the New Hampshire Warren wins big
Biden's kind of like tied for second or
something right so how much trouble is
he and then it is respectively well and
Iowa who wants Warren won I would
norman's Iowa I think could Warren win
South Carolina I mean it depends
probably what happens for no I don't
think so could you win the I don't I
don't think Warren could win South
Carolina but I'm gonna go becomes
interesting showdown right like I think
that I go back to how long okay if we
talk about the media having a huge echo
chamber effect for the first couple
weeks month of the primary then that I
think that it's a big problem for Biden
because now you have a bunch of voters
tuning in and they're hearing Joe Biden
just lost two things in a row it's a
problem for Biden that Nevada goes
before South Carolina I mean I don't
think anyone has any clue what's going
on in Nevada barely benami poll and like
it's kind of state where the political
machine can move a lot right and maybe
people are like hey you know what's a
state where the union vote matters a lot
and yeah maybe Harry Reid goes broke all
in for someone else besides Biden for
Warren so if we're on when's the first
two states and then the union vote gets
behind Warren in Nevada then I sound
like it's over but that becomes
difficult which is not crazy to imagine
because okay Democratic machine plus
Warren is Union appealing yeah yeah so
it's a there's there's yeah there's
definitely scenario there so apart from
kind of the scenarios that we've plotted
out here as we wrap up you know we we
can look at history to see how
significant Iowa is but in terms of this
year in particular this cycle is there
anything that changes its significance
in terms of you know how much dem
rats are prioritizing electability like
does it make the winner of the Iowa
caucuses even more important because
Democrats want a winner more than
anything or just the number of
candidates running or even the
nationalization of politics are there
should we be viewing Iowa caucuses
differently than we have in the past I
don't think so I mean I would do but
what Nate suggested in that if you're if
you're trying to gauge the
predictiveness
of aiiah I of Iowa I would lump both the
parties together historically rather
than just looking at Democrats and being
like I was super predictive or just
looking at Republicans and saying it
doesn't matter so in that sense if you
lump them together and you're like okay
you know Iowa matters because it has an
effect on who you know on momentum so to
speak on on who's getting attention on
who's getting donors on who voters think
is electable and and could win and it
matters in that it's a it's an indicator
to who has a good organization all the
stuff Claire mentioned at the beginning
then I think you think I was just the
same as ever and that it's like pretty
meaningful I mean don't we what was
Claire's town semi predictor semi
predicted yeah I mean back six months
ago or so remember like some Democrats
on Twitter being like we shouldn't
emphasize Iowa very much because it's
like to white which i think is a good
argument actually and now that it seems
like it's a state where some of these
kind of liberal warrants on twitter fine
can I say like are doing well then it's
like oh yeah I owe a good old Iowa right
but like but it does seem like I don't
know why do these two really white
state's gets to go first every year yeah
I think there's an interesting argument
the people in the Democratic Party have
made it's like yeah we should change the
order of the primaries or like you know
what if maybe there should be a couple I
don't know more diverse states that hold
their primaries on the same day and they
kick off the season I mean like it is
kind of it's like it's like why do you
watch the Macy's Day Parade on
Thanksgiving and then why do you watch
the dog show after
because you did it last year and it's
like there's just like there's just this
inertia of tradition that comes in it's
like it's like no today I'm a tradition
of tradition which it's just like why
538 contributor Jeffrey's Kelly actually
did a piece that rated all the states on
how demographically similar they are to
the Democratic electorate overall and
then ordered the states accordingly
right so the most the most
representative state goes first and the
least goes last
and Iowa came in any guesses I can see
your screen I know which one they're
even 39th Illinois came in first yeah
but where'd iro rank 30th 42nd okay so
it is among the 10 least representative
states of the Democratic but yeah
Illinois has gone said Illinois came
first in New Jersey that New York then
Florida then Nevada no but to go back to
the tradition of tradition thing I
really mean that
like people do things cuz their parents
did it or someone they know did it and
it's no different with like Oh political
political freaks you know like people
who really love this stuff they're
really into it it's like it's just
important because someone else who was
older and wrote a magazine story decided
it was important it's not actually like
how it has to be always like I think
there's just weird thing in American
it's like an Americana thing where we
like love it's nostalgia that really
drives a lot of things in American life
but a lot of times we don't spend time
thinking about the root reasons of why
we do it and maybe given the fact that
we're an increasingly diverse and more
populous country we should rethink some
of the underlying things anyway well I
think there's also something that you
talk about a lot or you've talked about
in the past on the podcast which is that
the party apparatus is pretty small see
conservative and they just like this is
how they've been doing it all the party
people who live in you know the various
cities in Iowa kind of know their role
and like the party would have to kind of
throw caution to the wind if it we're
gonna do you think it'll not like Cass
yeah
[Music]
we're back and as I mentioned at the top
all three of the Democrats currently
leading national presidential primary
polls would break Trump's record as the
oldest president to be inaugurated to a
first term now age can be a difficult
subject to judge candidates by in no
small part because age affects
individuals very differently but we do
have information on what Americans think
generally about candidate age and also
what science says about the effects of
age in aggregate so let's begin with the
voters mica how do boaters of you age
when they're assessing candidates the
answer the one answer is what voters say
and what voters say is that one they
factor age into how they vote in hat and
that they don't want anybody to young or
anybody too old and in this case most
polls show like the sweet spot is
somewhere in the 40s and 50s that's kind
of where voters want their candidates to
live but voters don't behave exactly
like they say they'll behave or exactly
like they think they behave I guess the
way I would put it is I think voters
react more towards how sort of like
vital and an energetic and young or
unforced Eddy people seem rather than
caring exactly how old the person is so
Trump for example 2016 was really old
and that was a subject of conversation
but I think for a lot of voters he
didn't seem that old he you know he had
energy and he was campaigning all over
the place and I so I think it didn't
really hurt him that much I think the
the tricky conversation that we have
when talking about age with presidential
candidates and last election we had
really similar
conversations because both Clinton and
Trump are older and Clinton had a health
episode in the middle of the campaign if
you'll remember her fainting at the 9/11
raishin ceremonies people everyone here
knows older people and I think everyone
has these personal perceptions of what
age does to human beings so let me point
out that wealthier people live longer
tend to live longer they get better
healthcare and I don't know if you heard
but the people who generally tend to run
for president are pretty well-off in
this country so you know there is this
idea that like why are all these people
so vigorous and and and well preserved
well money right like there's something
to that but I think a lot of us know you
know a lot of people can say well you
know I my uncle is 74 and he's really
losing it you know like he's not what he
once was bla bla bla so we you get into
all these like personal perceptions of
decline so I think talking about age
both ruffles the feathers of voters who
are older who are quite active but also
like younger people fear age and death
and the decline that comes with it so
they are understandably reticent to
support someone who is older along in
2016 I think this was right after
Clinton fainted we did a story that that
kind of had like an actuarial table for
lack of a better word that that took all
of the presidents and we slotted Clinton
and and Trump in there as candidates and
and gave their age on Election Day and
then gave the approximate remaining
years of life that they had left
according to like actual aerial tables
and so Trump in 2016
had 14 more years of expected life and
Clinton had 16 more years of expected
life and there's something you know
about decline and we can talk about
Reagan a little bit if we want to know I
think this kind of gets at why this is
so complicated is it's not like there
are actuarial tables and you can kind of
talk generally about
what happens with age both physically
and mentally but but there's enough
variation where you know it sort of
makes more sense just to look at the
person right and I do think that what
matters more that you know this is all
to say it's not like the US could just
pass a law that said well we know
scientifically that if you're over this
age you have lost this amount of mental
acuity and this amount of physical
stamina and therefore you shouldn't be
President
right I think both scientifically and in
terms of politically what matters is
more just like how how I mean we have a
person we have an age requirement the
Constitution to be 35 minimum I think
there's a much better case for having an
age cap than an age floor right where
would you put it 75 oh dear okay let's
we linger on that for a second and I
think your argument would be the
presidency is actually quite a taxing
job physically you have to be up and
alert you probably aren't getting as
much sleep as maybe your average 75 year
old yeah and like when the Constitution
was drafted like you were not going to
lose your mental acuity you're gonna get
some disease before you get to that
stage frankly in some sense what the
Constitution is doing with some of the
requirements it has the 35 and older
requirement the born and the u.s.
requirement is its setting kind of
heuristics or priors and saying you know
what we're just gonna stick to this no
matter what I understand how you might
have a 33 year old who seems really
wonderful but just from a prior
standpoint you got to have experience to
run for president before we get into any
further into like actually judging
people's fitness for office by age is
that part of the reason is important to
have this conversation is because voters
do think about this stuff and in fact
when Gallup asked voters about a whole
bunch of different characteristics like
religion race whether you're a socialist
or an atheist or whatever your sexuality
you know being over the age of 70 ranked
relatively unpopular amongst all of the
different characteristics right 63% of
Ekans said they would vote for a
candidate over 70 so the remainder said
that they wouldn't and that's pretty
anti septage anarion when it when you
compare that to the number of people who
would vote for according to Gallup
somebody who is gay or somebody who is
black or Muslim or Hispanic or all of
these different other immutable
characteristics I know this is I don't
think it's anti septuagenarian I think
it's saying people like understand that
mental and physical decline can occur at
rapping at increasingly rapid rates
after certain ages it's a little
different for men and women and by the
way we are electing people to four-year
terms
right if there was some requirement that
like every year the president has to get
a check of it if they fail a check up
then automatically they resign the
presidency in the VP is takes over right
but you don't have that requirement in
the Constitution in fact you have kind
of very complicated and murky
prohibitions about what happens if the
president gets disabled and so and so
yeah I mean like you can say hey I think
a 77 year old seems mostly fine now well
how will he or she be as a 81 year old
but I can't vote errs make that
determination I mean I think voters can
if you were me I would get rid of all
these that's my journalistic right
researching the Constitution but I think
if you like had to pick one having a 75
and older requirement would be probably
one of the best ones and then this is
this has been I mean people were talking
a lot about Reagan's end of the Reagan's
first term beginning of the second term
a few months back particularly when
someone broke I believe it was Evan
Osnos in The New Yorker wrote a story
about invoking the 25th amendment and
what it would take to remove someone
move the president from office based on
lack of mental faculties basically and
there were people it as good has come
out in the year since that voiced
uncertainty about Reagan's mental state
his mental competency during the end of
his first term I believe Reagan
obviously was later announced to the
public that he had Alzheimer's and
people wondered whether the decline had
started smack dab in the middle of his
presidency so it is a real
Woori I mean you know you kind of that's
why people have tended to release
medical histories I mean John McCain
because he had cancer and in addition to
the fact that he was a prisoner of war
and you know had a lot of strain of his
body released all of these medical
records there has been a really long
history of that I mean some of the
reason why I think people why did you
know the Trump doctor thing the idea
that the American people didn't have a
great sense of his health you know the
state of his health was worrisome for an
older person and did break with quite a
bit of precedent I totally agree that
that's that that did break with
precedent and the the American people
have the right to know that stuff but
like I do think look I think age and
mental acuity acuity and physical able
Ness should be like totally totally
kosher conversations to have during the
campaign and and and ken should disclose
and voters should talk about it but like
I do think a lot of this age stuff is is
like just a reaction to Trump and that
people unhappy with Trump in office want
to use his age as a reason to get him
out of office
once I get though because I think
recently the conversation about age has
been has involved Biden's gaps and
actually before we go any further our
intern Jake put together a little
montage for us of some of those recent
gaffes that have made news over the past
week so here you go if you agree with me
go to Joe 303 300 feet in this fight we
had this notion that somehow if you're
poor you cannot do it poor kids are just
as bright in just his talons white kids
what happened when the kids from
parkland marched up to and I met with
him and then they went off to up on the
hill I was vice president they went off
the hill to go into those neighborhoods
all those congressmen were like no I'm
not national leaders spoke about it you
had people like Margaret fat excuse me
you had people like the the former
chairman and leader of the party and
Germany you had a longer Merkel stand up
and say how terrible it was actually
truth over fact so like I actually think
that these this is how Joe Biden talks
like there is an argument to be made
that like yeah just like some people
he's he's definitely older than he has
been before any other time he ran for
president but like he's he's the words
literally trip off his tongue sometimes
and then fall fall flat but but just to
go back to something I think we have a
little bit of a recency bias here where
we're saying Oh like people are just
making a big deal about of the age thing
because Joe Biden is old man people were
making a really big thing about the age
thing with with Clinton McCain John
McCain the idea that the parties have
been dominated by baby boomers for quite
a bit of time I think people saw after
2016 in the Democratic Party people
making a big deal about we need to get
young people on off the bench we need we
need an entirely new crop of democratic
elected officials so like did this is
not just a 20/20 thing the Joe Biden
thing I could it's kind of he could go
either way it could just be Joe Biden or
yeah some of it could be like I think
the Parkland thing is probably maybe the
most damning one if because he was
implying that he was vice president
during that shooting and he was not well
and maybe it's unfair but like I
actually think it sort of doesn't really
matter what the actual cause is whether
this is just how Biden has always talked
more or less and we just noticed it now
more because he's older or because
there's more attention on this but this
is partly why I was I thought the the
first debate was a was a real problem
for Biden is because again I don't think
voters care particularly exactly how old
you are but if you seem old I think they
will penalize I mean if that yet to me
it feels like a little ass backward in
the sense that like you're having these
conversations about gaffes
when the gas stem cells are usually not
so important because the media is
reluctant to talk about age what if my
age is quite important and okay maybe it
kind of evens out I do think there's
real risk for Biden here I mean I think
we as a show have been like a little
skeptical of the vitam skepticism in the
sense that like his policy positions are
not too far to the center for Democrats
in fact it probably is close to the
meaning Democrat as you can get
basically right and like all the stuff
about his hands eNOS didn't really seem
to go anywhere but I do think that when
voters are hearing the same story from
multiple angles and they have underlying
concern about his age that could be
damaging so you're hearing from Trump
that Biden has lost his fastball you're
hearing from the left who for
ideological reasons have every right to
make this argument because I think age
is fair game
right but certainly people who are
Warren supporters or Harris supporters
or whatever else tougher for Bernie
supporters I guess Warren I mean we can
talk about like is 70 or 77 a big deal I
think you're one worse a man that is a
big gap but you know that the mayor Pete
and the Harris supporters are going to
be all over this story right
and then you have the media kind of
talking about these gaffes and I don't
know I mean we should do like gaffes
Above Replacement
level Garth I think you can look back at
the that you know initial coverage of
Biden in 88 when he ran for president
you go back and you look at those news
stories and everyone talks about one of
the reasons why Joe Biden is seen as an
attractive nominee is that he's a great
speaker and they meant that in the sense
of he gave great stump speech that was
soaring kennedy-esque
rhetoric now I think it didn't hurt that
he was a young handsome Irish Catholic
guy right the comparison sort of led
them themselves if you look at this
election and sort of see Joe Biden
tripping over his words yeah maybe that
draws a contrast or maybe like I was
saying he's kind of always had a little
bit of that like loopy speech when he's
not reading something directly from a
teleprompter but then you'll look at the
two other older candidates on the
Democratic side Bernie and Warren
both pretty I mean sure pretty sharp on
the stump and I think you know this
hasn't been pointed out a lot overtly
but there was a lot of sort of Oh fun
social media clips from Bernie's team
showing him pitching to someone in the
backyard you know he was the pitcher he
they were practicing for a softball game
and then it shows Bernie like at bat and
he's hitting like he's smacking
something into the outfield now it's
silly and fun and blah blah but you know
what the underlying message of that is
our guys have vigorous 77 year old he
shoots baskets and our girl Elizabeth
Warren is a vigorous 70 year old she
runs through Penn Station she is this in
that she tries to log six miles on her
pedometer every day now I've read every
single one of these profiles of these
big candidates and in the main magazines
every single Elizabeth Warren thing goes
out of the way to include a few details
about her like buzzing physicality that
stuff is so important to the like people
real voters that's how they that goes
into their impression of a candidate you
want someone who has like a little fire
under their ass like that's that's a
thing and and I will say Biden is like a
trim guy know like so you see him in
person and you're like yeah he's like
he's like a fit looking wasn't Biden the
one who was like if Trump brings up my
age I'll challenge him to push-ups on
the debate stage I should note here you
know 75 year-olds are not like cripples
yeah also took Claire's point can I just
read something from a political article
making a comparison to Joe Biden in 2008
it says so during the 2008 presidential
campaign Biden asked Missouri State
Senator Chuck Graham to stand up at a
rally so the crowd could see him Graham
is a paraplegic during that same
campaign he claimed that Jobs is a
three-letter word and he introduced his
running mate
as Barack America he also said in a seat
in an interview with CBS News that year
that FDR went on TV after the great
stock market crash and of course
Roosevelt wasn't president in 1929 and
the White House television broadcasts
were not yet a thing there was no TV so
so it is fair to say that like this is
part of who Joe Biden is
separate from how old Joe Biden is oh
okay yes but I would separate out like
verbal miscues like Miss speaking from
just sort of like seeming like you're
having trouble mentally I thought there
was that Biden in the first debate and
to a lesser extent in the second debate
brand or risk of just singing old voters
not because he said TV when he should
have said radio but just because he was
sort of tripping on his words a little
bit or or you know the sentence
structure was a little circuitous like
Trump's yeah exactly
right and now Trump got elected
president so maybe maybe maybe it
matters but not enough compared to other
things or you can overcome it yeah I
mean all this stuff kind of like I bring
up the Trump your sentence structure
because that really is a thing and and
then you could compare it to well ok
Trump had a secure circuitous tension
structure but he said it vigorously and
therefore everyone thought it was great
Sarah Palin had a similarly circuitous
sentence structure when she ran in 2008
and everyone called her dumb as rocks
I'm not gonna give an opinion on Sarah
Palin's mental fitness but she was no
worse necessarily in interviews then
then Trump is when it comes to conveying
a message so I think a lot of it is just
is also just like how does the how does
the public perception and sort of
momentum of an image play into the
actual things that come out of your
mouth there's tons of like the reason
why we have like trials is because like
the defense and the prosecution give
completely different reasons for why
like why there is why this evidence is
there so I think a little bit some of
the problems with Biden is just he's
older but he it's also becoming a
Rorschach test for your support for
Biden it's and and I think that's what
we were really coming down to and it's
it's like is the and that's what it is
it's a Rorschach test known it's a fine
line between and you know authentic and
folksy casual isn't slick and it's not
and that's what the and that's what the
Biden campaign will say he's not slick
let's wrap on this Nate we pollsters
have asked various questions that have
gotten at the issue of electability and
who voters of you as electable or not in
2020
does it seem from looking at that
polling that voters are taking into
account age in assessing who they see as
electable I mean right now Biden is
certainly still gaining a lot more from
electability questions than he loses
look I think there are a lot of
Democrats who's thinking along the lines
is something like the following the most
important thing is to beat Trump I am
worried that a Warren or a Bernie would
be too far left to beat Trump even
though I might be fine more or less with
their policies
so there's Biden however the age thing
gives me pause on Biden because that
takes my security away maybe he'll be
fine maybe he won't be but like but he
no longer becomes like a safe option if
you think he's not for him well these
debates if if he seems I think it seems
feeble per se right but like but maybe
not as you know vigorous terms of the
kind of which types of events he's doing
and how kind of free-flowing things that
are doing like a fair number of like
scripted and staged events right he
hasn't had a ton of like media avails I
had a ton of time where he's like just
kind of left to kind of roam free it
sounds a little weird it does I put that
but like but I think it kind of takes
away like the degree of security that
voters might have about Biden and I
think in the long run that kind of chips
away at his electability edge but I
still think like you know we had was it
last week of this discussion about like
our two weeks ago or three weeks ago
whenever about kind of the moderate lane
versus the Liberals and how much of
Democrats risking things by being
further the left/right you know one
thing we didn't talk about there is like
that probably all resonates on people's
views on electability right if people
kind of hear that like oh Warren and
Sanders are moving too far left in
Harris or whatever right then even
though on the one hand they're saying
hey actually Warren's a very good
debater
she's good campaigner right I made me
feel okay about how she would do against
Trump on the other hand they're hearing
like I am way the left and Biden's more
in the middle I'm like that kind of
those perceptions so that's a really
long winded answer I think there's real
risk to to Biden here is it is it that
Biden if he were 20 years younger 20
years sharper seeming would now be at
45% 50 percent in the polls or that this
is a like soft spot for him that if
something happens to exacerbate it he'll
drop further you get what I mean
or neither I think if Biden were 12
years younger so would he be then 65
yeah or I think he would be at least
50/50 to win the nomination interesting
between maybe doing a little bit better
now right
and between having less of this kind of
downside risk he did run for president
12 years ago today about yeah and again
I think it's important probably to be
clear as we wrap up that you know we can
speak in aggregate about the effect the
age has on people and we can observe
what how the candidates are behaving on
the stump but we can't say anything
specific about how age is a factor we're
picking one person to be President I
mean is there like a little bit of the
precautionary principle involved we're
like you know again that's kind of with
the 35 and all the requirement
Constitution saying you just have to be
careful because you can't be too careful
I'm picking this one person your
president which of course is going to
look differently to voters in the era
where Trump makes some types of things
that are verbal gaffes and else there's
all types of things that are like much
bigger deals than verbal gaffes and so
and so but I don't know I just think
this kind of I mean if you go back and
you know when Biden declared for the
campaign I kind of wrote this kind of
theory of the case but why he would win
or lose and I think number one and why
he might lose that he is old and over
time perceptions about his electability
might erode because and those two things
hand-in-hand if they're reinforcing one
another I think is significantly risky
for Biden all right
well let's leave it there Nate thank you
thank you Daly Claire thank you thank
you thank you Mike oh thank you hey
folks I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
