[Music]
Nathaniel let's talk about the Kentucky
sixth District this was about as toss-up
as toss off' gets going into the night
it was a bit republican-leaning
yeah but short and so that it ends and
ended up leaving in that direction it up
being a bit what does this mean I mean
you know so far I think we haven't seen
anything that really says that our model
was wrong you know this was a district
that was a toss-up and it was very close
but in the end they won four Republican
and half of the tops are gonna go for
Republicans it's certainly not a
district the Democrats needed in order
to take the house but are there things
about the district that pretend for
other districts that Democrats might
need in order to get that I mean this is
the district where the Democrat was kind
of a viral celebrity who raised a ton of
money so maybe it could say that you
know money isn't going to you bring you
over the finish line a million dollars
and outside spending in this district
yeah but I I would be hesitant I mean
this is a place where Kentucky is kind
of strange in that it has been
democratic on the state level but
Republican on the federal level so we're
not quite sure where to put this
district on that scale whether it's more
democratic or more common so I would
wait for more results all right and we
will do that let's go back to work
