[Music]
Nathaniel Issa's feels like a very
unfindable
but there is bad weather around much of
the country especially in some places
where there are some close elections is
there any evidence about whether bad
weather actually influences turnout or
elections at all yeah so there are some
studies that show that bad weather helps
Republicans by depressing turnout
disproportionately among Democrats not
significantly but by a little bit but
generally in competitive elections it
really doesn't make a difference
you know the turnout depressing effects
are only in elections where the outcome
has already decided and people aren't
just motivated to go so if you're
already on the fence it might nudge you
this way but if you're kind of really
committed to go right even probably go
whether it's raining or not right if you
know if the question is is the rain
going to affect outcomes the answer is
almost certainly not because then all
the competitive races people are gonna
probably gonna go to the polls
regardless of the rain and I suppose
early vote also affects us too a lot of
people whose votes are already cast
exactly but it's such a seductive
narrative I know that we don't really do
narratives here now
I heard it busting next time we talk
there will be actual results so let's
get back to our that's right
