5:38 is keeping track of party
endorsements for all the 20 20
Democratic primary candidates and at
least in this contest cory booker is in
the lead our tracker awards points based
on who the endorsement is coming from so
for example endorsements from former
presidents and vice presidents are worth
10 points
governor's eight points US senators six
points and so on and so forth
so far more than 50 endorsements have
come in and New Jersey senator Cory
Booker is in the lead with 53 points in
second Minnesota senator Amy Klobuchar
with 39 points and bringing up the rear
its Maryland representative John Delaney
who has 6 points so far but it's really
early and this is really until something
as we get closer to 2024 now most of the
endorsements have come from the
candidates home states
take for example Cory Booker both the
governor and other senator from New
Jersey have endorsed Booker that's worth
14 points and the rest of this Hall also
comes from other politicians in New
Jersey thus far he's collected 53 out of
the possible 60 endorsement points from
New Jersey politicians but why do
endorsements even matter first they tell
us who party leaders want us lowly
voters and other politicians to back in
the race for the nomination second when
we track endorsements it lets us see
just how competitive the primary is it's
a long time until the first votes are
gonna be cast in 2020 and so in the mean
time when there are no votes that are
cast this lets us see who the actually
contender and who would really need to
surprise us
we're me tracking endorsements all
primary season long
emphasis on long and so you can track it
along with us at five thirty eight.com
slash endorsements
