[Music]
hello and welcome to the 538 politics
podcast on ABC News live today we're
gonna be talking about the latest public
opinion polling about impeachment we're
also gonna be taking a look at the
Democratic primary with the debate
coming up on Tuesday night this is the
538 politics podcast on ABC News live
the last time we gathered we said that
it was difficult to tell whether public
support for impeaching President Trump
was still growing we didn't have any
recent high-quality polls at the time
but we've gotten some polls since then
and it does not look good for the
president so we're gonna take a look at
those and also review some of the main
developments in the impeachment inquiry
during the last week there's also a
Democratic primary debate this Tuesday
it's going to be a cramped twelve person
stage but right now the race actually
looks like a two-person competition so
what are the current contours of the
Democratic primary and what's at stake
in the fourth debate and here with me to
discuss our editor-in-chief Nate
Sullivan how's it going it's going well
good to hear thank you
also with us is senior politics writer
clam alone Hannah are you I'm good and
managing editor mica Cohen
hello how are you very nice so last week
Fox News released a poll showing that
51% of Americans support impeaching and
removing president Trump 40 percent were
opposed and then four percent said that
he should be impeached but not removed
anyway Trump and his supporters were not
pleased with this poll and attempted to
discredit it and the New York Post
published a piece saying here's a quote
pollster braun research which conducted
the survey noted 48 percent of its
respondents were democrats but the
actual breakdown of party affiliation is
31 percent Democrat 29 percent
Republican and 38 percent independent
according to Gallup a poll waited for
party affiliation would have concluded
that forty four point nine percent
favored impeachment and forty four point
four percent opposed it a post analysis
has concluded
end of quote all right so Nate is that a
good use of polling or a bad use of
policies one of the stupidest articles
I've ever read in a mainstream
publication about polling
by the way what's killya and calmly were
all officially she retweeted this senior
adviser to the sheep I probably ought to
know better
oh she knows because she's a pollster
it's worse if she doesn't know better
then it's really a problem because then
she's incompetent okay so the reason why
first of all the whole premise is absurd
right what party you believe in are not
believing what party you prefer or
identify with those are by the way
different things kind of which party
registered with which I'm identify with
in which I leaned toward that's one of
the things polls want to ask about it's
not fixed in time you can change your
party registration many states don't
have party registration and it's
something that varies if Trump pisses a
lot of traditional Republicans off and
you might see more independents or
something next time right that's issue
number one issue number two is I even
the extent that maybe party
identification is more stable it
there's no gold standard for it right so
to say Oh Gallup says this this other
poll says that well there's no inherent
way to know who's right but there's a
more kind of important issue in this
case which is that Fox News their
pollsters ask people to lean toward a
party if they say their independence so
if you say I'm an independent well we
all know that a lot of independents
really mostly lean up on one side the
other they'll say do you lean toward
Democrats Republicans and the number
they report the forty eight percent or
whatever is the lean party I'd be I
think it was like leaned forty eight
percent Democrat and forty-one percent
Republican or forty percent or something
like that right which is a fairly
typical gap that eight-point party ID
gap by the way there are more Democrats
than Republicans in most polls for a
long period of time but the Gallup
numbers don't include leaners this is
the gap numbers don't include leaners so
it's just an absurd it's an absurd
critique I mean is that ever a thing to
be skeptical about if you see a poll
where if one party is I think we're
sampled or understand if you never look
at the party ID crosstabs in a poll
you'd be smarter for it like literally
like don't go there we do they make sure
that they get an even mix a lot of
pollster
that do not use traditional random
sampling meaning a lot of online
pollsters who are very smart online
pollsters okay but they use party ID as
a crutch because they don't know they're
getting a random sample ideally you get
a random sample based on over a
population of the electorate that we
know that 14 percent of voters in in
whatchamacallit County are
african-american and fifty-one percent
are women and 26 percent are under the
age of of thirty four and whatever else
right and so you weight based on
demographic trends because demographic
trends are our neighbor like people
don't change on them are hard I mean if
you want to get there really esoteric
discussion some people can't change
their the way they didn't if I okay but
putting it aside how you what gender you
identify with or what race is like you
know 99% stable from one survey to the
next I think a lot of people are could
be confused by that right like if if
you're so yes maybe it's irresponsible
than your opposed to that but what's a
what's a way
what's our antidote to that right to be
a smart reader what's the bottom line
what's the take away for people being a
smart reader of these polls and and
those are skewing things I think I think
Nate's advice mmm to Nate's advice to
just not worry about the crosstabs 99.9
percent of the time is the best advice
it's like it's not worth you've said
this before Nate but it's like it's just
not worth your mental energy to get
wrapped up in that but I do think to
Claire's point that it's worth
separating out you know whether this is
a bad faith argument on the part of the
post or just incompetence we should take
them to test because they should know
better and pollsters like Caitlyn Conway
or a lot of people who make this
argument often it's a bad faith argument
they know better news consumers on the
other hand I could easily see getting
confused on this it's it's it's not
obvious why it's so stupid right so I
think it helps in these kind of
discussions to to explain why it is
stupid I mean it's the equivalent of
saying like oh here's a poll you should
wait this pole towards Trump approval
numbers right which doesn't make any
sense because Trump approval number can
change in the same way that party
identification can change yeah there are
there art effects
Democrats and Republicans and I know we
probably differ on the extent to which
we have the cake kind of a happy warrior
four is a tough love more critical
mentality but I do think and I have like
so many crosstabs it's not just party ID
you can always find something the
variable i don't like yeah and by the
way the best thing to do is to take an
average of polls it is true that the Fox
News poll showed I think just about the
highest numbers for impeachment support
out of any poll that came out last week
right so what you can say is like hey
look for any one of a number of reasons
ranging from the question wording to the
random sample that Fox happened to draw
because you can't randomly in a poll of
a under people happen to get more people
who are pro-impeachment
right or more Democrats that's the right
and proper way to do a polls to account
for the margin of error and so a lot of
time when people are doing like fancy
unscrewing things it's just like okay
look at the polling average and if the
polling average is lower then then I
don't really care that much of them a
lot yeah so let's do that I mean what is
how does this compare to our polling
average because we have when it's at 51%
in favor of impeachment so according to
our tracker we and remember we're
lumping a bunch of different types of
polls together we're gonna start
differentiating soon but right now it
basically shows 50% support 44% don't
support impeachment so in support
impeachment is just about at a majority
a very slim majority but a majority and
how much has public opinion changed over
the past week or so because the last
time we met had been kind of stagnant I
think public opinion has uh has changed
to some degree so okay there clearly two
phases phase number one is that Pelosi
in the Democrats this will happen in
rapid succession Pelosi and the
Democrats came out for an impeachment
inquiry that seemed to produce a
reasonably large shift that was
concentrated among Democrats a few days
later various evidence some of it
released by the White House came out
that put the president in a bad light
and Ukraine that's introduced a further
which was mostly among independents the
questions like whether there's been a
further shift still on top of that now
that we were wet like three weeks into
the story and the answer is I think more
likely than not the numbers are still
going up I mean if you look at our
tracker it's ads of this taping on
Monday morning late morning 49.8%
support 44 percent don't support as
Micah said this is an amalgam of
different types of questions so
depending on which question you ask but
like that a Malcolm for whatever it's
worth forty nine point eight slash forty
four call it 50 slash 44 if you go back
we could go to one last tape a podcast
forty six point five percent support
forty four point seven don't support so
it seems to be happening is that like
the support number is slightly going up
the don't support number is kind of
steady now right which might make sense
maybe some people because there still
are some Democrats still like you know
sixteen percent of Democrats do not yet
support impeachment which is a fair
number not to support impeachment right
set on the other hand you have fourteen
percent of Republicans supporting and 45
percent of minute yeah probably what if
at GOP number might go back down maybe
potentially alright so let's get into
what actually happened in the week since
we last discussed Claire can you talk
about some of the major developments you
actually wrote about this for the
website over the weekend or on Friday
you have a new kind of a column called
the spin cycle discussing how the
parties are reacting to the news and so
on so what happened so what happened
Claire a lot of people decided to talk
yeah we saw the former ambassador to
Ukraine testifying to a committee we saw
some leaks coming out that Sandlin is
contrary to the State Department's
orders going to testify and say that
Trump told him to say there was no quid
pro quo we saw two of Rudy Giuliani's
associates be arrested for campaign
finance violations these are guys who
had ties to Ukraine and
sort of Giuliani's investigations in
Ukraine congressional Democrats sent a
bunch of basically subpoena notices to
the White House and the White House
Counsel sent back in a sort of nasty
letter that said no we will not be
complying with this constitutionally
illegitimate investigation which is
quite a spicy response which made sound
--lens in that context that made
zomlings decision to testify sort of all
the more interesting and that's the u.s.
ambassador to the EU correct the guy who
was in the text messages that we talked
about last week and the one who said
there was no quid pro quo we should
discuss this on the telephone and not
via text message call me I think that
those are the big ones but you know
forgive me I forgotten and just the the
column that I'll be writing is that the
point of it is basically to keep track
of these things these happenings but
also how congressional Democrats are
spinning it how could you know
presidential candidates on the trail are
spinning things and you know basically
just to keep track of what's moving say
those polls that favor or don't favor
impeaching President Trump so the last
time we discussed the Republicans spin
it seemed somewhat muddled has a clear
strategy or message emerged over the
past week I think that that that the
White House counsel's letter is a pretty
good distillation which is basically
that Trump and congressional Democrats
are saying this is a not a legitimate
constitutional you know investigation
into Trump they're kind of citing a lot
of executive privilege but they're also
saying that this is Democrats attempt to
negate the results of the 2016 election
which they which the Trump campaign has
turned into a 20/20 election campaign ad
so basically they are stalling calling
announcing unconstitutional and telling
their voters this is an attempt to
negate your vote vote for us in 2020 and
has the Democratic strategy line changed
at all I guess we learn more from her
so I would say that the Democrats the
the big line has been the facts speak
for themselves
so I would say it's a sort of there's
been a lot of movement noise from the
Republican side of things Democrats have
been a little bit more just the facts
ma'am kind of thing we we think this the
facts speak for themselves but there was
polling saying of people who don't
support impeachment why not and it was
done by a liberal leaning firm and had
kind of an optimist interpretation for
Democrats which is that actually a lot
of people who were not for impeachment
right now just want to see more evidence
and there are not that many people who
currently fall into the yeah this is bad
but you know we have an election so we
don't need impeachment camp it was more
people who want to see more evidence so
you know that would be a bullish finding
for Democrats because it means they
could persuade people potentially one is
right now that the the result Nate just
cited about there's lots of people who
are just waiting to see more evidence
it brings true to me you know
impeachment was unpopular through all of
the Russian investigation all of a
sudden we get a new story new evidence
with Ukraine and support for impeachment
rises in other words it tracks with new
evidence so so that rings true to me but
where that evidence is coming from and
and in what form is super interesting
so like sanli and the EU ambassador who
in those text messages and I think in in
the sort of like public portfolio about
him comes out that's a uber pro-trump
acolyte he had he had been slated to
testify than the White House said in the
letter Claire mentioned okay we're not
going to cooperate at all but then
reporting came out over the weekend that
apparently he will reportedly tell the
House committee that that text message
you know the press release style text
message he sent saying there are no quid
pro quo of any kind blah blah blah blah
he was like he will reportedly tell
Congress hey I don't know if that's
that's just what Trump told me that's
not like incredibly damning for Trump
it's not exactly like friendly testimony
though either concurrently we're also
expecting testimony and again all this
is behind closed doors so we're just
like relying on reporting on it from
Fiona Hill who was like the top Russia
advisor I think on the NSC no long to
Trump to Trump right and she will
reportedly testify that Sandlin Giuliani
Volcker were sort of running a shadow
Ukraine policy outside of the normal you
know systems and processes in the US
government which again that's not great
for the Trump administration so I guess
what I'm saying is like we are still
very early in this process you've
essentially had I think only one or two
people actually testify so far a little
reporting on three number three and
number four witnesses and everything's
been pretty freakin bad for Trump so far
so like if there's a bunch of voters
standing by waiting for new evidence
that could be that could be really bad
it seems like we're getting a lot of
fairly damning evidence for the
administration the latest news in the
impeachment inquiry into President Trump
his relationship with Republicans has
been strained over the past week because
of his decision to withdraw US troops
from Syria and that may play a little
bit into how Republicans in the House
and Senate view the issue of impeachment
we'll discuss in the week since we last
met the United States withdrew from
Syria turkey began bombing northeastern
Syria and basically going to war against
the Kurds and there has been a lot of
backlash from Congress in general but
you know most notably from Republicans
so this is back left or something
distinct from impeachment but does the
fact that Republicans are breaking with
Trump on this say
anything about how this impeachment
inquiry and the politics of impeachment
could unfold going forward I think so
yeah
one I think it shows they are willing to
break with Trump on some things so
that's like a low bar but they clear
that bar and this is like everybody it's
like Mitch McConnell it's yeah as Cheney
it's all kinds of leaders within the
congressional delegation now in this
case it's it's like a fairly
inexplicable Trump decision that
happened outside again outside the
normal process
John Dickerson made this point on the on
the political gab fest but like there
actually are some similarities at least
in the process that led to impeachment
within the administration in the process
that led to the Syria decision anyway it
it shows ok Republicans do have a line
somewhere right in this case like
literally people are dying as a result
of the decision so maybe that's maybe
you're not gonna see that with with
regards to the impeachment but still
there is a line and to I think it's
related in the sense of for some elected
Republicans I think there is a calculus
of hey we don't like X Y & Z that Trump
does but we get a B and C and the more
that Trump undermines a B and C and the
elected officials don't feel like
they're getting that anymore I think
that I think that maybe eats away at his
support among his his Republican
colleagues what is a B and C just
electoral success electoral success tax
cuts you know sorry Nate I whispered
policy yeah it's a policy right and you
know how much that factors into into
their support for Trump you know I think
that's a probably where Claire will push
back as opposed to just a street
electoral politics of them needing to
stand by him yeah I'm I mean this isn't
I'm not gonna like profess to know
what's gonna happen my instinct is no
cuz I know what's gonna happen
my instinct is my instinct is that
Republicans are taking this bold stand
in part because their constituents
aren't keeping a close eye on this yeah
and I do think all the all that you said
is right mica these Republicans probably
feel one of them have probably met with
at least some people involved at this
fight there's a sense of we are
abandoning these people who have
basically been fighting our battles on
Isis and been watching the prisoners and
I you know Isis prisoners for us and
that their feels like some true like
human betrayal going on that Trump kind
of allowed I really do wonder though how
they like let's say they want to break
with Trump and they want to use this as
an excuse with their base right is that
relevant to their base or would Trump be
able to make some argument that would be
more clear for people to grasp onto and
and so Republicans you know we want to
stand up for the for the Kurds would
kind of like fall flat I mean I you know
the PKK which this this Kurdish movement
is now sort of looking for an alliance
with Bashar al-assad right so that's not
yeah you know I could see maybe that's
maybe that's pertinent or maybe I don't
know these stories about Isis detainees
now having escaped in the chaos god
forbid right yeah like you know these
things are have have very much moved
political events in Europe in the US but
I just I have real skepticism that a
foreign policy thing like this will will
give Republicans the cover because
unfortunately Americans are pretty
parochial and and don't pay as much
attention to foreign policy I think
that's right I guess I don't look at it
I look at it more broadly and I think
you're right that like the you know this
on its own for most of the Republican
base would not be enough if officials
went to that base and said okay here's
why we're abandoning
right but I look at it I guess more kind
of holistically an accumulation of both
the impeachment stuff and exactly so
impeachment is starting we're starting
impeachment with Trump unpopular overall
impeachment has a bare majority of
support very slim or maybe a plurality a
strong core plurality Democrats are
almost all on board with it independents
are split but moving towards Democrats
and Republican officials are making
nonsensical arguments staying silent
nonsensical arguments in support of
Trump staying silent or you know some
other random things so if so if that's
where we're starting the more stuff
there is like Syria which sort of just
you know eats away at the reasons
Republicans do like Trump I think that
adds up and adds up and adds up and
that's how you get to something as
Extreme as removing someone from I mean
there's like maybe there is a third
dimension that you and Claire are kind
of dancing around a little bit right
there's a policy dimension if Trump does
stuff you don't like he starts a trade
war with China yeah
etc he changes foreign policy in ways
you don't like that's a problem right
number two and probably should be number
one in terms of how most members of
Congress think is the electoral impact
what risk do you bear by going against
Trump what risk
would the party bear now the direction
if Trump were somehow removed from
office or not somehow if you voted
removed from from office right what's
that do to life the GOP chances of
winning keeping the Senate and winning
the presidency in 2020 if to mention
number one is policy dimension number
two is kind of electoral concerns I mean
might people be concerned about the
president's overall fitness for office
that's a third dimension what people
Republicans down to you know but you
have to prove to people but I mean like
what is he doing differently than what
he's been doing for the
three years I think it's a lot worse
subjectively I think you sure I think
the Syria thing is and I think again you
can list this podcast I think a lot of
times you said yeah ah blah right I
remember like sending out a tweet on New
Year's Day in I sounded a tweet on New
Year's Day in 2017 saying hey look if
you had actually lined up like a liberal
critics list of what the first year of
Trump is gonna be like and compare it to
what actually happened then I actually
don't think that it would have been as
bad if liberals had to be objective
about it in advance okay because what
happened this year is kind of in line
with the stuff that they were is that
fake like Boston Globe series of
headlines about Trump and all the stuff
that happens I think the further you've
gotten along in Trump's presidency that
closer it gets to like this kind of
Boston Globe eyes version okay I
understand the argument that you're
making and that might be true but also
there's the the other thing of and I
think the of this is just what people
expect his decision-making process to be
and perhaps that there there isn't that
shock that you would think that they
were there would be right it's the it's
the it's all boiled down to Trump goes
out on the White House lawn
and says well why doesn't China
investigate Biden blah blah blah right
the idea that in order to cover up
conduct unbecoming or unfit for office
he repeats the same conduct over and
over again that I mean I don't know any
but I'm just I'm sizing that there are
two ways that that plays out and I
totally understand what you're saying
and that it combined with okay you know
this serious stuff and hikes more people
keep on testifying and it seems like the
sambar you know sober minded people yeah
on Trump side are starting to say like
this was alarming to us internally and
it's only now come out and now we feel
comfortable saying I think it could all
accumulate but to me it's also there's a
pretty strong card counter-argument that
like yeah maybe the sober minded people
need to see yeah I think he's playing a
higher stakes game the stakes of the
cirrie decision for example
are to me you can write hailers if you
want about a hundred times more
important than like the the Muslim
travel ban in the first year there's the
impact on the world and the impact on
you know the future security of large
numbers of people right we so when you
are saying maybe there's a concern about
fitness for office who are you talking
about are you talking about Republican
voters are you talking about lawmakers
I'm talking about lawmakers saying hey
do I have to put up with at least
another 13 months of unpredictable to
use a fairly kind of amusing
decision-making from the White House and
so how do I know there won't be another
crisis kind of around the next corner
those lawmakers only really moved to act
if those sort of more not the hardcore
Trump supporter people but the the other
Republicans if they move against Trump
right isn't that the only thing that
these Republican lawmakers are truly
reacting to I mean in the day they would
react if they think that Trump is more
of an electoral liability than a feature
it has anything changed recently to make
you think that yeah I think I think I
think I'm with me in the in the regards
that I do think there is a sense that
that Trump's behavior has been more
whatever adjective you want to use it
outlandish unbalanced whatever since the
Ukraine Storybrooke kind of his public
rhetoric has been pretty all over the
place and then I look I think ultimately
Claire is right that that the the
politics of this are gonna be what
matters most they may not be the only
thing that matters but it's gonna be
what matters most right there was a poll
from our friends at episodes and our
colleagues at ABC News that found to
Claire's point only like 17% of people
were very surprised or somewhat
surprised by by the Ukraine story right
so a lot of this is is already baked in
yeah yeah here's my bottom line thing is
that I think it's unlikely that
Republican lawmakers and Republican
voters in general turn against Trump
before the election
in part because people don't like being
told that they're wrong and they don't
like being trumped like Trump is very
smart in framing the 2020 campaign as
they want to reach they want to like
attack the decision that you made in
2016
I mean look at all of us at various
points on this podcast right we like we
like dig into our and I just think it
comes down to like this really human
thing of even if it strategically might
start to make more sense there's this
real mental emotional barrier to people
saying you made the wrong choice and the
in in the in the place of like in the
position of Republican Party leaders
they have given their party to this -
Trump right they have remade it in his
image
and true admits that Trump is
impeachable means not just oh he did a
couple of really crazy things that went
over the line it means we've made a huge
mistake
we're gonna talk about the Democratic
primary debate on Tuesday night and what
kinds of arguments we might expect to
play out among the leading contenders in
the Democratic primary on Tuesday
Democratic contenders for the 2020
presidential nomination will face off in
their fourth debate it will be one night
with 12 people and the two candidates
joining since last month's debate our
representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii
and billionaire and impeachment advocate
Tom Steyer so to kind of like set the
stakes broadly here how important do you
guys think the debates have been so far
in determining the contours of the race
have they played a significant role in
the first three debates
I think they've helped people discern
who is serious and who is not serious
and I think that they've been you know
for someone like Buddha judge they've
probably been good on some level because
it's like oh here's just he's like a
he's kind of unknown but he's being
taken seriously he comes across well
blah blah blah
for someone like Biden I think it's
given some people doubts about his his
ability to
I want to be careful here he's not a
good talker sometimes off-the-cuff in
these settings in these pressure
settings so it's probably led people to
have like a more unfavorable opinion of
him but yeah I don't think we should
just miss debates at all like they are
naturally televised events at which
people you know most Americans don't see
these candidates at all so like getting
an impression of them is is probably
good and like I would say for someone
like Warren who has spent a lot of her
time sort of trying to introduce herself
to the American public by kind of saying
like listen I'm not Hillary Clinton even
though I am a woman of a certain age of
a certain party and look I'm not so
scary right so it's I guess it's like it
has shaped the conversation and maybe
that way is what I would say as a
kickoff now everyone just all right yeah
where do you guys come down no I I think
that's right I mean look at the debates
have not had an effect like they did in
like the 2012 Republican primary like
everybody gets a bump everybody gets a
bump and a surge but I do think they've
had the effect that that Clair describes
also though haven't they just had the
effect of kind of winnowing the field
from 27 whatever it was down to 10 or 12
I mean I think it's a little bit of a
chicken and egg thing yeah I think
because the primary has not been that
dynamic the debates have not mattered
that much in vice versa
or maybe it would have been super
dynamic if not for the debates mm I mean
I mean the two things that have changed
significantly right are Warren has been
gaining throughout the primary and is
now maybe Co frontrunner and then Harris
peaked as the result of one of a one of
the debates and then cratered and like
has anything else happened that is like
particularly dynamic in the race
boo to judge Buddha judge well yeah I
mean slightly dynamic went from two to
eight and back down to six or something
I'm not sure that's that exciting right
like so like one of those cases of
dynamism is the result of a debate but
it kind of ended up not happening how
important how important have the debates
been for Warren because I'm the one I
could say
she's had a consistent rise and has been
the most consistent debater yeah I mean
two or three debates we did polling for
well poet for this fourth debate by the
way also she did well on both of those
right no clearly like turning her into
one of the frontrunners
I think the debates you know certainly
haven't hurt and it probably helped but
I know this debate I think is
interesting I'm actually kind of psyched
about this debate wait why because I
think each of the three secret leading
candidates and the polls have new
factors to deal with this is Biden's
opportunity to respond to Ukraine to
hunter Biden to impeachment he's become
more forceful in his rhetoric in his
social media recently after having been
a little slow on the draw initially
Elizabeth Warren has to deal for the
first time with the perception that she
is the front-runner a lot of campaigns
that thought okay well let's attack
Biden or kind of run our own lane now
that might not be an option she might
get more critical questions from the
media we have seen a shift and the third
is Bernie Sanders had a heart attack
since the past debate and so people
gonna be interested in how how how
frankly healthy and vigorous he seems on
the one hand and in their hand like kind
of is he moving into a stage where he is
changing his strategy maybe in a way to
be more what's term used people use so
Hillary Clinton in a fur campaign like
valedictory right where it's kind of
like at the end of the campaign we're
like you're being a little bit more
gracious you're like you know what maybe
I don't have a great shot but I just
want to kind of get ya warm the part of
my ideas what makes you think the
Sanders will do that well to be frank a
lot of voters and polls have concerns
about Bernie Sanders as held and he's
not doing that well he's at fifteen
percent right now when you've two
candidates at twenty nine percent twenty
percent that's a pretty big gap to make
up when when a lot of the voters who are
voting for you now say yes a seventy
eight-year-old they just had a heart
attack does give me a lot of concerns
about things ranging from his health to
his ability to be
Donald Trump and so I think like I
thought it was a heavy-lift we have not
been on this or I won't speak for other
people I have thought from the start
that Bernie Sanders although he still
might be the third most likely nominee
you'd rather be in his shoes than a lot
of people's okay but like I don't think
his dredge from the start really had a
good way to expand beyond his 15 or 16
percent and I think now the fact that
Warren has a fairly dedicated base of
supporters and has more second-choice
support and the fact that you have this
new kind of health factor to overcome
it's just like it's a really big list no
I totally agree with that and actually I
my first thought after seeing it was
like okay maybe he could go into more of
like you know just whatever that term
you used was valid
but I don't think the campaign has done
anything to suggest that I think they've
there was like that one moment where
they did something with their Iowa ads
but they have been pretty clear that
that they are still going for this thing
now maybe it's a type of thing where
like up until the moment you're not you
have to go for Spurs in some ways is
probably like I mean he seems he's
probably stir like struggling on some
level personally but also you have this
whole apparatus surrounding you and a
lot of people probably like within your
inner circle who say we want you to
continue I'm sure there's a lot of
division of what should our strategy
because there are because I'm sure
there's some interesting directions you
could go in and I'm I would think that a
presidential campaign of that size and
seriousness would be would be thinking
through a lot of different options
including should he drop out and endorse
someone right yeah but again they're not
showing any yeah obviously full steam
ahead
Nate when it comes to like the health
stuff we actually we've been talking a
bit about how you know all three of the
frontrunners so to speak are
septuagenarians but it doesn't mean the
same thing and I think we actually got
some polling recently that shows that
the broader public sees although they're
all in their 70s kind of see them
differently
can you explain kind of how that broke
down yeah I think CBS / YouGov mass
voters regardless of who you might
consider do you feel these candidates
are
too young to serve effectively as
president too old to serve effectively
as president or is their age not a
concern only four percent of voters said
Elizabeth Warren is too old
twenty eight percent said Joe Biden is
too old and forty three percent said
Bernie Sanders is too old Wow
oh very interesting so you know and what
are their ages born Emily but would be
71 76 and 78 respectively and then would
be 76 and no Biden are about a year
apart they happened to be in this gap
right now where that's more like a year
than two I think the by I mean what I
like Warren to me is kind of like yeah
she's just like she projects fun yeah
but like the interesting thing is I mean
I would be curious like before the heart
attack yeah what the Biden Sanders to
old numbers would be because that is a
quite a big difference for the Sanders
yeah yeah but even I mean those numbers
are really striking now you'd imagine
they're somewhat inflated by the recency
of the heart attack you know yeah and
maybe in a couple months and there's
numbers go down but and maybe Biden's
goes down a little too just as sort of
like being a giant adage to be fair two
percent of voters said that Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders were too young to be
President I love that how big of a
problem is that twenty eight percent
number for Biden it is a problem with
young voters yeah I mean this is like
something you just see across the board
like he's old yeah like and so if he
becomes the nominee isn't that a problem
that some people are just kind of this
guy but I feel like the lack of
connection that Biden has wit you know
you watch him on the stump and he brings
up Kennedy and going to the moon as his
way of relating to young people right of
the idea of here we need someone who
conspire inspire movements and his
touchstone is President Kennedy saying
we should go to the moon by the end of
the decade which I'm not saying wasn't
an inspiring event but the fact that he
is pulling back to the early 60s in
order to inspire the youth of 2019 is
indicative of something new you agree
with that that 28 percent is a problem
look I mean it's not
percent it's not 50% but look so Biden
has 30% right now roughly probably 27 28
right all of the half that he doesn't
have all the senators saying doesn't
have than like almost a third of those
or more than a third of those voters
have an issue with his age that might be
kind of people who I think are a little
bit maybe off-limits to him because it's
kind of a fundamental issue that gets
into like qualifications not
qualifications for office but like
fitness for office and also ability to
beat Trump and Sanders you know
currently has 15% 43% say he's too old
okay that really reduces the chunk that
he could get that's left and I don't
necessarily buy that like it's gonna
fade as an issue because like look let's
say that Bernie Sanders makes a big
comeback and the Elizabeth Warren people
or the Biden people are not happy about
this because it means they might not win
the nomination and Bernie might instead
the heart attack did not get that much
coverage in part because it came when
all these really important stories were
going on right but like you know they
could just bring it back up you can
imagine Democratic surrogates for Biden
or Wharram kind of bringing it back up
you know it strikes me again as we're
going into the debate that Andrew yang
is only pulling within a couple points
of like Harris and Buddha judge and and
I'm just thinking about age here right
like do you think part of the reason why
yang is polling well is just like youth
the fact that like he is a young with
like a bright young thing like you know
Buddha judge that's obviously part of
his thing but he's a more serious person
and we've talked a lot about Andrew yang
as kind of like oh he's the candidate of
the Internet and and I don't think
people take him seriously is he's gonna
be the nominee but I am struck by right
now in the averages you know Biden
Warren Sanders then the Buddha judge at
five Harris at 4.5 yang at 2.7 like is
it is some of it just sheer like that
young man has ideas like you isn't
really touch more like there there is a
bright young man
and I said that but I'm saying like just
like the fact that yang is such a weird
candidate in so many ways but is kind of
pulling like not bad at all
no he's doing pretty well like how much
I just want to know how much of that is
just like pure like the ambrosia of
youth I think it's a pure I'm a
political people yeah outsider right Oh
callow student is like pollicis guys
kind of fun and cool plus a few kind of
I mean I I guess if you were like a
libertarian yeah on the one hand we have
these polls that show people are
expressed concerned about the leading
candidates ages on the other hand the
leading candidates how how to reconcile
those things ok so such a big field your
national recognition like your name ID
is super important and those leading I'm
sorry I think it's more than name ID I
think that's part of it but I think it's
like a true worry that people swing
voters will get spooked by some of the
new faces or like they might like embody
rightly or not like the new scary
socialist democratic party like I think
there's some like steady as she goes
like even though Warren is very very
left like there's some sense of like oh
no like that person seems like they
would play well and competent and be
able to kind of like code-switch
oklahoma with the voters voters do not
think Elizabeth Warren's age is an issue
per that polling we said earlier in the
segment and so she has moved up because
age is in a concern meanwhile Bernie I
mean women do live longer than men so
it's not important okay this is a I
think for what are saying meanwhile
Bernie has been very flat and is getting
a lot less than he got last time yeah
and it's impossible to know how much age
factors you know Matt I tend to think of
Bernie Sanders were 10 years younger he
would have been regarded in a very
different way from the start and Biden's
been Biden um he's doing okay I mean we
had our coal Pony Oh Biden has not
actually declined in the polls really
post Ukraine who's been pretty
teddy but like but like he hasn't
expanded his coalition either he hasn't
gotten that many others morning when
else like endorsers right he hasn't kind
of persuaded people who weren't in his
camp originally and you wonder if age
might be concerned there and he has not
been very sharp in these debates and so
so I don't know I guess that that just
suggests to me though and I think that's
right in your point about Warren sort of
not shouldn't really count towards the
old people leading I think that's right
but I think that does highlight the
extent to which concern about age quote
unquote is we shouldn't take it
literally all right well we've they
talked a lot about some of the broader
dynamics in the race and we'll see what
actually comes up in the debate it would
be really interesting I think if you
were to watch like Warren Biden and
Sanders kind of go at each other about
the issue of age or you know some of the
others really take them to task on age
we don't know what saying that someone
should make the pass the torch argument
all right anyway so we're going to be
live blogging tomorrow Tuesday night so
check us out at five thirty eight.com
we'll also have a reaction podcast for
you in your feeds afterwards thank you
mate thank you Galen Thank You Claire
thanks Gillen and thank you Micah thank
you my name is Galen drew tony chao is
in the control room our intern is jay
carlo you can get in touch by emailing
us at podcasts at five thirty eight.com
you can also of course tweet at us with
questions or comments if you're a fan of
the show leave us a rating or review in
the Apple podcast store or tell someone
about us thanks for listening and we'll
see you soon
[Music]
hey folks
I predict that you're going to either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
