the NFL playoffs are finally upon us and
this year we could be due for even more
excitement than usual all signs point to
a wide open postseason with a lot of
really good teams but few clear-cut
dominant front runners
according to 538 see low ratings which
is our pet measure of team strength at
any given moment there are nine
different teams this year that have a
rating of at least 1,600 that's the mark
of a really good team those are teams
that could be expected to win about 10
and a half games per regular season and
that's the second most that there's been
going into any postseason since 1990
which was the first year of the NFL's
current playoff format as you can see in
the chart though there are zero teams in
that group that cracked the 1700 ello
barrier which is traditionally the mark
of a truly elite dominant team and
that's pretty rare most seasons have at
least one if not two of that type of
team and those are the teams that climb
up to the top of the Super Bowl
probability list in the average season
since 1990 the Super Bowl favorite has
about a 30% chance of winning and the
number two team has a 21% chance however
this year's favorite the New Orleans
Saints have only a 21% chance themselves
and the number 2 team the Kansas City
Chiefs have only a 20% chance of winning
the Super Bowl
those teams lost is a game for the rest
of the teams in the bracket some of whom
have almost doubled the probability that
a team would expect to have if history
was any guy all this could give wildcard
weaken an extra layer of importance
because some of these teams could very
well win at all in Saturday's contests
ehlo likes deshaun Watson the Houston
Texans over Andrew Luck in the
Indianapolis Colts in a matchup of great
quarterbacks it also likes the Dallas
Cowboys as slim favorites at home over
the Seattle Seahawks and on Sunday Ehlo
is taking the Baltimore Ravens over the
LA Chargers in the early game and it
likes the Chicago Bears to knock off the
defending champion Philadelphia Eagles
in the second game of the day for more
NFL picks and predictions
check out fivethirtyeight.com
