[Music]
hello everyone and welcome to the 538
politics podcast on this installment of
the show the Democratic presidential
primary race has started to winnow so
we're gonna look at why some of the
candidates are dropping out and what it
says about the rest of the race we are
also going to speak hypothetically about
what could happen to American politics
and Trump's presidency in particular if
there were to be a recession in the US
you're watching ABC News live this is
the 538 politics podcast representative
Seth Moulton and governor's jay Inslee
and John Hickenlooper are out of the
race so today we're gonna discuss what
the early dropouts teach us about the
Democratic Party and how the field may
win out going forward here are they to
do all of that our editor-in-chief Nate
Silver how's it goin a great Gailen
happy Monday
blissful Monday blissful blissful West
less full also with us senior politics
writer Claire Malone how are you I'm
good bless for Monday okay and managing
editor Micah common area very nice let's
begin with the candidates who have
dropped out of the Democratic primary
race so governor of Washington jay
Inslee is instead going to seek a third
term as governor former governor of
Colorado John Hickenlooper is going to
run for Senate in Colorado and then
representative south molton from
Massachusetts is going to run for
re-election to Congress let's start kind
of big picture what does the group of
candidates who dropped out of the race
teach us about the Democratic Party
because in some sense being a swing
state governor and you know like like
John Hickenlooper or being the governor
of a decent-size state and running on an
issue that Democrats care a lot about
like climate change in the case of jay
Inslee would have in past elections been
pretty decent qualifiers for running for
president why not this time why were
those among the first people to drop out
click well I think to start with they
are people who didn't have much much
national name recognition and I think
that there is a desire among the
Democrats to have someone who is a well
known figure run against Trump because
obviously Trump
has quite a bit of celebrity quite a bit
of renowned and people don't want to
have to spend a lot of their time
introducing a candidate even if they
might be a conventionally worthy
candidate which I would say the
governors are I mean you have executive
experience I think honestly Democrats
are probably looking at a poor debate
losing someone like Inslee who was
focusing his entire campaign on a really
big issue a meaty issue um I mean I have
other thoughts about why there's
different like why the different flavors
of candidates all kind of got into the
race but I think what we're looking at
for the top tier of contenders are
people who have been known nationally
for quite a few years largely I mean the
Senate is seeing yeah
Pramod the prominent candidates are
mostly products of the Senate No
right except for Buddha judge like who's
kind of like sliding a little bit in the
well Biden was at one point in the
Senate yeah coming off of his vice
presidency yeah I think it also shows
the extent I'm one mm just to put a fine
point on I'm a claire said the extent to
which just getting oxygen is the main
and maybe only thing that matters now is
really striking where you have these
candidates who have dropped out and a
lot of them kind of came and went
without really making a ripple in the
national political pond right I don't
know if that's a function of just Trump
and modern politics or just having such
a huge field but like it's striking to
me that a lot of these candidates just
never got oxygen I mean but what if the
answer is just that these candidates
suck well that might be that might be it
although I think you have to
differentiate but then back that up if
you think it's because they suck I mean
shouldn't be the default most candidates
suck if they were like I don't know we
all know you better give us more data
than that if there were like eight
candidates and two of them sort of just
never made a ripple and dropped out I'd
be like yeah they didn't run go campaign
yeah but there's so many candidates okay
let's leave let's leave Inslee aside for
a moment what rationale did Hickenlooper
have for why he should be President
swing state governor
businessman moderate so but he also was
not very effective in debate he's not a
super great communicator he has kind of
a quirky style that's a little John
Kasich like I think maybe goes over well
and like microbreweries in Colorado but
it didn't translate very well to the
national level but you're saying that
the other people who are still in the
race who are maybe not catching on fire
are better communicators or Hickenlooper
just kind of more realistic I think most
the candidates aren't very relevant and
I think like the fact is so maybe it may
be a nice way to put this there are some
strong candidates in Democratic field
this year yes the number two runner-up
from last time number one runner up
Bernie Sanders is running again he's a
very formidable brand the former Vice
President Joe Biden is running Elizabeth
Warren who's maybe the biggest brand in
the Democratic Party after those two is
running a has run I think a good
campaign right Kamala Harris who has the
profile also of like a emerging leader
in the party and and blends different
coalition's together pretty well is it
is it strong candidate and mayor Pete
did actually kind of emerge from this
muck but what about the people who are
not the top-tier people I guess I'm more
interested in your analysis of that like
are those people
poor campaigners people not able to get
oxygen but your point is they're crowded
the top tier is crowding them now I
don't think they did very good job of
articulating clear message in their
campaigns
I think Moulton is under-qualified being
being just a couple of terms in office
from the house Hickenlooper is more
interesting but I think underperformed
Inslee is the one where you might ask
more questions yeah so explain that
what's the rationale for why Inslee
dropped out at this point in the race
because Democrats don't care that much
about climate change do you really think
that's deep the answer yes it's a
straightforward answer and people trying
to spin it in too many other ways and
meanwhile you have people saying oh it's
actually good that he kind of elevated
the importance of climate change
meanwhile I know all the mechanics but
the DNC this weekend was trying to quash
the idea of having a climate change
debate or focus forum so it's a big fu
to climate frankly so your question of
the people you know the people who have
made the debate stage who are maybe
doing less well on the polls
Booker Castro clova char or Roarke
yang I mean those are also relative you
know why isn't Booker or club achar
doing better or Castro because they do
have interesting credentials and I think
more distinctive brands I mess
and they're also at at one or two
percent but you know one or two or three
or four percent is a lot better than
0.1% or I think Moulton literally did
not get above zero literally did not get
to one percent in any single poll that
was used for debate qualified qualifying
no I agree I agree with that I guess my
point though is Ike okay Moulton is an
easy one
I think Inslee as you say is a little
bit harder where where he has some real
credentials and a compelling message I
agree with your interpretation that like
Democratic voters clearly are not
prioritizing climate change at least
relative to other stuff but but some of
these candidates like you know Bullock
or even or even yet Chlo Bashar I mean
people who are still in but aren't
really aren't really making noise I
guess my contention is like it is too
early to say whether they are good
candidates because this process just
hasn't been going on that long in a way
where a lot of people are paying
attention and there's something about
the fact that the winnowing is already
happening that seems weird given that
fact now maybe they're all just bad
candidates but I think something you're
not used to like 22 candidate fields no
I think there's a problem there but six
candidate field is often fairly firm in
ability of six big names or at three or
four candidate field they'll probably
once you get down to somewhere between
two and four that's usually how it goes
right and in some ways all the winnowing
that's occurred is like an argument for
the kind of political science theory
that hey winnowing works is like a Poli
Sci ashtag but like but like I don't
know by the way why does can I also kind
of came into the race kind of late the
ones who came in earlier and seemed to
do more groundwork seem to be doing
better why do we value candidates who
are senators now or who have made their
name in the national press I mean
because Americans profess to be
immensely frustrated with the United
States Senate and the Congress in
general so in some ways it's a little
bit counterintuitive given what yeah
right like and I'm kind of curious what
we I mean I've sort of proffered the
theory of well you know there
well no names there's been lots of
high-profile like senatorial hearings I
think that's kind of how Harris made her
name she's a new senator and she was
prosecutorial and hearings she became a
thing but it's also confounding in some
way because like butta judge is the only
candidate who is top-tier candidate who
is operating in a way that Americans
sort of say they want politicians to
operate right effective local like you
know local executive things like that
not a part of a stalling legislative
body could it also be because of the
nationalization of politics in the sense
that whenever we're having a
conversation about an issue that's
taking place in Washington that is all
over cable news that is on the network's
the people who are weighing in are going
to be people who are you know well in
Congress or in the Senate more
specifically and of course people in the
Senate have been elected by more people
generally than people in the Democratic
field brought to you by TV in a way
right I mean how did all of these people
maintain or boost their brands in the
time between Donald Trump's election and
when they and now it's not yeah we've
got something here which is that in 2010
and 2014 Democrats had really bad
midterms and 2008 thousand 14 are when
governors are elected and so if you do
not get very many governors elected who
are new and fresh and in swing states
because you're losing all the swing
states and mid in wave years then you
don't have a lot of prospects where as
I'm sure in four years or eight years
Gretchen Whitmer will be someone who is
considered maybe an elite prospect
governor of Michigan for the nomination
and other case selected in in Midwestern
swing states and southern swing states
whatever else right but like the kind of
people left over after those two really
poor years and that's again what you
would expect will be in office for a
term or term and a half or two terms
then they might run for president right
it's usually typical pattern and so the
fact that you didn't have this kind of
new crop emerge in this kind of rather
long eight year period of the Obama
administration now you do but they're
too new or too fresh would undermine
their brands by running it's that's a
big factor so this goes back to the
critique of the Obama
which is that the state-level party
atrophied under his leadership oh and I
think that's basically borne out in the
data like he lost about a thousand
legislative state legislative seats
during his tenure but I want to get back
to something that Myka seemed to suggest
at the beginning which is does it seem
it seems at this point like part of the
reason that these candidates got out is
because one they were gonna make the
September debates and two because they
were interested in running for office
back home where they came from so does
it seem like the DNC is potentially
winnowing the field too soon by amping
up the credentials to get into the
debates because it's not like Marianne
Williamson and you know all the other
kind of lesser-known people or advocacy
issue candidates are getting out of the
race it's two governors who are getting
out who you know could be potentially
strong if given the opportunity to
present themselves to a national
audience once people pay attention in
September so I think the answer to that
is yes it I think that field is
winnowing too early and yet I'm not sure
there's a better option given the size
of the field do you think the field
should ever win oh no for president
that's a serious question I think okay I
think that you don't think they should
you think they should all drop out of
their own volition I think that I'd be
more comfortable with people dropping
out having gotten a good look from from
voters and the media and maybe swol well
got a good look maybe Moulton got a good
look maybe Inslee got a good look I like
think Ike I don't know Nolan or swallow
deserve good looks but that's not an
interesting conversation okay so why
everybody deserves a good look because
they take away from people who are more
qualified and interesting like a jay
Inslee for example a Booker a closed jar
or Gillibrand we bit like the the okay
if we think of like the Democratic field
as a marketplace then the DNC is
the regulator of the market place right
and they impose regulations and some
people decide that the market forces
don't favor them and so they drop out
there's no I mean I think it's I think
it's a bit like there aren't a lot
of incentives for if there were no
debate qualifications to meet I wonder
how many people would have dropped out
by September October November December
whatever it was and then would would
Americans would Americans or Democrats
specifically be seeing an impoverished
debate because there were so many people
going on so many couldn't get a good
sense of the field I don't know I think
it's a hard but wouldn't you rather hear
from Amy Klobuchar or who Leon Castro
and twice as much from him instead of
from like some generic white Congress
yes he's elected for two terms yes but
I'm not criticizing the DNC really you
know I'm not I think I think the one is
the best thing they've done when you
have a field this big it kind of breaks
the system and it's just like an
inevitable product of a field this big
is that you're gonna have a whole set of
candidates come and go without getting a
good look it's the only point them so
part of this conversation about whether
the DNC is kind of like putting its
thumb on the scale or forcing a
winnowing process too early is
predicated on the idea that the debates
play a major role in who people end up
supporting right like the idea is well
if you're not going to make the debates
you might as well get out because you're
not gonna have a chance of you know
raising your profile nationally and
moving up in the polls is that true do
people really I mean it very well may be
I just don't know do people make up
their minds about who they want to
support based on how they've seen them
performing the debates well I think it
matters for like a middle to your
candidates looking to make an impression
I think it mattered for Castro right was
it the first debate probably both
debates but it probably matters for
Booker in a small way but I think it
makes I think people like to gauge how
their candidate looks in a race well I
mean looks in a debate but it's among
the top tier people
I'm not sure how much it like bolsters
their support in the long term right
like we've seen Biden go down a few
points in a rise buck back up I don't
know did Harris go up some points and go
back down yeah so I think it matters
more for middle tier people and I think
we've said this in some of our live
walks of like Clos Bashar probably
needed to do to have some sort of
breakout moment in some debate in order
to kind of make a viable sprint like I
don't think she's a candidate who's
going to like I think she if among the
people who are more quote-unquote
serious talk to your people
I bet the Clos Bashar is one of the
people to drop out this fall it's if
those people are gonna drop out but
unless she has a momentum unless she's a
moment debate yeah
I think it matters much more than it
used to because you used to have I think
you used to have candidates like skip
debates and you'd have debates with like
two of the candidates but not the other
two and then you had you know well used
to be up to the networks the networks
were just kind of cobble together
debates with whoever would join and now
with such a big field I mean there's not
like I don't think there's an empirical
answer to this really because it kind of
this era of like huge fields and like
kind of the party sponsored debates I
think it is new enough but like I do
think the debates too late to a large
extent define the race and if you're not
there you're not there previously the
Democratic Party and Republican Party
has seen candidates who did not do
particularly well early on in the polls
go on to do well in Iowa or New
Hampshire and raise their profile that
way and either go on to be competitive
or eventually win the nomination in the
case of Jimmy Carter you obviously have
to go pretty far back to get a case like
that where somebody who was polling at
1:00 or 2:00 in the year before the
election goes on to eventually win the
nomination is is that like a good thing
does the primary should the primary
function in such a way where those kind
of you know Dark Horse candidates can
make a lot of noise in Iowa and go on to
win and if it is a good thing is it bad
that the DNC seems to be preventing that
in some ways from happening I mean I
think all your questions are biased
Kalyn because you're asking them in on
one side you're like did the DNC window
too soon
why didn't you why might not they I went
in too late um because I mean
historically doesn't very late in the
primary season in terms of strict
self-interest for the parties
historically these very large nomination
processes tend to produce pretty chaotic
results which resulted in the governing
nominated in 72 Jimmy Carter in 76 and
Donald Trump in 2016 on the GOP side and
there aren't any nominations until this
one that have been as broad as well I
asked is that a good thing and your
answer could have been no it's a bad
thing you don't want dark horse
candidate it's going on to win the
nomination because they don't well
represent the parties and that's a
strong academic argument that's
oftentimes made about our primary horse
candidates I'm saying that like they
used to be kind of an implicit agreement
where canit's wouldn't run these vanity
campaigns as much and these hopeless
campaigns as much and now because they
think oh we're thick and open because of
Trump now they do and I think also
because of like a lot of ego in the kind
of digital era right where you can have
your micro that's an interesting theory
that that that we all feel more
empowered because we have more
grassroots ways of reaching people yeah
yeah like that yang Yang exists as a
candidate because of the internet I mean
he's the only sort of non-tv yang yang
in some ways is someone who is like a
traditional Dark Horse underdog and each
candidate who is kind of the oh the fun
you know weird candidate that you have
in the debate right and provides I don't
know some combination of interesting and
new ideas and comic relief or whatever
you want to call it right where it's
like all the random and we did a piece
on this right all people in are late
they're almost all like white guys right
it's all these random parade of like
white men who didn't really think
through their campaign de Blasio or
something right didn't really think
through the campaign I mean de Blasio
was actually more credential than some
of them in the mayor of New York is no
small thing in the light but like you
just let go the argument on this podcast
that we shouldn't have these kind of
like paternalistic rules and the markets
should kind of take itself where it will
why do you think that that shouldn't be
the case in
the nominating process it is and the
markets clearly rejecting a lot of these
candidates and probably the markets
rejecting more of the candidate so far I
guess you could also make the point that
the primary process is a private
organizations way of selecting a leader
so while it may be lightly Democratic
it's not entirely Democratic like it has
some what yeah what is what is like the
ideal okay well let's say were the DNC
right mm-hmm
there's a there's a field of let's say
whatever 24 25 candidates its January
2019 what would our ideal winnowing pace
be would it be like half are gone by
Iowa another half are gone by Super
Tuesday and then right yeah I mean I
don't know sure well if you wanna I
think you want a lot to drop out by the
fall before Iowa yeah I think you want
some of the like blah people who
probably aren't real contenders to drop
out because then you have a better idea
from the results or from polls yeah who
is a viable candidate I mean I think
maybe you need to put credentials or
qualifications as part of the qualifying
criteria see I disagree with you on that
why like why can't like why should the
DNC you know cut off the idea the
possibility that someone who is a dark
horse candidate who is not a person
national politics who might be the
outsider that Democrats have been
praying for why should they cut
themselves off - they aren't possibility
and we've seen two people
Buddha touch and Andrew yang emerged to
the point where they despite not having
traditional credentials at all whole
mirror South Bend entrepreneur emerge as
people who are actually quite popular in
my criteria is that like that I think it
should be easier for senators and
governors to know but you just said that
there should be criteria that you have
to meet so what would that be that maybe
you know you have a southing where you
have a or where you have like a
and rather you have to both get 2% in
for polls and we this fundraising
special maybe if you're a senator or
governor or former vice president I
suppose then that becomes an oar and if
you're not then that's an end so there's
like two tracks to get into the debate
it's like when a kind of some level of
the elected office or above or show
enough grassroot support yeah okay yeah
I guess I still come back to this
question of like these large fields are
a big problem and I'm not sure I think
that exacerbates the problem I think I
mean to go back to you criticizing me
for being biased in how the primary
process works
I mean interestingly enough I'm working
on a project right now that gets at how
the primary process works and the role
that the parties can or should play and
there's a very strong argument for the
party playing a much larger role in
vetting candidates and winnowing etc etc
I mean yeah up until 1972 there was very
very little role for voters and it was
almost entirely up to the parties and a
lot of academics today will make the
argument that the party should play a
larger role and that the nominating
process has gotten out of hand and no
longer functions as a way to find a
candidate to represent party platforms
who can eventually govern and work with
the politicians who are already elected
there all kinds of arguments at the same
time if you're going to have an open
process then people are gonna be
critical of it when it's not as open as
it can be
no but that's kind of what I'm getting
at is you you're you kind of have the
worst of both worlds right now because
you have a theoretically open process
but it's overrun enough by candidates
that it's that it's not like it impinges
on the kind of small d-- democratic
value of it being open because there's
not actually like all that much
democratic decision make it making going
on small d-- right it's more just like
who has a credential who can get
attention in you know among like five
kind of national media outlets and
that's it so before we move
kind of have we come to it have we come
to a conclusion here no no like the DNC
we are telling listeners to make their
own determination I mean I don't think
inclusion is kind of that the public has
decided there are somewhere between four
to eight candidates they really care
about anyway and so maybe it doesn't
matter that much the end what the
party's rules are if are the DNC I would
want to facilitate a conversation
between that larger group at least at
eight to ten group mechanics who qualify
the debates so far right and I'm not
super sympathetic to two candidates who
who didn't make that threshold I think
it's the thresholds not that high it's
not low anymore but it's not that high
no I very 2% I agree with that and I do
think there is like this does top tier
that's that's pretty distinct from the
rest I guess my question then is like
okay if we're saying at this point you
know it's August of 2019 that the public
the market has drawn this line in the
field and everyone above it is a viable
kind of everyone below it get out who
has made that decision is it the
Democratic electorate in a real way like
like the fold of a Democratic electorate
representative of the one that will come
out and vote in November 20 2009 what
are what are the skews are you getting
at that you think that people aren't
paying enough attention yet and
therefore the people who are paying
attention are choose are a certain kind
of person and they are choosing these
candidates unfairly for the rest of the
population that and you know it's just
like an imperfect second but you could
also say that those people who are
paying attention to the race and who are
winnowing the field for everyone else
are doing what the party itself wants
people to do right so they are
democratically winnowing the party right
that party elites aren't the ones who
are setting standards and getting rid of
them it's the people who are already
paying attention who are saying these
are not viable people so get them the
hell out right the idea that there are
tears
of voter attention and the high interest
voters are paying attention now and
deciding these are bad kinas and good
canons I agree that there's problems
with that because it might be tilted
toward certain demographics but you can
also it's a little bit like wisdom of
the crowds of like saying yeah maybe
whatever whatever its limitations maybe
that still is better than you know it
being a smoke-filled room right it's
like a it's a biased population but at
least it's a population from the
populace and not like a bunch of elites
although Galen wants the elites to the
side although I would just accuse my
knee of not wanting the elites to play
any role so now I don't know which
position I have I do think we'd agree
that there's a certain amount of hubris
going on with a number of people who are
still left in the race right yeah why 15
of them probably but also I mean that's
just that not just but people left in
the race that's people who run for
president I mean in favors is like it's
it's a it's a sort of like denigration
of pridefulness right why is joe Sestak
in the race if he doesn't actually have
a chance of winning it's because of
excessive pride is it so one other like
theory that we had is that people think
that in this environment where the
candidates who run for president get a
lot of media attention you have
something to gain by running for
president whether or not you think you
can win I guess kind of looking at the
people who aren't taking off but have
decided to run for president like the
people who have dropped out and the
people remaining like Joe Sestak or
whatever that we've branded as having
Kiera's are those people gaining much
what are they gaining like here's I
think I think O'Rourke is our classic
example of this right is his campaign
hubristic or is it actually viable and
he should be res running for president
or should he be running for something
different and he's just running for
president because I think it's very easy
to make fun of the Aurora campaign did I
make fun of it I no no no I'm inserting
a question I don't mean you I mean in
answering that my temptation is to make
fun of the Aurora campaign and be like
why the hell is a VM running get out of
the race but like I still think there's
a chance in three months
that or work could have could have
gotten a look and then all of a sudden
being and the in the top tier like
that's what I'm you know the people who
haven't made the debate stage who are
still running for president they're
actually aren't a lot who I think are I
mean what's de Blasio Bennett Delaney
Gabbard Gillibrand
I mean Gillibrand can stay in the Senate
so was Bennett I mean maybe she'll run
for governor of New York I don't know
maybe like maybe maybe these people do
have a higher office thing but I kind of
him like well they already were known by
people in their state someone like Tim
Ryan maybe has more of a competitive
advantage by being like I was just a
relatively unknown congressman to lots
part lots of parts of the state but then
I ran for president and now maybe I'll
run for governor or something like that
I don't know but I think at this point
it's a little bit like people aren't
gaining all that much from running if
they're not well well I think you risk
the point where people start to get
irritated at you for running for know in
their studies that show like well first
of all almost all the candidates have
gone up in name recognition nathaniel
raikage has a piece coming out tomorrow
that shows that so you know they do gain
something but they're there studies that
show that historically at least one of
the variables that predicts whether
you're whether you'll drop out is how
kind of close are you to the party and i
think that's the reason why what Claire
just said which is if if you like kind
of care about your standing in the party
then remaining in the race kind of far
beyond where you're viable kind of
damages those ties we'll be right back
on ABC News live to talk about the
economy and what a possible souring in
the US economy could do to Trump's
chances of being reelected you're
watching ABC News live and this is the
538 politics podcast we discuss some of
the winnowing going on in the
presidential primary race among
Democrats now we're going to talk about
what a possible US recession could do to
Trump's chances of being re-elected and
how partisanship plays into all of it
recently economists and economic
institutions have noted an increase in
the likelihood of a recession in the
coming year so some indicators point in
that direction but others don't and
know that economists are famously bad at
predicting recessions so we're going to
just engage in the hypothetical right if
a recession were to happen how might it
affect American politics and in
particular Trump's standing so we're
gonna look at history and also consider
why things might be different in our
current political era but Nate you
studied economics at the University of
Chicago use also written plenty about
this
so start us off what do we know about
the effects of a worsening economy
historically on a president's chance of
being reelected it's bad and paid
hundreds of thousands of dollars for him
to come to that conclusion and what are
the most important indicators and how
significant are they like it's bad but
how so there is one actually I've done I
have done while working this problem
actually actually he's like actually
this is something I'm not just gonna
 about everyone eat their
Wheaties this morning so first of all
you should not look at anyone magic
economic indicator you should look at
the entire basket the bouquet the corn a
cornucopia of economic indicators that
affect people in different ways so
you'll get jobs look at GDP look at you
can look at the stock market you can
look at inflation you can look at there
are some metrics that are less the
inverted measurable but a more
predictive so well the yield curve is a
evaluation of investor expectations of
hours at various time horizons might go
there's stuff like industrial production
that tends to predictive of recessions
but like you might not notice as much
unless you work in that industry but
yeah you want I mean the economy is not
a simple thing never has been a simple
thing Americans experience it
differently look at income and so a kind
of broad cornucopia measures what you
should look at but what we know is that
you know when you have enough those
measures and by the way the way
recessions are defined is based on a
consensus of indicators showing negative
grow it's not actually just GDP at least
out in the u.s. it's a bureau decides
when recessions begin and end and they
look at four major measures so so
recession means a broad base
downturn in the economy that persists
for more than one quarter that persist
for six months or more and when you've
had recessions it's very hard for
presidents to be reelected 2008 was last
time you had a recession very bad for
the GOP which might have lost for other
reasons but but McCain rather in Bush's
stead lost badly to Obama the last
actual incumbent president to face
re-election in a recession year was 1982
not go really well for Jimmy Carter
people remember Bush in 92 be another
case of that this is kind of a funny
thing the National Bureau NBER did not
declare the recession of 1990 over until
after the election in 1992
so people even know it was already over
and they were growing for a long time we
guys we could be in a recession right
now man okay is there a way to is there
a way to measure like how big the impact
is relative to how bad or how good the
economy is like is there can you draw
some kind of relation between don't you
not know two years after sure people
know people you know I mean some
economic indicators you know inflation
you observe in in real time joblessness
you observe in real time right we build
our models based on how economic stats
are reported in real time right so it's
not the revised number by the way
there's just a revision that cut a bunch
of jobs that we thought we had
apparently don't have right there are
measurement issues and timing issues and
revision issues we build our models
based on what numbers were reported at
the time and those still so show plenty
of relationship between the economy and
reelection now we can take from the
other direction where there are I think
are are some fundamentals models that go
too far and say oh it's purely
determined by the economy I think it's
not I think the economy is like is like
to put a number on it is maybe 40
percent of what drives the president's
re-election odds the problem for Trump
is that like I don't think the other 60%
is going SuperDuper well he's not very
popular despite up until now having had
very positive sentiment and not just
sentiment but actual numbers about the
economy I mean job growth has been great
so if that 40 percent starts to turn
sour for him then that becomes difficult
okay but looking at this from the other
direction right he's remained at
only in the low forties and approval
while we've had pretty good economic
numbers meaning that perhaps people
aren't saying they're looking at other
things and they're prioritizing other
parts of their partisan identity as
opposed to saying hey the economy is
good I like this president so is there
also an argument that would say that if
the economy sours the forty percent
that's remained with him has strong
partisan feelings and will not kind of
part ways with him because the you know
there with him whether or not the
economy is doing well I mean I think
that there's I don't I don't have a
proof of it but I think you do see
people in certain industries I would say
industries that are affected by the
tariffs so people in let's say a like
large-scale agriculture or family farms
or whatever you want to say things that
are affected by Trump's tariffs a lot of
those people might support Trump
themselves and anecdotally I've heard
from reporting and that that people are
still sort of sticking with him that
they say this might be bad for me on a
small scale but on the large scale it's
good for the United States therefore I
support Trump's tariffs and by the way I
think I should mention like I I think
Trump's team would say that the whole
conversation surrounding is there going
to be a recession is like this this
biased conversation right it's sort of
an interstate like Trump's rapid
response person I posted this tweet in
our slack he posted screenshots from
MSNBC and you know the chyron said say
is there a recession would it be bad for
Trump they would say that this news
cycle is biased in and of itself right I
mean economic I mean economic indicators
which it is to be sure well I don't know
I mean to be sure like liberal
commentators gonna latch on anything
that physical lower Crump's odds right
at the same time I'm old enough to
remember 2012 where the biggest event of
every month and the reason campaign for
Obama was a jobs report and that was
like a huge deal but given the
uncertainty that you've written about
native amelia had a piece for the site
about the other day given just the
uncertainty about predicting a recession
which is to say there's a ton of
uncertainty i do think even though the
kind of like downturn in the economic
indicator
is real I do think there's been an
overemphasis on the possibility of a
recession particularly in from liberal
outlets right which maybe not oh I
disagree I think a bit okay sitting
somewhat aside that the long-term
forecast and record is not great I think
the economy matters more than the mother
report comes reelection chances perhaps
or about the same magnitude let's say
well but they're saying in terms of
reelection chances or in terms of just
the priorities for the country for
reelection chances maybe both
but then talk about you kind of move me
you don't have to frame it as is a
recession looming but if you're watching
political media then that's a relevant
question and you know whether recession
something's probably more important than
some head-to-head poll of Trump versus
Biden which doesn't anything in this
it's more important than a bunch of like
really stupid stories but I still think
it's been it's been kind of you know I
think as you said the left is like
latching on to it as a thing I guess my
question though is like so there's the
there's a question of how the economy
affects a president's reelection chances
so there's like what Claire mentioned of
like okay how did how does the
president's policies just sort of like
impact my day-to-day life if I'm a
farmer and Iowa maybe the maybe the
tariffs are hurting me right or Trump's
other policies are hurting me I do think
though that the kind of increase in
polarization the increase in negative
partisanship will outside of a large
shocked temper the economy's effect on
the election the partisanship is too
strong now for anything but partisanship
to be the guiding force and how people
make decisions about politics
I still think sort of I still think
it'll be a in effect I just think it'll
temper it or whatever the sort of like
effect was before what voters we think
will be the ones to base their decisions
most strongly on economic indicators or
the economy as a whole swing voters I
mean it's it's always a little unclear
literature whether it's actually how the
economy affects you directly clearly if
you lose your job you're probably more
pissed off
about stuff and are more favorable
toward change or if it's like a way you
evaluate the president based on the mood
of the country
I mean look there are a couple of
theories here the theory that I would
put the majority of my eggs in is maybe
Micah's theory which is that everything
in Trump things do move the numbers
let's shut down move the numbers for
example the Comey firing move the
numbers but things are dampened maybe
path for Less of what they have been
historically that's one I think very
sound theory but by the way if Trump's
already pretty tenuous at 41 or 42
percent and so if you lose even two
points then it becomes really hard a
second theory is that is that the
economy is very important to Trump's
brand and it kind of kind of allows
people to forgive a lot of behavior
that's not traditional for my president
that's interesting and so you know that
might begin to dry up and then what if
the rug comes out from under him I mean
that's the argument that we've made
often times when you know people always
ask the question of well why isn't such
an such thing affecting Trump in the
polls well we say you know all of those
things already are affecting him but the
economy is keeping him in the low 40s
that's kind of a theory that we relied
on a lot in analysis well and éclairs
question of like which voters in
particular if that theory is right then
you would think that kind of like the
Obama Trump voter the you know suburban
college educated woman who traditionally
has voted Republican all these groups
that were like the had an unfavorable
view of of Clinton and Trump in 2016 and
voted for Trump that if you if you
remove the economy then it's just like
the bottom falls out and they all kind
of go to the Democratic column I don't
know yeah yeah I agree with Mike as I
put more of my weight like I said it on
the first theory and they could also be
tugging in different directions right
where you end up I mean look if I had to
bet they and we have and we have some
models showing kind of here's a shift in
the economy and hearing their access to
shifting approval ratings I would bet
that Trump's will be less than it has
been historically but I think there's a
range there and you know it's also like
I don't know a little bit like the maybe
it's too late for it to matter for Trump
but like a lot of these channels were
like people who are rich businessmen who
donate a lot of money the presence of
election campaign and can influence the
discourse in various ways right if they
feel like number one their economic
fortunes are not that good number two
it's partly because of decisions that
Trump is undertaking with respect to
China and again we should always say I
mean Trump is not the most consistent
guy we're taping at a time when he's
been at the g7 and sounding more
conciliatory noises toward China as well
as other partners of the United States
and so Trump might kind of wind up kind
of reading the writing on the wall of
taking phone calls from all these old
rich dudes who are like hey Trump cool
it with the China stuff is bad for our
business and saying the stock market go
down and his polls go down whatever else
and Mike might correct that but I don't
know I mean you know Trump has always
had an argument that like hey look
whatever they say about me at the end of
the day right they come in peace time
sort of and the economy is good and
we've grown jobs right and again Trump's
base doesn't necessarily need to hear
the argument from space will gravitate
toward the immigration xenophobia and
whatever else right and the fake news
and whatever else but like Trump space
alone is not all that large it's not
large enough for him to win reelection
even with his advantage the electoral
college so therefore he needs some swing
voters to win to that aside to back up
some of this idea that partisanship does
temper how people do you Trump in
relation to the economy Amy Walter at
the cook Political Report of show friend
of the show actually looked at this and
looked at some research from the
University of Michigan survey of
consumers and a partisan gap in terms of
economic optimism is very common
going back to Reagan you see a partisan
gap but the partisan gap has grown like
exponentially almost under Trump so in
terms of differences in how Democrats
and Republicans have you the economy the
partisan gap under Reagan was 19 under
Bush 21 under
24 and under Trump now 55 basically even
though economic indicators have been
good and you know consumer op consumers
have been pretty optimistic Democrats
are just like no we don't see the
economy as being very good so that kind
of adds to this idea that the level of
partisanship could temper how people
view Trump in relation to the economy
going forward it's probably right but
yeah I also think parties place
different emphasis on parts of the
economy right so Democrats have a big
focus on the gig economy and the minimum
wage right so the idea that while we
might have robust employment what kind
of jobs are those people getting what
sort of lifestyle are they affording
people and I also think you saw in 2016
people's irritation at Obama or the
Democratic administration for kind of
overlooking regional economic problems
right the idea that they're like you
know you talk to people in West Virginia
and they'd say well people kind of yes
you know people are voting for Trump
because he said he want something back
coal maybe that isn't realistic but what
he got was there was a certain
overlooking of states or geographic
areas or kinds of workers and solutions
weren't sort of readily proffered so the
idea that people also perceive the
economy very differently based on region
know and also I think that's right and
also like how much of it is just totally
disconnected from the actual economy and
just just like pure partisanship right
like the second to be clear I think both
are true but you know the second Trump
was elected not even inaugurated I think
before he was inaugurated sort of
Republican views of the economy like
skyrocket oh yeah you look at the Pew
data and it was basically went from like
the percent of people who saw economic
conditions as excellent or good was like
in the 20s
and then by the by the time he was
inaugurated or early on in his
growing up to like the 70s no and
Democrats right it is is no less guilty
right there they're the opposite but I
guess I do think that maybe I maybe it
maybe you guys will disagree I do think
that if there was like another Great
Recession it could it would break the
partisan blinders at least for a lot of
people I don't I don't feel like it's
like okay in this era of increased
partisanship now nothing matters if
there were like a huge crash I would
imagine that a lot of like Republicans
would be unhappy with Trump partisanship
dampens everything but also makes your
margins much more tenuous right so in
some sense the fact that like Trump is
in very narrow shape I don't if he's an
untracked win reelection anyway maybe
not right probably not frankly look at
the polls right now today I mean right
now is at 42% and right now we again
these polls are not predictive but it is
like literally true that like he's not
on track today to win reelection in the
sense that like if you have the election
today I wouldn't have had his campaign
yet right probably would lose okay
all right well yeah but the point is
like look but like Michael was saying
there are two things about the economy
number one people do experience some
affects the economy firsthand if you
lose your job then you can blame
whatever you want for that but you lose
your job that's it's real okay well in
your case yeah secondly Trump has a
slightly more tactical dilemma which is
that measures that you would take to
ameliorate the economy require you to
sort of admit that the economy is maybe
struggling to pass a big payroll tax cut
for example generally Pelosi would do
anyway but like it's kind of saying hey
we need economic stimulus well why do
you mean stimulus well maybe because I
was out doing so well if you want a rate
cut that kind of requires acknowledging
there are risks to the outlook ahead and
so therefore therefore that can create
some friction as well and you can also
try to offload blame to other things as
Donald Trump has already been doing
which is like the media and Democrats
and the Fed etc etc we will see how this
all plays out we're going to wrap for
now but I think it's been somebody good
feisty conversations today thank you
Nate Thank You Caitlin
Thank You Claire thanks
and Thank You Micah my name is Galen
Drew Tony Chow is in the control room
our intern is Jay Carlo you can get in
touch by emailing us at podcasts at five
thirty eight.com you can also of course
tweet at us with any questions or
comments if you're a fan of the show
leave us a rating or review in the Apple
podcast store or tell someone about us
thanks for listening and we'll see you
[Music]
hey folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
