[Applause]
the Golden State Warriors are back in
the NBA Finals and I'm gonna be honest
that's not really much of a surprise
they're the perennial favorites and they
didn't even need Kevin Durant to sweep
the overmatched Portland Trail Blazers
to punch a ticket to the NBA Finals for
the fifth consecutive season but their
opponent coming out of the East is still
very much up in the air especially after
Kawhi Leonard and the Toronto Raptors
tied up their series against Yanis honor
to Coombe bow and the Milwaukee Bucks at
two games apiece with the Raptors win on
Tuesday night so now that it's anybody's
series we wondered which team could
potentially give the Warriors a tougher
matchup in the NBA Finals if you want to
give the Bucks a slight edge over the
Raptors they could look to their overall
record it was two games better than the
Raptors during the season or a slightly
better point differential but it's crazy
close so then we like to move on and
look at head-to-head records this is an
area that might favor Toronto Milwaukee
split its games against the worse during
the season but Toronto won both of those
games but it should be said that Stefan
curry was not present for one of those
Toronto wins and from the other
perspective Toronto didn't have their
current starting center Marc Gasol
because the trade deadline hadn't
happened yet for either matchup a
difference but maybe just as interesting
way to view things is to look at the
Warriors season results and try to find
games in which they struggled and maybe
commonalities between the opponents that
did give them trouble to the extent
anyone actually did that when you look
at things that way a few patterns
emerged one is that the words do worse
against heavy three-point shooting team
so think of the Houston Rockets or
weirdly the Dallas Mavericks and they
also do worse against really tough
defensive teams which you know no duh so
when you compare the two Eastern
Conference Finals than those two regards
Milwaukee jumps out as the tougher
matchup for the wars on both counts they
took the second most threes per game of
any team during the season whereas
toronto only took the 11th most and they
also had the league's most efficient
defense during the season
whereas toronto was the fifth most
efficient defense so that's which team
would give the Warriors the most trouble
in the finals but let's talk about which
team is likely to win the East here and
now
and according to the 538 model we give
the Milwaukee Bucks a 55 percent chance
of winning mainly on the strength of
still retaining home court advantage
over the rest of the series for now but
no matter who moves on and face the
words it'll be an interesting change of
pace compared with the previous four
Finals appearances for Golden State
where they face a LeBron James led team
each time now will it be Kawhi orianna's
who stepped up as the face of the east
to take on the mighty warriors we don't
know that yet but whatever happens you
can follow along at five thirty
eight.com for predictions previews and
everything else as we look forward to
the NBA Finals hey folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
