[Music]
hello and welcome to the 538 politics
podcast gayland Rukh is still on
vacation so you are stuck with me
Chadwick Matlin I'm a deputy editor at
5:38 and we are back to discuss the last
48 hours of impeachment developments
because there have been so many with me
in the studio to discuss its senior
politics writer Claire Malone hi Claire
hi Chad what a treat to have my editor
here and Claire's old editor Micah Cohen
are managing at her to her right hi
Micah hello I'm literally in the middle
of my - as I was saying to chat before
my once and current editor will edit
what you say on this podcast in
real-time differing opinions so on
today's show we're gonna discuss what
was important in the whistleblowers
complaint against President Trump in
Trump's dealings with the Ukrainian
president and we're going to talk about
what the congressional hearing with
Acting Director of National Intelligence
Joseph McGuire told us about how this
impeachment hearing might go those are
just two of the events of the last 48
hours but let's also recap the rest of
it so deep breath we last recorded a few
guys last recorded podcast on Tuesday
evening after Pelosi Nancy Pelosi
Speaker of the House said that she was
opening officially an inquiry of
impeachment into President Trump then on
Wednesday morning the White House
Declassified a summary of Trump's call
with the cranium President Vladamir
Solinsky how do you say a lot Emir's
Alinsky last thing you do with more of a
russian inflection I got an email from
someone telling me it was offensive I
surely didn't mean it to be welcome glad
you corrected it for a fir that shows a
real development and I was egging you on
so no I actually when I originally read
it it was just meant that's how there's
a lot of OHS in there and that's how it
it felt best to come out weekend getting
all the confidence in there the call the
sound a summary of the call confirmed
reporting that Trump pressured zalenski
to look into the
biden's while also mentioning US aid to
Ukraine and that's what got us all into
this this week let's not forget was the
report that this call had happened and
there was that pressure then on Thursday
morning which is today we're recording
this Thursday afternoon the House
Intelligence Committee released the
whistleblowers complained that started
all this and the subsequent report from
the Inspector General of the
intelligence community which looked into
the whistleblowers complaint and there
were allegations in that complaint and
all of them are secondhand the
whistleblower him or herself I believe
we still just do not know that the
gender is sort of collecting information
from within the administration
essentially
and we'll get to potentially who that
was to learn whistleblower might be
later in the show and based on talking
to people within the administration the
complaint alleges that Rudy Giuliani as
well as diplomats followed up on that
call that we now have the summary of
with Ukrainian officials Ukrainian
leadership believed that a call with
Trump was contingent on being willing to
quote play ball on Giuliani's requests
for investigations that they're being
sort of the subtext that they had to at
least look into Biden if they wanted a
continuation of aid and then the
complaint also alleges that quote senior
White House officials had intervened to
lock down all records of the phone call
especially the official word-for-word
transcript of the call that was produced
and that lawyers White House lawyers
directed staff to remove the transcripts
from the computer system that has
normally used this door of the calls and
that this might be an abuse of the
system and and it wasn't the only call
where it happened thank you after those
documents were released Maguire
testified which we will discuss and then
just as we went into the studio the New
York Times released a report that the
whistleblower according to their
reporting is a CIA officer with
expertise in Ukrainian politics who had
been assigned to the White House for
some reason yep
good job Joe anything else guys
now that's a good summary I mean the the
complaint is secondhand but basically
says the president inappropriately used
his position to to further his own
political ends by pressuring Ukraine to
interfere in the election by withholding
military aid and more than that and once
you get into this but what the complaint
really adds that we didn't know before
was essentially an allegation of a
cover-up
right that's the big new thing and that
in the complaint I think yeah by the way
we should say that the the things lined
out in the whistleblower complaint have
been at least preliminarily confirmed by
other people with knowledge of it and
like the general fact pattern of the
events has been confirmed so so the
person who wrote up the report seems to
perhaps be someone who I mean CIA
analysts their actual job is to write
reports like this typically about other
places but to essentially synthesize and
summarize and provide intelligence and
the in the complaint what's said about
the call matches that the the summary of
the call that was released further
corroborating perhaps the at least the
the professionalism of the complaint
itself yeah no totally and actually like
so when the Cole summary first came out
I think all of us in the newsroom sort
of increased our our level like how big
this story could be because we looked at
it as if this is the best case scenario
for the White House this is what they're
releasing at the least this is Trump
pressuring a foreign leader to intervene
in a u.s. election right I think what
the whistleblower complaint adds is like
an even higher level of how bad this
could potentially be because one it adds
these allegations of a cover-up and two
it adds one like okay first of all a lot
of to one sorry two to a it had
in that complaint there's all these
other people who knew about this stuff
and had concerns about it so that adds a
lot of potential witnesses or people who
can speak to this but also a lot more
stuff on the and we can get into this on
the if the White House was using
military aid to pressure Ukraine a lot
more parts of that operation have come
to light since the call summary came out
does that make sense in other words it
wasn't just trump in passing on this
phone call saying it it appears like or
at least allegedly appears like there
were other efforts thought there was
follow up on the call there's fallen
from not just Rudy Giuliani
but from people within the
administration so there was it was yeah
it wasn't just idle idle talk that went
nowhere and I we should say that you
know someone like Bob L bar the Attorney
General has come out and said I didn't I
was mentioned this call but I didn't do
anything but the memo does allege that
other people in the administration
followed up so that's a that's a big
deal and I think that it's they followed
up in on multiple occasions in a couple
different countries so it is at least
according to this memo the allegations
in the memo so that's interesting and
and yeah a lot of fodder did Republicans
find it as interesting as we did nope
and so what was the general approach for
Republicans in response to that to the
Tran to the transcripts well I guess I
either were because they haven't really
they haven't different that much between
the sorry that the summary and the
whistleblowers complaint so on the on
the coal simmer I think that the general
response was there's no evidence here of
a quid pro quo right that was the line
they wanted to draw and literally was
the talking point which the trepidation
you emailed out to Democratic House
members and then recalled reportedly
some low-level press staffer just had
the worst day of their life poor person
recalling an email that's anyway so that
was the line on the call summary I think
the line on the on the actual complaint
now that we have it now that they have
it
is still developing I'd say look for the
most part Republicans are still sticking
by Trump we've seen a few exceptions to
that but you know their line is mostly
Democrats just want to impeach Trump and
they're trying to find a way to do it
right I think for the for the call
summary that was released yesterday it
was certainly what we've been saying
Oh Republican Republican line was he
didn't explicitly say you know the quid
the quid pro quo situation right the
words were never spoken
then today during the hearing and we can
talk about that that more in a second
but I think that Republicans on the
committee when they were when they had
the microphone and spent a lot of time
talking about it's illegal to to leak
national security information that's the
real story the media is aiding and
abetting this and so it was definitely
sort of trying to be directed towards
other elements of this the other big
talking point among Republicans I think
has been what you mentioned to earlier
Chad which is as the complaint says
itself the whistleblower did not have
and does not have did not directly
witness this stuff and is more acting as
a conduit a conduit good work so you
know that is I think potentially for
right now for Republicans an area of
weakness in the impeachment pursuit but
yeah I think right now that's
potentially for Democrats an area of
weakness in their impeachment inquiry
but like I said earlier it could also be
an area of strength if these other
people come out of the woodwork you know
let me add one more approach or strategy
that Republicans have taken which is to
feign ignorance about what's in the call
and what's in what's in the complaint
jennifer haberkorn who who is a
congressional reporter for the Los
Angeles Times tweeted earlier today that
seven out of seven GOP senators she
spoke to said they have not read the
whistleblower complaint at one o'clock
in the afternoon and so and with
Congress going on recess there is a sort
of strategy for Republicans of let's
wait and see how the next couple of
weeks play out so I don't have to go on
record that might might be either way in
the end that's my favorite politician
line it's like let me guarantee that
someone on their staff has like
summarized it for them or read it to
them okay we're back and here to talk
about the hearing of Acting Director of
National Intelligence Joe McGuire Joseph
McGuire Joe French Oh Joe the most
famous man in America that was my
favorite part of this yeah so McGuire
went in front of the House Intelligence
Committee on Thursday and it was sort of
the first moment where we could really
see the lines of inquiry from each party
play out after the release of these
these documents and interestingly the
hearing became more about the process of
what McGuire did when quite legalistic
yeah when given the the complaint and
the Inspector General's assessment of
the complaint and so what was McGuire's
rationale for what came next and what
came next so I just first want to make a
note about McGuire and how interesting
it is to have a person on the you know
basically the witness stand who is
deeply uncomfortable with it and who
obviously has very little experience
with it as Maguire did he wasn't next in
line after notes left DNI he was someone
else had to quit and he's been on the
job for like six weeks yeah so McGuire
was I would say not a I mean he was not
like a he made kind of grimaces during
people's opening statements and and I
think in some ways watching him I kind
of felt for the guy because he he sort
of seemed to be in an awkward position
but here's the deal
Maguire kept on saying throughout the
hearing that this was an unprecedented
whistleblower complaint Democrats
continued to ask him throughout the
course of what the three and a half
hours why did you not immediately turn
over this whistleblower to complaint
complaint to Congress as every
the whistleblower complaint from the
intelligence community has been before
and as the statutes suggest I need to
suggest and he said well this was an
unprecedented situation because it
involved executive privilege it could
involve it could involve executive
privilege and basically he had he said
that he had to go to the White House's
Office of Legal Counsel to figure out
whether or not he was a allowed to turn
it over or whether it would be for
breaching executive privilege and then
there was this other separate or
connected yet separate discussion of
whether or not it met the standards for
drinking or Junt it whether it is he
kept on saying that the urgency of the
complaint was actually a statutory 'el a
statutory definition that had to do you
know whatever so he said I wasn't sure
if this actually fell into the legal
definition of urgent which Democrats had
a lot to say about right - not all
whistleblower complaints automatically
go to Congress only ones that are deemed
what's the official language it's like
urgent something but again both sigh
mcguire and the democrats everyone was
pointing out this is the first time it
hasn't been turned over something that
did meet that threshold exactly right
and and I just I mean one more thing on
McGuire I think as a as an overarching
takeaway from the testimony you saw this
guy who McGuire is you know a person who
talked to the president frequently he
said during his testimony listen I need
to maintain a relationship with the
president in order for him to trust me
and you saw him walking that line both
in his testimony today and also in the
description of his actions the way he
was sort of toggling between wait do I
have a responsibility to turn this over
to Congress do I have a responsibility
to the White House and there is some
speculation that because of certain
questions that that McGuire just didn't
answer that he likely talked to the
president about this was a blower
complaint so yeah a couple things on
that Democrats seemed to be following
the pursuit of the potential of a
cover-up from within the DNI for not
giving the complaint and the Inspector
General report
to Congress that essentially perhaps
Trump to your point Claire may have said
don't don't give it over the the trick
was that what McGuire was saying was
that he he was delaying things he his
intention was never not to send it but
he wanted to see whether fell under
executive privilege and and then it got
and it got into the media and then now
it's open out in the open so what are we
arguing about anyway
the House got what they wanted in the
end that's a things like we had this big
debate on the live blog about the kind
of like political wisdom of Democrats
line of questioning and the two sides
were basically why are they so focused
on process why is this so legalistic
they should be hitting the substance of
the complaint
instead of exactly why and where the
complaint didn't make its way to
Congress especially because the
complaint didn't make its way to
Congress as as Chad said it didn't make
its way it as law dictates but they have
it now right and then the other side was
I think I was the only person on the
other side maybe but the other side was
was just a debate in my head okay yeah
the other side where my side was most
people won't watch this hearing and and
I don't think it's fair to use it as a
proxy for Democrat overall impeachment
message or plan and so it makes sense
when you have the DNI that's a weird use
of it when you have the Director of
National Intelligence in front of you to
focus on his part of this whole story
and then you can fold what you learned
also yeah and he also refused even
though asked in many different ways to
comment on the actual contents of the
memo and whether or not he thought it
was true now at one point the Democratic
member asked him in the abstract if a
president pressured a foreign country to
interfere in the election would that be
a bad illegal thing and McGuire said yes
so I mean I don't
there I don't think there's any great
mystery about whether or not Maguire
thinks that this is a serious thing it's
just he was perhaps understandably
obstinate about saying I cannot comment
on the veracity of this well later
whether or not I think it's it's all
very interesting and this is this is
gonna be I'm gonna get out over my skis
a little bit here it's it's this is more
impressionistic but you do not get the
sense of McGuire especially because he's
only been on the job for a month and a
half that he is like a Trump loyalist
just going above and beyond to protect
Trump at all costs well you actually get
the sense is like he's new to the job he
is worried about protecting Trump to
some extent at least to the extent that
anybody would be worried about their
boss right and he's just trying to as
Chad said go slow feel things out now in
this case it kind of got him got him
into some trouble but yeah this this to
me gets at what Democrats have to do in
this impeachment inquiry in order to
convince anybody that it's anything but
just a partisan charade is I've been
ranting about this all week in our
in-house channels but I am I am NOT as
convinced as people who just believe
optimistically in like that American
people really you know care about good
governance and no corruption for example
that Democrats are are going to be able
to connect the the what they say is
misconduct of the Trump administration
to something that is some that is bad
for more than just for more than a
reason than that they say it's bad like
they can't just say this is bad
therefore Trump deserves impeachment
they had to convince Americans that
there was a national security threat or
that there was corruption or whatever
else and and that's why I was harping
today during the live blog on this idea
of process versus substance which is
that Democrats with Maguire aside from
eventually sort of tiptoeing into that
conversation Claire weren't hammering
the Director of National Intelligence on
whether or not in his professional
opinion this kind of thing would be a
national security threat because that
that's the the key linked in it like
when Muller testified I can't remember
who asked him but Muller was a very
reluctant witness
someone asked him what is the greatest
threat right now that we face and he
almost lit up from within and said it's
election interference and let me talk
about election interference for five
minutes I don't think anyone may be
maguire by the end was just I think he
was a little bit wrung out by the
experience by the end I mean it got
pretty testy between Schiff and McGwire
towards the end of the three and a half
hours but no one necessarily gave him an
opportunity and an opening in question
to say how do you feel about election
interference and how how troublesome is
it now he did take a time to talk about
how our greatest threat isn't kinetic
warfare which is a regular which is way
of saying like killing people
it is cyber warfare and he mentioned
election interference right he did but
it wasn't like a no one no one really
teed him up in the way that I remember
Muller being teed up to talk about this
concern and I do think you know to
McGuire's particular situation he is I
was talking about this with someone like
career bureaucrats people who value the
advancement through the ranks you know
obviously he was a longtime military
person but also you've you've spent your
entire career maneuvering to this place
and you become acting director because
of you know the happenstance of this
this really tumultuous administration I
do think I mean it does mirror in some
ways the Comey situation to in my mind
because it's almost this this stuck in
the middle miss and there's no clear
answer miss because the executive branch
you know in this current case is because
there's it is uncharted territory like I
don't I do think that there is some
someone summoned in the hearing said
well there are lots of lawyers and
lawyers disagree yeah on what to do
about this so McGuire as the kind of
befuddled bureaucrat is an interesting
figure no I think that's right I do
think you saw daylight between him and
the White House he didn't sort of take
the bait when Republican lawmakers would
say right we're so sorry that you're
being blah blah blah like he would he
wasn't he wasn't like he bought he like
saw what they were doing and he was kind
of like I am a political I'm
you know he tried to maintain that I
guess I just think to go to zoom out
again this this mcguire hearing despite
what he said you know no one's heard of
this guy a poll came out today from
SurveyMonkey and Business Insider
showing only a third of Americans have
even heard about stuff about Ukraine so
far he's the most popular man in America
he's most famous argument so like I just
don't think that I think we're gonna
look back and in the grand scheme of
things this hearing will be a footnote
at best in in the ordeal of this
impeachment inquiry and I think that I
think that the complaint the details of
the complaint which came out today
that's amazing to remember they are the
thing here to do so let's talk about
what what's to come next for for this
inquiry it seems like because of the
complaint Democrats know pretty clearly
who they are gonna want to talk to in a
congressional setting let's say you said
peanut rudy giuliani I cannot imagine
that Rudy Giuliani is going to appear
before Congress willingly or that the
administration will let him do so and so
are we headed just straight for an
executive privilege fight that will go
to the Supreme Court kind of thing I
don't want to comment on the legal part
of it but if we are gonna have a big
fight about who can testify yeah and
that's really about co-equal branches of
government and whether Congress actually
has a peanut bags ecute that's the super
interesting part of my yes is the fight
between the branches right now well but
you would imagine they would testify not
only Giuliani like Giuliani in some ways
he's not but like Pompeo people on
Pompeo stent pants the diplomats that
are named in the complaint that's
following up with the Ukrainian
officials
there are kind of two universes of
people who you would follow up with and
they they overlap I'm sure one is people
involved in the care and feed
of the evidence surrounding the call
with Ukraine and any other communication
between Trump and Ukraine right and the
complaint goes into some detail about
how the white house took steps to treat
this call as like uber national security
classified secret even though even
though on on substance it wasn't because
they were aware according to the person
who made the complaint that it was it
was an abuse of power essentially so
there's that universe the universe of
people who were involved in the like
documented the universe of people who
were involved in handling the call and
the calls artifacts so to speak there's
also the universe of people that you
just mentioned she had that that were
involved in the actual logistics to the
extent they took place of allegedly
trump using the military aid to pressure
ukraine to investigate biden and the
complaint as i said before
lays out a far more robust effort in
that regard then I think we initially
thought or that I initially thought so
if it's that robust it presumably
involved a lot of people which gives
Democrats a ton of avenues to Japan it
might be bigger than Ukraine whether or
not the Democrats want to try and expand
the inquiry if the complaint the the
whistleblowers complaint is accurate
that this kind of different lane for
certain conversations existed within the
White House for things where they didn't
want the transcript or summary whoever
these were to get out then that suggests
there were other calls maybe with other
leaders and I'm sure Democrats will at
least start to just to pull at that
thread know that yeah the complaint says
that right it does there were this is
not the first time and my point is that
they're more people subpoena are more
people trying to try and call for a
hearing but he's I mean this is like
trumps in some trouble
so yeah let's step back 48 hours ago you
guys were sitting here with Nate after
Pelosi gave her speech and I think at
one point during that I forgot who said
it someone said the equivalent of like
this isn't actually that much of a
change from what congrat
Democrats had already been pursuing
because there were these enquiries into
into the Trump administration 48 hours
later does that still hold for you guys
well there were already committees that
were sort of formed to be investigating
the Trump administration I think that
those it from a purely logistical sense
of like who will be running this
investigation like who like are their
staff members there are probably people
much more sort of queued up to to pursue
this but I do think that the that the
phone call that the memo that the
potential testimony of the whistleblower
are new there are new facts and the the
Democrats are trying to just say that
what is already public is enough for
impeachment right
the idea of an abuse of power that we
all have read about in that phone call
is enough now we will do now we will
hold these hearings to sort of bolster
that claim but we don't like they're
trying to they're trying to put out
there like this is this is new this is
impeachable now we will I don't know
what to say like kind of gird up those
allegations no yeah in a very I think I
think it was Nate who said it who said
like not much has changed in a very like
mechanical sense that's true I think as
Claire said the kind of committees who
were doing investigating are still going
to be doing it investigating but it's
kind of like okay you might be in the
same car let's go back to our car
metaphor from the from the previous show
you might be where so well in the
previous you might be in the same car
but there's a difference between driving
at five miles an hour and a hundred
miles an hour right that's really the
change here is now with Pelosi on board
the impeachment inquiry such as it is
has has gone into overdrive because
there's so much because there's so much
media attention now that it inevitably
it's a greenhouse effect right like
whatever was happening mixing that
metaphor the greenhouse effect I am
hijacking your car your hotboxing the
car
yeah hop back in the car and take it to
the greenhouse no it's just because
there is so much more attention the
sun's shining hotter and the committee's
and whatever yeah it is it is inevitably
going to affect what what happened oh
maybe not what happens in the
investigations but how the people who
are leading the investigations relate
the narrative of what they're doing how
how much closer like the the scrutiny
and the reporting is and all those
things how the White House people report
on it I do think it changes it the tone
entirely your right leg up I get all
that but to extend the metaphor the fuel
in the car is way different now than it
was before which is to say leading into
now Democrats were investing than
investigating the Trump administration
on more opaque hard to understand
scandals for me though what's change
isn't Democrats interest in impeaching
Trump if they actually now have the fuel
they think to do it 100% 100% but that I
don't think anyone was saying otherwise
are no one's actually in the public
heard what happens when you and I
disagree but say the same thing we all
agree the fuel is much more supercharged
now we all agree the cars going faster
we disagree about whether being hot box
and or driven to a greenhouse that's
really I begged off okay let's take one
more step back and then we can bring
this on home do we know anything in the
last 48 hours about how the public is
responding to the impeachment inquiry
yes so actually this is what I was I was
gonna add to that to the last section in
the conversation the even if like
mechanically the impeachment inquiry
isn't that much different the the change
in fuel as Chad said where it's now
based on Ukraine but more than that the
change in in the Democratic stance on it
clear was getting at this at the very
least you would expect so to date before
this Ukraine story really had
impeachment
like hasn't been popular among
Republicans and independents there was a
big chunk of Democrats who weren't on
board with impeachment right so in the
wake of Ukraine now that Democrats are
are sort of like the caucus is behind
impeachment now I think what we'll see
and what we are already seeing in the
very few polls we've gotten since the
story broke is Democrats more more unity
on the Democratic side among elected
officials and among voters behind
impeachment right and so if that happens
let's say Democrats coalesce behind
impeachment then what you would expect
is it'll get closer to at least a 50/50
issue in the country right and then of
course you get into what independents
think what a Republicans think and our
Republican senators for example a good
weather for Republican voters or is
there a disconnect between that on an
issue like this about the Trump
presidency well I don't think we
necessarily care about like the
Republican base I think we care about
people who might have traditionally
voted Republicans but are troubled by
these allegations or quote Mitt Romney
that's what Mitt Romney says he's
troubled no and and yeah so in that
sense I think there are Republican
senators and members of the House who
are a good proxy for Susan Collins right
for that more and even if you go to
their like Susan Collins has known as a
moderate someone like our Stamper petrol
stand and Pat Toomey I think he's a good
stand-in not for like the Trump diehard
but for like the more a little bit more
mainstream and a little bit more
marginal Trump supporter which is to say
like it would it won't take Trump
shooting some on Fifth Avenue to get
that person to distance themselves from
Trump
it might take something really really
big but this could be really really big
let's leave it there thanks Claire you
thanks thanks Micha Thank You chatter
with a pleasure talking politics well
done usually I only talk about the Mets
in the studio now listen wait let's plug
your Mets podcast it's sort of moreland
just like the Mets
[Music]
