[Music]
Daniel here we are talking about an
actual result the winner of the first
result we talk about lottery is Virginia
ten so tell me why we're actually
sitting here and talking out for Jamie
him because our model said that the
Democrat had an eighty nine percent
chance of winning there why is this
notable right well it's notable because
it's the first democratic pickup of the
night in terms of ABC projections but
also because this is a state that
Democrats basically had to win in order
to take control of the house Barbara
Comstock as you mentioned was one of the
most vulnerable Republicans it also
bodes well for Democrats path forward in
wealthier suburban districts it's
notable that Barbara Comstock not only
lost the seat but she is really getting
crushed right now by an almost 20-point
margin
so if basically if voters in these types
of districts aren't distinguishing
between a generic Republican and kind of
their kind of Republican that could be
bad news for some of these name-brand
Republicans like maybe Mike Kaufman in
Colorado and there is a chance that
those voters in those kinds of districts
are going to define tonight oh
absolutely
