[Applause]
the Eastern Conference Finals begin
tonight between the Milwaukee Bucks and
the Toronto Raptors it's a battle
between top two seeds that we've been
waiting for all season long
and obviously all eyes will be on the
two star players in this series
Milwaukee's Yanis on a nakumo and
Toronto's Kawhi Leonard Leonard of
course sent the Raptors to the
Conference Finals with that shot the
first game 7 buzzer beater in NBA
playoff history
he was basically unstoppable all
playoffs long shooting 54% from the
field 41% from three and averaging 32
points nine rebounds and four assists
meanwhile Yanis has led the bucks to an
almost perfect 8 and 1 record this
postseason averaging 27 points 11
rebounds and four assists while shooting
52% from the floor himself both of those
guys are probably gonna get their
numbers in this series so who should we
be keeping an eye on that isn't named
Kawhi or Yanis well for the Raptors we
should continue watching Kyle Lowry
statistically he has not had a great
playoff run in the seven games against
the Sixers he averaged six assists but
only 13 points while shooting 40% from
the floor and he only hit 26% from
downtown including a 1 for 7 effort in
game 7 but despite those numbers he's
been making his presence felt
nonetheless his plus/minus for Toronto
in these playoffs is still a very good
plus 5 point 2 points per 100
possessions he'll have to keep up that
effort while simultaneously
rediscovering his three-point stroke if
the Raptors are gonna have a chance to
move on and a Milwaukee side we're
looking at Chris Middleton
he scored 19 points per game while
shooting 47% from three in the previous
series against Boston and he's just one
of many Bucks shooters that will need to
stay hot and take advantage of the space
that Toronto must give Yanis on drives
Milwaukee has attempted the league's
second most three-point attempts all
season long trailing only the famously
3-point happy Houston Rockets despite
their superstar owned relative lack of
three-point range so who has the overall
edge in this series well the Vegas odds
think it's Milwaukee they'd give them
about a 73% implied probability of
winning and moving on to the NBA Finals
however our model disagrees it thinks
that though Toronto Raptors have a 55%
chance of winning what accounts for this
well the Bucks do have the league's
likely MVP and honor to Coombe bow but
our carmelo player ratings think that
five of the next six top rated players
in the series actually belonged to the
Raptors those players being Lowry
Leonard Pascal siakam Danny Green and
Marc Gasol while the Bucks have a solid
supporting cast of their own in
Middleton Eric Bledsoe Brook Lopez and
Nikola Mirotic things might come down to
which group a surrounding talent gives
their star the biggest boost
either way it's looking like a really
close series and you can follow along
with the action at five thirty eight.com
hey folks I predict that you're going to
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
