welcome to the 538 checkup where we take
the temperature of Washington and you
the American people a lot has changed in
the story of the Ukraine scandal since
last week top American diplomat and
Ukraine Bill Taylor texted this asking
are we now saying that security
assistance and White House meeting are
preconditioned on investigations the
response coming from the US ambassador
to the European Union Gordon Sunland he
responded call me the Trump
administration declaring in this 8 page
letter to House Democrats that it will
not cooperate with the impeachment
inquiry blasting it as baseless
dangerous illegitimate and
unconstitutional so what do Americans
think about impeachment in the latest
polls well support for impeachment has
gone up by around two points since last
week according to 538 impeachment
tracker as of October 9th forty eight
point eight percent of people support
impeachment while forty three point six
percent are against it recent polls have
shown an even higher share of support
for an impeachment inquiry a Washington
Post's Shar school poll found that 58
percent of Americans support an
impeachment inquiry while 38 percent
don't so what events might still change
opinions in the coming days well
Democrats have issued a subpoena to
Gordon Sandlin he's the US ambassador to
the European Union and Trump donor who
sent that call me text message this came
after the Trump administration blocked
Sandlin from testifying which some
Democrats are calling obstruction also
news broke that the first whistleblower
wrote a memo describing how one White
House official who was on that Ukraine
call was visibly shaken and called the
conversation crazy and frightening plus
two of Rudy Giuliani's associates were
arrested on campaign finance charges
separately both were helping Giuliani
push Ukraine to investigate Biden as
we've seen a lot can change in just
seven days so come back next week for
another 538 checkup hey everyone last
week a number of people had questions
about whether we're tracking support for
impeachment or support for an
impeachment inquiry we are in fact
tracking both early on right after the
Ukraine news broke there
much of a difference in the results
between each type of poll in fact the
language pollsters were using varied a
ton and often didn't fall neatly into a
category and because there weren't many
polls anyway we combined them all but as
they've gotten more data pollsters have
started settling on the question wording
they prefer and we've seen differences
in support based on question type will
soon be updating our tracker to reflect
those differences for more on our
methodology check out our impeachment
tracker I'm putting a link in the
description and remember to subscribe so
you don't miss a video
