trick-or-treaters a prepubescent menace
on society if you don't give them
candies they do things to your home how
do you prevent this from happening well
you give good candy what's the best
candy have we got answers for you
[Music]
we here at 5:38
place 86 different fun size candy treats
and do an online matchup game we invited
people to participate and got 250,000
responses which one comes out on top
we'll get to that eventually but first
we're gonna bring in 538 staffers offer
matchups and see how it stacks up
against the date all right are you ready
to go trick-or-treating yeah let's do it
okay
your choices are a KitKat or starbursts
not a question it's a KitKat really you
don't even want to try it first all
right let's find out we got in the
starburst I don't want to hurt the
starbursts feeling oh I go hey my face I
got my favorite colors fortune favors
the brave I mean that's good a few
points that's good get some points I
mean a pink starburst it's it's hard to
lose in the individual matchups
every time that KitKat face starburst
KitKat 174 percent of the time how old
is too old to trick-or-treat I don't
know what about 26 nope not yet
yes you can still get Obamacare
insurance under your parents but like
it's not too just so good that's just
science that's a good rule if you can
still get your parents fault fair thanks
Obama
are you ready to do some
trick-or-treating I hope there's no
peanut butter involved oh no it's not a
problem okay it's not like a deadly
allergy all right so you need to choose
between Reese's miniatures and nerds
nerds nerds yeah nerds actually in
contest against Reese's minis did not do
that great they only won about 24% of
the time Reese's like for the folks who
like peanut butter that's what they're
all about
okay that's yeah that's absolutely my
last choice cuz peanut butter well how
old is she old to go trick-or-treating
oh man high school maybe yeah at some
point you have to hand out treats and
not show up with a bucket and to me
that's high school all right so we're
gonna we got a good matchup for you
you get dots versus wildberry skittles
which you can do some sampling to
interrogate the space if you want I
always have difficulty with dot sticking
to my teeth
sure so it Mike must really suck right
out there are converse actually
so when dots went up against wild berry
skittles in our matchups right we're
gonna tell me the answer already okay
well I think I kind of know it unless
Bob berry skittles are generally
disappointing terrible no but hon let me
just we got to get this right oh my god
delicious delicious I love wild berry
skittles I think America agrees with
America agrees with you from ground 79%
of the time that wild berry skittles and
dots went head-to-head wild berry
skittles took the match what's your
favorite part about Halloween my
favorite part about Halloween would be
toilet papering trees and yes something
I still do as an adult you know I like
to it is the way that I stay young in
this like cynical grown-up world of
media we have a really an all-star match
up just the heavyweights of the
fun-sized here we've got two candies and
we want to know which one you as a
trick-or-treater would prefer is it a
Twix or is it a Snickers all right we'll
give us a taste let's see what we think
okay I don't really like Snickers so
well
do I even have to try it yeah absolutely
I mean you never know maybe they tweaked
it and now it's gonna work yeah they're
like the same thing but not I'm a
discerning palate we'll need to kind of
come on in so different yeah I'm gonna
go with the Twix
you're gonna with the twist mhm all
right most people agree with you on this
so yeah 59% of matchups between Twix and
Snickers went to Twix what's your
favorite Halloween candy of all I like
good and plenties good and plenty is
your favorite candy out of all 86
candies that we looked at it was dead
last it was number 86 no it's my
favorite candy that is ridiculous I've
learned nothing from this exercise
Rachel thank you so much for coming up
happy Halloween there you have it three
out of four five thirty eight oars
agreed with the wisdom of the crowds
what have we learned from our 250
thousand different matchups
well we can pretty much build an ideal
bucket of Halloween candy we're just
gonna look at our top five and counting
down
so coming in at number five we got the
Snickers fun-sized Snickers very very
solid across the board then you've got
your Kit Kats then twixes then you've
got your Reese's minis and then you've
got the Reese's peanut butter cups if
you want to please the crowd
chocolate appears to be the answer
wafers appear to be answer in some cases
and also peanuts appear to be the answer
in most cases so this is your top tier
enjoy your holiday happy Halloween from
538
