[Music]
Gailen just it feels like in the last
ten minutes if you look at the group of
key races a lot of them are in
Pennsylvania and a lot of them seem to
be going towards Democrats and it
actually has shifted our forecast
considerably you've been watching the
state a fair amount I mean what what's
going on yeah the interesting thing
about Pennsylvania is that we've long
projected Democrats to do well there
pick up at least four seats and part of
the reason is the congressional map in
Pennsylvania was redrawn in January of
this year the state Supreme Court ruled
that it was an unconstitutional partisan
gerrymander so the whole state got
redrawn so in some cases it's hard to
even say like if it was a democratic now
because all the districts are new yeah
so we'll see what it means for tonight
and and Democrats chance to take back
the house but do you potentially see a
narrative emerging after this of
Democrats pointing to Pennsylvania and
saying look this is what happens when
you draw or don't quote fairer districts
oh for sure I mean I think that's
already been a narrative for Democrats
the appointment states like California
Iowa New Jersey Minnesota where the maps
were not drawn by partisans and you see
that in this election those maps are
much more responsive to the national
environment than states like say
Wisconsin or maybe Michigan or Texas
where you know most people looking at
them would say that's a Republican
gerrymander all right let's get back to
it for sure
