[Music]
we are back for the second round of the
538 twenty20 Democratic primary draft
and we have some new faces with us
Claire and Nate weren't with us for the
first round we also have some new faces
on the table such as Tulsi Gabbard we
have you know Mark Cuban Pete but a
judge so to explain the goal of what
we're doing here is we want to pick who
we think will win the Democratic primary
in 2020 this type of pure horse race
analysis degrades our political culture
yeah save it first we're going to start
off by picking the order and last time I
had a handy make America great again hat
this time I have a make America read
again hat Nate go ahead pick sirs number
one don't look is going to make this
relatively easy and choose Elizabeth
Warren that is totally fair she is not
in the lead in terms of the polling but
a lot of people try to figure out who
liked the Trump of the 2020 primary is
but I'm gonna talk about who the Romney
is of the 2020 primary because Romney
ultimately did win the nomination even
if he didn't win the presidency and I
think in the same way that Romney was
able to unite the party Elizabeth Warren
could do a similar thing right it's
actually an okay pick yeah progressive
who's acceptable to party loyalists so
yeah the party establishment that's the
best thing but they're both they're
better picks and having the number two
pick I'll probably gonna make the better
pick let me see if I'm okay
go ahead play me right I take sander
Kemal Harris bandwagon jumper so she
appeals to different parts of the
constituency unlike Elizabeth Warren who
already had a big stumble on a race
adjacent issue with the DNA test
Komal Harris is part Asian part black
she's from California which is obviously
a really diverse State
California has primary pretty early it's
a big advantage we took this on the
podcast this week I don't think anybody
here in this table is more than like a
20% chance to win but I think she is
like to me a fairly clear number one
Nate sometimes when you try to please
everyone you end up pleasing no one okay
well that's a good argument against her
yeah I think you made a compelling case
that she's stronger than Elizabeth
Warren and she's doing a little bit
better than some other people like
kirsten gillibrand but she's also kind
of she has to define herself and we'll
see what people think of her all right
Claire your pick well you know what I'm
I'm probably gonna go with a name that
starts with B and there are a few names
that start with B he obviously lost his
son a campaign against Ted Cruz but he
did pretty well in a red state and I'm
really surprised by how much of a
celebrity he's become I just think
there's something about her work where
he could potentially have both the star
power thing happening and also maybe
some attempt establishment forces
backing up behind him I do feel like
there's a question about like first of
all yeah you can win the pod se of
America primary how representative of
that is that of the Democratic primary
overall I'm not sure because it is a
little bit like okay out of all the
people on this table he is not the most
qualified probably in the lower third of
most qualified three-time Congressman
nothing it's not nothing right but like
I'm a little bit less bullish on beta
than I had been a few weeks ago all
right my guy your turn
take it away okay I think all this
analysis is basically pure speculation
informed speculation a lot of
speculation I agree with it but it's not
based on anything that voters have said
or done I agree in fact the person
leading the polls right now Joe Biden
has not been picked I'm not gonna pick
him either what I thought that was a
lead-up to picking Joe Biden instead I'm
gonna pick who I took last time maybe
Amy Klobuchar wait that is like the
least representative
here's why Gailen she a demonstrated
record of outperforming what she should
do at the ballot box but but here's the
thing how is she gonna differentiate
herself from say Gillibrand who is
Midwest next week Gillibrand it's like
trying to run as a Midwestern Oh - yeah
I'm from a rural development aronia is
like a more uniting kind of happy
warrior candidate which i think is kind
of the vibe that chloe char-char
would would have if they're saying that
Jill other candidates are trying to run
us Amy Klobuchar I think that's a good
argument you're right that she's a very
good candidate that's a wrap that is the
second round of the 538 Democratic
primary draft 2020 we will see you back
here next time
