he's been recruiting players to come and
try to be in Space Jam with him this
summer and he hasn't been able to close
some of those deals hey LeBron we heard
you've been having some trouble casting
your new film now we don't know too much
about this film but we do know that you
bugs Daffy and company will probably
have to play against a new team of
antagonistic aliens so the question is
who will be those new monsters without a
mind we're gonna give you a little bit
of an assist abroad using math we're
gonna help you cast Space Jam 2.0 okay
quick recap back in the original film
five aliens collectively called the nerd
locks are ordered by their boss Danny
DeVito aka mr. swak hammer to kidnap the
Looney Tunes and make them entertainment
and Swack hammers failing intergalactic
theme park the Looney Tunes challenge
that nerd Luck's to a game of basketball
which leads the nerd luxe to steal the
powers of five NBA players these new
basketball powers allowed the tiny nerd
Luck's to become the Monstars who back
in 96 the nerd lock stole their powers
from Patrick Ewing Shawn Bradley Larry
Johnson Charles Barkley and Mugsy Bogues
if the monsters wanted to run it back
against LeBron we thought we would give
the filmmakers a hand with their casting
to clarify we're not casting just the
five best players in the NBA right now
or even the five best actors we're
looking at you James Harden but using
our career arc regression model
estimator with local optimization or as
you might know it the Carmelo projection
system we can identify the current
players who are most similar to the
monsters from 1995 the year the movie
was released using those spacejam
players key stats easy enough right
first up pound the orange leader of the
nerd locks who stole Charles Barkley's
powers back in 1996 to become the
fearsome orange monster during the
1994-95 season barkley was averaging 23
points 11 rebounds and almost one block
per game for the Phoenix Suns using
Carmelo let's see whose powers pound
should try to steal in the league now
Yanis and anna come bow is a good shout
or maybe Kevin Love
but our Carmelo projections think a very
good fit for pound is none other than
DeMarcus Cousins
which kind of checks out
boogy is another super high usage all
around big man who passes and rebounds
well and excels at getting through the
line in addition to being a bit of an
outspoken character next we have bang
the skinny green nerd lock who drew
powers from New York Knicks legend
Patrick Ewing
so who's the Patrick Ewing of today
karl-anthony towns maybe
Yanis even comes close he's very
versatile our Carmelo protections though
think that Anthony Davis could be the
victim in a new film and that really
shouldn't come as much of a surprise
[Applause]
both Ewing and Davis are defensive
beasts who block a ton of shots and also
grab a lot of rebounds while maintaining
very high usage rates on offense okay
let's finish finding the big men in this
lineup although I guess they're all
pretty big on the Monstars and look for
the current Shawn Bradley at center back
in 95 Bradley got his power stolen by
Blanco the tall blue nerd luck nowadays
our projections think Blanco could maybe
steal from John Henson Myles Turner no
Rudy Gobert would be a great choice but
none of these quite fit the bill
actually our Carmelo model thinks magic
center mo Bamba will be the best bit
[Music]
on height alone we might have picked
someone like Bo bond or Zhao Chi but in
terms of performance bomba and Bradley
are both defensive minded sinners who
grab a bunch of rebounds block a ton of
shots and let's be honest seldom are
asked to handle the ball our Newmont
stars are more than halfway complete and
now we just have to fill in the guard
size let's start with knock the tiny red
nerd lock who stole his powers from the
Hornets 5 foot 3 Mugsy Bogues in 95
Boggs was averaging eight point seven
assists per game which was fifth best in
the league while scoring 11 point 1
points and grabbing 1.3 steals so in
this modern era we're looking for a past
first point guard who wasn't afraid to
steal the ball rajon rondo yeah maybe if
this were a few years ago
sorry Rashad jeff Teague Ricky Rubio
that's a pretty good pick but our
projection actually thinks that Raptors
guard Fred vanvleet could be in the new
film as the modern day Mugsy despite
standing 9 inches taller in addition to
passing both were great at steals and
solid overall point guards despite not
being the most efficient shooters in the
league ok last but not least we arrived
at the purple nerd lock they call bupkis
who stole Larry Johnson's powers back in
95 wait did they really choose once
enter 3 power Ford's in 1 point guard
for this team no wonder they lost that
lineup is so uneven but we're not here
to judge let's see who is today's Larry
Johnson who I see Blake Griffin on the
Carmello list that's a pretty good one I
also see Aaron Gordon Bradley Bradley
Beal huh ok let's put those aside the
closest comp to LJ is actually Tobias
Harris
[Applause]
that's kind of perfect actually look at
these numbers both players play the same
small slash power Ford hybrid position
with nearly identical rates of usage
rebounding steals free throws and even
true shooting percentage Tobias Harris
truly is the modern-day Larry Johnson
according to Carmelo our new Monstars if
they really want to run it back against
the toon squad with a similar lineup to
the one they had back in 95 need to find
these players today boogie ad moe baba
Van Vleet and Tobias Harris that's a
pretty formidable lineup to go against
James a lot of size with big men who can
shoot but Carmelo actually has one last
surprise up its sleeve
while LeBron was an obvious pick as the
star for Space Jam 2.0 he's actually not
the most similar player to Jordan's
circa the mid 90s
according to Carmelo the best match for
MJ among currently active players is
Kawhi Leonard it's perfect next to a
cast of a bunch of cartoons Kawhi could
really put his impeccable comedic timing
to good use
[Laughter]
[Music]
hey folks I predict that you're gonna
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
