hello today Chris and I are gonna be
debating one of the hot MVP debates
going into the 2020 NBA season and that
is am I am I reading this right they
want us to debate who's better between
Yanis on to the combo and Nicola yoga
[Music]
before we get to who 538 new Raptor stat
our proud new metric here thinks is
better we're gonna debate using our
intuition our various stats that we like
try to build a case for each one and I
think that I should be able to take you
honest in this one I don't know what do
you think Chris I mean honestly
yeah you said yo could win the MVP I
think yo gets will win the MVP but I
still don't really want to take him in
this debate I think yoghurts will win
MVP but it has nothing to do with him
being a better player than Yanis okay
okay all right look I'll I'll let you do
that I need a little time then to build
the case for yo kitch so go first lay
out your case give me your pitch Ani
honest okay I I think the pitch on Yanis
is pretty simple you look at the fact
that when you leave him wide open he was
worse than the league and even with that
he dices you up from the paint 18 points
a game from the paint more than three
more than the next closest player you
look at the fact that he is just
dominant as a passer you can post him up
he can find somebody in the corner and
hit them not to even mention the fact
that this is someone who was a defensive
player that you're finalists and not to
mention the fact that the one weakness
that he really has left clear weakness
is shooting is something that if you
looked at last year and the way he
finished last year from New Year's on
which when he was left wide open he was
32% there and so it kind of suggested
moving forward he'll be better at that
and he was MVP already so I think you're
kind of hard-pressed to tell me how he's
not better than yo kids okay
alright I appreciate those points that
you made but yoga CH he has some numbers
too he is a better shooter you mentioned
that he honest his weakness is his
shooting touch yoga CH hit a lot more
threes
you're better accuracy as well and you
know we think of Yanis as being this
skilled passer but yoga CH had a much
higher assist rate lower turnover ratio
is there anybody in basketball who's a
better pure passer in the halfcourt
especially out of the high post than
yoga I mean he is a magician
when it comes to that yo kitch was
coasting on us and rebounding overall
offensive efficiency in terms of points
created per 100 possessions and what we
ready he even had a better steal rate
than Yanis which I was shocked by we
don't think about that especially when
it comes to the to their defensive
reputations and just yo coach being a
center you wouldn't expect him to have
such a high steal rate
I mean honestly to me the defensive
argument is still the one I like the
fact that you bring up steals to me it's
almost like that James Harden argument
where someone does something defensively
but they're not as good from one plate
of the next but like I said you made me
think about it more there's really no
point to debating this anymore why don't
we just bring in Raptor and see what he
thinks
[Music]
all right Raptor who's better between
Yanis and Nikola Yogesh Wow okay I don't
believe those numbers all right well I
want to know why all right I said I
think this will explain why so first of
all while Yanis was winning MVP last
year raptors numbers actually thought
yogic had the better plus/minus he had a
plus 9.0 rating per 100 possessions and
16 Wins Above Replacement to go against
tiana says plus 6.8 per one hundred and
twelve point one war and that margin
mainly came from box score numbers and
player tracking numbers rather than the
on versus off court where they thought
that he was about two points better per
100 possessions but the good news for
Yanis is that they were even two years
ago and Yanis even had more war because
he played more minutes so I think
recency bias might be hitting Raptor
here I think you like Yogesh me
he plays like a dinosaur compared to
ganas you can't argue with the numbers
Chris yes I can and I will
but it looks like I'm gonna lose this
one anyway
[Music]
