the Scripps National Spelling Bee is
back once again hundreds have reached
the final rounds but only one can win to
help the remaining contestants and you
at home we look through 21 years of
spelling mistakes to figure out some of
the most common pitfalls here are five
tips that can help someone go far in the
spelling bee
tip number one don't be intimidated by
word lengths here you give it a try your
word is triskaidekaphobia the correct
spelling is TR is ka ID EK a ph o bia
did you get it right you'd expect a word
like this to be challenging there are
more letters and more opportunities for
error but in reality most super long
words aren't harder to spell than
shorter ones you can see in this chart
that shorter words and longer words are
misspelled more or less equally it's
likely because longer words are
technical or a scientific in nature and
often ball rules that are familiar to
good spellers so if you want to spell a
long word try breaking it down into
shorter words first tip number two a
little Talmud study couldn't hurt here
are the five toughest languages of
origin at the spelling bee from 1996 to
2014 you've got a little Russian some
Sanskrit American Spanish Persian and
then the most difficult language Hebrew
there weren't many Hebrew words up to be
during that time but just 45% of the 20
words were spelled correctly tip number
three the where the deadly schwa the
most common vowel sound in English is
called the schwa it's the earth sound in
the word pizza the thing that makes the
schwa difficult to spell is that all
English vowels can make its particular
sound for example a makes it in pizza
like we said he can make it in a word
like elephant I in pencil oh and oven
you and a word like supper even though I
can mix a schwa sound think of syringe
sometimes multiple vowels combined to
make one schwa take the word pad
ulis which has to choise spelled two
different ways the schwa is the spellers
natural enemy tip number four double
letters can mean trouble pavilion
tinnitus philippic double letters are
easy to overlook of the double letter
combos Double L has been the most
vicious culprit
appearing in 83 of the roughly 1400 late
round knockout words Double R is also
dangerous the word Proterra knocked out
Julie Palmer in 2001 and Catherine Cross
in 2004 asking for words definition and
knowing where it derived from can help
for example a part air is an ornamental
garden and it comes from French you
might recognize that ter is French for
earth and that could unlock part air for
you tip number five embrace the
cha-cha-cha changes there are two ways
Chuck can trip spellers up first the
shot sound like in checkers or chess can
be made by letters other than ch the
word mantra has been posed three times
with the B from 1996 to 2016 but not a
single speller has gotten it right
second the CH combination doesn't always
sound like cha think Christmas or
cholera other times even when a word
sounds like it might have a hard CH it
doesn't Shawn connolley made the mistake
on a word he was posed in 1999 offering
the spelling CH o ar e Opie s is but
there is no age there coreopsis is a
genus of herb and comes from chorus
meaning bedbug so there you have it our
five tips to win the Scripps National
Spelling Bee one longer words aren't
necessarily harder to maybe brush up on
that Hebrew three be careful of that
sound for pay attention to those tricky
double letters and five watch out for
that CH now when you're watching the
competition you can keep an eye out and
see if any of the seer spellers make any
of these common mistakes hey folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
