in 2016 5:38 wanted to figure out the
ideal Thanksgiving menu in the
head-to-head matchup of classic
Thanksgiving dishes we put together the
ultimate Thanksgiving meal this video is
not that these are the lowest ranking
dishes from that list
[Music]
I have strong feelings about jell-o
salad
I made cranberry gel salad every year at
Thanksgiving it's a time-honored
tradition and I'm just upset that we
would try and denigrate jell-o salad or
like Pete all jealous and eggs with the
same brush I gotta be honest is this I
think ago when I was most afraid of I
think I'm on this yeah I'm with you guys
salad guys in it chunks marshmallows
coconuts I mean everything you're
listing is good it's just sort of like
together wheat cider ice dollars oh this
has Cool Whip in it so when is deserved
okay for one pasta should never be
served like that is for too sweet I
think I have a pretty definitive answer
on the would I eat question no feels a
lot of people have like a visceral
reaction to like tofurkey yeah gross
anything that isn't like actually me
what percentage of those people have
ever had tofurkey prom by question one
right yeah or just opposed to the
concept of all the like standard
Thanksgiving items turkey is the worst
one well group like it's just the base
level for all the other kid stuff
[Music]
as endpiece wait I think it's way better
than the other ones maybe that's why we
think it's so good it is nice to have
something savory yeah that it doesn't
have anyone preeminent but I would avoid
the enemies I went to like someone's
Thanksgiving and they were like I'm a
dessert for you it is I guess I would
cheat a bite
the last time you know the Snickers bar
and we're like I wish there were
something to sour apple just doesn't go
with all this ya know how'd it go it's
not a flavor combination that I like
yeah I like the Snickers but I'm just
surrounded by other flavors are good
I just don't even know what solid
[Music]
[Laughter]
