[Music]
you're watching the 5:38 politics
podcast on ABC News live in this edition
of the podcast we talk about the latest
news from the impeachment inquiry and
whether or not public opinion has
shifted over the past week we also look
at support for Vice President Joe Biden
in the Democratic primary whether it's
stable where his strengths and
weaknesses are you're watching the 538
politics podcast on ABC News live we are
now almost two weeks into the
impeachment inquiry and the Ukraine
story is still developing
last week the house began taking
testimony at least one more
whistleblower came forward and the two
parties political strategies became
clearer we also launched our impeachment
polling tracker so we're going to take a
look at what happened over the past week
and whether public opinion is still
evolving we're also going to assess
former Vice President Joe Biden's
position in the Democratic primary last
week Claire published a piece looking at
Biden's standing with black voters in
particular and what it means for his
shot at the nomination and so here with
me to discuss all of that aren't editor
in chief Nate silver how's it going it's
going well thank you for asking Galen
senior politics writer Claire Malone hey
good to have you back it's great to be
back
we're all here we're all here brushing
shoulders with each other although you
can only see that we're brushing
shoulders if you're watching this on ABC
News live which you should be and of
course also with us is managing editor
Micah Cohen how are you oh hello all
right so let's begin with the Ukraine
story and the impeachment inquiry it's
been a busy seven days since we've last
met so let me lay out some of the key
developments and then we'll dig into it
all last Wednesday was former special
envoy to Ukraine testified to Congress
and shared text messages between
diplomats debating whether Trump's
pressuring Ukraine to investigate the
Biden's amounted to a quid pro quo we
also found out that Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo was on the zalenski call and
that chair of the Intelligence Committee
Adam Schiff falsely said his office
hadn't been in touch with the
whistleblower before the complaint was
filed and Trump had two angry press
availabilities where he lashed out while
the Finnish president's mostly watched
we're still on Wednesday uh on Thursday
President Trump publicly called on China
to investigate the Biden's on Friday
Democrats subpoenaed the White House
after it did not meet the deadline for
voluntarily turning over documents
related to their investigation and then
over the weekend we found out that at
least one more whistleblower came
forward the person is described as an
intelligence official with first-hand
knowledge of Trump's calls with Ukraine
so all the developments I just mentioned
or anything that I forgot to mention
Claire what's the most significant news
in the Ukraine story since last week I
guess I guess I guess it's always the
latest thing right my mom always says
that my dad would say this whenever she
cooked a meal when they first got
married this is the best meal I've ever
had and I kind of feel like with the
Ukraine story it's like this is the best
piece of information I've ever had
because it's the latest development so I
think it is significant at least in my
mind that there is a reportedly a new
whistleblower a second whistleblower who
has first-hand experience with some of
these phone calls or whatever incidents
where the president was instances where
the president was talking about Ukraine
whereas the first was a whistleblower
was essentially sort of fact finding and
getting secondhand information and in
some ways the fact that there's now a
second whistleblower there are text
messages there is it's it's it's kind of
undercutting some of the Trump
administration's first line about this
which is this whistleblower is just the
first whistleblower is just getting all
this stuff secondhand and hearsay who
would trust this person deep state
operator yeah and so now it seems like
okay well that's an even more that's
even more you know evidence in the
arsenal so ya know I think the two
things Claire highlighted there are
totally right one the second
whistleblower to those text messages
that came to light and both I think I go
back to that moment between when the
White House released a call summary and
the actual whistleblower Kim complaint
came out and what was really significant
significant about that complaint was
just how robust it alleged both the
White House dealings with Ukraine about
all this war
and how many people it alleged were sort
of involved in it and the text messages
and the second whistleblower kind of
both point to that and kind of I don't
know you know it just like increases the
risk to trump by an order of magnitude
sort of are we any closer to
establishing whether or not there was a
quid pro quo and is that the key piece
here or does it not really matter
whether or not you can say the two
things the pressuring Ukraine with or
you know military aid and pressuring
Ukraine to investigate the Biden's are
linked is that what they're trying to
figure out here well it yet they are
trying to figure that out and I think it
certainly matters in that it would add
to the list of you know potential
impeachable offenses Trump Democrats
think Trump has committed but even
without a quid pro quo Democrats think
they have impeachable offenses list the
other thing is in the text messages the
quid pro quo thing kind of became more
complicated or there was more than one
quid pro quo exactly so with the text
messages lay out a scenario where the
White House was was holding out a
meeting with the Ukrainian president in
exchange for you know them to start this
investigation both of the Biden's end of
the 2016 election has that proved that
quid pro quo well maybe not yet but it
certainly although the text messages are
more they more fulsomely explore that
particular quid pro quo the idea that
the Ukrainian president really wanted
and in some ways like I think
politically needed this show of
partnership with the United States and
so there are communications that
basically illustrate that the White
House or White House advisers or
American advisers we're saying okay but
we need to see that you've got done
you've started this investigation first
before we set the meeting and the
Ukrainians kind of pushing back frankly
and a bit of sort of ideal little like
deal making like hard driving bargaining
being like no we need to set the meeting
before we open this Biden
investigation it was so was kind of an
interesting like revealing look at that
kind of know that behind this behind the
diplomatic scenes and of course none of
that would be unusual if not for the
fact that what they were haggling over
was sort of like investigation of a
political adversary right it wasn't like
something in the US interest it was
something in Trump's Trump's political
interest and it's also worth just saying
here these text messages are between the
special envoy to Ukraine which is Kurt
Volker who testified on Wednesday and
then also the ambassador to the European
Union appointed by President Trump the
text messages do not support or do not
provide evidence for a quid pro quo with
regards to the military money so what
you see in those text messages is lots
of suggestion of a quid pro quo for the
meeting I mean that's all up in there
right what's really interesting is you
have Sandlin who was a major Republican
fundraiser who trump appointed as the
ambassador to the EU in these text
messages you get the feeling he's kind
of playing the Raw's like the the Trump
ally right he sort of seems to have
Trump's back and then this guy Taylor
willing be tailored junior the top
American diplomat in Ukraine he's he's
sort of increasingly you get that you
get the feeling he's like increasingly
frustrated and exasperated and towards
the end so why I say this you know I
would draw the line at at okay this is
evident for quid pro quo for a meeting
but not the military aid is towards the
end of the exchange there's all these
hints from Taylor in which he almost
seems to be like trying to get these
guys to go on the record saying hey
we're holding out military aid in
exchange for these investigations but
reportedly he thought that I can't
remember I saw this but reportedly he
thought that due to news reports not
because he had inside information so I
would be really cautious there but he's
put Taylor is pushing the on that line
and all of a sudden in the respond
from the kind of pro-trump guide the
Sandlin is like this press release style
hey everybody's gonna see these text
messages one day it's a pretty honestly
um like kudos to Gordon because that
would that was it was quite some like
good legal he was like to be clear there
is no quid pro quo let's continue this
conversation by phone yes exactly like
Gordon Gordon is um Gordon is someone
you want on your cover-up team knowing
early earlier and not just early earlier
in the exchange there is this part where
where it comes where Taylor again the
diplom the local diplomat says our unit
are you now saying that security
assistance and White House meeting are
conditioned on investigations question
mark and Salman is just like call me and
then but anyway later as Claire was
saying
bit Taylor says as I said on the phone I
think it's crazy to withhold security
assistance for help with the political
campaign and Solomon writes quote bill I
believe you are incorrect about
president Trump's intentions the
president has been crystal clear no quid
pro quos of any kind the president is
trying to evaluate whether Ukraine is
truly going to adopt the transparency
and reforms at presidents at Lenski
promised during his campaign
I suggest we stop the back-and-forth by
text if you still have concerns I
recommend you give blah blah blah blah I
just think that like look the facts that
were established in like the first week
of like the White House transcript
showing Trump by their own admission
pressuring the president of Ukraine on
Joe Biden and then his declaration in
front of TV cameras this week that not
only Ukraine but also China should
investigate Joe Biden right I mean I
think um you know obviously to
whistleblowers there's at whistleblower
anyway you must return our whistleblower
like attorneys general we so you're
saying that just president Trump's
standing out on the White House law and
calling for China to investigate the
violence is more significant than these
text messages or the second
whistleblower
or whatever I'm sure a little quit in
that pro quo somewhere right and I think
those text messages were quite damaging
but like but when Kaidu is like how does
like a news junkie follow the story
versus how does the average American
follow this here's here's the thing I
don't think that the second
whistleblower and the text messages were
the biggest deal because in this moment
they they're this huge thing that
changed nature of the story I think
they're a big deal because of what they
say about the eventual end of this
scandal right let me and let me okay so
let me give the so I hear you need and
let me give you this I represent the
voice of the normal person you are I was
asked about seaweed I didn't volunteer
those what this podcast began date you
said to me encrusted was so ten years
ago about fish that is not the voice of
the norm okay I'm gonna I'm gonna be
like I'm gonna be the wall in wall ball
and you can I'm giving you a space that
bounce something off so people will say
people have said okay Trump goes on the
White House lawn and calls on all these
other governments to investigate Biden
and by doing so it's actually sort of
the same thing he's been doing for the
past three years which is muddying the
water and making something which is an
abuse of power seem like the norm and if
he does it enough it'll become a regular
thing and people won't think that he was
abusing his office respond yeah so I
think that reflects a flaw and how the
media covers the story and I think it
reflects a flaw and Democrats messaging
right you know you'd come Alaris and Joe
Biden this week saying in certainly
different ways like oh I don't know if I
would convict in in the Senate we have
to see the evidence right
apart from being I think a dumb strategy
as far as being a presidential candidate
I think it's also a dumb strategy as far
as Democrats messaging right they should
be saying that like look you know Trump
has called you know basically saying the
case is already made right that based on
the cresst Cooper house released that's
already impeachable behavior and see
said expectations low and anything else
on top of it will make things seem worse
but like but like you know but then
don't you also hear them criticizing
Republicans for coming out and saying
like no we think this is you know it
maybe wasn't the best thing to do as
president but it's not an impeachable
offense and then Democrats are saying
well oh if you're gonna be more than
this inquiry in the Senate you can't
already decide that he's innocent yeah I
think we I think you're let's separate
these things out a little bit I do think
there is some value in Democrats
particularly in the Senate and also just
Democrats in the impeachment Democrats
want voters to think of the impeachment
investigation as serious and statesmen
like and stayed and they don't want them
to view it as a to use the presence raid
a partisan witch hunt now maybe that's a
kind of naive hope but to that end I
think it is in their interest at least
some of them maybe not the presidential
candidates to kind of play play the role
of neutral juror but if you calibrate
expectations such that again the public
has seen the evidence right
if you calibre expectations such that
okay there has to be some new and
spectacular news development because
probably the news isn't good
I may actually don't know what this
story may be it would probably the news
isn't gonna keep spinning out of control
for Trump as spectacularly as it did in
the first two weeks here maybe it will
maybe every story has a shelf or a
half-life sort of and every one's
expectations adjust eventually but like
I think yeah I think the normalization
you know I don't know I do kind of think
like the oh we kind of normalizes it I
think that theory is maybe too cute by
half but half me does think it's cute
cute since we last met a week ago and
talked about public opinion we launched
our impeachment tracker so Nate I want
to get a sense of whether or not public
opinion is still evolving or getting
worse for Trump but getting more in
favor of impeachment or whether it's
stabilized since the last time we talked
and now we have a tracker to help us out
so what's the fork a political forecast
look like uh we don't know tell me more
so straight answer we currently have
forty six point five support for
impeachment 44% 0.8 say don't impeach
that's for actually impeachment self not
for hearings there are people who think
hearings are good idea but not yet
impeachment we didn't get a ton of high
quality polling like late last week so I
just think we don't know if if it's
still moving or if the numbers have hit
some type of a steady state and there's
one you have poll that that seemed to
show further growth in support for
impeachment but by the time you listen
this podcast depending on what day it is
I'll probably be a couple more high
quality national polls that test this in
more detail is that good news for
Democrats you know one or two points in
favor of impeachment a slim plurality of
Americans is that good enough for them I
mean so you have not seen any overall
increase in the president's approval
rating which might be the bottom line
right cuz it's not that surprising that
like the impeachment number and the
approval rating are converging but so
far all the convergence has been that
the impeachment numbers have gotten
worse for Trump the people rating has
not gotten better in fact in some pulse
it's down like a point or two and so so
I'd say so far it's going pretty well
for Democrats I think if it if it
stalled out here then then that would be
a little disappointing for Democrats I
think they would think that like okay
well we have a plurality here we're Sade
clear majority people who disapprove of
Trump but you know but I don't know I
don't think there's like I mean I'm
someone who is skeptical about I think
it would have been risky and risky can
mean two things right can mean like high
very answer can mean like a bad risk and
I mean kind of in both since that term I
think to have impeached over the mother
airport gain that Miller fort did not
deliver what the Democrats wanted which
people seem to forget about I think it
would have been politically very risky I
think this the risks are pretty balanced
and they're also intangible benefits for
Democrats like Trump is acting so let me
let me not very soberly we might say let
me jump here and in here and ask you
know not to be a regional essentialist
about American elections but the
Electoral College does force me go
yeah you're right the Electoral College
does make us think more about states in
the Upper Midwest right so Michigan
Wisconsin Ohio Pennsylvania and my
question is doesn't it only really
matter in some ways what people in I'm
using these states as a stand-in for you
know the swing voter the swing states
the swing places doesn't only really
matter what those people think about
impeachment and in and do we have your
any player your embedding like five
complicated issues in there unpack it
you know issue number one is issue
number one is like what are the swing
states which I think we're not ready to
get into on this particular podcast say
it's text I think I'm sorry Nate is
gonna say Texas I've gotten some fights
about this this year I think it's a
mistake to focus too much on like
state-level polling date at this point
we're too far after the election it's
too noisy there's not enough granularity
in the data and so yeah you're probably
best out looking at national numbers
assuming that states track the national
numbers according their partisan lean
and that Trump probably has an advantage
in the electoral college which you know
was maybe as big as last time maybe a
little smaller maybe a little bigger I'd
lean more toward perversion of the mean
but no yeah I'm principal if we had like
super high quality polling every day
from every state you could look at that
but like but we don't and so I think
kind of I think not want to get too cute
about it but yeah I know I would wonder
what those proverbial white
working-class yeah I don't I I think
that's a good question we don't I think
that's right we don't have enough data
yet if I hadn't guessed though and and
there's a huge amount of uncertainty
here but to your original question Galen
I think probably where public opinion is
now which is like marginally in favor of
impeachment and Trump's approval rating
is still in the low forties that's
probably good enough for Democrats to
and to avoid a backlash to impeachment
but not good enough for them to remove
Trump from office right which is
something as Nate said if they had
impeached over the Russia investigation
I think the most likely outcome would
have been you would have seen people
move against that what do you think that
kind of line is where disapproval of
Trump or support of impeachment could
get to where enough Republicans say 20
Republicans in the Senate would say
break ranks and actually remove the
president from office I have no idea I
mean the best we can say is like Nicks
Nixon's approval rating was like in the
high 20s towards the end 25 percent at
the end so Trump's a long way from there
I mean one relatively direct way would
be if they actually think that replacing
Trump on the ticket would make them more
likely to win a second term then but
that's a pretty yes but that's also
pretty high but that's a far do you
think if all we published a piece on the
website actually this week about kind of
why have been kind of so cohesive and
not really broken ranks on this issue
what it's maybe more than just polling
numbers right that why I mean having I
don't know that so let's let's get into
that before we get into Lee speech which
I thought was really good I thought
about this a lot over the weekend and I
think it's wrong to say vacant the most
predominant talking points from
Republican so far on Ukraine have been
silenced
they've just tried to avoid talking
about it saying oh no the president was
joking I mean specifically that was
mostly about what the president said to
the press about classic Marco Rubio
Marco Rubio saying he's just trying to
you know get you guys going in the press
Rubio and I think it was either Jim
Jordan mark Meadows did it to a couple
other people just like oh you guys don't
think so seriously and then and then
then you have seen some people come out
and say no the this is all all fine or
at least like this isn't worth
impeaching over or and let's investigate
the Biden's you know this is important
what Trump is trying to do we need
you know seek out where corruption is
around the world and challenge that's
not exactly a rousing defense of the
president of your party from your from
your caucus right if if one of the main
responses is silence and another one is
this like really feeble attempt to call
it a joke that's like pretty
underwhelming yeah this whole this whole
time I haven't been able to settle on a
defense and they're little contradictory
right I mean at the end of the day the
least worst defense is probably like
this is babba it's not impeachable yeah
and their whole thing is basically like
this is just like it all kind of comes
back to sort of their defense around
right before the election and when like
accents how I came what came out it was
like yeah like he's just this kind of
guy but his heart of hearts he didn't
mean to ask ask
rageh or in this case ask foreign
country to intervene to find dirt on his
political opponent you've seen a lot of
GOP criticism over Trump's decision in
Syria yes this morning this morning I do
wonder if the fur context he wants to he
said he tweeted I guess that he wanted
to pull out did some threatening
language for Turkey and if they don't
take care of business anyway I don't
know I mean I think a scenario where
Republicans could move toward actually
thinking about removing him that's maybe
too far ahead but actually thinking
about kind of criticizing a more head-on
would be if like they begin to feel like
they're not getting their way on policy
other issues right I think it would be a
dumb time for Trump for example to
escalate sanctions against China
terrorists that sanctions and I don't
know I mean it's always a chalice prompt
to say hey it's just like a new level of
of craziness quote-unquote or is it a
great distraction or is it just for
distraction or just always this way and
we're always kind of thinking you know
like you were saying before the show
like every meal like oh it's the best
meal ever had right
you know it's hard to know with Trump
you know to me it seems like well I just
look at his Twitter feed for example
when he says and press conferences to me
this actually does feel like like it is
worse than before and also that the
stakes are higher that that you know
Syria whatever you want to call it is
not a distraction right
it's a high stakes decision and and I
don't know I guess I'm what my what I'm
trying to say here is the way he's
presenting it seems sort of convenient
to him as like for his purposes as a
sort of big issue that he's can tweet
about and it's interesting to watch just
going back to what Republicans feel like
they can where they can counter you know
try to speak counter to Trump it often
happens over these foreign policy issues
so like Lindsey Graham has already
publicly come out this morning
against Trump's decision but it's also
I'm a cynic about whether or not the
American public will care yeah
specifically about northern Syria and
pulling our troops are not this
impeachment inquiry and Ukraine correct
and and and I think that matters because
at the end of the day those Republicans
are responding to their constituents and
what their constituents care more about
right like Trump and the Republican
domestic agenda or the foreign policy so
they can break with Trump on issues
where voters are not really paying
attention or deeply invested but on a
more core Trump domestic issues they're
sticking with him right and if our
argument is well if Trump if Republicans
stop getting what they want on trade or
China or whatever then they go again
that's that could be the place where
they go against Trump okay maybe but
also you have to sell that to your
Republican constituents right and I do
think that that's still an uphill battle
for them because the Trump brand you
know cult of political personality
whatever you want to call it is pretty
strong well let me ask you this let's
say this isn't gonna happen but let's
just pretend for a second let's say all
tomorrow every Republican in the set
came out and said I'm for removal right
the next day the house and peaches day
after that Republican you know then the
Senate vote Trump is out of office in a
week a week okay
all of a sudden Pence is president Pence
is on the top of the ticket for 2020 how
much power do you think Trump would have
over Republican voters because I was
reading something they were like after
he's impeached after he's if he's out of
office the idea was like look Trump has
a lot of power over the Republican
baseball he's the leader of the party
while he's president once he's out of
office it's an interesting question
because I do I mean Thank You Claire
yeah I spent my weekend thinking about
interesting thinker Mike he should maybe
consider this professionally I don't
know because it's interesting because so
much of what Trump was able to do in say
turning around the Republican party
platform on certain issues to be
completely contrary to what they once
were
I do think was done on the force of his
personality in the force of his both
like Oh Trump being Trump and Trump
being a really famous person and a
famous blowhard for decades and decades
in American life but also Trump being
the outsider and all this stuff and so I
think he would still have I think he
would still be a political player in the
Republican Party although probably just
to the base right if like like let's
take Hillary Clinton is obviously a very
very different example but sometimes
when Hillary Clinton comes out and says
things now there's certain people on the
internet who react very positively to it
right like well if that's the standard
no no I'm saying I think he would have
more power right because you could see
the people being you could see him it's
almost like a martyrdom complex right he
was removed from office unfairly and
like let's what if he became sort of
this like perverse Ross Perot spoiler
I mean well actually so the only remedy
that the House and Senate have in terms
of punishment for that goes along with
impeachment is preventing somebody from
ever holding public office again
they can't actually you know take any
other action like imprison somebody or
find them or whatever you but you can
bar them from running for public
I mean I'm have or whatever that's worth
I'm having trouble with this scenario
because like the notion of Republicans
just spontaneously deciding they should
impeach him it's like a dinner party
scenario you have to go with it come on
I mean I think it would be very
difficult for the Republican Party I
think they would feel like you know
lawyers would feel like they had been
betrayed yeah we can we bring this back
to her real wife for a second I I just
want to ask though we're kind of like
going down this rabbit hole a little bit
of Republicans rejecting Trump why isn't
the best strategy to say were opposed to
corruption Trump was trying to root out
corruption abroad the Biden's were
corrupt we wanted this we think it's
good to investigate this and just I mean
some of this stuff is rooted in
conspiracy theory but like does that
really matter for a political strategy
so none of that is true
first of all so that's well right it's
basically supporting conspiracy theories
as a political strategy which has been
part of Trump's political strategy for
you know since he got into Republican I
do think there are enough people in the
Republican Party who still won't promote
a conspiracy theory that they wouldn't
go along with that PR line is that me
being too credulous well they haven't so
far
Tom Bossert you know former Trump
administration member coming out
publicly and saying this is a conspiracy
theory it makes me angry that trumps
legal team continues to put it in its
ear let me say clearly again this is a
conspiracy theory when you have
Republicans who not they're not never
Trump errs
it is literally a former member of the
administration saying that I do think
you have people I mean these people
Republican senators are by and large
like very smart savvy individuals who
know that there are there are real
consequences for pushing something
that's like completely bogus now watch
me have to eat my words in like a month
and like and that becomes the new
Republican Party PR line but I do think
that that that the idea that it is a
conspiracy theory is like what do you
think could it just back it fully
backing your conspiracy theory work as a
strategy
you know I do you think like just it's
kind of physically hard to have to like
lie or mislead for like months on end
right it's like there aren't like there
are not yet the good kind of coherent
talking points that you could have had
with Muller for example I do wonder if
that'll have like a cumulative effect
you know I mean one other effect it
could have if nothing else is it could
yield a few more retirements for
Republicans which are any for them the
house was a big issue for them last
cycle if you have a few more you know
members of the house in a few swing
districts the GOP still holds that would
be bad for Republicans if you have a sad
or unexpectedly retired prematurely or
something I've not kind of game doubt
like kind of you know or decided to run
for reelection or something I don't know
that's like a risk factor for
Republicans as well but no I would not
take a ton of comfort if I were Trump
from a few people not many you're right
not many mitt romney's but a couple
people are speaking out against him a
lot of people are being very quiet and
we're defending him seem not to have
been able to make very persuasive
arguments so the sum total of that for
me if I were Trump would would not make
me feel hugely great about a situation
there was some hiccups for Adam Schiff
over the past week and then it came out
that he falsely said that you know we
presumably his office had not been in
touch with the whistleblower previous to
the whistleblower filing that complaint
and of course the whistleblower had been
in touch with his office seeking you
know information details about you know
how to go about filing that complaint in
making sure that it was heard you know
Republicans have been also kind of
ragging on him for the way that he
characterized the conversation in that
initial public here which was stupid by
the way he likes himself talked a lot I
think we said that on the live blog that
it was weird that he was doing like a
trying to be jokey tenor yeah I mean I
guess that's not the only democratic
strategy we've seen laid out Nancy
Pelosi during her press conference
basically tried to say our priority is
still like infrastructure trade and
prescription drugs
and then and kind of pressing the press
to ask questions about those things I
mean so far what can you discern from
what the Democratic strategy is and
doesn't seem to be working it's another
great question I don't have a sense I
mean I so to go back to when they was
saying earlier in the show I do wonder a
little bit so okay they have kind of
competing incentives right one is to hit
hit the kind of case against Trump as
hard as you can prosecute that case and
try to convince the American people
you're right the other which kind of
cuts it gets out I mentioned earlier is
to to make people think that the
impeachment process is nonpartisan is
about the facts is serious and they're
doing it you know you know we're sad
right Nancy Pelosi this is a sad thing
that we're doing exactly right doing
both of those things at the same time is
hard there's a prime face case to
impeach Trump and then on the other hand
you know explore and communicate the
kind of other vectors of potential
corruption when they have to so what's
the public facing like how do you
communicate that well I don't really
know does and does strike me that they
have to be a bit probabilistic in their
thinking in this sense right if they
think that lay it out named let's say
they think there's a 85% chance that I
was gonna have a number that compelling
evidence of a quid pro quo will come out
right mm-hm
then you might take that chance right
kind of slow walk a little bit and say
well you know it's already pretty bad
already pretty bad but if there were a
quid pro quo oh my gosh then everyone
have to agree we have to impeach them
men right and then if it if that hits or
something right and so then they walk
this line of being we're going to be
deliberate we're going we're still
looking for more information instead of
the we already have enough information
again I do think it's important context
that expectations for Democrats got way
ahead of themselves with the Russia
investigation on multiple occasions I
think that really
dull the impact of what Muller
eventually found as you can tell there
are still lots of moving parts in the
impeachment inquiry and it's something
that we'll be focusing on on future
podcast episodes but up next we're gonna
talk about former Vice President Joe
Biden and how he's doing in the
Democratic primary race in particular
with his strongest core group of voters
which has black voters coming up next
and we're back with the 538 politics
podcast on ABC News live former Vice
President Joe Biden has been leading in
the polls since before he got in the
Democratic primary race but how strong
is his position that's what we're gonna
investigate in this segment Joe Biden
has been the national polling leader
since before he entered the Democratic
primary race but is he truly the
front-runner Claire Malone tackled
exactly that question in a piece called
the front-runner she focused in
particular on Biden's biggest electoral
strength which is his popularity with
black voters let's talk a little bit
about your reporting Claire and what you
learned
how would you characterize Biden's
position in the race
well I think my line about it and the
piece was his lead is numerically
indisputable but plausibly fatally
flawed and and some of that comes from
Joe Biden has obviously had a summer
that was peppered with sort of verbal
missteps and focusing on his record
about race and the the core base of his
support is black voters and black voters
are obviously a demographic within the
Democratic primary electorate that you
really need to win over and so it was
kind of examining you know all the ways
that Joe all the reasons why black
voters in particular but I think Biden's
sympathies you know people who are
sympathetic to Biden's campaign why they
are sympathetic to Biden a lot of it has
to do with Obama a lot of it has to do
with people wanting a more moderate
candidate in the Democratic Party and
not seeing that in other candidates um
you know but but but also exploring ways
that he could falter and cracks that are
showing a little bit in his campaign and
it has to do with you know he doesn't do
very well with let's say young voters or
very liberal voters I mean some some
Democrats basically see Joe Biden is
like a Republican right so the idea that
he has kind of a weird you know he was
once Uncle Joe right but that that
reputation has sort of shifted somewhat
and that and we have seen in the past
couple of weeks Elizabeth Warren and
obviously creeping up on him in the
polls and kind of examining like why
what is it that makes him numerically in
the lead for months and months and
months but also people still seem to be
sort of searching around not quite sure
about Biden and just to lay it out there
I think Biden's been hovering around
thirty percent in the national polls for
much of the summer is now down to maybe
twenty six in the national polling
average but so I mean how strong is
Biden's black support you said that
you're starting to see some cracks is it
with black voters where are his
vulnerabilities yeah so so I followed
biting around to you know a couple of
events in the Midwest and Michigan and
Indiana ended up doing spending a couple
days in South Carolina and what you hear
and again and again from people is if if
Biden was good enough for Obama on race
stuff it's good enough for me
but then you also hear people starting
to say a lot of people would say you
know I don't believe a lot of the
attacks on Biden's historical record are
fair this is coming from black voters
but they were basically starting to say
other candidates were really interesting
to them and someone like Elizabeth
Warren did keep on coming up as a name
that was alright like I really like her
I really like her but people kept on
coming back to the electability question
and not really I think is a is a core
part of black support support for Biden
just support for Biden in general among
among Democrats who do support him is
the fact that there is a perception that
Biden is the person best equipped to
appeal to voters swing those swing
voters you're talking about right those
perhaps to stereotype them white white
voters in the Upper Midwest and I think
a lot of black voters are sort of in
some ways used to thinking strategically
about who they want to put their support
behind
and they were just sort of interesting
to talk to people about the reasons for
supporting Biden and their reasons even
if they liked other candidates why they
weren't you know putting their throwing
their support behind those candidates
yeah why don't you think that some of
these hiccups over the summer and
questioning his history related to
policy on race has like hasn't shaken
more of his black support
well it's interesting again so his
support is much stronger with older
black voters and you heard a lot from
you know not just sort of black Biden
surrogates but regular people on the
ground that listen it was a different
time right and people did bring up high
rates of crime you know basically saying
the context was different I don't think
he should be punished for his opinions
of years past and frankly like a lot of
us I think you're sort of getting the
idea that older black voters might see
Biden more in the context of the period
whereas younger voters in general and
younger black voters in particular
perhaps there's a greater focus on you
know social justice justice issues so
school to Prison Pipeline 'he's the the
effect that these long sentences for
drugs had on certain communities and
they sort of see Biden's record only
through 2019 eyes and that's actually
something that has become a point of
weakness for the Biden campaign and it's
become also a point of fixation for them
so they spend a lot of time trying to
defend his historical record on race
which sometimes makes for sort of you
know awkward interactions when people
are kind of saying well how do we move
forward how do we move forward and Biden
does have to do a lot of or feels
compelled to do a lot of defense of his
record on race yeah there's a scene at a
university that you described where you
know somebody asked him at a current
issue relating to race and his whole
answer was basically defending his
historical record anyway I went mica and
Nate get in here like what do you I've
never you've read the piece but what do
you make of what do you make of the
front-runner question mark is Joe Biden
the front-runner and like do we see his
black support holding the headline is
the front-runner question mark right and
there's an argument that Nate makes all
the time without much evidence but that
okay that question mark is only there
because the media is disproportionately
college educated and liberal and Biden
supports Q's non-college educated skews
non-white and so the media is sort of
constantly looking for reasons that that
Biden might fail or the the converse
argument is like no there are like real
questions about Biden strength as a
front-runner and I think there are real
questions about Biden's strength as the
primary but yo what I mean it's like
there are two questions there there's
questions about buying strength and then
I think there there are questions about
whether it's even fair to ask questions
I don't think it is fair I mean so first
of all Biden is one of exactly two
candidates whose campaign is well
positioned to win the nomination right
now the other one being Elizabeth Warren
right and we can debate whether warrant
or Biden is more likely to win she has
almost caught him in the various polling
averages of national polls he actually
got some good state polls in Wisconsin
and South Carolina over the weekend
which were kind of ignore cuz they don't
match the narrative actually one thing
that is fairly basic is like the gap
closing between Moore and Biden is about
80 percent because of Warren gaining and
20 percent because of Biden falling
because he hasn't actually fallen all
that much so to me it's like a little
bit weird that the media is always
talking about how Biden is struggling
when when Bernie Sanders is polling
about half of what Biden is when Kamala
Harris has fallen from 12% to like 5%
when all these guys I thought might be
seriously Amy Klobuchar or cory booker
when their campaigns have never really
kind of taken off at all you know it's
like a little bit bizarre you know
you're gonna have mostly people who's in
a primary of 23 candidates and like and
like you know i don't know but then
isn't that why you would focus on the
front who seems to be having trouble
like the press gonna spend a bunch of
time asking why Amy Klobuchar I never
took off maybe they should though I
don't know an interesting question or
Harris I mean Harry
like what the hell is happening there I
mean I've seen the hair I mean the
Bernie folks don't like it when we say
this but like Bernie yet at 15% he's
down to what 14% in the real cut
politics average working 15 somewhere in
there you know for Cana they got forty
four percent of forty five percent last
time that's not very good
that's not very good and like his
particulars been very flat if not
declining a bit and like I don't see
that much o Bernie's campaign isn't you
see some are you want more importantly
to the point that we're alternately
getting out here do do you think there
are legitimate weaknesses in Biden's bid
for the presidency or do you think oh oh
sure media creation shorter hype I mean
those can both be true right I gave a
presentation last week where it's like
okay so Biden's weaknesses are profound
right here are I put together a list and
able to turn us into five three article
actually I've put together a list of six
the case for Biden against spied in the
case for born-again sworn right and the
case against Biden is a pretty good case
right but let me give you the case for
Biden just play devil's advocate a bit
here absolutely still leads in national
polls I know still in two national polls
barely but barely does probably still
he's an endorsements by quite a bit in
Harris a second night Warren has the
most diverse coalition in the party by
far has been a bit Teflon after repeated
media predictions about his demise still
Hatchin has an edge on perceived
electability and polls best against
Trump I was opposed don't matter by the
way but but they help with the
perception and finally he has the
moderate Lane mostly locked up for now
those are six pretty powerful advantages
that's a decent case here's going back
to Claire's piece for a second I think
there was a I think there was an assent
looking that's disclosure if for those
not watching on camera did where for
white people talking about this but I
think there was an assumption from
mostly white people early on that
Biden's black support was like
incidental it was sort of it would go
away exactly it would go away especially
when he had this sort of race fray did
to use a term we don't like slobs right
that that that has
really happened yeah what you've started
seeing in some polls Warren Warren spore
go up among black voters but only in
temple some polls don't show any any
movement and I go back to actually a
piece perry wrote recently which which
is a nice compliment declares piece
about you know black lotus sort of
choosing the establishment candidate
over a more liberal alternative as they
have so far in the twenty twenty primary
is not unusual it's kind of a repeated
pattern right and what perry writes
about is is two things one is well the
establishment can in it is established
right they have a they have like
existing ties to the black community and
to the the this is a little tricky
because like some polls show black
voters describing themselves as more
moderate the term perry used which i
think is good is like they're actually
just more pragmatic claire got at this
earlier it's like our voters from their
point of view it's like our vote is
really gonna like a woman or a non-white
candidate after just electing trump it's
so and it's so interesting that comes up
all the time i mean there was a real
underthe like sub thread of I really
like Elizabeth Warren but Trump's just
gonna like a woman's gonna lose to him
and I think this idea of a lot of a lot
of Democrats a lot of liberals maybe a
lot of people who are active on politics
Twitter thinking yes black voters will
sort of their support will seep away
from Biden as a as it as it goes along I
mean I do think that that is an
interesting miss reading and the idea
that black voters remain moderate
pragmatic however you want to call it
but white democratic voters have gotten
much more rapidly self-identifying as
liberal in the past let's let's call it
ten years then black voters have and so
there's almost this I mean we talked
about it a lot like that like woke the
woke white voter demographic kind of
saying well listen everyone's going to
come around to us to our view of hating
on Biden but there are quite a lot of
people in the Democratic Party who do
not feel that
and see see a third Obama term in in the
body and person and campaign of Joe
Biden and Biden's campaign I mean almost
to the point of not almost to the point
of parity and farce and imitation and
whatever always talking about Obama they
have these campaign videos where they
you know they're all tweet out we don't
say it enough Barack Obama was a great
president which is which is funny
because people say it a lot like there
are literally things called like hugs
from Obama and like it's so it's
interesting to watch them I mean they
have a strategy and they stick to it and
they they will say we don't care what
Twitter says this is the this is our
demographic and we're sticking to it and
I do think for what it's worth they're
like look even if Biden support among
black voters eventually is like
dissipates or is even into by Warren I
do think that early assumption from a
lot of people that that it was a femoral
I think that's been proven wrong yeah I
think it's it's been there long enough
through enough quote-unquote
controversies that that's been proved
wrong I think even though he's led him
pulling this whole time like we're
allowed to be like intelligent people
and watch him in a debate or watch him
on the trail be like he's I mean and
this is other this is the thing that we
you should have like a full segment on
but the idea of age and wind when Biden
talks about things you know there was
this very smart you know like college
black college kid who I talked to at the
very end who said I wanted eisah peak
kind of was pretty considering
supporting Biden and he said I really
wanted to ask him a question about when
he made that comment in Iowa about how
poor kids are just as smart as white
kids and he was like I know he didn't
mean to say that but there's like
implicit bias in there and like I wanted
to ask him about how he plans on like
talk like talking about his own implicit
biases right and there is this sense of
especially with you know the top three
contenders for the Democratic nomination
being people of foley just like you know
a couple generations away from some of
the people that they're looking to win
votes from that's a real there's a real
dissonance there about how Biden talks
about race or what stories he chooses
tell and it and it works for some people
right the idea that I think a lot of
this appeal actually does lie in well
he's not super he doesn't talk like a
woke Democrat and that woke talk makes a
lot of people uncomfortable and it's and
I think that that is a reality that
Biden and his team probably understand
on some level while also understanding
that like you could have a voter
enthusiasm problems and now a lot of
black voters are just like yeah we need
someone who doesn't make white people
uncomfortable Midwest yeah you described
the moderation as calls are just
pragmatic but when you look at the
issues - like you know african-american
voters are genuinely more conservative
on some issues than their white liberal
counterparts well so this this is a it's
a really interesting question it's
probably something we don't have that
much time to get into but like okay so
so black voters show up as more moderate
in terms of self-identification right
and they show up as more moderate for
instance on the question of abortion
right does that mean they're sort of
like more moderate in the way that
matters in terms of the Democratic
primary no I think they actually are
more moderate I don't think it's a myth
a more moderate ego if you go look at
questions on issues by issues and even
on economic policy you have faith things
like that part of the reason why imagine
there's a kind of spectrum of opinions
within the black community about taxes
or whatever else or economic policy you
know if every black voter 92 percent I'm
a Democrat because of the historic
relationship between Democrats and black
voters and frankly Trump's stance on
racial issues then you can have a more
diverse range of opinions on everything
apart from yeah I'm a Democrat and that
kind of shows if you look at issue by
issue polling I mean I don't know like
in some sense like um you know if you
think I'll bite in this really flawed
candidate then in some sense the fact
that he's still at 26% is more
impressive and maybe it's just that it
is about like the fact that hey this
kind of old-school
our message resonates with some voters
there is a debate next week I do think
debates often present challenges for
Joseph Robinette Biden yes however this
one is interesting because he has in my
opinion been very flat-footed so far on
Ukraine but there's a lot of news not
might not be paying that much attention
to Biden's reaction to Ukraine and the
debate could be an opportunity for him
to be very forceful in responding that
story and so I do think it's an
interesting debate in that and that it's
not purely downside for Biden
potentially all right well we will see
and of course we will have a reaction
pot and we can talk about it then but
let's leave things there for now thank
you Nate
thank you Galen Thank You Claire thanks
Caitlin and Thank You Micah thank you my
name is Galen drew tony chao is in the
control room our intern is Jake Arlo you
can get in touch by emailing us at
podcasts at five thirty eight.com you
can also of course tweet at us with
questions or comments if you're a fan of
the show leave us a rating or review in
the Apple podcast store or tell someone
about us thanks for listening and we'll
see you soon hey folks I predict that
you're going to either subscribe to our
YouTube channel or watch some related
videos or both you can do both but you
can't do neither so either subscribe or
watch more videos
