[Music]
Micah there are still lots of individual
results to watch as the night goes on
but we kind of have her two big
storylines and it's sort of what we
expected all along yeah it was kind of a
wild ride getting there but ABC News is
now projected and our forecast is
showing Democrats winning the house
Republicans winning the Senate it looks
like Republicans will pick up a couple
maybe two or three seats in the Senate
yeah and now we wrap up and that
Democrats will win a lot of seats in the
house so it's really again it's the
story it's been all election cycle tale
of two chambers yeah so I mean our
forecast is kind of reflected that this
was a really tough map in the Senate for
Republicans and then there were a lot of
pockets of this country that were ready
especially in the house it was gonna
reflect that to kind of review da Trump
and swing back in the other direction
and I keep thinking about the divide
that these elections keep showing
particularly on the house side I mean is
that kind of the storyline here that
we're just seeing this further that's
for the golf
it's almost cliche at this point but
it's you kind of can't ignore it and
looking at the results I mean there
there are two things going on in how
different the maps are what you said
about just that the Sam map was way
redder than the House map is one thing
but the other thing is about accumbens
see - yeah Republicans had so many
incumbents vulnerable in the House
Democrats had the opposite problem in
the in the Senate so I think it's both
those things but look the results
certainly reflect a divide that we saw
in 2016 that we saw kind of grow and
heighten during the Obama years and and
this is a continuation of that story
so we'll keep watching individual
results and there'll be plenty more to
talk about when we do our wrap-up
podcast the other night on our podcast
tomorrow on our podcast the end of the
week you ready for all that
yeah I'm ready for most of it okay cool
