in just under a week since he declared
he's running for president
Joe Biden is already the political
establishments leading candidate our
2020 Democratic endorsement tracker now
shows Biden in the lead with 75 points
Cory Booker and second in Kamala Harris
a close third our tracker awards points
based on who the endorsement is coming
from within the party so for example
endorsements from former presidents and
vice presidents are worth 10 points
governor's eight points US senators six
points and so on
when we first launched the tracker on
the last day in February
Biden hardly had any endorsements only
from Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California
and Delaware Senator Thomas Carper but
by the eve of his official announcement
he picked up endorsements from Democrats
like Stephen Lynch US Representative
from Massachusetts and Matt Cartwright
from Pennsylvania one endorser former
DNC chair ed Rendell even switched his
endorsement from Amy Klobuchar too Biden
on April 22nd after Biden announced he
was running for president on April 25th
his endorsement shot up to 75 points
catapulting him into the lead
he received 10 endorsements that day
from party members such as John Carney
the governor of Delaware Alabama senator
Doug Jones and Pennsylvania senator
Robert P Casey jr. Biden is getting
those endorsements from all over the
country which is a rarity thus far let's
compare the top five candidates in our
tracker right now Elizabeth Warren has
23 points all of which come from her
home state of Massachusetts Klobuchar
currently has 39 points and all of her
points also come from her home state of
Minnesota
similarly 52 of Harris's 55 points come
from endorsements from other California
politicians even Booker who is in second
behind Biden 56 of his 57 points are
from New Jersey but now here is Biden's
map while he enjoys home state support
from Delaware
his endorsements are much more spread
out some from Pennsylvania some from
Alabama and then others from New York as
well as a few other different states
we'll continue to track endorsements as
we get closer to the Democratic primary
so it'll be worth keeping an eye on
whether Biden can hang on to this
advantage or not visit
fivethirtyeight.com slash endorsements
to follow along hey folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
