[Music]
hey you're watching the 5:30 politics
podcast on ABC News live today we're
going to be talking about president
Trump's conversation with the Ukrainian
president and whether he has reported
pressured him to investigate Joe Biden's
son as well we'll get into a new poll
out of Iowa showing Elizabeth Warren
leading you're watching ABC News live
several news outlets reported beginning
on Friday that Trump pressured the
Ukrainian president to investigate Joe
Biden and his son and then on Sunday
Trump confirmed that he did speak to the
Ukrainian president about the Biden's
here with me to discuss our
editor-in-chief Nate Silver hey Micah
let's bring some energy thanks Nate and
senior writer Claire Malone okay in the
last few days the Washington Post and
The New York Times have both reported
that someone in the US intelligence
community filed a whistleblower
complaint on August 12th that involved
President Trump making a quote
unspecified commitment to a foreign
leader that includes other actions more
details have emerged since then The Wall
Street Journal reported the president
Trump in a July phone call repeatedly
pressured the president of Ukraine to
investigate Joe Biden's son hunter
urging voll old Amir Zielinski about
eight times to work with Rudy Giuliani
the president's lawyer on a probe that
could hamper mr. Trump's 20/20 opponent
Giuliani and Trump want Ukraine to look
into whether Joe Biden when serving as
vice president improperly pushed for
Ukrainian investigator to be fired
because he was investing at a ukrainian
oligarch who owned a company that
Biden's son hunter Biden was involved
with you got that okay Giuliani and
Trump have not provided any evidence to
back up these claims a little bit more
and then we're almost done with the set
up also hanging over all of this is US
military aid to Ukraine and whether
Trump was holding that back to
incentivize Ukraine to look into the
Biden story the administration hasn't
released the transcript of this call so
we don't know if this was a quid pro quo
situation really there's actually a lot
we don't know
but Trump himself said that he talked to
Solinsky about that's the Ukrainian
leader about corruption and about hunter
Biden here's a clip from Sunday as
outside the White House okay and just
before we started recording this podcast
were here at Monday midday Trump was
asked again at the UN General Assembly
in New York about his call with Solinsky
and he said quote it's very important to
talk about corruption if you don't talk
about corruption why would you give
money to a country that you think is
corrupt it's very important that on
occasion you speak to somebody about
corruption all right that's our setup so
first of all Claire great job setting
that up before we like really get into
the nitty-gritty anymore how big of deal
is this Nate it kind of broke all in
quick succession were you like oh my god
oh my god or were you like okay I mean
if you have my kind of reaction there
are certain types of stories that 5:38
likes talking about because they're one
key and did driven or poll-driven right
clear empirical and then there's
sometimes some excuse many types of
stories where it's like this might be a
big deal but but it's a little harder
for us to add value on what we say about
it
you know look
in some ways if the allegations are true
that that Trump put pressure on Ukraine
to dredge up dirt on Joe Biden and in
some ways it's kind of a cleaner through
line then the Russia scam because it
directly involves Trump it's you know
potentially if true a clear quid pro quo
we're probably getting some discussions
about what that means for impeachment
you know you kind of get the sense from
kind of reading what liberals seem to
want like oh this is kind of the straw
that broke the camel's back yeah
on the other hand I could argue and
perhaps I will argue it around this
podcast that like in some ways the
constant calls for impeachment have made
it harder for a potentially higher
impact story to be differentiated from
this kind of massive Oh Trump is doing
lots of corrupt stuff and we know that
and therefore he has a 42 percent
approval rating but also we don't want
impeachment well I will say I do think
this is a little bit of a big story I
mean I take all of what you say Nate
that that there are there are certainly
reactions that Democrats tend to have in
the wake of stories like this that they
always kind of like ramped it up to ten
but I think a couple things are going on
that have caught people's eye with this
story one is that it involves a the
front of the current frontrunner in the
Democratic primary yeah and Trump and
Trump obviously see I think Trump
probably sees a couple of people as his
biggest opponents and so I do think what
is happening here and what a lot of
political people recognize is okay we've
just set a narrative for the 2020
election you know this is something that
Trump if Biden becomes the nominee would
probably come back to you again and
again yes and I do want to get into that
I think we should talk about how this
affects Trump's re-election how this
affects potentially Biden's primary
fight but just come back to his story
itself my first reaction was this is a
big story yeah I mean I this all kind of
kicked off with the Giuliani interview
on
Chris Cuomo show on CNN Thursday night I
was like doing the dishes and and
Giuliani clips come across the transom
making some pretty big allegations
basically well what's funny actually is
my dad was staying with me for the past
couple days and normally I don't watch
television news but my dad watches
television news non-stop and so I saw a
festival ABC right
yeah cable news cable news and and so I
saw this all develop and so actually my
I'm seeing my first reaction was at
first we didn't have the detail about
Ukraine and the detail about Trump
specifically pressuring for an
investigation of Biden so it was all
speculation about this whistleblower
complaint and like we didn't really know
anything else except that it involved a
foreign leader but once that once that
Wall Street Journal story really hit
with the detail about Trump repeatedly
pressuring or at least repeatedly
bringing up Biden and his son I mean my
actually my first reaction was replace
Ukraine with Russia and and it would
sort of have been the smoking gun in the
Muller investigation right yeah and I
think we should note here that the the
call with ukrainian President took place
the day after Muller testified before
Congress and that part's amazing that
sort of if you remember once once Muller
was done testifying the feeling was sort
of like okay the kind of Russian
investigation is over and Trump has has
mostly escaped it and then the next day
apparently he sort of asked moving
gradually less yeah he like reportedly
asks a foreign leader to frankly
interfere with US election but anyway
let's let's get into what I think is the
developing story now which is how does
this change the impeachment calculations
for Democrats on the hill and
Republicans on the hill so let's start
with Democrats Nate you were you were
getting into it take earlier does this
change things for them I mean it depends
on if they care about the underlying
conduct or the political wisdom of
impeachment right and it's some distant
level those two are tied together
potentially yeah but so previously polls
in impeachment or something like 35 to
38 percent in favor 55 to 58 percent
opposed somewhere in that vicinity with
a few people undecided despite that
there was a lot of pressure from from
Democratic rank-and-file to begin
impeachment proceedings against Trump of
course there's a lot of ambiguity about
like what a hearing is or a processes or
a proceeding is or what that actually
means
you know Pelosi it sort of seemed like
she wanted to slow walk it and this is
another catalyst for people calling for
impeachment in part because if Trump
doesn't release this transcript of the
calls he has and he's kind of defying
Congress's Authority and that in some
ways is it more traditional grounds for
you know oh you have problems with the
separation of powers etc what we don't
know yet is how big is sort of will this
be with the public you know it move the
needle in terms of public perception you
know I think progressive Democrats are
calling for impeachment have some flimsy
arguments if they use to kind of wave
away the fact that it's quite unpopular
despite Crump also been quite unpopular
and that a lot of voters are probably
saying hey look we got this we're having
election next year we got this we can
decide for ourselves whether whether we
want four more years of Trump or not
yeah yeah I mean I think Nate is right
that impeachment up until now has been
pretty unpopular
what's interesting to watch over the
past couple of days basically since this
story is broken and since Nancy Pelosi
put out a letter to the administration
saying you have until this Thursday to
to basically release more information
you're seeing reporting coming out in
the past couple of days about
congressional Democrats
saying essentially Oh some of these
moderates are considering maybe changing
their stance on impeachment and maybe
they'd vote for it this time and I think
what that what those noises are in the
reporting is probably these moderates
kind of waiting to see what happens
yeah a just to wait to see if if the
White House responds to Pelosi is kind
of Thursday threat but also to see how
it plays out with the public like if
people see this as a more popular thing
than the Muller report version of
impeachment and the I mean do you think
they will there there is an argument I
guess that this is a much cleaner and a
simpler offense quote-unquote to hang
impeachment on I mean we'll see yeah I
mean in some ways it might help prompt
that's all kind of muddled together but
you know when you when you get into
these discussions with progressives who
are like well impeachments good
politically even though it's really
unpopular it often say well as the
public learns more about the case and
public opinion will shift as it did for
Richard Nixon and the rebuttal of that
which there's not a good rebuttal to
frankly is that the Russia story was the
most covered story by the media over the
past two years the numbers did not move
one bit as it was covered more the
numbers had not moved one bit as more
Democrats called or impeachment as they
have so the notion of the public was
just misinformed just needs to you know
be taught but me but but but but the
difference is that this story might
actually be new that's when I'm not
chewing over the same stuff that we're
actually over for three years this might
actually be new and you know I would
think the more that politically the more
that Democrats can separate out and say
this is new this is new this is a much
bigger deal and the more Trump can
muddle it and say oh it's the same old
no I think I mean I walked into the
office this morning and basically said
to Micah like is this is this gonna be
like what will the impeachment charges
be what would they be
would they be about on political grounds
as you mica said to me would they be
like on the
Nixon version of abuse of power grounds
or as you know Rick Hazen is sort of
Rick Hazen of slate is arguing this
morning in a piece well perhaps this
could be a campaign finance charge right
like I'm most like a quid the quid pro
quo could be treated as like a is a
potential contribution right so those
are theories that are floating around
but what I think is is always in the
back of my mind is how the Trump camp
Trump team is going to defend against
this right and I think that they will
probably do my guess would be that
they'll say this is just politics this
is like normal right because that was
there that was there trumped our meeting
argument was like you take anybody would
take that anybody would take that
information of course the difference now
is that Trump is president and not just
a private citizen yeah it's not
particularly like he said oh I would
never do that kind of thing with Russia
right it's kind of like you know what
Democrats are mad about this but you
know but hey that's kind of how I roll a
little bit and he hasn't really been
particularly like apologetic or backing
off in the press conferences either well
so actually I wanted to go back to that
Trump quote that that came out just
before we started recording so he said
quote it's very important to talk about
corruption if you don't talk about
corruption why would you give money to a
country that you think is corrupt it's
very important that on occasion you
speak to somebody about corruption so we
haven't seen the transcript of the call
yet but what's notable to me about that
is Trump is connecting the the
conversation he had to the money right
and that's the big thing we don't know
still is Trump has said he talked to the
to the Ukrainian president about about
hunter Biden right but we don't know yet
whether he also talked and or explicitly
connected that conversation to the
military the US military aid to Ukraine
and so the fact that I mean I'm like
reading tea leaves here right but like
the fact that Trump is making that
connection in the way he's thinking
about the call what's your member
one thing that I think the malla report
proved true is that Trump is actually
somewhat careful about the precise way
that he frames things and conversations
that can be memorialized yeah right we
learned that from the Muller report well
it might be a small sample size right
but like but you never quite got the
smoking gun Trump never said it like
never set is explicit in tape or even
when you're talking about Michael Cote
when Michael Cohen testified before
Cronk Congress about you know payoffs
that he was arranging for Trump he
basically said well he never says it
explicitly there's an understanding and
note and you know Cohen basically said
having been around him for years and
understood how the organization operated
I knew what he wanted me to do but Trump
never explicitly said it do you guys
think so
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has
essentially drawn the line on
impeachment from the stance of
congressional Republicans essentially
saying impeachment has to be bipartisan
and and so therefore you would need some
congressional Republicans to get on
board if if Pelosi is gonna sort of move
ahead with impeachment at least that's
how she's framed it before all this
happened right do you think this story
has the potential to change the calculus
for either elected Republicans in
Congress in particular or Republican
voters I mean again in some ways I think
we're putting the cart before the horse
right we don't know that much about the
story and is there a smoking gun and how
that develops you know I mean you have
Mitt Romney kind of saying this looks
pretty bad which I think you know I
don't know I mean there's also this kind
of whole sense we should talk about
later about like has four braids on
Biden potentially and is this like a
cynical play by by Trump to have like a
kind of c-level scandal to smush
together the words Biden and corruption
yeah but but I don't know I mean we
first you know kind of full candor we're
like do we really need to discuss the
story
Podcast at all it seems like it's still
developing and obviously there are
things you can decide for yourself
reader whether we have useful things to
say about this or not I do think this is
a story in the fairly early stages and
so there's a little bit of humility
around that I mean obviously Pelosi I
think is reading the polls the same way
that frankly I would write that like a
like Trump is pretty unpopular I mean
you could okay
you could also point out that right now
Trump is losing a Biden by 10 points
little let's go to that Sanders by 5
points and more and by 4 and a half
points right so you could kind of say
okay maybe we should be risk-averse
because right now we're in a good
trajectory and so why do we want to
increase volatility yeah maybe it
actually would make Trump even more
unpopular maybe but make him more
popular instead but like but his
trajectory is good right now then why
add another complication to the works
you know and maybe speakers well the
base has to be behind this and now the
base is getting very upset about this
and we need them to turn out to you know
to actually really like people in
Congress I think it's not a midterm year
it's a presidential year
wait but is that is that clear how you
think like the the impeachment decision
will be made in Congress like okay there
are all these competing interests
there's the merits of the case right
whatever case it is and you do actually
see some members of Congress sort of
just saying you know look this is once
one straw too many you know and then
there's the politics of it both the
politics with potential swing voters but
also with the base which which as Nate
said is the base now just can be like
you better freaking impeach or else I
mean stump Claire I actually think it's
a really hard calculation for them right
because it's I think Democrats are
probably United from an ethical point of
view in saying that they believe that
Trump acts corruptly potentially
criminally at times
but there is this fraction of them that
is acting I don't know however you wanna
phrase it within a in a real politic
manner in a Machiavellian understanding
of power politics and when your best
players and they're saying either don't
impeach or in this newest case wait and
see and I think that they get a lot of
those those people get quite a bit of
flack from progressive voices saying you
are falling down in your moral
leadership of this party we will
remember that you know you'll seal I'm
sure you'll see a lot of primary
challengers to you know moderate
Democrats who have taken that stance
being like you you have you have
abdicated your duty in this but I think
it is a real for this for this point in
time I think Pelosi is in an interesting
moment where she is probably spending
the week very closely monitoring how
people are taking this in frankly how
the media is covering it how Trump acts
about it I mean I do think that there's
credence to the idea that he just wanted
to smush together Biden in Ukraine and
how much are you feeding into a beast of
a new cycle I don't know I think it's I
mean I I don't know that Pelosi has
played this particularly well because
you know I mean at times it seemed like
she's more said there's not enough there
there oh let's kind of see you know so
she doesn't like kind of consistent
stance I'm like why you wouldn't impeach
in some ways I think the oh no
Republicans would go along and some ways
think it's the best argument right I
think in some ways the best argument
Pelosi could make be like of course this
conduct is horrible right but for us
that benefit of impeachment is the
possibility of removing a president from
office and we have no chance of doing
that with Republic with a Republican
Senate therefore our remedy would be
that the American people need to remove
the president from office we're going to
focus on our agenda like she's starting
to maybe kind of make that argument now
it seems like it wasn't that before and
there was always I mean we talked before
like hearing like the various phases of
the Muller investigation right like well
what if a new item comes along
kind of tips a scale could like Pelosi
being this kind of awkward middle zone
but then maybe this is serious and
leftward actually will also affect
underlying public opinion on Trump I
know I just come back to like the fact
that there's an election in 14 months
and historically impeachments come when
a president is a lame duck or officials
are no there's no way to remove them
from office by it the electorate right
and so you know I'm not sure why there's
not more weight put on that well that
impeachment some extreme remedy and by
the way we can't like I don't know well
it's it's to me it's not so much that
it's it's why the views of the
congressional Republicans matter so much
because as long as the idea of
Republicans voting to remove Trump seems
a fantasy then you're talking about this
ending in Trump's acquittal if it even
makes it out of the house right like who
besides Mitt Romney is gonna exactly end
up and in that world okay let's say
impeachment takes five six seven months
something like that right which is about
how long that Clinton it impeachment
took then you're talking about it like
playing out almost perfectly overlapped
with the Democratic primaries and
caucuses which just seems like a
disaster for Democrats in some ways not
a disaster but just like it just seems
like tonight's points bad timing but I
don't know if if if if you think the
miss merits impeachment that's at least
a coherent argument right well frankly
the more I read from people who actually
are constitutional scholars they say yes
impeachment is inherently in part a
political process right and you know I
mean I think when you think about
incentives we're okay we're gonna
impeach you even if it helps you in
reelection that seems weird is not a
really great disincentive to do
impeachable stuff versus saying we're
gonna impeach you if we can hurt you or
before she removed from office right so
I don't know but I don't think Pelosi
has had a particularly good answer to
critics who were advocating for
impeachment I think she kind of thought
hey
it's all done and gradually the Russia
stuff will fade out which may be in a
correct calculation but if Trump has a
habit of trying to collude Frasier is
that you know the thorn in her side I'm
trying to encourage foreign governments
to make it harder for Democratic
opponents then then that's you know
that's a problem for her but I don't
know I look if I had a bet right now I'd
say the public doesn't move based on
this and she's not a not in a big way
I'm supposed to say I think people are
fatigued by this kind of thing and I and
I know that's I know like that sounds
like a cynical thing to say but we've
spent the past two years basically
listening to Russia version of this
story it kind of feels like a Redux of
well Russia collusion story to be seen
yeah I would I would put it okay it
might but I would push back on that a
little and just I will use myself as a
proxy for the public which is a bad
thing to do because I'm not a great
proxy but I already feel like I have a
better better handle on this story even
though it's still developing even though
we still don't know a lot than I ever
did on the Russia story which maybe says
a lot but this is one of those stories
where like as we sit here three days
yeah yeah it's kind of we're like I
think we're all making educated guesses
on like how is the American public
reacted to these these previous kind of
like well trod paths of the Trump
administration and of congressional
Democrats but obviously as we sit here
midday Monday September 23rd it is a new
thing and we don't know like and you
have to take that into account also I
think what will be interesting to see is
how this sticks or doesn't stick with
Biden right the idea that Fox someone
tweeted out like the Fox News homepage
where yes it's citing Devin Nunez saying
that like Biden is going to drop Biden
is going to drop out imminently because
of this scandal so obviously there is
going to be a certain line that is
pushed in parts of the conservative
media I also think that the American
people have a long-term relationship
with Joe Biden you know and and and so
whether or not they'll believe credibly
that he
that something happened you know or if
though or if as as the current evidence
stands nothing untoward seems to have
happened with Biden himself Joe Biden
it's more the appearance that I would
say I would say the prop 8 was too
troublesome appearance we'll be right
back to talk about that Iowa poll we're
back to talk about new numbers of Iowa
showing Sanders down
the Des Moines Register released a new
poll on Saturday showing Elizabeth
Warren holding a two-point lead over Joe
Biden among likely Democratic caucus
voters Warren had 22% Biden had 20% this
according to Ann Selzer from the show
subject of great Claire Malone profile
that everybody should read but Selter
told the Des Moines Register quote this
has been the first major shake-up and
what has been a fairly steady race end
quote so let's start with the broad
question is this the first major
shake-up Nate is in right no because
this is a predictable result based on
the way the polls have trended
nationally in fact on Friday afternoon
mica did not participate I tried to get
me to participate I put out my guesses
of what the poll would be and this is
just based on looking at other polls of
Iowa plus trends since the last Selzer
poll during which time Warren has gained
a bunch of points nationally and I
predicted it would say Warren 23 Biden
20 the actual result was born 22 Biden
20 in fact every candidate I was within
two percentage points except for Bernie
Sanders who I think is the real story of
this poll because that is newsworthy
that he's struggling a lot in Iowa and
he was at 11% in this poll it was a
candidate who got forty nine point eight
percent of the vote last time in Iowa
basically virtually tied Clinton there
that was a surprising number to me I had
kind of educated guested Lee thought hey
you be at 16 or there abouts which is
not great so for me yeah I mean for me
you would have expected Warren to so
it's not a surprise to me okay so wait
wait okay so just to run through the
results Warren 22
but in 20 Sanders 11 Buddha judge 9
Harris 6 Klobuchar 3 Booker 3 or warp 2
Gabbard 2 yang 2 steyr to Claire was was
your headline from this also about
Sanders being down or was it about
Warren being up our third option I think
the headline stands that Warren is up
and it and I think it's I mean Nate is
correct that the trendline was that way
but I think most people read the news
differently than Nate even though we
have a website constructed to make them
view the news differently but but yes I
do think it is notable that Warren has
taken the first slot I think it kind of
and we've spent the past few weeks
talking about her steady upward
trajectory at national polls too and IO
is obviously a state that is almost
geared for a candidate like Warren the
Democratic primary electorate there is
white and progressive so just the very
fact that she is now sort of at the top
of the polls I think probably adds to
some of her momentum there
I think Buddha Church doing you know
being kind of in the game they're up on
Harris is interesting too
but yeah Sanders continues to be sort of
a I mean I I I know I will catch flack
for this from from Sanders supporters
but I do think at least in my mind he
has become a slight nonentity because of
his the static nature of his place in
the polls in his campaign right now and
so so just sort of seeing Biden and war
and kind of pull away in a state like
Iowa where you could potentially see it
being good for Sanders is notable and it
kind of kind of adds to my sense that he
is falling further away yeah so let's
stand Sanders and then we'll go to buy
it in but Nate the Sanders have an Iowa
problem or a problem problem both
because he shouldn't have Iowa problems
unless he has bigger problems yes right
in fact Iowa should be a stronger state
for him so we should say the polls for
Sanders and Iowa have
and generally fairly poor but a bit all
over the place right so earlier last
week you had two other Iowa polls come
out post debate ahead um at 16% and 9%
respectively before that you had a you
go pulled ahead him at 26% but a mammoth
pulled him at 9% in Iowa
so in general Sanders has been add a
little below as national numbers in Iowa
which doesn't really make sense given
that Iowa has a lot of white
progressives which should be at least
based on this 2016 coalition his
stronger group he again fared fairly
well on caucus states obviously in 2016
he almost beat Hillary there in 2016
there isn't a good rationale for why
sand is underperforming in Iowa that I
can think of other than the fact that
like frankly he has a little bit of a
sell-by date and that when voters are
more exposed to him that they get more
excited about some of the other
alternatives Warren being number one a
but maybe you also buta touch a little
bit they're not that similar
ideologically but but they do both
appeal to young voters they're new and
kind of different you know i think
bernie is not used to the fact that like
he is no longer truly the outsider he is
not the freshest flavor in the race and
you know and also separately one
interesting demographic split the poll
had the Seltzer poll was they looked at
who you voted for in 2016 and i think in
their poll small sample size but
literally zero percent of clinton 2016
caucus goers worked for Sanders this
time so if you're if you're starting
with so 44 or 45 percent of voters
nationally what it for Sanders in 2016
if you start with that and then Warren
removes a big chunk of that and then
Buddha Church and and and yang and even
Biden because there were some voters in
the Bernie camp 2016 who were voting for
Clinton not because they were left
because they just didn't like Clinton
for any of a number of reasons and and
Biden saw
some of those reasons right so all of a
sudden you start out with 45 and then
Warren takes 20 out of that and Buddha
cech takes you know takes five and yang
takes three and Biden takes eight and
all of a sudden then you're down in the
in the low to mid-teens and like and
like I don't know but like Iowa voters
are paying more attention to the
campaign you know I don't know it's it's
a very poor indicator for Sanders he has
by the way he didn't dismiss his Iowa
director and so there maybe is some
recognition on the part of the campaign
that like we need to change strategy
Sanders shake-up wait he dismisses Iowa
director in addition to his New
Hampshire direct mm-hmm so okay early
state shake-up for Sanders okay Sanders
has a problem does by didn't have a
problem to clear so starting in about
August the Biden team and Biden himself
sort of started pushing the line that
they don't need to win Iowa in order to
win the primary you know I think that
campaign sees understands that they do
not do well with white progressive
liberals white liberals so while it
wouldn't look good losing Iowa and
potentially New Hampshire there they say
this in this comes from the campaign
they say like listen we have a
essentially like a Southern Strategy a
Super Tuesday strategy the idea is that
there's lots of we got a win set the you
know they had well they want to win
South Carolina they want to win a lot of
those March 3rd Super Tuesday states
where there's votes in the south things
like that so I think the Biden campaign
is definitely putting it out there kind
of softening the blow of potentially
losing Iowa and they're right about that
right now I mean they don't have to win
Iowa they don't have to win Iowa it's
upward like this if they didn't have way
to be in a very strong position and if
they lose I with them they're in a
vulnerable position but I know Iowa Iowa
is well they hold though if right
because Iowa should be a good Warren
State I don't think anyone denies that
right so she doesn't finish strongly in
Iowa let's leave a little bit of a McGee
in case you finish like a strong second
and wins New Hampshire or something like
if she would undermine idea whether that
means like even under your best
circumstances you're not able to win and
then you're probably in trouble but no
it's absolutely valid to point out that
Iowa is a liberal and white electorate
and that's not that's not Biden strength
you know maybe it's on Bernie strike ire
anymore but then he doesn't really have
that many strengths is the problem right
so what about Kamala Harris she didn't
do well on this poll and on the one hand
what you just said about the Iowa
electorate would seem to suggest okay
it's not that much of a Hera state on
the other hand there are reports that
the Harris campaign is going all-in on
Iowa what's happening so that I think
Harris I think wants to do well in Iowa
to like prove an electability point
perhaps yeah so she has we've talked
about this a lot so it was you know she
started off in the beginning of the
summer with these attacks on Biden and
having sort of like a she had a profile
right there was something that people
kind of associated with Harris and as
the summer has gone on that's sort of
faded and while people you know well I
think black voters definitely are
considering her as like maybe one of
their top two or three candidates she
kind of needs to do well in like these
white states or states where she could
be maybe like a Warren alternative kind
of like a establishment but like a
little progressive tune to things and
and she basically needs to I think it
like get get that momentum get that
electability momentum does noting as
always the delectable tea is a fraud
topic yeah yeah there's a does does the
the Harris campaign going all in on Iowa
for whatever that means
means she's trying to position himself
more as a warren alternative rather than
a buy now turn I think for the opposite
I think for some of their reporting
around it and again you know my priors
that campaigns make lots of mistakes and
so and so we shouldn't be trying to
rationalize that other than maybe the
answer is that they're they're
struggling in there and they're kind of
grasping for new ideas but like but some
of the programmatic kind of says more I
think she thinks that Biden is
vulnerable they're right in Iowa and
that maybe if the parlay is okay
Biden struggles in Iowa he gets like 13
percent or something moderates panic
they say it's gonna be Warren or Sanders
and Biden's not up to the task
right therefore they rally around Harris
as the alternative to Warren or maybe
Sanders right night maybe I know and a
lot of the and a lot of the moderates
that need is talking about being black
voters right so if if if Biden and
Harris have been competing all summer
basically for like Congressional Black
Caucus endorsements which is a little
bit of an indicator of like you know who
the black vote in certain important
states might be leaning towards I think
she is kind of going after
Biden's lunch because she's proving
maybe she she'd proved to if black
voters are largely concerned with
electability or moderate voters in the
Democratic Party are largely as
concerned with electability and they
back Biden because of that if Harris
proves that she can win in a state like
Iowa then they'd say okay she's a good
alternative to Joe Biden for me because
she's she's proven you know I like that
she's prosecutorial and she's proven to
me that she can compete against all of
these other like high-profile people I'm
gonna I'm gonna go for her and that and
that and then that does well for her
starting in late February March and she
doesn't mean to win Iowa pro at this
point I mean she's doing poorly enough
where like if she came in third third or
second or okay so let's say let's say
Iowa is like Warren C she she has a
really strong night war in 33
boo at a chech 16 Sanders 14 Harris 13
Biden 12 something like that right
what's that resultant I think it results
in Elizabeth Warren winning the
nomination and like everyone kind of
else being in trouble if she dominates
to that degree because she don't so that
degree it probably means that like she's
doing fine she wins a say part of the
vote is dominating for Iowa standards
where can it's often win with 20% or 25%
and also there's not a clear sunny in
place or Buddha check the second place
where he might not I don't know well
well I'm trying to like think of like
which scenario results in in apart from
Harris winning Iowa results in her kind
of winning the nomination where she's I
don't know okay Warren 30 Bernie 20
Harris 16 whatever whatever whatever
yeah but can it happen I mean there are
like I there are like some moderates the
democratic party outside of states like
Iowa maybe roughly half the party you
know I mean again one big question here
which the Iowa poll from Seltzer compels
is what happens if Warren does much
better than Bernie and Iowa kind of
regardless of where they finish relative
to the other candidates right you know
what does he hang on for New Hampshire
presumably yes we don't know very by
that much that we don't know by the way
very much about what's going on in New
Hampshire what about all the other
candidates is there anything in there to
say anything about any of the other
people or should we ignore them I think
we should note that someone like Cory
Booker came in at 3% in the cells our
poll tied with Clovis are at 3% his
campaign over the weekend basically said
we need money or else we're gonna have
to drop out by the like I think the end
of the month something like that so you
are you are starting to see now I don't
actually I don't totally buy say that
they would do that necessarily I think
that's a that's a it's certainly a not a
move from strength but I think they'll
probably probably want some some money
and and and that's a good way to do it
but like for certain candidates it's
just it's it's like O'Rourke
and Booker I think in those early states
kind of want to say listen we have great
we have great ground game we're really
good at retail politics but they're also
not popping in the polls in those states
so I think that's a problem yeah in some
ways the absence of news is new so there
was an earlier poll last week they had
Klobuchar at 8 percent in Iowa she was
at 3% in the Seltzer poll she had been 8
percent my Seltzer poll as well right
then you have a whole sort of stories
just 5 Li or not because poll are
subject to sampling error about like a
club ooh surge don't work global charge
that toe has gotten more coverage though
recently and it seems not to America is
pretty good debate performance hasn't
really met squat I mean maybe I don't
know I heard last week like our people
just denying the obvious that like maybe
it's just war and Biden which is the
third redo of Clinton Obama and Clinton
Sanders now it's Borden Biden they kind
of Beach kind of represent roughly half
the party and you're gonna see this two
person tango again the Seltzer poll also
found that just one in five likely
Democratic caucus goers say their minds
are made up
it's interesting 63 percent say they
could still be persuaded to support a
different candidate yeah and we're okay
we're in September there's certainly I
think this is bad news for a lot of
candidates yeah but that's a fair that's
like a very interesting nugget that I
think probably a lot of people won't
take away from from a lot of the stories
about the poll no one to hit on
something we hit on all the time in
terms of like how early it is and how
polls have a margin of error and how
stuff changes like we should say right
now if Buddha judge were to win Iowa I
think it would be an upset given where
we are now but it wouldn't be shocking
like he's
he's got a toehold I said regionalism
like he's from a nearby state yes you
know yeah that we should probably talk
more about the second-choice numbers
because those further boost Warren's
lead and they're not very helpful for
any County apart from Warren frankly so
like that that increases her Iowa
advantage well the second choice and the
and the like who are you considering
questions Warren always does better than
everyone else in this um but let's leave
it there thank you Nate Thank You Micah
for hosting you're welcome
Thank You Claire thanks Micah you're
welcome my name is Micah cohen tony chao
is in the control room our interim is
jake Arlo you can get in touch with us
by emailing podcasts at five thirty
eight.com you can also of course tweet
at us if you're a fan of the show leave
us a rating or review in the Apple
podcast or please do that it actually
helps a lot you can say how great of a
host I was or just tell a friend about
us and tell them how good of a host I
was thanks for listening and we'll see
you soon hey folks I predict that you're
gonna either subscribe to our YouTube
channel or watch some related videos or
both you can do both but you can't do
neither so either subscribe or watch
more videos
