[Music]
[Music]
welcome to the third installment of the
538 2020 Democratic primary draft it's
been a while since we last did one of
these not since January we also recently
had a debate on Tuesday so it's time to
take stock of where things are in the
primary ways but before we do let's
mention who we all picked the last time
we did this it was January remember so I
picked Elizabeth Warren good solid pick
I know Nate you picked Komal Harris
Claire you picked better or work and
Micah you picked Amy Klobuchar so that
was all of our first picks I feel pretty
confident that I won that draft we were
like trying to be contrarian weren't we
no we were trying to pick who were
actually going to let you're trying to
become carrion I remember being very
annoyed by the fact that like Biden and
Bernie who seemed with the obvious
candidates I don't think you were trying
to be contrarian with Kamala Harris
anyway let's uh let's do this
again and so we're gonna figure out the
order with our trusty tree fort Music
Festival hat back from when we were all
in Idaho if you remember in Boise
[Music]
here we go and I'm going to be boring
but consistent and I'm going to pick
Elizabeth Warren in Tuesday night's
debate we got to see what it looked like
when the rest of the field considered
Elizabeth Warren as a front-runner and
spent the majority of their energy
basically attacking her policies in
particular I mean Pete this was back
when this picture was taken when it was
nice too
but we got the opportunity to see how
she would respond and how she would
withstand those kinds of attacks I don't
think that we're going to see
significant movement in the polls away
from her after the Tuesday night debate
which means that she will still be
polling in the mid 20s to almost 30
percent nationally still doing well in
Iowa still doing well in New Hampshire
that puts her in a good position to win
the Democratic nomination in point of
fact our post debate poll with episode
showed Warren got the highest rating on
average for her debate performance and
her the share voters considering voting
for her didn't increase by a ton but it
increased the bid which is meaningful
because she was already one of the top
two but electability is maybe is that a
is that a problem of her she's the woman
addressed this please yeah I mean you've
kind of seen this consistently since
probably January polling where her poll
numbers have gone up but her kind of
like her her unfavorables have sort of
remained the same even as she's risen so
yeah I think to use a more precise
description rather than electable or not
electable people are worried about her
performance in like the Upper Midwest
basically is she too far far away for
states where the Democrats do actually
probably need to win back some some
people who voted for Trump I think it is
worth saying too though the last time we
did this in January Elizabeth Warren was
not polling at the top of the pack and
all of the people polling at the top of
the pack were met and we kept asking on
the podcast in chats
are Democrats unwilling to kind of vote
for a woman in this
my Mary I think they've made it clear at
this point that they are willing to and
that you know arguably right now in the
Democratic primary race a woman is the
frontrunner so somebody might have some
more hope frontrunner but uh at least
either frontrunner or Co frontrunner and
also under some of the hardest
circumstances for her in a debate she as
you mentioned improved her standing with
voters so I think that's says a lot for
her chances Claire you are up next
who's your pick um I'm gonna go with Joe
Biden former self senator from Delaware
Biden is the Co frontrunner where's
Warren Biden and Warner we're calling
them now Co frontrunner although Biden I
think is still in the national average
of polls kind of leading pre-debate
average in every debate average thing
that we now have videos Claire Joe Biden
is an interesting Co frontrunner in part
because I think a lot of people in the
media and probably on the very vocal
political parts of Twitter which i think
538 readers probably read a lot of he's
not well liked but I think he is for a
lot of people a sort of study at the
till choice he's you know there are a
couple of moderate candidates Buddha
judge and globish are obviously in that
more or trying to be in that moderate
plane but Biden is kind of the leader in
that space and as I wrote in an a piece
a couple weeks back but you should
totally check out called the
front-runner question mark Biden has a
real base of support with black voters
which I don't think we should we can't
sort of take that for granted for all
these candidates you know where I think
his frontrunner ship is a little bit
wobbly is he's not doing that well in
Iowa Pete's coming for him in Iowa
he's his campaign has kind of said oh he
doesn't need to win Iowa he's Warren is
leading in New Hampshire and so that
kind of leaves Biden with I got a win
South Carolina I got to do well on Super
Tuesday but who knows where that
momentum could leave him so Joe he's my
pick I think to back that up right since
all of this Ukraine scandal talk came
out we saw that Joe Biden hasn't lost
any anything in the polls really yeah
which Sisley steady
like half a point or something all right
Nate your Peck next here you go with I
feel like you're often in these things I
wind up being the one don't be
contrarian despite my reputation that
drafts Bernie Sanders and this is gonna
be one of those times where I would say
Bernie Sanders is the third most likely
bad nominee I think there's a debate
between one of the candidate I don't
want to spoil that in case that can date
becomes underrated later on but let's
let's start overthinking Bernie is
currently third in the polls I thought
he had a strong debate actually in our
poll the news was a bit more mixed for
him but you know I thought he was one of
his more effective versions of himself
he just announced at least two of the
four members of the so-called squad have
endorsed him including AOC I don't want
to overthink it there's a lot of money
one group of supporters you could argue
for maybe one or two other candidates
being in third place instead of II think
there is a big drop-off between one two
and then three here
I don't like more drop-off writers I
mean yeah there's like 10 points between
Bernie Sanders and the next person in
the polls so to me the kind of best
theory that fits the evidence right now
is Bernie Sanders though he's had a huge
influence on the party is a factional
candidate so even though he's up in the
polls on some other people I don't think
he's more likely to win the nomination
let's not overplay the narrative of the
race fundamentally he's in third place
in the polls he's in first place or
second place and fundraising right his
cash on hand is wild 30-some million
which is well above any other very good
you know I mean the age thing I mean
there are a lot of liabilities right I'm
just saying like everyone else has
liability - yeah and he is clear
positive all right Michael you got to
pets double pet as we're joining a snake
draft okay I want to pick P Buddha judge
I think Buddha judges fairly
self-explanatory he's not doing great in
national polls but if you look at polls
of Iowa of New Hampshire he's in double
digits I thought he had a he raised a
ton in the third quarter I thought he
had a good debate on Tuesday night our
poll with Ipsos Baird that out he got
good ratings I think it's pretty
straightforward how you can imagine
world and which Buddha judge wins Iowa
that's a ton of money gets a ton of
momentum goes onto bigger and better
things where things get interesting
though is in who you pick next the
reason I went with comma Harris instead
of Amy Klobuchar is because Harris has
had a higher ceiling so far in the
debate I guess I'm trying to overcome a
little bit of a recency bias Klobuchar
had a really good night on Tuesday night
her electability scores in our episodes
pol went up the share of voters
considering her went up it was probably
her best debate I mean probably was her
best of it well yeah it's kind of a low
bar to clear yeah but she has gotten
better I think in each subsequent debate
she was a much more it was kind of like
revenge of the moderates where she was
one of two people but it was Buddha
Janklow Bashar who were really going
after Warren kind of full stop and
clawed Bashar
you know said some interesting things
along the lines of like listen Elizabeth
you're not the only one with plans like
just because my plan doesn't seek to
upend the entire system doesn't mean it
isn't thoughtful and good she's trying
to basically appeal at this point to
people in Iowa where she has an in so if
that's her her work like she kind of did
that well I have a question for you
though Micah because it seems to me like
voters have had plenty of opportunities
to make their assessment of Kamala
Harris
she got she's gotten a lot of media she
was up in the polls at the start of the
race she got a lot of attention after
the first debate she got a lot of
attention and it seems like voters have
decided that they're not really into her
whereas someone like Amy Klobuchar has
not really been assessed by voters
nationally so it would seem like we
already know where voters how voters
feel about Kamala Harris
whereas Amy Klobuchar is potentially
more of a wild-card I don't know maybe
we should wait and see like okay she
already has a bigger media platform than
Klobuchar she has more money she's
decided she's focusing on Iowa as a way
to like prove her electability elsewhere
it's sort of it's sort of okay it's a
similar case to think back to where
Warren was in January
when she was languishing in the polls
and it sort of felt we kept asking like
why is it working shudders yeah she's so
anemic gonna pull even then she was like
at eight and not like four well here's
the thing though
even then hurt her name recognition was
pretty high so I I think there is
validity to the idea of like voters have
had their look at at Harris but the
clears point as we get closer to Iowa
more and more voters will be in the room
looking right that the kind of audience
increases and also tomates point if you
want to explain Harris's decline in
terms of campaign mistakes well that's
all the more reason that she could turn
it around right cuz they you could shake
it up you can shake up your campaign
right at one point she was out like
twenty percent in the polls really
twenty percent two polls she got I have
her max out average was fifteen yeah
okay cherry-picking the polls my god all
right next we got neat back to you as
we're doing a snake draft I will pick up
a char look there is an exponential
decline as you get from like one and two
down to where are we at six and there's
one big barrier for Amy K which is that
happening trying to say your last name
so get yelled at Oh
for Amy K which is that she has not yet
qualified for the next debate in
November oh that's another reason to the
carousel and leads again yeah in theory
not Kwan for the debate is not
necessarily a death sentence but
practically we've seen that if you don't
kick in a debate in the media ignores
you even more but at this point if we're
banking on long shots occurring there is
upside to club HR in a couple of ways
we're number one she would figure to be
a strong County in Iowa she is the only
candidate from his safe that borders
Iowa I believe at least the only major
candidate I think that's right does not
border right
she is marginally more live
in Iowa polls and she is nationally you
know sometimes getting in the mid single
digits instead of the very low single
digits she did along with Mayor Pete and
Warren do well across a variety of
metrics in our poll with episodes of the
debate and if you have Biden collapse
she's probably the most explicitly
moderate candidate in the race and
someone who can make some good arguments
about electability so it's an
interesting portfolio of like longshot
chances yeah with some really obvious
problems to knowing the biggest problem
is what you just got out which is it's
hard to imagine Clovis are doing well
unless Biden collapses how does she get
over Buddha judge though because there's
some argument that if Biden collapses
but it just makes up some of that so she
gets people who say they want a woman
all right
Claire you are up next with seven doing
it for answer time that's right that's
right
no issues mmm and during pandering to
the Internet Claire no I'm actually okay
I think that Andrew yang first of all in
Tuesday's debate actually did very well
yeah Andrew yang learned how to debate
and like honestly I think of all the
candy thing cover the candidates and
where they started from this guy has
made big the biggest improvement and
probably made like the most of his
platform and everything he's also
polling I believe correct me if I'm
wrong higher than Cory Booker higher
than Beto O'Rourke
he has fundraising numbers he got there
are numbers of casual and yeah tons of
ash on end but I think you know more
than that he's also like someone who's
actually been able to influence some of
the conversation I mean you saw Castro
on stage last night say I would consider
piloting ubi universal basic income
which is what the regular name for
Andrew Yang's freedom dividend is I
think he's been able to expand his
message I think he's kind of going for
like the outsider II appeal which maybe
is going to
siphon off some like younger Bernie
Sanders voters but also maybe the the
people who like Warren and kind of like
that policy focus thing you're kind of
gonna say all right like Andrew yang
I'll give you a try I don't think he is
I'm like actually in the past couple of
weeks I've come around to he's actually
like a pretty decent candidate I mean
it's it's easy for me from looking back
at the Wikipedia page of the 2020
Democratic primary a year from now if
Andrew Goering got like the third most
votes that wouldn't surprise me cuz
there's no real incentive to drop out
right base right the Kasich not the end
anymore well he's like a one of the
polls I'm not sure he's ever gonna
become like a universal basic candidate
that's some terrible hahaha okay he also
he also went toe to toe with Warren on
actual policy details on like automation
and trade and things like that where the
other candidates seem to fall somewhat
flat wonderful well that's all wonderful
is he more likely to win the Democratic
nation the Democratic nomination then
Cory Booker Julian Castro yeah that's
the argument you think oh I don't think
so I think that is the Castro bonkers no
it's not like Castro to win the
Democratic nomination that's good well I
think if if if we got into that world I
think you would see a wholesale movement
on the part of Democratic elites to get
someone else that's what happened in
2016 with the Republicans and Donald
Trump no it's not it's not what happened
am I could draw Republican Republican
elites never made a made a move your
argument is that Democratic elites are
fundamentally different than Republicans
when it comes to the party decides my
hunch would be that Democratic leads
learned lessons from what Republicans
did wrong in 2016 and would act
accordingly all right final pic I am
going to go with Cory Booker I think for
the same reason I argued that Amy
Klobuchar
maybe should be considered ahead of
khamel Harris and that's because he
hasn't had his opportunity to be
considered by the broader public yet
and you know he has the people who know
him like him he has a positive message I
think in a campaign where people are
going to try to draw contrasts with the
president you know that positive message
we all need to have like a common you
know common values or common goals etc
could resonate you know were we're eight
pics in now so I'm not saying his
chances are likely but if something
crazy happens and we are down to you
know the third tier it's not Michael
avenatti I do think it would in fact be
Cory Booker I mean I think that's I mean
it's all peace and love yeah but he's a
he's a very good speaker on the stump
he's very good he has a potential way in
with Iowa right he could P could play
happy warrior friendly guy he he also
has a potential in in South Carolina
he's a black candidate that's a state
where the electorate is two-thirds black
like there's a lot of ways I think cory
booker to me he has been consistently
even though I picked Andrew yang the
person who has the most potential to pop
you know what I felt like Cory's
Booker's Booker's head was that in the
debate though I think whoever was
thinking about this what a nice little
hot take it that would make or well that
would make my picks pretty good because
I picked I was before this that could be
an interesting ticket you mean evening
this though right someone said to me
after Tuesday night's debate that they
thought that Cory Booker seemed like he
was running for VP it'd be a good maybe
a block will be P for the two according
to us miners sorry a big good VP nominee
can we say a couple interesting things
about people who weren't picked say a
couple interesting really quit what do
you got to say about Tulsi nothing but
I'll see a poll recently conducted of
the New Hampshire primary found Michelle
Obama would enter as the front-runner
there nobody picked her all right here
are picks Mike is cheating as usual with
Michelle Obama hedging my bets a little
bit that's all
comment below who was know please don't
comment
