this is the history of the Cleveland
Browns it's not easy to be as bad as the
Browns have been in their current form
but now 20 years later the Browns might
actually be good and it's in part thanks
to this guy Baker Mayfield in his rookie
season Mayfield led the Browns to a 7 8
and 1 record combine that with the off
season addition of this guy Odell
Beckham jr. and now the Browns are
really starting to look like they have
something interesting for the first time
in franchise history but you can't savor
the victories that might be to come
without remembering the defeats that
preceded it and there are a lot of those
so with that in mind let's relive the
two miserable decades of Browns football
that it took to get to this moment
here's the history of their reborn
franchise since 1999
according to 538 see low ratings this
iteration of the team began as an
expansion team and they lost their first
game 43 to nothing against the
Pittsburgh Steelers it turns out that
was a sign of things to come the team
would lose each of its first seven games
and finish its return season to the NFL
with a lowly two and fourteen record
that year their final ehlo rating was
1196 so it was actually worse than where
they had started out but it's not that
abnormal for an expansion team to play
poorly in its first year the important
thing is to show progress which until
very recently the Browns really had not
done in fact starting with that 1999
season the Browns have only spent a
grand total of ten weeks as an
above-average team according to L o
which is 538 power rating to determine
how good a team is at any point in time
ten weeks out of a possible 321 it takes
real work and a lot of bad luck to be
just as bad as the Browns have been ok
let's rewind back to that 1999 season we
already talked about how badly it went
but really the wheels were set in motion
for the Browns to be bad before that
ever happened
the first-ever member of the reborn
Cleveland Browns was this guy
quarterback Tim Couch he was draft for
the number one overall pick in the 1999
draft and he ended up being one of the
least successful quarterbacks ever taken
first overall in the draft only starting
59 games and playing five seasons before
retiring early because of injuries so
the Browns
already didn't get out to a good start
but maybe you can recover that let's
look to the 2002 season maybe they've
made some progress since then here's the
team's opening game at home against the
Kansas City Chiefs in which they have a
late lead surely things will go well for
the Browns from here right uh no the
Browns appeared to stop Kansas City to
secure the win only to see Chiefs
linemen yes that's right
lineman John Tate rumbled 28 yards down
field and then get another 15 yard
penalty tacked on to the end of the play
because Cleveland linebacker Dwayne Rudd
ripped off his helmet mid play and
accidental celebration the gaps gave
Kansas City an easy 30-yard field goal
for the win as time expired and it put
the Browns off to what would prove to be
a familiar Owen one start to the season
but it gets all odds that 2002 season
actually proved to be somewhat
successful for the Browns you see they
finished the season nine and seven and
they actually made the playoffs and
sometime late in the season
they even had one of those a fir
mentioned ten weeks spent as an
above-average Ehlo team and in the
playoffs against the hated rival
Pittsburgh Steelers Cleveland actually
was leading late in the fourth quarter
before eventually losing by a score of
36 to 33 and that would be the last time
we'd see the Browns in the playoffs like
at all take a look at some of these
records in the seasons that followed 5
and 11 4 and 12 6 and 10 that actually
qualified is a pretty good season 4 and
12 again 10 and 6 wait go back
10 and 6 what happened in Cleveland in
2007 after a string of forgettable
journeyman including Jeff Garcia
Trent Dilfer the Browns were actually on
the upswing in 2007 thanks to Derrick
Anderson as you can see in 2007 the
Browns had a number of those weeks spent
above an average Ã©low rating and they
finished the year with a 10 and 6 record
which is the only time that the reborn
version of the franchise ever had
double-digit wins in a season
unfortunately that wasn't enough to make
the playoffs but hey they finished the
season as an above-average team
according to ello
so surely 2008 would continue the
momentum that they had built not so much
between Anderson and another Browns
quarterback Brady Quinn who was a highly
touted prospect the Browns expected to
get something out of their quarterbacks
in 2008 but instead they got just about
nothing the team finished with a 4 and
12 record and although Anderson and
Quinn would battle for the starting
quarterback job over the next couple
seasons neither one could really
recapture the magic of 2007 in fact that
proved to be an ongoing problem for the
Browns the inability to find even decent
quarterback playing take a look at this
chart showing yards of a backup
quarterback metric of quarterback value
for each franchise in the NFL between
1999 and 2017 it's not a surprise to see
Tom Brady and the New England Patriots
at number one they have 21,000 and 50
yards above backup quarterback over that
span can you guess where the Browns
ranked there they are at number 32 the
Browns check in with the worst
collection of quarterbacks of any team
since 1999 with a cumulative negative
2805 yards above backup Cleveland has
sent 30 different quarterbacks under
center
since 99 this string of poor
quarterbacking finally brings us to now
and the reason why this Browns team
could be different
Mayfield finished his rookie season with
a quarterback rating 18 Ehlo points
above the NFL average and that is the
first time since 1999 that the Browns
finished the season with their starting
quarterback above average according to E
low so things might be different this
time Mayfield is actually good which is
something he doesn't have in common with
in he
of these other Browns starting
quarterbacks Mayfield did all that last
season again as a rookie throwing two
likes of Jarvis Landry who's a good
receiver but he's no Beckham now
Mayfield has even more dangerous targets
to throw to and that's why the Browns
look better on paper than they have that
any point since the franchise was reborn
20 seasons ago so maybe things are
finally looking up maybe Cleveland fans
are right for thinking that there's a
light at the end of this long 20-year
tunnel of the terrible football let's
see if they can finally give their fans
something to cheer about at long last
hey folks I predict that you're going to
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
