[Music]
pareo we are here to talk about a result
in Florida but it might not be the one
that people are waiting on but there is
an interesting result in Florida right
sure so amendment four which would
restore a voting rights to fellows it
was a big push by liberal or liberal
activists down there particularly but it
has some Republican support to it
appears to have passed it's like about
63% of the vote right now and supporter
that had to get the sixty-two pass so a
high threshold but it appears to have
passed and this is well effect over a
million people I'm reading so the big
deal fluor seen tonight Florida is a
state that often comes down to pretty
small hydrogens like Florida has been
one of the few states in the country
that does not restore rights sort of
automatically to people after they after
they've served their times this is the
beak is a big policy achievement people
who in the whole movement to sort of
change proposes policies which may
affect future elections but tonight's
election in the other races of Florida
that people are watching in Florida
governor and Senate it's gonna be
another long night where Florida keeps
every night it looks like with about 95%
of the vote in Ron de Santos the
Republican for Governor Rick Scott the
governor who's running for Senate are
ahead but a lot of the outstanding boat
is in miami-dade Broward County member
Broward County from Al Gore and George
Bush and so I think it's gonna be
another potentially very close long
night with maybe a recount - yeah same
as it ever was all right let's get back
to it thanks
