[Music]
Claire you lucky duck guests which they
you get to talk about it Ohi oh that's
right and you're sure I'm sure
Ohio shirt how does so sherrod Brown
wins yep relatively easily maybe more
easily than we expected so starting off
the Senate cycle Ohio was obviously one
of those ten states that had red state
Democrats so it was the state that Trump
won and initially I think sherrod Brown
was expected to have a much tougher race
he was running against Republican Josh
Mandel who was very kind of Trumpy
attack dog Mandel had to drop out mid
cycle because of family issues and Jim
ran a see who the Republicans then put
into the race was never a particularly
strong candidate never had the money
that Mandel did and brown I would argue
has you know has always been a pretty
good fit for Ohio he's always had this
sort of populist thing going on which
makes Trump voters actually liked him
quite a bit
and you might be seeing some ticket
splitting with you know swing counties
voting for you know Brown for governor
sorry Brown for Senate and going for
Mike DeWine the Republican for governor
so it's interesting so how much should
we or should we not read into this as an
indicator of other Senate races or just
a national mood I think Ohio is a little
bit of piece apart if you're you know
but it is I think if you're if you're
looking for you know Missouri Indiana
those are kind of different cases
because that's it's they're very red
states with much closer candidates Brown
just was able to walk away with it this
year and we will see those coming in
later tonight so let's get back to it
