[Music]
my name is Galen Drew and who are
watching the 5:38 politics podcast on
ABC News in this edition we look at the
latest polling on whether or not
Americans are interested in an
impeachment inquiry or eventually
impeaching the president Trump we also
asked if based on the latest Democratic
primary polling Elizabeth Warren is now
the front-runner you're watching the 538
politics podcast on ABC News live I am
back from vacation and before I begin I
want to say thank you to everyone who
helped out and worked overtime while I
was away last week I know the news cycle
was crazy so thank you to our intern Jay
Carlo to tony chow in the control room
deputy editor Chad Matlin you guys got
to meet my editor that was fun yeah
having chat on is always fun and of
course mica and Nate and Claire thanks
to you guys for pumping out three
podcasts last week yeah thank you
I I guess the lesson is I'll never go on
vacation again we had a running joke in
the office when people went on vacation
that we would say if the president is
impeached we're gonna call you back from
vacation but for some reason we didn't
call you back maybe we should have well
I honestly I did look up how much like
an earlier flight would cost but I
thought you guys would one thing I was
crazy if I actually did it and - it was
like prohibitively expensive so I think
if you were vacationing domestically we
would have considered it more but that
you were overseas you know that's a bit
much alright anyway thank you for
letting me live out my vacation in well
somewhat peace I was reading the news
the entire week but anyway it has been
almost a week since speaker Pelosi
announced a formal impeachment inquiry
based on president Trump pressuring
Ukraine to investigate the Biden's and
the Democratic Party so today we're
gonna take stock of how much public
opinion has changed in a week and what
it tells us about the road ahead also
you could be forgiven if you forgot that
the Democratic Party is in the middle of
a presidential primary but it is and
Elizabeth Warren appears to be rising in
the polls just about everywhere so at
what point is it fair to consider her
the front-runner
we'll ask that question today and here
with me to do all of that our managing
editor Micah Cohen you're actually the
only other person with me in studio so
we're gonna go to you first how's it
going I have so much room at the desk
here let me just spread out my stuff a
little bit and very nice joining us from
the road is editor-in-chief Nate Silver
hey Nate doing well and Claire is out
today so it is just the three of us but
a shout out to Claire because she just
published a great piece on the website
about Biden and whether or not he is a
front-runner and what his frontrunner
status looks like at the moment so I
encourage everyone to go check that out
and read it on the website today
fivethirtyeight.com anyway
let's begin with public opinion on
impeachment when Pelosi announced the
formal impeachment inquiry a little less
than a week ago on average about 36% of
Americans supported impeachment how has
public opinion changed since that name
um it's changed pretty significantly we
in the most recent round of polls I
would say roughly speaking you have even
support for impeaching or not impeaching
the president maybe around 45% for both
if you take an average of recent polls
there are a couple of complications here
that I should mention as you're parsing
through different polls number one is
that the timing seems to matter some I
mean obvious is a very real time event
and even last week you kind of had
earlier last week as initial news about
Ukraine broke you begin a Bandhan see
some Democrats calling for impeachment
including importantly importantly Nancy
Pelosi correctly before so the most
damaging evidence came out and then
later in the week
you saw obviously the quote unquote
transcript not technically a transcript
that the White House published and they
refer to it as a transfer for this
podcast but understand it's not a
mermaid in conversation call something
then we've been calling it a call
summary that's our cost summary yeah
yeah reconstruction is a term you could
use and then Thursday you had was it
Thursday that whistleblowers complaint
came out you've also had Trump acting in
ways that I
would consider a bit erratic so
therefore the timing is important and if
you see a big national poll come out
looking at the exact date it's gonna be
important
number two is Luna six between
supporting the impeachment process and
actually impeaching the president when
this was all kind of abstract I didn't
seem to make that much difference in the
questions but you do have now a decision
that some Democrats and Stevenson
problems are trying to parse between
having hearings or a process versus
actually voting to impeach Trump yeah so
when we break those two things out
because they've been pulling do you
support an impeachment inquiry versus do
you support impeachment what's the
differences in responses when you break
those two things out so there's no
really yeah yeah it's really nailed that
down yeah we have been that's the right
answer is it's still especially in this
new landscape we're sort of still
getting data and it's it's hard to break
down but we've been going through the
data we do have looking for patterns
Laura Brunner or quantitative editor
looking for patterns and like so not
only are there questions okay do you
support opening impeachment proceedings
do you support opening an impeachment
inquiry there's also and then there's do
you support impeachment right there's
also questions like do you support
opening impeachment to remove the
president right so is that is that
asking people whether they support
removing Trump or is that just saying
hey impeachment is meant as a process to
remove the president we have got anyway
there are a bunch of different question
wordings there's not really a pattern in
in the results we have so far maybe most
of all cuz we don't have that many
results in terms of like support for an
inquiry getting more support for
impeachment worded vaguely getting more
support then removing the president
entirely but that could just be a fact
that we don't we don't have that much
data yet really in this new landscape
yeah casually it looked like some of the
polling about an impeachment inquiry the
inquiry itself got more support than
straight-up impeachment is that
even that pattern has really emerged I
mean you would expect that patterns are
Yammer's right but not yet really but to
Micah's point that's just like one of
several important differences in
question wording it may be important
whether the question says because of
Ukraine do you support impeachment you
know it may be important like Micah said
about whether it mentions removal or not
you know so ordinarily with like a
brutal rating polling or horse race
polling there are differences because of
house affects some pollsters are
systematically lean one way the other
here you have that but on top of that
you have differences in question wording
that could be quite pertinent so but I
don't want to obscure that I I think I
don't know guys I mean I feel like a
little bit like let's not obscure the
top line which is these numbers have
shifted in a her bringing in a way
that's not very nice for President Trump
and do we know who those voters or
respondents are who have changed their
minds from say 36 to you know an
increase in 10 points in support for
either impeachment or an impeachment
inquiry it's really it's it's really
sorry night it's really correct me if
I'm wrong here but it's really across
the board I took all the data we have
threw it into one bucket and just
ignored the question wording problem for
a second which which maybe that
undermines this whole thing but if you
do that and you and you separate the
results out by among Republicans among
Democrats among independents and just
take like a simple moving average what
you see is all three groups support for
impeachment increases by anywhere from
like 10 to 15 points now do I think
that's real I kind of make sense right
Nate like normally when you see a
movement you do see movement kind of
across the board yeah I probably should
have actually done that myself and gone
through all the polls my impression was
that kind of the first polls that came
out show my movement among Democrats
yeah and then the later polls showed a
little bit more even-handed between
Democrats independents and to some
extent even Republicans because there
are cute things here I mean I you know I
think there are arguments to be had
about like how much of this is because
as Democratic leaders finally came out
for impeachment versus the news itself
those things are hard to separate I
leaned into the ladder more I think it's
probably more different other news
itself but you definitely have some
effects from both and so you know but
look you had four don't they kind of
compound each other in a way like you
now have Nancy Pelosi whenever she's
speaking to the country is reiterating
things that are in all of these news
reports right yeah that's the
hypothetical right it's not like Pelosi
suddenly said okay we've reconsidered
all the elements from another report and
emoluments whatever else and now all of
a sudden we've decided that yeah the
case is really bad for impeachment she
was largely arguing about this new
evidence that has come out of a
different scandal I think can use the
term scandal fairly and so yeah at the
same time you know Democrats who have
been calling for attention for a long
time would say we laid the groundwork
and we were the leaders here and not
Pelosi and these kind of swinging
district representatives don't be a
debate you'll probably hear off and on
for a long time I'm not sure it's
actually important to what happens going
forward so much is like it's you know a
interesting question for polling geeks
and for for pundits and for people like
that but but you know but the numbers
are definitely moving and again it seems
like a little bit like you saw it more
initially brewing Democrats and then
it's evened out among among all group
yeah and I would I mean this is really
what you would expect to happen right
like impeachment for a very long time
was an issue that unified Republicans
divided Democrats and independents were
sort of closer to Republicans than they
were to Democrats I think so far you've
seen at the very least Democrats become
more United United around the issue and
you've started to see it divide
Republicans a little bit more and
independents creep a little bit closer
to Democrats that to me though is sort
of from if you're a Democrat rooting for
impeachment that is the low-hanging
fruit really I think in in
in the country today given how partisan
politics are if you have the entire
party coming out for something then the
voters to that party are gonna are gonna
reality behind it so to me it's like
okay we see Democrats rally behind
impeachment what happens over the next
several weeks and months among
independents and Republicans Ken
Democrats successfully prosecute that
case where independents move closer and
closer to the democratic point of view
and it divides Republicans more and more
where is the level that Democrats would
need to get public opinion to in order
to like confidently move forward with
actually impeaching the president and of
course this is probably not something
that we can answer scientifically at
this point but maybe use this as a
benchmark right 53 percent of Americans
disapprove of the job that Trump is
doing can Democrats kind of would that
be enough if 53 percent of Americans
supported impeachment the number of
people who disapprove of Trump's job
overall would that give Democrats
basically the go-ahead so at this point
they're not reacting to public opinion
polling they're just kind of course they
are of course they are right and if you
look at Nancy Pelosi as various for mark
she kind of said this is not political
but then later on she said in a private
meeting with the caucus like hey you
know the polls have moved on this but I
think look if you have read or listened
to me on impeachment you know I thought
that the risks were downside weighted
for Democrats for impeaching on Muller
you know there is a huge amount of
uncertainty and that uncertainty ranges
all the way from specifically it
backfiring on Democrats to Trump
actually being removed from office if
you're not considering either those as
like non crazy possibilities then I
think you're over competent because
there is a process that is quite dynamic
and can be quite chaotic and so the
range of outcomes is very wide I guess I
don't think it's particularly downside
weighted anymore for Democrats right I
think there are scenarios where
so poorly for them stairs where it works
out well but like but like but you don't
think that you don't think for example
that moving forward with actually
impeaching President Trump is dependent
on getting a majority of Americans
behind impeachment at this point they're
just moving forward the only way is if
if the story ripens in a way for
Democrats that that like I mean I think
you need like a couple of things to
happen right you need some kind of
complication comes up right some type of
complication where maybe there is some I
don't know maybe there is some conduct
with Hunter Biden or something right or
the whistleblower is in some way
discredited although then of course you
still have the phone call but maybe the
whistleblower being discredited throws
enough kind of smoke into the situation
don't have any defenses whatsoever and
so I'm not sure that their position
won't get worse
what other than what happened is okay is
okay other than saying that either I
mean they're sort of saying that sort of
not and like they really aren't very
well collected as far as any tough
targets they're making their defense and
Trump I think is obviously not behaving
the way you would advise someone to
behave if he were really under threat of
impeachment so so I don't know but you
know but inherently unpredictable
you know what element is Democrats will
have to decide whether to have the
people focus narrowly on Ukraine or
incorporating a broader range of topics
I think policies instinct is most in
Ukraine I think the swing district
Democrats also mostly Ukraine I think
it's kind of a safer play but but who
knows I mean you know is it impossible
to imagine in a volatile news
environment Democrats in Congress
growing things up no it's not hard to
know that's that's that season but but
like to give people sands okay so like
the prototypical example or like
cautionary tale that I think Pelosi has
been really abiding by until very
recently was the Clinton impeachment
backfiring on Republicans in 98 right
but if you look at polls from from
around that time the 98 midterm
elections opposition to
Pietschmann was was in like the 60s mid
60's approaching 70% couple polls showed
like seven up above 70% so in that sense
already if the early polling post
Ukraine holds Democrats are already in a
better position public opinion wise then
Republicans were with the Clinton
impeachment in 98 now are they where
Democrats were with the Nixon
impeachment when Nixon resigned no where
was he support for impeaching Nixon at
the very end was I mean at the very very
end it was above 60% it was like high
50s into into the 60s but even a little
before then you know it had sort of
clear majority support so I think I
think I think it's to what Nate said or
what Nate said earlier which is very
true which is the movement we've seen
among the public over the last week is
super significant if it holds I mean
we'll see you know as nature said maybe
Democrats screwed up essentially there's
high unpredictability when it comes to
the outcome of this impeachment inquiry
and given that I was looking at the
betting markets this morning and it
really does seem like people are betting
on all kinds of different outcomes in
this impeachment inquiry can you give us
some background Nate on kind of where
the the betting markets are and what
kind of outcomes people are considering
so when I checked it this morning let me
check it right now as we speak so it's
about same where it has been so predict
it which we often cite on this program
and sometimes roll our eyes that a
little bit because I think prediction
markets are not as smart as people who
do them think but they're probably
better than Nick and conventional wisdom
has about a 77 0 percent chance of Trump
being impeached not necessarily removed
from office obviously what about what
about removed from office well they have
like a 15 ish percent chance that Trump
will not finish
his first term obviously there multiple
scenarios there are scenarios involving
him resigning like Nixon did there are
scenarios involving the 25th amendment
bring capacitation for the record I
believe predicted does not consider
scenarios where the president actually
dies so it's not part of that 85% the
bet is off in that case so you know um I
don't know I don't think that number is
crazy and I'm someone who probably
during the Muller report where that
never was that 50% whatever do you think
it was kind of often much higher than
15% actually do you think it was kind of
crazy you know it's a dynamic process
and Republicans you've already seen some
Republican defections it yeah Adam kids
enjoy which is account or who is a
congressman from Illinois Republican
from a fairly conservative Romney crunk
district came out and said it was
disgusting that the president is a
milking the idea of civil conflict
depending on how the impeachment
proceeding goes you know I so I don't
know you've seen retired members like
Jeff Flake support impeachment you've
seen Romney a little bit but like the
thing is like well Tom Bossert to Nate
Trump's former homeland security adviser
came out and said like man this ain't so
great
sorry Nate Keep Calm you the thing is
like the Republican defenses so far have
been so feeble that I do just wonder
like what's gonna be like for these
folks when they have to like defend the
president's conduct for months and
months and months at a time right this
is by the way why I think you know on
Muller and every other cost for
impeachment so far the evidence was
ambiguous enough where where you could
have talking points that were sometimes
wrong maybe completely wrong but like
but we're gonna sound ridiculous we're
gonna make you sound like an idiot if
you had to say to my national TV I'm
sorry I'm gonna be we strive for candor
on this show Kevin McCarthy on 60
minutes last night
sounded like an idiot
yeah talking about Trump's conduct
toward Ukraine you sounded like an idiot
coming out bum well she doesn't have any
arguments to make I also did the guy ate
my question goes out but when we were
talking about the Muller investigation
it was always about trying to determine
whether or not there was an actual crime
right and at this point they still have
not established whether or not there was
an actual crime is it going to come back
to that in this impeachment inquiry
deciding yeah no wait no no I got so one
in the Russian investigation there was a
special council investigating things so
it was about a crime they were looking
for a crime with Ukraine crime doesn't
really come into it right well I mean it
could if Republicans try to frame it
that way for example if if they want to
frame it as like okay you have to show
criminal wrongdoing on the president's
part to impeach them they could try that
sure you know that might even work I
think that is kind of mixed up in how
Americans think about it but the
difference in Ukraine is crime or no
there's a there there that's already
been established right president Trump
pressured the Ukrainian president to
interfere in a u.s. election that is
beyond dispute now the White House
itself released a call summary showing
that we never got to that point in the
Russian investigation where Trump
himself was directly implicated in a
they're there right so we're kind of
well beyond where where Russia was right
I think right am i wrong exactly sure
and like you know abuse of presidential
to power it doesn't necessarily have to
be a legal crime and per se and by the
way when by the way you might discover a
good broker later on there is much more
evidence coming out presumably but you
know but third of all like two
Republicans really want to be saying
that yeah what Trump did was really bad
and it's not technically a crime
therefore you shouldn't impeach I mean
potentially if that's the best argument
potentially right no they might they may
I think they could make that argument in
and actually maybe I think there's more
of a chance of it succeeding than the
you do I I think I think the American
public has long been confused about what
is necessary to be impeached I mean the
Constitution is sort of confusing about
what's necessary yeah high crimes and
misdemeanors what are high crimes and
misdemeanors well that's up for comment
inside he's running for reelection yeah
he's running for reelection is a big
problem and also everything the
president has done since whenever the
tipping point the story is called
Wednesday whatever has made him look
like he has problems to conceal right I
mean it's it's you know yeah if you were
advising the GOP then I don't know I
don't know you because he's ranked
re-election sweetened her why might not
matter as much but like what about the
fact that he's running for re-election
changes the game here and would make
Republicans not want to say like hey
just as we talked about in the Muller
investigation this is a question of
whether or not a crime was committed
you can disapprove of the behavior in
fact all kinds of different people have
disapproved of all kinds of different
behavior throughout Trump's presidency
including you know well-known
Republicans but it's not a crime and
that's what we reserve impeachment for
look because probably will be the
Republican nominee will be on the ballot
next November I say probably I wasn't
saying probably before but you need that
probably now I feel like I'll come back
from vacation I'm witnessing like a
whole new Nate Silver you know it's it
the facts have changed like okay so two
point well one point remember all there
during the Russia investigation one is
over the course this podcast for example
I think we talked about the Russian
investigation really sporadically right
on this podcast we had Muller talk but
yeah I mean it was when there was a
hearing when a new piece of evidence
came out those big news right we have
already with Ukraine I think had like
ten segments on this you know that's an
exaggeration the point is that we were
very cautious on the Russia
investigation to sort of not get ahead
of the story right and that meant not
talking about it endlessly only talking
about it when there was something new or
to use another
the way to explain this remember the
game we played with the Russian
investigation smoke first fire yeah
there's we would never play that with
this there is no smoke first fire here
because wait Nate do you agree with that
yeah the transcript at the White House
released
I still think people are are they sort
of like I don't know it's like your ears
are blown out and you can't kind of hear
the fluctuations in volume I was not
right no it happened really fast
but like the transcript that White House
released was like the kind of evidence
that Democrats were dreaming of in the
Russians yeah Muller and the White House
released it it was freakin crazy it was
like one of the craziest incidents no
that okay sub in zalenski and Ukraine
with Putin and Russia and how would this
have played during the Russia
investigation the answer is it would
have been the smoking gun in the Russian
investigation so I look impeachment is a
political exercise right by design the
framers did not give the power to
impeach to the judicial branch they gave
it to the people's elected
representatives in Congress right so
sort of like all of this is politics and
all of it is politics by design the fact
that this happened so quickly I do
wonder about how that will affect the
politics of everything you said that if
it happened right after he was
inaugurated he probably wouldn't have
been impeached so what about this moment
in time are you saying has shifted the
body politic so much I just say that to
explain that like the facts the facts of
the case matter here a lot and I think
we see evidence of that in the polls but
so does the context like if if a
president has just been inaugurated
I think there's you're gonna have a
harder time impeaching him right it just
kind of makes make sense with this you
know the fact that all this is happening
just as 2020 is heating up and just as
the Russian investigation died down I
mean this call literally happened the
day after Muller testified which was
like that kind of informal cap on the on
the Russian investigation I'm not sure
how I'm just not sure how that affects
the politics of everything like so far
we've seen the public I think treat
Ukraine as separate and and and public
opinion has been different on Ukraine
then it wasn't Russia but I still am
like trying to sort out how everything
is is affected by the by the context in
which this is happening yeah I mean a
lot of things are calibrated relative to
expectations quote unquote and look the
fact is it like Muller did not deliver
relative to Democrats hopes for how he
would deliver
he also not exonerate the president it's
very important to say right but like but
that's important I mean at the other day
the most important part is just like
there is like proof admitted to by the
White House of this right if some
emoluments scandal right if some like
charging rooms to foreign leaders at
Trump Hotel in exchange for favors or
some kind of another if there were
transcripts released by the White House
that showed that I think Rob would also
be in quite a bit of trouble depending
on the context right but it's like it's
like you know I think I get into
arguments with like kind of resistancy
folks sometimes and it's like but like
well there's also other really bad stuff
well the plot right it's like but here
there's proof and there's proof that
like the White House itself released and
that's just so much more important
because like you know because you can't
prove it as that is the first defense
right and the kind of second defense is
like well there was a cover-up of the
underlying crime you can't say that you
can't say oh the President himself
wasn't involved you can't say that like
the three or four best defenses are all
removed and like all of a sudden if
you're left with the fifth and sixth and
seventh best defenses then well you're
kind of in trouble and so before we wrap
up on this and I do want to come back to
the polling a little bit you were saying
there's proof and so what there is proof
of is that as we've said here president
Trump pressured the president of Ukraine
zalenski to interfere in the election by
and
negating the Biden's do we know outside
of impeachment altogether what and so
not debating whether or not that's a
crime
taking that factor out of the equation
how do Americans feel about that
behavior I think the answer is one you
you kind of can't take the context out
of this you can't take impeachment out
of this I think that informs public
opinion so it's not like we can conduct
an experiment didn't it you know and
isolated by Fedak right a president that
said our colleagues at ABC News and a
post asked this question of just like
how serious a problem is it that
President Trump encouraged the Ukrainian
president to investigate Joe Biden and
his son Hunter 43% said very serious 21%
said somewhat serious so that 64% of
Americans think it's serious to some
degree 19% said not so serious 17% said
not serious at all
so that's 26 36 percent on the lot so
serious so that kind of gets at whether
or not this because framed as was it a
crime or not
Americans have already said they don't
like this behavior no they say it's
serious and to me the standout number
there is 21% say somewhat serious the
context of this Nate has made this point
before the context of all this and will
inform public opinion on on impeachment
and I think the big question we don't
know is how will the approaching 2020
election affect how Americans view
impeaching Trump and or removing Trump
from office by the way and vice versa
which maybe we won't talk about today
but how and those are huge question
marks right now I think is how does the
election in fact impeachment and how
does the impeachment affect the election
but let's say Trump's already goes up to
44 from 42 and a half is that a win for
Democrats I don't know in a narrow sense
obviously could go down as well but like
but keep that approval number in mind
also is we published an article on the
website today basically saying
that when really big news events
happened sometimes it's caused to be
skeptical of initial polling now is this
one of those cases and why exactly
should we be skeptical of initial
polling you know this is probably a
methodological debate that like there's
a little beyond the scope of today right
like if the average polling analyst
thinks this problem is like a seven out
of ten I'm more like it's a four point
two out of ten or something I think it
can be like a little headline waiting
wait the problem of the sampling problem
not the Ukraine problem the sampling
problem but but it is a reason to be
distrustful of polls as there are other
reasons too that are taking in the
middle of a news event as opposed to
like when things have settled down I
mean I know like whenever you're in a
news storm like this it feels like oh
it's getting crazier and crazier
inevitably things will calm down I think
you were doubting yourself like
mid-sentence there no but so I look I'm
not like a polling expert so so I I
don't know the methodology the
methodology chol parts of this that well
but mark Blumenthal who writes at
mystery pollster wrote this for us today
and it's super interesting it's the idea
is basically like when news stories get
real real real big they they can like
break polling in biasing who responds to
polls themselves and in biasing that
that response and completion rate in
ways that pollsters aren't accounting
for so in this situation it would be
something like Democrats are so excited
about their newfound position that they
want to impeach the president that when
a pollster calls Democrats are much more
likely to answer the questions and
complete the entire poll than
Republicans who are like that's exactly
right but what I would say is look
pollsters are really smart this is a
reason to treat the first few or early
polls with caution but honestly you
should have been doing that anyway so
this is not a reason I repeat not a
reason to distrust all polling
or to even be extra skeptical of all
polling or most polls or some polls this
is just a reason to like wait for a
little more data be a little extra
cautious we'll be right back with the
538 politics podcast on ABC News live
we're gonna discuss the latest polling
out of the Democratic primary and
whether or not Elizabeth Warren is now
the front-runner and we're back with the
538 politics podcast on ABC News live
based on some new national and early
State polling some commentators and
outlets are starting to describe
Elizabeth Warren as the front-runner in
the Democratic primary so is it fair to
call her that at this point in the race
let's discuss on last Monday's podcast
you all discussed the latest high
quality polling out of Iowa which showed
Warren and Biden essentially tied Warren
was leading by two points within the
margin of error since then a number of
good polls have come out for Warren
showing her leading by a slim margin
both nationally and in other early
states various outlets and commentators
are now characterizing Elizabeth Warren
as the front-runner or at least posing
that question so count us in on that
list of outlets that's at least posing
the question Nate and Micah is Elizabeth
Warren as of September 30th the
Democratic frontrunner is she ahead in
national polls no and to be honest is in
some national polls there is a lot of
cherry-picking people are really excited
about the Elizabeth Warren's ahead and
nationally narrative it probably clicks
better then the Biden's ahead story it
probably gets better ratings on MSNBC
she's not yet ahead in national polls
she might be the front-runner based on
her polls in Iowa and New Hampshire
which more often than not have shown her
ahead of Biden at least half the time we
have been a ton of polls with him with
three polls in Iowa I believe and two of
them showed more in ahead of Biden one
shift Biden ahead
we've had one poll of New Hampshire go
and I stuffed my head again that showed
Warren ahead we've seen one or two polls
South Carolina had Biden's still
accompli ahead and conflicting results
in Nevada I think we saw one poll in
Nevada showed like Warren and Biden type
and what Paul shouldn't Bernie and Biden
tied clearly there's like a lot of good
news for Warren in those early state
polls also a fair amount of good news
for Biden still the Siena pulls ahead
this week in the head by winning South
Carolina and tied to lead with Bernie in
Nevada are pretty good polls for Biden
the Nevada poll is good for Bernie also
he has had very few good polls otherwise
in the early States but like but yeah
look I think um I think he always wanted
like a kind of the long-term average of
polls and I think you know depending on
how you wait state polls depend on how
much you kind of buying like the more
gut feeling kind of subjective stuff
that Biden is is not the task that
impeachment play there Warren's benefit
that she has momentum right it's
perfectly reasonable to argue that she
is the most likely nominee would you
argue about I don't know you know man I
don't know well here maybe
here's another okay here's another
here's another way to ask this is like
what would it take data wise for us to
see to say okay now Warren is the clear
front-runner because for me it's like
you know one of those CNN polls to CNN
poll out of South Carolina for example
showed Warren I think it was at like 3%
among black voters to me that number has
to come up if if I mean ken Warren win
the nomination without any meaningful
block support I guess it's numerically
possible right but it just seems a
little far-fetched
and then also I would just want to see
to Nate's point about it's only been a
few polls I want to see more polls out
of Iowa New Hampshire Nevada and and
South Carolina
showing Warren leading you know it's
just did there's clearly been a lot of
good news for Warren she's clearly been
on an upward trajectory and I think
there's a real you could have a real
argument now about is the best way to
describe it as like you know Co front
cold front runners or whatever something
like that but but you just you just want
to see more of this before you you kind
of good and that's like look Warren's
upward trajectory has been slow and
gradual and and in that sense that
distinguishes her from blue to judge for
example Harris for example then going to
other campaigns you know that
distinguishes her from like the Herman
Cain surge and decline the the Michele
Bachmann surgeon they decline do we
think like do we know empirically that
rising gradually means you can't
collapse suddenly I don't think so um
empirically it's what we would call like
a random walk more or less which is that
like the number you're at today is more
or less until you predict yourself to be
at at period of time in X number of days
with warrants obviously been very steady
I mean she we are starting to get to the
point now there's like not a lot of low
hanging fruit to pick off right so all
kids except for the top three are now
down around three or four percent you
know I'm not sure that the 3% that are
with Andrew Yang or the 4% or 5% okikuta
Touch are going to leave you at this
point right
Kamala Harris is the one who seem to be
most up and down is really far down now
where Bernie has around 15 percent 60
percent national polls if you look at
the most attentive voters early state
policies in the the low teens maybe
there's a few more points there for the
Warren but like not a lot it's a think
that we're remaining Sanders supporters
are a pretty Pro Sanders group so gets a
little bit harder and maybe now Warren
has to take from from Biden I mean by
the way like when you talk about
Pietschmann for the first half hour of
this show you kind of make it see it
kind of seems like we're talking about
these relatively minor polling shifts
it's been a fairly static primary and I
think in some ways maybe impeach we
could make it more static maybe because
of this is there like this news cycles
devoted
devoted to the primary I mean that means
if you're anybody except Warren or Biden
or maybe Bernie I'm not sure that's good
news for you if I am Buddha Church and I
want a surge and we're talking about
stuff that's not really my wheelhouse
and half the news cycles that would be
devoted to you know all of a sudden I
get a good poll in Iowa well you know
what actually the president being
impeached is a more interesting story
even for 538 then but it's just getting
12 percent in some Iowa poll and so like
I think there might not be as much
opportunities for these front of media
fueled searches outside the top two and
a half let's call it up until this point
that's interesting right that the media
oxygen is going to be spent on
impeachment and that means that the poll
numbers that we have now may be likely
to kind of remain where they I mean will
of course I will see what happens yeah
that looked at as I said before I think
if Meech impeachment is like a huge
bucket of uncertainty dumped into the
primary race the effect maybe is what
Nate described which is like it kind of
has this stall defying effect on other
would be change factors in the race that
was a very weird way to describe that
but but I don't think we know I think it
could be do we have any sense at this
point how this is all affecting Biden
the fact that it was Trump pushing for
an investigation of the Biden's in
Ukraine I think it's too early we say
there hasn't really been they were not
super many high quality polls of the
Democratic primary that came out late
last week which is what you want to see
there's the usual I think Paris X does
tracking for Scott Rasmussen calm not to
be confused with Rasmussen Reports
as in Scott Rasmussen Donna's more
credible well I think that yeah I think
he was one of the good things about
Rasmussen Reports and they're very few
remaining good things about restaurants
and reports anymore
but they are doing one good thing about
them as they are doing with Harris
Interactive
or Harris exits now Brandon daily polls
and those didn't really seem to show
much of a shift late last week they had
Biden 33 I mean these polls actually are
a few days on a date now but they hadn't
shown in the initial couple of days like
any movement for any of the camp baits
but but I don't know my initial instinct
was that like actions was going to be
fine for Biden in the primary maybe even
good because never had to come to his
defense the reasons I can't quite
articulate my instinct is that it's it's
actually risky for him I think it's
changed because now you have a and of
the Biden campaign put out a letter to
the networks basically saying don't
invite Rudy Giuliani on but essentially
you have President Trump and his
surrogates like Giuliani going on the
news and talking about no this is really
a scandal about Biden and so that's of
course part of the risk I think that
you're talking about Nate yeah I mean
there are a couple of things here number
one is I'm not sure that the Biden
campaign is excited about going
off-script okay number two I think the
fact that Trump has so few defenses of
this conduct might lead him to say okay
the Biden stuff is really bad you know
Rudy Giuliani on that shows this weekend
was was spouting theories about Biden
that did not really seem very sound but
voters hear those there's a patina of
scandal or something and like Biden kind
of seems like he's a little gun-shy
about responding to it because they're
running a very risk-averse campaign what
Warren was the most vocal except for Tom
Steyer um early Democrat in favor of
impeachment the Biden folks don't want
to put him on the morning shows to
defend himself but just I don't know I
just have to change my mind on this and
I have no idea I can definitely see ways
where it helps Biden but I feel like
it's not a not a development the Biden
campaign would welcome let me let me
outline another potential scenario where
this hurts Biden a lot of Biden support
and in fact a lot of Biden's
pitch to voters is about
beating Trump right and hey I'm the best
person to be Trump I I do better than
everyone else in general election polls
against him Trump is a huge danger and
we just need to beat him and then we'll
worry about like our big policy goals
later right to the extent that the
Ukraine scandal weakens Trump if that
happens if that happened it also weakens
Biden's argument right because if all of
a sudden Trump support is that trumps
approval rating is at 38% instead of 42%
then you know I'm not gonna say anybody
can be them but it's much easier to beat
him you know and so I think you'd maybe
see you know if come February again
Trump support is at 38 percent approval
rating then I think Democratic voters
might might say to themselves
screw it this guy's this guy's weekend
let's go for Warren let's go for Bernie
you know we don't really have to play it
safe here this this person is in a
really rough position like biting on the
policy
I think people miss that that's true
yeah yeah absolutely
yeah all right but it does have this
electability argument it makes it more
complicated right
oh no I mean I just think kind of his
there ways to his benefit like I said I
don't think his campaign is quite
figured out what to say by their nose
you know if a poll came out tomorrow
inviting up to 34 percent or something
you know wouldn't like shock me he
hasn't fallen that far by the way right
people like really need to like actually
look at average ha's and and yeah this
is worth mentioning here which is Warren
didn't take a lot of her support from
Biden who did Warren get her support
from it's really Harris right and Bernie
how are some Bernie years and in the
early states where where Bernie's
numbers are down at 11:00 or something
happen you can explain how he's down at
11:00 in these white liberal states
without Warren having taken some of that
support job and kind of wrapping up here
on the topic of Warren since we asked if
she is the front-runner is this the
moment at which you would expect
if there's gonna be a kind of anyone but
Warren or push from the establishment or
more kind of like corporate aligned
members of the Democratic Party it would
be now I mean do is this the point in
the race where you see a switch in terms
of who people are focusing on when they
think about the front-runner that they
need to overtake or the person that they
need to prevent from winning the
nomination I don't think we've seen that
because even like my RIA I mean I think
I think people still think Abidin as the
front-runner are there are there people
are there people out there are their
interests out there who are like really
worried about Warren now in the
Democratic Party well I guess what I'm
reacting a little bit to this CNBC
report actually that the headline reads
Wall Street Democratic donors warned the
party will sit out or back Trump if you
nominate Elizabeth Warren and of course
they're working with anonymous sources
but you know this is war and we start to
loved it right yeah yeah what do you
think there are there are a whole number
of consequences that could result from
Warren now being perceived as the
front-runner
if she were to be perceived as the
front-runner which I think she yeah I
mean if you can follow the dialogue
among like national pundits right I
think they're not I mean they're
predicting did Biden's demise for months
and I think I'm not looking at like you
know the South Carolina polls you see a
nipple this weekend that were good for
Biden South Carolina Nevada I got very
barely any attention because I didn't
match the more a narrative when they
were just merely okay polls for her
although again if I'm worried and I'm
like I'm like okay actually I don't mind
that this impeachment thing is happening
right when you could imagine the
narrative turning a little bit and
toward more scrutiny of her yeah but
Kenny we're gonna say what the risks
were Nate about being perceived as the
front-runner what are they the risks are
that other candidates go after you more
recent a little bit from the Sanders
campaign or their kind of trial and some
attack some Warren
you know Biden has not really gone after
Warren much I
Paris isn't really going after more and
much so that could change the media
could get worse kepta call and say let's
re-examine Pocahontas let's find some
other scandal but serious or not you
haven't thought about yet right
expectations will be higher for her
fundraising number voters in Iowa might
feel a little frisky cuz they'd like to
be I don't know contrarian and might
similar what about footage at your club
a char might've filling a little Randy
he'd rather be rising and falling but
like but we know enough to know that
like there was a point in this new cycle
long ago in the winter where Warren
Prescott was very negative and so these
things can shift no and maybe that's a
good point from Nate that maybe now
impeachment sort of like takes the place
of what would have been a skeptical
cycle of news coverage for Warren can I
just say though we were citing predicted
earlier and I'm normally not the one
that that is wrong say that predict it
but I just pushed back on the idea that
Warren is perceived as the frontrunner
but I'm predicted the odds implied by
the prices there I think give Warren a
49 percent chance of winning the
Democratic nomination to Biden's 21
percent am I reading that right Nate
that seems bonkers yeah so as of as of
about noon on Monday Warren's worn a
stock and Warren is selling at 49 cents
stock and Biden at 20 cents that's crazy
by the way third and tied for third and
fourth are Bernie Sanders and Andrew
yang tied for fourth and fifth are
Hillary Clinton and people who judge
what this is the moment in the podcast
where we point out that part of the
reason we joke about the people behind
predicta and Betfair being Scottish
teenagers is because they're not always
reliable no but look who knows who knows
what will happen you know although I
think empirically based while looking at
historical polling somebody at Elizabeth
Warren's polling levels right now
does not have a 49 percent chance of
winning the Democratic nomination so I
feel like we're kind of in a spot that
like is always difficult
for us if we're talking from
probabilities which is like look I think
Biden plainly has more than a 20 percent
chance to win the nomination I also
think it's considerably under 50% yeah
okay so if I think it's thirty five or
thirty and the conventional wisdom says
20 I'm gonna be wrong most the time
because that is a very big gap given
where they are respectively know by 538
terms as Claire mentioned on a previous
podcast you know normally we're like
actually the odds are 12.5 percent not
10% you know 35 percent verse twenty
percent that's a huge gap all right well
I think we're gonna leave it there for
now as we already mentioned we may end
up well we will see you later this week
but whether or not it's an emergency you
cranium podcast is yet to be seen
you cranium anyway Micah thank you Nate
thank you get back to whatever you're
doing on the road my name is Galen drew
tony chao is in the control room our
intern is jay carlo you can get in touch
by emailing us at podcasts at five
thirty eight.com you can also of course
tweet at us with questions or comments
if you're a fan of the show leave us a
rating or review in the podcast door of
your choosing or tell someone about us
thanks for listening and we'll see you
soon hey folks i predict that you're
gonna either subscribe to our youtube
channel or watch some related videos or
both you can do both but you can't do
neither so either subscribe or watch
more videos
