the New England Patriots are accustomed
to winning in the playoffs and this
weekend our a low ratings give them a
58% chance of beating the LA chargers
however that's actually kind of low by
their standards that's the second lowest
pregame probability they've had in a
home playoff game since 2001 and one of
the big reasons why is that the Chargers
might actually be a better team than Tom
Brady Bill Belichick and the packs for
starters the Chargers had the better
record than the Patriots this year and
they also had many more players named to
the Pro Bowl and if you look around at
the various statistical power ratings
for the league it's kind of hard to find
ones where the patch rank higher than
the Chargers la comes out ahead whether
you look at ESPN's football power index
Football Outsiders D boa Rankings our
own a low ratings
Jeff's Agron's ratings or even sports
references simple rating system in fact
one of the only statistical categories
where the Patriots might have the edge
is at quarterback where Tom Brady had a
slightly better total qvr of this season
than LA's Philip Rivers that said the
Chargers still have a lot of work cut
out for them because they'll be
traveling to Foxborough where the
Patriots didn't lose all season haven't
lost any game in 470 days and it's been
more than 2000 days since the Patriots
lost a home playoff game there's a lot
of reasons to think each team could win
which I think makes this the most
interesting game of the divisional round
elsewhere and playoff action yellow
thinks the Chiefs will beat the Colts it
likes the Rams to beat the Cowboys and
it thinks the Saints will knock off the
defending Super Bowl champion Eagles for
more predictions and analysis please be
sure to check out fivethirtyeight.com
you
