[Music]
after a couple months off the Champions
League is back which means we are due
for a lot of high-class European soccer
this week there are 16 teams remaining
and 14 of them were favored to make it
this far only to Lyon and iakhs
according to 5/3 projections had less
than a 50% chance of making it to the
round of 16 that means that this round
of 16 is wide open here's a chart of all
16 teams soccer power index ratings from
before the group stages started to where
they're at now as you can see Manchester
United Barcelona and last year's champs
Real Madrid have all dropped since the
group stages began and meanwhile
Dortmund and iyx have risen through the
ranks that leaves us with a pretty
unpredictable round of 16 in the
Champions League only one of the
pairings is really lopsided and that's
Manchester City versus Schalke man city
has a 91% chance of moving on from that
matchup into the quarterfinals you'd
expect for there to be similar lopsided
odds in a matchup like Barcelona versus
Lyon but Barcelona has a 79% chance not
nearly as high as Manchester City then
there are some map tips that our
forecast doesn't necessarily have a good
handle on take for example PSG vs
Manchester United PSG has a 75% chance
of winning and moving on to the
quarterfinals and the two matches versus
Manchester but the trick is that they're
missing two significant players that are
forecasted maybe doesn't know is missing
yet and that's Thomas Mooney a and
Edison Cavani and that's not to mention
that Neymar is also missing for PSG and
then there's a quartet of matches that
basically doesn't have a favorite or an
underdog take for example Dortmund vs.
Tottenham or Liverpool vs bayern munich
or you ventus vs atletico madrid and
then there's one match Roma vs. Porto
that's actually 5050 according to our
projections overall going into the round
of 16 our projections think that Man
City is the favorite to win the
Champions League a twenty-two percent
chance to do it that might be helped by
a weak draw but you know the lots are
the Lots
be sure to check 538 for the rest of
Champions League to see who's up and
who's down
in our projections
