Rams versus Patriots it's the Super Bowl
rematch you didn't realize you were
waiting 17 years for but before we get
to the particulars of this year's
matchup let's take a look at how each of
these teams got here for the Patriots
they started the year in a pretty
familiar spot there were number one in
our preseason ehlo ratings even though
they had lost the Super Bowl the
previous February but it was a little
dicey at times for the Pats this year
for starters in the third game of the
season they lost on the road to the
lowly Detroit Lions and even though they
rattled off six straight wins after that
they still had their struggles on the
road they lost to the Tennessee Titans
the Miami Dolphins and the Pittsburgh
Steelers none of whom ended up making
the playoffs but the Patriots rallied
back from that like they usually do
winning at home over the Chargers with
ease in the playoffs and then eking out
a close over time when at Kansas City to
secure their spot in the Super Bowl
that said they're a low rating at the
end of the season is the lowest it's
been going into a Super Bowl since 2001
when they knocked off the heavily
favored Rams speaking of the Rams the 20
18/19 Rams they were not as highly
regarded going into the season according
to E low which still had its doubts
after last year's meteoric rise for
Jared Goff Shaun McBaine company but the
Rams proved Ehlo wrong at first winning
each of their first eight games and
eventually running the record up to 11
and 1 the only loss being against the
Saints in the Superdome and although
they split their last four regular
season games they went into playoffs and
beat the Dallas Cowboys and also managed
to win their conference championship
game in overtime with a little bit of an
assist from some questionable
officiating and that's how we got here
but what should we expect on the field
in Atlanta when the game finally starts
as you can see in this chart both teams
have elite offenses according to ESPN's
expected points added the Rams ranked
third in the league this season an
offensive EPA and the Patriots not far
behind them at fifth and although both
teams have a reputation for being great
passing squads with Tom Brady and Jared
Goff the Rams were actually the best
rushing team in the entire NFL this
season both thanks to Gurley and also
the unsung playoff efforts of CJ
Anderson on defense the Patriots are a
ten unit which hasn't been true in
recent years and they're especially
tough against the past where they ranked
six than expected points the Rams on the
other hand not quite as sharp
defensively and in fact they were only
the 20th best team in the league against
Russia's having said all that our ela
model gives the Patriots a 53% chance to
win and that's pretty much in line with
what the Vegas odds say to where they
have the Patriots as a two and a half
point favorite to check out all of our
predictions and analysis and to follow
along during the game with our live blog
please check out fivethirtyeight.com
