we asked 538 nate silver if he buys the
president's claim that impeachment will
energize his base and make reelection
more likely so sure I buy that
impeachment will help Trump with his
base in fact there are already some
signs the base will have comes back sign
number one enthusiastic support for
Trump may be increasing even while
overall support remains low in
Quinnipiac poll this week for example 35
percent of voters strongly supported
Trump that's up from 27 percent in their
poll before the Ukraine story broke sign
number two people are voting with their
wallets Trump's campaign says it and the
RNC raised 13 million in the 36 hours
after Filosa announced her support for
an impeachment inquiry that was the
cherry on top of 125 million dollar
fundraising haul for Trump in the third
quarter here's the thing though Trump's
pace alone has never been enough to get
him elected he also needs at least some
swing voters back in 2016 Trump won
independence by four points he won more
undecided voters especially in the
Midwest
he won voters who dislike both him and
Hillary Clinton by a wide margin those
are the things that pushed him over the
top in the electoral college but so far
among swing voters Trump's impeachment
strategy does not seem to be going all
that great
Trump's overall approval rating has
fallen slightly in 530 it's tracking
from 43 percent to 41 percent meanwhile
support for impeachment among
independent voters has risen from 34
percent to 41 percent according to our
polling average and just one more thing
there are still around five or ten
percent of voters who don't approve of
the president's overall performance but
also don't yet support impeaching him
and removing him from office it's those
voters and not just the Trump base
that'll be key to how impeachment plays
out and frankly to his re-election
prospects our thanks to Nate he's
tracking polling on impeachment at five
thirty eight.com
