Jermel results bot is anonymous creature
but here you are unmasked as the man
behind results but yes what is results
so results pot is a but that will post
to our live blog as ABC News projects
results so if the state Senate race is
projected a governor's race or a house
race results pot will report that on our
on our live blog there are a ton of
results that are gonna come in when
polls close so at 7 o'clock dozens of
states are gonna post is that results
bla bad thing gonna just hit us with a
ton of information right in one big
batch
it will batch the results so if a
senator or governor race is projected
then that will do it every minute and
House races it will summarize the
results every seven minutes and it also
does it does this work of telling us
which races are surprising and which are
not yes so results pot is an emotional
robot okay and it will if it finds that
a racist particularly surprising so
let's say we listed it as lean
democratic it will show a surprised
emoji and if we had listed it for
example as solid democratic and it goes
Republican then it will have an alarmed
emoji so it has a range of emotions
all right results pot will be on the
live vlog all night and you will go back
to your pocket now thank you
