[Music]
perhaps all the San Antonio Spurs needed
was time time to forget about the
players they've lost time for the new
players to learn and adjust just time as
a February fit the Spurs are sixth in
the Western Conference in nine games
above 500 but things didn't always look
this promising for the new look Spurs
they lost three potential Hall of Famers
in Kawhi Leonard Tony Parker and Manu
Ginobili over the summer and they lost
to Shante Murray the young defensive
star who tore his ACL during the
preseason before the season began 538
projections gave them just a 25% chance
of making the postseason and things only
got bleaker once the season started by
December 17 San Antonio was a 500 team
with just a 4% chance of making the
playoffs and on paper the Spurs were
just blah but it wasn't the offenses
fault San Antonio's defense was holding
it back ranking 24th in the league in
mid-december
but maybe the Spurs just needed time
after that rocky start since December
17th the Spurs have gone 17 and 8
they've gotten more offensive production
from their bench and they've been
world's better on defense nudging up to
15th in the league as a result only the
Bucks Warriors and Celtics have had a
better net rating than the Spurs in
these last two months now the Spurs
don't have just a 4% chance to make the
playoffs anymore the team has an 85
percent chance of making the postseason
right now they're projected to be a
seventh seed out west and it looks like
a safe bet that their 21-year playoff
streak will continue
