[Music]
oh my god
oh man okay alright thanks for doing
this like I said I pulled some quotes
from pre and post debate coverage and
various sporting events I'm gonna review
the post and I want you to tell me if
they are from sports or from the debates
all right the first one it's gonna be
like home alone 2 home alone one was
great home alone 2 was just as good if
not better that's politics I'm gonna go
with sports sports I'm gonna say sports
I'm gonna go with politics I think that
sports debates it's gonna be like home
alone - right oh : one was great
her two was just as good if not better
that's very I thought that would be like
about the second debate this is cruel
this is a cruel game wasn't noble into a
bad movie you're right
her personality she's a dog she'll mix
it up she's not afraid of that part of
the game debate I think that's politics
you people question please that is from
sports debates I'm gonna say politics
her personality she is a dog she will
mix it up she's not afraid of that part
of the game Sophie Cunningham what she's
a dog really great commentary these are
messing with my head because if someone
had called a woman a dog in the
political sphere I would have known
about it he has ability to take a
licking keep on taking take a bruising
keep on cruising that's great what's
gavin sports sports politics sports
politics sports and the fact that he has
demonstrated to this point as the
front-runner he has the ability to take
the lickin keep on ticking take a
bruising and keep on cruising what who
said that terrible oh no darn it damn
yeah no not terrible on your part just
like who would recommend
he got into the fight his team will be
happy that he showed up that he
responded that he fired that I feel like
you don't normally call staffers their
team could be a trick to be debate I say
sports sports got into the fight his
team will be happy that he showed up
that he responded that he fired back I
think his performance if you go over the
whole two hours
he's team what you are we talking about
the Democrats I think I actually watched
that live I'm getting hang this now Oh
call somebody staffers their team nasty
jab they're tagged in with a left hook
there that was it debate better zinger
debate that's gotta be politics right
nasty jab there Oh Magda but the left
hook there that was it
Oh so that was actually just what it was
not just a metaphor I'm overthinking
this damn ah I read everything as
metaphorical I love the guy I think he's
great
one thing I particularly love about him
I haven't heard a ton of people saying
because he's just super honest I don't
see how that could be sports
I'm gonna go sports that's from politics
that's gonna be debated
sports I know which sport but it's a
sport sports I love the guy I think he's
great
one thing I particularly love about him
I haven't heard a ton of people say he's
just super honest yeah people don't say
that have been politics because no one's
super honest Blanc turned in a
performance that reminded you why he's a
household name it has to be sports it's
either about Bernie Sanders or about
like sports
posix sports draymond Green sports what
he was a household name politics sports
sports sports came on like gangbusters
cory booker turned in a performance that
reminded you why he's a household name
well here was issue right like I'm not
sure cory booker is a household name
cory booker is a household name is he a
household name first of all cory booker
is not a household name
he's cory booker a --sold name is cory
booker a household name man easy I asked
this earnestly I have lost all
perspective but I'm not sure that Cory
Booker's outs full name is quick book or
a household name
I mean all right ok I want I want to
read you on now what guys find different
metaphors
