all right so it's time to talk about the
Celtics a little bit do you think
they're any better off with kimba or
would you have stuck with Kyrie
[Music]
eventually we're gonna consult our new
Raptor statistic that is well what does
that stand for again I'm told that it
stands for the robust algorithm using
player tracking and on off court result
but before we get the take from Raptor
you tell me why do you think Kyrie is
better than kimba generally speaking in
support of basketball when you've got
two guys that produce similarly you're
gonna take the one who's bigger and
taller and so I think that alone would
be the reason that I would take Kyrie
we've seen him have success where he can
take a team to the playoffs granted that
you know the Celtics were not world
beaters when he was in the playoffs with
them they made it to the Game seven of
Conference Finals without him but from
where I sit part of this conversation
were Tom about who's more valuable who's
the better player if we're talking about
two guys that are both joining new teams
now I would rather have the guy that's
done it with another team and so the
guy's been with one team his whole
career and now has to kind of find his
way with the new group of teammates and
Kyrie did it that first year with Boston
he had pretty much the best numbers of
his career his wind shear for 48 minutes
were the highest of his career that
season and so we didn't have a whole lot
of problems playing with new teammates
playing with younger guys that were new
that team again assuming he's not pain
in the butt to the teammates that he has
now like he was last year big assumption
I would I would put my money on Kyrie
being a little bit better yeah that's a
good point I mean even in that Celtics
season you talked about he just sort of
came in and that was like his team right
instantaneously whereas you know we've
seen kimba lead a Charlotte team
basically not really anywhere you know
so far and now he's gonna be in the
pressure cooker of Boston but you know
in kimba's defense he's coming off a
season where higher scoring rate per 100
possessions slightly over Kyrie more
prolific three-point shooter and the
team played better when he was on the
court even on that Hornets team
efficiency margin was about six and a
half points per 100 possessions better
with Kimbo on the court than without him
celtic for only 2.8 points per 100
possessions with Kyrie on the court then
off you know so I would be curious to
see whether Kimba is able to come in and
sort of also do a little bit of a
turnaround for the Celtics because they
seem like a team that's primed for maybe
a bounce-back year
ya know we'll see I mean I could kind of
see it going either way I just keep
thinking about Kimba and its Kanter
trying to defend pick and rolls
whatever whatever Kimba has as far as is
on off and stuff like that it's just
gonna get torched this year with who
he's got another that pick and roll
defense tandem but we'll see well the
good news though is that our new Raptor
metric takes into account who you're on
the court with when when kind of
adjusting for things and adjust for a
lot of other factors as well so let's
bring in the Raptor to decide who did
you have oh wow hey hey hey can you do
that yeah I think that I'm gonna call
you on that because this says that Kemba
Walker will be worth ten point seven
wins Above Replacement next season and
that Kyrene will be worth oh ten point
seven wins next season okay fine fine
fine they're very close to each other
but I'm gonna use last year as a
tiebreaker
kimba's raptor plus - last year was plus
five point seven while Kyrie only had a
plus five point five points per 100
possession I win I don't trust a raptor
to be able to type in algorithms into a
computer but those fingers everybody
study then whatever so be it
[Music]
