by now you've probably seen the shot
that tied the NBA Finals for the Golden
State Warriors when Andre Iguodala
calmly knocked down a three with nine
seconds left effectively sealing the
game and stealing back home court
advantage for Golden State as they head
back to the west coast
that's not reminded a lot of people that
hey this egg Wadala guy is pretty handy
to have on a team but the truth is
eggwin allah' has been doing this kind
of thing for years he's one of the
founding cornerstones of the Warriors
dynasty going back to 2015 and he'll
have to continue to play as the ultimate
glue guy if the words are to win their
fourth championship in the last five
seasons
according to Basketball Reference coms
Win Shares metric which is an estimate
of the number of wins a player
contributed to his team it would Allah
ranks as the fourth most valuable
warrior of the dynasty era so since 2015
the players ahead of him Steph Curry
draymond Green Kevin Durant they make a
lot of sense but in Wadala checks in
ahead of klay Thompson who you might
expect to crack the top four now it
could be a little surprising to see a
player that only scores nine points per
game ranked so highly in a value metric
but egg Wadala is the master of doing
the little things that helped make one
of the greatest teams of all time even
better when he's on the floor over the
same span so since 2015 among warriors
with at least 40 playoff games played
Iguodala also ranks 4th and plus/minus
per minute trailing curry green and
Durant again he's been on the court as
the words of outscored opponents by 7.7
points per 48 minutes biggest reason why
Iguodala shows up as having such an
impact is his lockdown defense and in
these playoffs alone he's faced a
practical murderers row of opposing wing
scorers and he's done a great job
slowing them down according to second
spectrums tracking data
Edward Allah's most common defensive
assignment in each series of the
playoffs so far has been Lou Williams
against the Clippers in the first round
James Harden against Houston in the
second round Damian Lillard against the
Blazers in the Conference Finals and
Kawhi Leonard in these NBA Finals
together those four averaged thirty
eight point six points for 100
possessions during the regular season
but while being guarded by Iguodala in
the playoffs they've only scored 28
point 2 points per 100
a drop-off of ten and a half points per
100 teen possessions on top of his great
defense it helps that agreed Allah can
knock down a clutch shot he's a career
35% 3-point shooter in the playoffs but
despite all of that and even though he
was named NBA Finals MVP in 2015
iguodala's legacy in the game is still
kind of unclear his career averages of
12.1 points five point one rebounds and
four point four assists per game are
pretty modest and those numbers are
what's driving basketball reference to
only give him a 6.1 percent chance of
ever being inducted in the Basketball
Hall of Fame
but that algorithm doesn't really take
into account that he also was one of the
driving forces behind a dynasty not many
players can say that now that's left is
to see whether he still has heroics left
over in this series
currently the 538 model gives the
Warriors a 56% chance of winning the
series but it's still anybody's guess as
to who will win with such a razor-thin
margin between the two teams the series
could end up hinging on a big play made
by an unexpected player and if anybody
knows a thing or two about that
it's Andre Iguodala more analysis and
predictions please check out
fivethirtyeight.com
throughout the NBA Finals hey folks
I predict that you're going to either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
