welcome to the 538 political forecast
where we take the temperature of
Washington and you the American people
since Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the
house would be opening an impeachment
inquiry into President Trump a lot has
happened the nation's top intelligence
official facing tough questions from
lawmakers on that whistleblower
complaint this morning the Washington
Post reporting President Trump
repeatedly enlisted vice president Mike
Pence to join in his pressure campaign
on Ukraine so what do you the people of
this great nation think about
impeachment well here's what the polls
say and we're using an average of all
the polls so far as of September 23rd
the day before Pelosi's announcement 51
point 1 percent of Americans were
against the idea of impeaching the
president while 40 percent were for it
but what a difference a week can make as
of October 2nd 45 point one percent of
people are against impeachment and forty
six point seven are in support that's
some real movement in a little over a
week as you might expect Democrats are
largely in support of impeachment while
few Republicans are and what about
Congress according to the New York Times
226 members of Congress are on board
with an impeachment inquiry as of
October 3rd all Democrats and one
independent of course it's early days
yet Secretary of State Mike Pompeo just
acknowledged that he listened in on the
call with the Ukrainian president
despite denying knowledge of the
contents of the whistleblower complaint
just last week also the house plans to
subpoena the White House's records on
the Ukraine scandal so we may soon have
more information on the timeline of
trumps pressure on Ukraine and whether
the White House tried to bury the
investigation there is gonna be a lot to
unpack and the Democrats still have a
lot of minds to change so be sure to
check in next week for another 538
forecast if you want to dig deeper into
the polling data or learn more about our
methodology check out 538 impeachment
tracker I'm gonna put a link in the
description
remember to subscribe so you don't miss
a video
