okay all that talk about a wide-open NFL
playoffs have given us in the end the
four teams that we basically have been
talking about all season the New England
Patriots the Kansas City Chiefs the New
Orleans Saints and the Los Angeles Rams
those were the four teams that at
midseason were the only ones with at
least a 10% chance of winning the Super
Bowl
according to 538 projections they also
happen to be the four highest-scoring
offenses in the league so we could be in
store for some pretty good games this
weekend
mother nature pending I know it's
supposed to be a little bit of a cold
one in Kansas City but on stats alone
you can't beat this set of teams here's
a chart that shows every Conference
championship matchup since 1970 along
the y-axis as you go up it's projected
to be more of a tight matchup as you
move to the right along the x axis
you'll see a better group of teams and
here you can see where this year ranks
although it's not number one it's just
about as good as you can ask for if
you're an NFL fan interestingly each
game also represents a rematch from an
earlier game in the regular season the
Patriots beat the Chiefs in October and
then the Saints beat the Rams at home in
November so what does the loser of each
of those games have to fix in order to
turn around their chances of making the
Superbowl well for the Chiefs it
probably surrounds run defense they gave
up 173 yards on the ground including 72
yards to Sony Michele before he was even
touched by the defense and because the
Patriots were so successful in the
ground they were able to use that to set
up their play action game where Tom
Brady completed a season-high 10 passes
for 140 yards the Chiefs are not known
for being a great defensive team anyway
but they're gonna have to stop the
Patriots running game and make life
harder for Tom Brady if they want to
reverse that outcome as for the Rams
they're gonna have to focus on past
events the first time around
drew Brees shredded them for 346 yards
in the air including 211 to receiver
Michael Thomas alone the Rams are known
for being a good pass defense that
focuses on getting pressure on the
quarterback but the Saints were having
none of that the first time around
despite the fact that the Rams blitz
numerous times Ellie's gonna have to put
a lot more pressure on Brees if they
hope to win this time around either way
a few days we'll know who's headed to
Atlanta for the Superbowl and whose
season will be ending prematurely for
more statistics and analysis check out
fivethirtyeight.com
