[Music]
one of the reasons I'm going to be
following closely tonight is the Kansas
governor's it's the only toss up in our
forecast and it's also one in which
we're going to see how a Trump endorsed
candidate does Republican Kris Kobach
and Democrat Laura Kelly are currently
neck-and-neck with both having a one and
two chance of winning we've looked at a
lot of races for governor that have
Trumpy candidates both in Georgia and in
Florida to me what makes Kansas an
exciting race to watch is because it's
just so read two of Kansas's four House
districts are red and while neither
Senate seat is up for election they're
also held by Republicans
so if Laura Kelly is able to win this
evening it'll be the first time that
Kansas has had a Democratic governor
since 2009
