[Music]
are the Brooklyn Nets really a playoff
team again the Nets have been bad
finishing 12th in the Eastern 2017-18
dead last in 2016-17 and second to last
in 2015-16
but as of this recording they're 26 and
23 and in sixth place in the Eastern
Conference take a look at this chart
based on 5:30 it's NBA projections which
show this season's projected playoff
seeds for Eastern Conference teams from
this you can kind of see how the
Brooklyn Nets season so far can be split
into two in the beginning of the season
538 projected that the Nets would finish
in 10th place and they didn't really do
much to change those projections early
on but since mid-december they've
sustained a fairly steady climb up to
projections and are now looking to
finish as the sixth seed for the
playoffs so what changed in mid-december
a large part of the net success over
this period of time is because of
starting point guard D'Angelo Russell
who's picked up the scoring slack left
behind by injured swingman Karras levert
and is sneakily putting together in
all-star caliber season as of late since
December 13th Russell has averaged 22
points and 7 assists a game while
shooting 47% overall and 40% from three
compare that to the beginning of the
season when he averaged 18 points and
six assists while shooting just 41
percent from the floor and 36 percent
from three as a team the Nets are also
getting better at winning close games
compared to earlier in the season
they're 9 and 2 in games that are within
five points with five minutes left since
December 13th only the Bucks have had a
better winning percentage over that span
before December 13th the Nets were 6 and
12 in those games better than only the
Cavs in the Knicks it's been a drastic
turnaround for coach - Kenny Atkinson
squad of course a lot can and probably
will happen from now until the playoffs
and Spencer Dinwiddie some injury that
may keep him out for weeks is evidence
of that but at least for now
the Nets are looking playoff bound for
the first time in a long long time
