the NBA Draft is Thursday night and as
part of our draft ritual here at 5:38 we
decided to fire up our Carmelo
projection system to see who the best
prospects are in the draft class for the
uninitiated Carmelo stands for the
career arc regression model estimator
with local optimization total
coincidence that it spells out Carmelo
and it's basically just our way of
projecting each player's career by
looking at the most similar historical
players and how their careers panned out
specifically we throw a player's stats
into the model and see who falls out
with the highest upside Wins Above
Replacement which is a measure of how
many wins a player's supposed to
contribute over the first seven pro
season zeroing out negative worst
seasons because we can't really hold it
against a player for coach decides to
play them when they're not ready yet
with all of that in mind here are our
top 5 prospects for the 2019 draft
starting out at number 5 is RJ Barrett
of Duke it might be a little surprising
to see Barrett who most mock drafts have
as the number three pick down at number
five but we think that he has distinct
strengths and weaknesses in his game
he's a low efficiency but high usage
swing man and his defensive indicators
aren't that great so he's kind of in the
mold of a Carmelo Anthony or a Brandon
Ingram
as a result we only give Barrett an
upside war of 15.4 wins
meanwhile at number 4 we have Jackson
Hayes of Texas and he's kind of the
polar opposite of Barrett he's a big man
who projects as a good rim protector and
has high efficiency but a very low usage
rate his offense might be limited to
just finishing off of the pick-and-roll
in mock drafts he's projected generally
on the edge of the top 10 but we have
him as the fourth best prospect here and
he might turn into somebody like a Zack
Collins or a Brandan Wright with all of
that in mind we give Hayes an upside war
of 15.8 wins
moving on to number three we have
garrett culver of texas tech cover is a
great all-around player he scores at or
above average in pretty much every
single category and so we think he could
become a nice all-around wing man his
best case comparables include harrison
barnes and rudy Gay covers up side war
is 17 point one wins but there's a huge
gap between number three and number two
on our list who's Murray State's John
Moran he still has flaws in his game he
needs to work on turnovers and shooting
efficiency but some of his top
comparable players such as John Wall and
Derrick Rose offer a glimpse into the
true superstar potential that Moran has
his upside war is 25.4 wins finally it's
no surprise that the number one prospect
in our rankings is Duke's Zion
Williamson Williamson also ranks as
above-average in every category but he's
also near elite in almost every category
now we're not exactly going out on a
limb with this pick I mean Zion is the
top choice in basically every mock draft
on the planet but it is nice to see the
conventional wisdom matchup with the
stats the thing that stands out about
Zion and our comparisons is there aren't
really other players to compare him to
his most similar player another Dukie
jahlil okafor
isn't really comparable to him at all
we've never quite seen a player like
Williamson who's very small for his
position but has great stats across the
board including rebounds blocks and
steals and scores with such incredible
efficiency because of all that his
upside wore is a ridiculous 36.7 way
above any other player in this draft
class so there you have it our top five
prospects we'll have to see if the
actual picks reflect our rankings or
some team is in for a steal on draft day
for more draft coverage you can check
out fivethirtyeight.com and we'll see
you during free agency hey folks I
predict that you're going to either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
