all right Meegan Sarah Micah we are here
for our first Democratic primary 2020
draft essentially we are going to go
around and pick who we think has the
strongest chance of becoming the
Democratic nominee in the 2020
presidential election and in order to
figure out who is going to go first I
have this handy make America great again
hat Micah can you help me out click the
first name who's gonna go first alright
Sarah all right well I've got the easy
choice today so I am definitely going
with Senator Kamala Harris she would
have a lot of young energy for the party
and inspirational pic and also she
doesn't really have that long of a
record so if you're trying to dig up
dirt there's not much honor I would
argue that's a hard picked argue with
that last point though I think is a
really good one right I mean Obama was
young and that was one of it he just
wasn't anything to stick them on all
right okay again we got a whole table of
faces here for you yes I love it
so I'm actually gonna pick Joe Biden
which is sort of be a little bit of a
counter to the argument that Sarah's
making that my argument behind Joe Biden
is is that all of the indicators at this
point that we're looking at are pointing
to Biden I think also the Obama brand
remains strong and Joe Biden is alright
a hard pick so many beautiful faces on
this table but we're gonna have to go
with Beto this is not an argument based
on policy this is not even necessarily
an argument based on which part of the
party he can energize the most it's his
Janice a quoi so I'm gonna have to say
for now
with the guy who has the spark that is
hard to argue with in it and matches
with Sara's point about not having a
long record my pick the last pick it's
very tempting to pick one of these white
guys who I don't know who they are but
instead I'm gonna pick Amy Klobuchar
from the great state of Minnesota so
this argument is pretty straightforward
one Midwestern woman as a two
characteristics I think will serve a
primary candidate well in 2020 the other
thing though is you know if you compare
how she did in 2018 to someone like and
know where she is here but Elizabeth
Warren she actually yeah Sarah Sarah was
hinting at this but but one sort of
underperformance really in in 2018
I think Klobuchar just has a lot going
for if you went first would you pick in
clover trust oh yes yes yes I would have
picked over well that's a wrap you guys
first Democratic primary 2020 down see
you back here next time we can do like a
second round draw we're in like three to
one you just have to grab a face you
don't get to explain up that okay three
two one oh we went for the same one I
know we did
okay well I'll try to do this I'll trade
you all right three african-american
women and Michael Bloomberg
