[Music]
hello and welcome to the 5:30 politics
podcast I'm Gayle andric now that former
Special Counsel Robert Muller has
testified to Congress Democratic
lawmakers are again debating whether or
not to impeach President Trump chair of
the House Judiciary Committee Jerry
Nadler whose committee has the power to
launch impeachment proceedings said on
Sunday that the president quote richly
deserves impeach but he said the
question is whether they can develop
enough evidence to put before the
American people and for now the majority
of Americans do not support impeachment
so today we're gonna discuss where
Democratic lawmakers and the public
stand on impeachment and here with me to
do that our editor-in-chief Nate Silver
how's it goin Nate hey Galen and also
here with us is senior politics writer
Claire Malone how are you I'm good and
managing editor Mike Royko and how are
you I'm good it's been a minute since
we've all been together welcome back
from vacation and etc etc later in the
show we are also going to address the
question of whether the Democrats
running for president in 2020 have moved
too far to the left from a strategic
point of view after the first Democratic
primary debate some leaders within the
party including swing state governors
voiced concerns and now we also have
some new polling on Americans views of
the Left policies that the candidates
are putting forward so we'll dig into
that later on but let's begin with the
impeachment debate Claire what effect
did the mulher hearing have on Democrats
debate over whether to begin impeachment
proceedings against the president
well I think you still see congressional
Democrats torn over impeachment I didn't
watch all of the Muller hearings because
I was actually on a reporting trip but
what years
what do you but yeah I mean the fact
that I didn't miss much says something
right which is that Muller was perhaps
predictably not a rock star witness
right he was someone who was sort of
purposefully driving within driving
within the lines or painting within the
lines of the Muller report itself he was
driving 20 miles an hour below the speed
limit
and I think that perhaps Democrats
thought that there would be maybe more
of a splashy new statement coming out of
Muller about let's say the obstruction
part of the report which I think people
see as the more impeachment actionable
portion of it but I think you still
you're you're kind of seeing the same
split among the Democratic caucus as
before Muller's live testimony which is
a plurality of the Democratic caucus
does not think impeachment is a good
idea at this time but a lot of people in
the Democratic caucus are angry about
the fact that Nancy Pelosi has not sort
of given the okay for impeachment well
we should say the share of congressional
Democrats who are for impeachment is
sort of creeping towards majority it's
not there yet Claire said but but post
testimony as sort of underwhelming as
that testimony was I think it you did
see sort of a spate of announcements
from members that they would support an
inquiry which kind of is getting you
closer and closer to the kind of
majorities yeah they're up to I think
the low 100 105 were something in this
taping or 106 out of 235 and so
therefore yeah not too far which I'm
from a majority of the caucus which
obviously has to be kind of worrying
Pelosi right the the idea that the
primary is pushing along into the point
where people you know candidates are
really kind of starting to have to
coalesce around positions and things
like that and the idea that there that
that impeachment would become a real
facet of the 2020 campaign is something
I think that really scares Pelosi
because it's an unknown I mean in some
ways except for Warren the Kansas have
not pushed it on Pietschmann all that
hard and I think it's probably kind of
well I will say people don't if you go
to campaign events and people ask
questions people don't ask about
impeachment so I think that there is a
little bit less yeah a reaction like the
reason why a lot of candidates haven't
taken those stances is I think they do
feel
perhaps rightly that a lot of people
aren't seeing this is like number one
and these House members many of them
were newly elected for the first time in
2018 did not spend a ton of time talking
about impeachment on the campaign trail
and so you know so there is a little bit
of a fight between like a certain class
of influential Democrat you see the lot
on Twitter who are very Pro impeachment
they say hey you know if we don't
impeach Trump then what kind of person
we're gonna set I think there's actually
pretty good answer to that right shaking
one of that now or I think we've heard
it before
okay no but the answer is like what kind
of precedent do you set if you impeach a
president when he's not gonna be removed
from office and when it's probably
politically disadvantageous as a public
to the opposition party and most public
opposes it
you know is that really a deterrent to
impeachable offenses to me it might
actually be an incentive right that a
party will do something that will not
result the president's removal but will
damage them electoral II I would commit
more impeachable crimes
okay well that aside I don't think we
really have to dig into whether you're
going to impeach to double jeopardy doom
or impeachable offenses as president
Nate when you are president we can get
to that but what are the dividing lines
at this point between people who are pro
impeachment or against impeachment it's
it's fairly predictable it divides
members along you know people who
represent much more liberal districts or
more likely to be pro and impeachment
what I don't know we're actually looking
at now is had have we reached the share
of the Democratic caucus that's sort of
like naturally for impeachment in other
words going back to the idea that Pelosi
is worried about this number creeping up
is that do we actually think that's the
case or is it sort of the share that
that's for impeachment right now kind of
the natural share that would be for
impeachment and it'll be harder and
harder to add each additional member to
it
does that question make sense yeah in
terms of are they just going to hit a
point where it's more moderate members
who are in more competitive seats who
aren't going to continue adding their
voices to the chorus for impeachment
another question is also are they going
to reach a point in the campaign where
they're close enough to an actual
election that impeachment stops making a
ton of sense well that the the timing
question is important and it
particularly gets that it feels like
we're in an important point right now
where okay you have close to a majority
of congressional Democrats House
Democrats for impeachment going into
this five-week August recess either the
recess sort of like tamps down that
moment things kind of slow down and on
the other side of the recess plus he's
like hey I was right around the corner
why are we even going to do this to that
time of question or these members go
back to these town halls and I don't
know maybe there's a impeachment raucous
in every town hall and they come back
and they say actually our voters really
want us to do this I take your point
that this seems to be sort of the
natural level of the Democratic Party
right which is about like a third or so
whatever is in between a third and half
is very liberal right and that wants
impeachment and the other path to
two-thirds is more moderate and probably
wants to hold off I think it kind of
gets into this battle of who's winning
the like who is gonna turn out in a
primary right and be motivated like are
you going to get these Iowa gonna turn
into our Iowa New Hampshire gonna turn
into like the Battle of the activists
and the people who really want to push
impeachment and want and want this out
of the Democratic caucus in that and
therefore the the candidates were really
the presidential candidates who are
really sort of trying to dig in in those
early states will sort of start to say
yeah maybe I do support impeachment in
other words like who's gonna end up
driving some of the primary vote does
that make sense right like whether or
not those activist voices or those very
liberal voices start to have an outsized
magnification in early states I mean in
some sense there are two fair
they straightforward heuristics that you
can use right one is are you more
worried about a primary challenge or a
general election battle and two is do
you tend to trust Pelosi and leadership
sight-unseen or you do not feel any
particular need to do that and so where
you kind of come out on those two things
kind of I think I mean we should look at
we should bring like a little regression
analysis or something right but I think
like it's fairly predictable along those
lines we were starting to see some
support creep in from people who are who
are in kind of indigo districts right
there between blue and purple where you
could lose in a primary challenge but
also the general election is not a
slam-dunk and that would be a good sign
for impeachment advocates but but yeah I
don't know I mean I think um you know
one theory is that Pelosi was happy to
have this mellow testimony occur before
the recess because that would tamp down
any momentum that would occur and maybe
she also thought that hey Moeller's not
gonna be all that dramatic on stage so
that will also not kind of create a
climax of momentum necessarily okay
that's a question I mean because we're
talking a little bit about impeachment
being you know for a general election
you don't want to support impeachment
because the majority of Americans don't
want that right now but for a primary
you kind of do want to push that is that
true I mean dude the majority do we have
a sense of where Democratic primary
voters lie on impeachment I mean my
sense is that it's not necessarily so
cut and dry that like that the
Democratic primary electorate wants
impeachment that much more I mean I
think around 65% of Democrats support
impeachment and if anything will be
higher among people who are so-called
like likely voters but but in terms of
prioritization I'm not sure how high it
is right when Gallup food is slow thing
for an ABC segment recently when Gallup
asked voters kind of how much of a
priority impeachment was last year so
midterm voters even among Democrats it
was like the eighth or ninth highest I
should say that's the Russia
investigation and not impeachment per se
right but even among Democrats was like
eighth or ninth out of 12 issues and so
like so it's it's not really like
of mine for a lot of Democrats and
that's what's kind of a little weird
about it
it couldn't become and then you get into
the sticky like electability thing and
Democrats are saying like we want the
most electable person to win the primary
and the most electable person will maybe
they're considering whether or not
impeachment makes them a liability for
the general and on and on and on well
not only that I think there's an anti
impeachment argument from both sides so
that's the one from the middle kind of
of like no you got to be electable don't
alienate Sanders and then there's one
from the left that's like focus on
issues you know we're about universal
health care etc so I think that squeezes
it from both sides and in this
conversation we're talking about both
presidential candidates and House
members right because I think originally
Nick was talking about House members
judging whether or not they should
support impeachment based on the kind of
district that they're in but also now
we're like bringing in the 2020
candidates and kind of where they're
headed if we're going to take the 2020
candidates of an int as an indication of
where the primary voters stand on the
Democratic side probably it's not that
much of a priority considering that the
Democratic candidates are always talking
about health care and wealth and college
and debt and things like that right yeah
yeah I mean 2020 is the subtext of all
things I think in when we're talking
about the Democratic caucus in there
and their decisions I mean I would guess
that a lot of presidential campaigns
when they're sitting down and thinking
about their strategy and how to talk
about impeachment
they are probably cautioning their
candidate to use slightly more cautious
language right then say Nadler uses yeah
to talk about I mean in a weird way I
think there's maybe less consequence for
a 20/20 candidate coming out in favor of
impeachment because they can always say
well of course I think but it's not you
should be well no they say of course I
think it should be impeached I think
these are terrible accent Americans
should pay more attention to but the
fact is we have another way to get the
kind of office to which is elected me
instead right I alone can fix it
and because you're building your case
for months and months about why crumb
such a terrible guy if you're the
Democratic nominee
and so you know in some sense I'm like a
little surprised that like that more
haven't that more you haven't seen more
forceful calls for impeachment like from
what Sanders for example yeah but from a
pure like let's just talk about America
as one big like it's a television show
right or it's or we're watching TV and
there are only a couple like plot lines
you really want and if you're the a plot
line a.k.a presidential candidate you
don't really want the be pot line like
Congress to kind of overtake your story
right an impeachment would sort of push
out you know in the news a lot of the
stuff that you as a Democratic candidate
wants to get out there so why would you
want to have this current you know
subplot become equal with your I think I
think that's right yeah I definitely
take that point I mean as we begin to
wrap up here do we think maybe to ask
just the question bluntly that Democrats
will begin impeachment proceedings
against the president before the 2020
election who knows I think this I think
who knows is the right answer
yeah but but I would complicate it
somewhat this way
and I think this complicates both the
kind of answering that question and
describing public opinion the the the
line you're starting to see from like
Nadler and some of these people is that
hey in effect we've already started an
impeachment inquiry which would be the
first step anyway right it's it's to
start an investigation and Democrats are
already investigating Trump on a
multiple on multiple fronts so I could
imagine so
polls show right now the public is
against impeachment right even Democrats
that like the number an eight-sided
sixty five percent or a for impeachment
that's not like a super impressive
number for for a liberal priority among
Democrat right and it for the general
public to it's you know basically sixty
percent again it's two to two to one
again yeah right no it depends on the
poll like anything else there is some
variation in the polls where some show
almost two to one against on the one
hand
you're handsome show it fairly close
within five or ten points or something
so but I could actually imagine if if
Democrats started impede an impeachment
inquiry officially that support for it
particularly among Democrats and maybe
some left-leaning independence would
increase because I think right now
impeachment when it's pulled in
impeachment in the general conversation
feel super drastic yeah and then but
then once they did it it would just be
an investigation and maybe they do it
you know some of them are saying oh we
need to do it just to help our case in
court to gain access to these documents
then I think some people would be like
oh okay it's just investigating the the
president so I I do think the kind of
the fact that the states around
impeachment right now feel so high
complicates kind of how well they they
are hi removing a president mean we're
talking impeachment not removal because
removal we presume wait but that gets
lost right but like removing a president
from office who's been duly elected is a
big deal I don't know I mean the thing
that I'm skeptical about is like this
has been the Russia investigation has
been the most covered news story I think
it's a quantifiable empirical statement
for the past two and a half years you've
had dozens of indictments from Muller
you've had dozens and dozens of
blockbuster stories from the times in
the post and whomever else you've had
the Muller report now you've had Muller
testify after Cohen testified all that's
not quite Russia related and so forth
but mother testified and it hasn't moved
the needle toward impeachment and I
think there's something about like not
trusting the public because by the way
if you look at these polls I say do you
think Trump did bad stuff people are
like yeah we kinda think you did bad
stuff but we don't think they should be
impeached and like I think people are
very stubborn about like not recognizing
that it's totally valid and rationale
for a member of the public to say this
stuff is pretty bad but a peach can say
very big step and therefore I don't
support it no I think that's totally
right and I do think that that's what
the public thinks and it and it is
rational that's it's a totally
defensible position for the public to
have my point is simply that
I'm not I don't think it's so clear that
if Democrats did begin impeachment
proceedings that there would be this
like huge backlash right but so to the
question of will they begin impeachment
proceedings before the 2020 election it
sounds like Jerry Nadler was saying on
Sunday that like we're only gonna do it
if the American public is with us so
judging from what you said me that after
all of this reporting and this testimony
and the Muller report if public opinion
hasn't changed does it seem like
Democrats weren't just gonna accept
public opinion it say we're not gonna
impeach him then I mean it's a little
circular right we're because the way
Democratic leaders behave certainly
affect how Democrats feel about
impeachment but it is also underwater by
quite a bit among independents I mean
look I think this is a pretty obvious
call right I would bet fairly strongly
against against an impeachment vote
without hedging a little bit but fairly
strongly against if nothing changes I do
think maybe if what would have to happen
yeah you know if there's some additional
spark right I mean the minute excuse me
I'm like if Pelosi one of each vote she
could probably get one yeah
tomorrow but do you think there's any
chance for an impeachment not what are
the chances that Democrats would bring
impeachment to the floor not about
obstruction or Russia but just about
trumps general like like the well they
already dead right Al Green after this
one meets about the squad kind of pushed
for the impeachment resolution and it
failed right but I'm saying like you
know what if let's say in a year and
pronounced re-clear in a year from now
impeachment has has happened right
they've begun impeachment proceedings
what are the chances that in that world
it's for the Al Green kind of general
fitness behavior of stuff and what are
the chances it's for obstruction rush
related stuff I mean I think the more
focused it is the better Democrats are
off politically I think so it would be
obstruction
rusha something I think that we're all
that we're kind of overlooking in this
conversation and maybe dancing around a
little bit when we're talking about how
the American public feels about
impeaching Trump which is currently not
good is that a lot of people don't
necessarily expect a just outcome out of
the legal system or formal avenues right
like I think a lot of people understand
that you know just because you sue
someone it doesn't mean that you're
going to get the result that you want
and actually you might lose quite a bit
of money in attorneys fees the general
idea being the justice system or formal
avenues of you know complaint in America
are not always just right and I do think
that you see in some of the public
polling where people say yes we think
Trump is doing quite a lot of bad things
but no we don't think he should be
impeached it's people being practical
right I actually think that that polling
says something quite nuanced about the
way Americans understand the way the
world actually works which is to say not
always the way it's actually I think
quite a cynical moment in American life
where we don't and I think this goes
back to a thing that like we've talked
about quite a bit since 2016 which is I
don't think Americans have a great deal
of trust no matter how they feel about
Trump they don't necessarily have a
great deal of trust that the process
will be in their eyes a fair one or a
healthy one for the country right and I
do think that that's a certain amount of
nuance that that people are sort of
feeding back to pollsters do you think
this conversation would be significantly
different and maybe be perceived by the
public as different if the Senate were
either you know not majority Republican
or made up of Republicans who were also
skeptical of course yes absolutely I
think the fact that we have such a
divided government for lack of a better
word makes people understand again the
realities of what can and can't be done
until most people answering the poll for
example would be like okay well I
understand that the house could impeach
him but I also know that the Senate
won't remove heads so why go down that
road and they might not even have that
sophisticated understanding of a
Republicans hold the Senate therefore
Trump will never be actually removed
from office but they do know that
America is roughly pull it
we divided it we you know there the
numbers are more nuanced but people
basically know oh the government is
divided 50/50 country we're not gonna
get it done
so why spin your wheels I mean I think
people think I think there's a fair
argument to be made that congressional
Democrats are spinning their wheels a
little bit and like that this is what
they this is the thing that they can and
also you can be sympathetic to why the
Democrats and Congress are doing that
right in the House of Representatives
are doing that because hey what else are
they gonna do that you're not gonna pass
any legislation so they might as well go
on you know an eighteen-month for lack
of a better word publicity smear
campaign against Trump and sort of lay
out the facts of like this guy is in
their eyes a dirt bag and like this is
why we're just gonna keep on putting out
this stuff and and hopefully it'll it'll
get into the American political
bloodstream and you'll play it on cable
all the time but like they're not doing
anything it's not a new strategy I
thought so wrapping up this conversation
I know that we did just get pulling out
yesterday about whether or not Muller's
testimony specifically changed any minds
on this issue so as we wrap up was I
mean it sounds like it didn't do a lot
of work to fundamentally change the
equation for Democratic lawmakers did it
change the equation for the public no
not really
wait I mean we should wait for more
polling as this cautious answer but okay
so your first look first look what do we
know I mean I there's ABC poll we're
looking at so did it change your mind
and I think 29 percent or something said
that they're more likely to support
between 28% said less likely and
something like that right but it was
like in 50 about 50% yeah I'm in front
you know it's probably better just to
ask directly do you support impeachment
compare that to previous poll because
people like trying to recall how they
updated their views is not always super
reliable oh that's least something of a
sign that like but look again like I
know we live blog the damn thing I mean
like there wasn't a lot of news there
yeah I don't think Muller was I guess we
let's talk about optics
like a big backpack there's the backlash
against the media for focusing too much
on optics when the Democrats started the
whole kind of process by saying this is
about you know well I'm smaller
transmitting information to the public
because we don't expect to learn all
that much now everybody knew that Muller
wasn't gonna go off report in the
hearing and so the whole thing was just
about getting sound bites from Muller
that they could play on TV the whole
thing was about it was so I will say it
was extremely weird watching Democrats
tamp down expectations before the
testimony saying we don't expect to
learn anything new but we know Americans
haven't read the report so they we want
them to hear it from Muller himself and
then as soon as the testimony was over
they said why is the press focusing on
smaller's performance his ability to
transmit information succinctly do you
know why because you told us that's why
you were doing this well we're also the
press is also and fair enough an easy
scapegoat right like we're the ones who
like like it's you know um you know the
press isn't the only institution that's
sexist
right like voters are sexist too but
we're quite easy to and rightly people
call our coverage sexist or you know if
we're talking about optics and
politicians are also talking about
optics we know because we talk to them
all the time about optics well at the
end when you want to blame someone the
media is there and that's fine right
that's like that's part of our like like
each other it's not part of our job but
it's part of what you get if you're if
you are part of like the American civic
fabric which the immediate is like
sometimes the [ __ ] rolls downhill I mean
and it gets on you you can certainly get
very into the weeds and knowing every
detail the mother report and the
background behind it and maybe you feel
outraged because you're like oh my god
this stuff is really bad and and there's
no consequence for it writing me I think
people naturally feel mad when they feel
like there's no consequence for things
they perceived to be unjust or unfair
right but there is a consequence which
is that there's an election in a year
and a half and people can vote Trump out
of office and that part seems to be
forgotten about a lot in the discussion
but I understand you know I understand
why people are frustrated but yeah I
mean like look
Democrats in the hearing last week could
have spent more time trying to probe
into some of the areas another report
where things are ambiguous or uncertain
I'm not sure by the way they've been
very forthcoming right but you could
have said okay I think there were a
couple questions like the internal
polling data that was shared like
knowing more about that would have been
useful knowing more about like this kind
of nexus between obstruction and
collusion where if there is obstruction
could that prevent you from learning
about collusion right now they were they
were maybe five or ten percent of the
questions were actually substantive
inquiries about things that needed to be
clarified in the report itself okay if
you know what have actually been useful
for Muller and that whole hearing a the
Democrats are you are are using him
because he is a figure of seeing as
trustworthy and he has important in
American life and like yes they wanted
people to hear from him without having
to read the report by the way I just
like to say that quite a lot of
Democratic lawmaker lawmakers admitted
on the record that they hadn't read the
Muller report which i think is atrocious
but anyway I think what the what the
hearing could have been useful for if it
wasn't a thing wholly about optics is it
would have been mostly about Russian
interference efforts in the 2016
election yeah and as what and what is
currently happening now because that is
a huge thing and it's gonna be a huge
threat in not just the 2020 primary but
the 2020 general election and as Muller
said well we got most animated about
that point if my you know having not
watch the whole thing but having watched
clips or and read a coverage of it
that's where he was most animated that's
probably where the most concrete you
know what can we do about this effect
happens but you know what's boring
fixing election systems state-by-state
and we both in telling states and you
know trying to raise awareness about
social media campaigns I mean we just
just to bring in like pop culture for a
second millions of Americans in the past
couple weeks use this this face app
thing that takes a picture of your face
and like ages you Michael like hasn't
heard about new internet I was out
turns out that like you know we don't
know if it's a if it's run by the
Russian government but it's a it's a
software company out of st. Petersburg
and like now maybe I'm casting
aspersions on just a bunch of you know
wholesome computer programmers with big
dreams in st. Petersburg and I well
could be but also I don't know people
you're you're giving careful you're
giving up like a lot of your privacy
rights with things like that all of
which is to say is I don't think the
American people are actually properly
paying attention to I'm going threats to
democracy and I think we can and should
have like a whole other podcast election
security and what politicians are and
are doing about it
we spent quite a bit of time talking
about impeachment so let's move on to
our next segment but before we do does
anybody want to go on the record saying
that they do think it is likely that
Democrats will impeach President Trump
before the 2020 election so according to
predict it
we're P majors from Scotland and Ireland
and other as predicted has emailed us to
tell us people and also a Mandy teenager
but I think it's also we're gonna be I
don't know that people in Scotland can
bet on predict it they were also tried
to clarify something relating to that
but anyway go ahead say what you're
gonna say so we can move on people
responsible adults from all around the
world who put small amounts of money in
to predict it say there's a 27% chance
that term will be impeached in his first
term where'd you take the over or the
under under I would take the on their on
that I think most likely will end up
with Democrats continuing to investigate
and and messaging to their base that hey
this is the same as impeachment I think
that's what they'll do
[Music]
in the first primary debate the
candidates discussed such policies as
abolishing private insurance
decriminalizing the border the green New
Deal and so on and since then some
within the party including swing state
governors have expressed concerns about
how far the candidates were going so
let's begin with a broad question and
then we can get into some specifics mica
are a number of presidential candidates
creating general election risks for
themselves and the party by moving too
far to the left yes why because they are
forcefully in voice voice fully vocally
forcefully and voice fully taking up
vocalising taking up positions that are
really unpopular and look this is going
to be a conversation about the politics
of these policy debates and so it's not
about the relative merits or efficacy of
of each of these but like a lot of these
policies take decriminalizing crossing
the border just pull terribly we're not
removing removing private insurance yeah
getting rid of private insurance they
pulled terribly and so you know is there
a debate to be had about the relative
merits of energizing non-white voters
and and your base or us trying to appeal
to white Obama Trump voters in the
Midwest sure you can have that debate
but like that is a separate matter from
a lot of these candidates taking up
positions that just aren't popular and
frankly many of them aren't even that
popular with Democrats or more or in
particular the minority communities that
they are sort of advocating for or
purporting to sort of help a lot of
minorities in the Democratic Party or
more conservative or more moderate so
these policies aren't necessarily up
their alley
no that's
you know there was this article we were
reading I think was in GQ the Democratic
Party is waging a war against its very
young base and and it was kind of making
the argument I think part of which are
true that the Democratic establishment
is is kind of throwing its base and in
particular its minority supporters under
the bus in favor of Obama Trump voters
and maybe there's some of that going on
but what Claire said is absolutely right
which is that many of these policies
many of the many of the kind of most
left-leaning policies that are being
staked out and which pour terribly polls
special especially poorly with non-white
Democrats so there's something just very
weird going on where I feel like that is
getting conflated with the the whole
like Tom not Tom Freeman the whole like
David Brooks oh we got a peel - yeah I
mean there's something interesting going
on where white Democrats have so white
Democrats still make up a majority of
the primary electorate and white
Democrats have gotten more liberal at a
faster rate than other constituents in
the Democratic Party than minority
constituents in the Democratic Party and
I think that there was there was also
this really interesting Thomas Edsel
piece in The Times which quoted a
political scientist this guy Zac
Goldberg who's a grad student at Georgia
State and he wrote something which I
thought was really interesting he said
you know over the past decade the
baseline attitudes expressed by white
liberals on racial and social justice
questions have been radically more
liberal white liberals recently became
the only demographic group in America to
display a pro out-group bias meaning
that among all the group surveyed by
surveyed white liberals were the only
ones that expect expressed a preference
for other racial and ethnic communities
above their own that is fascinating and
I think that that says something really
interesting about the direction of the
Democratic Party in some ways on some
level the
driven by white liberals right who have
a certain vision of what they want the
party to be but not necessarily all
constituencies within the party share
that current political ideological view
right now including some of the groups
racial minorities specifically that that
white liberals or liberals in general
are trying to help with these policies
right so it's a it's a fascinating like
it's like walk white people versus
minority communities in some ways the
very liberal versus more modern well and
in that same New York Times article that
you mentioned there's also a group of
more moderate white voters so it's not
like all white Democrats are the most
liberal you know in that most liberal
category I mean before I do want to give
like one little shout out to the
background research here before we get
into specifics which is that you know in
general the conventional wisdom for a
long time is that you win elections by
being closest to the median voter and I
think that assumption has come under
attack or critique in recent years as
far as I can tell the evidence for that
hypothesis is as valid as it ever was or
wasn't you know we build models of
various types of races races for
Congress presidential races and we
generally find that if you have some
variable like voting record in Congress
indicated e ology that when you are more
centrist or less partisan that it does
seem to correlate with performing better
in elections other things being held
equal so that is like you know such the
prior it's not like a absolute the
science is completely settled but it's a
more robust
effect and a lot of things that I've
studied but can we dig into some of the
specifics about the policies that we're
talking about like what exactly is
popular and unpopular of what the
Democrats are putting forward free
college at public universities for
example according to a recent Maris poll
seventy six percent of Democrats think
it's a good idea 53 percent of adults
think it's a good idea 53 percent forty
three percent
I think mildly popular right but it's
less popular than
taxing well that above that income above
a million dollars or a green new deal I
mean when I'm saying it's like there are
pretty big parts of this liberal
platform that are that are popular
including including broadly speaking the
notion of imposing significantly higher
tax rates on the wealthy whether you do
that through higher marginal rates or a
wealth tax
that's the Elizabeth Warren's depends I
think actually the wealth tax pulls a
bit better across the board because like
saying one percent of a really high
number seems hard hard arguments and
like some high March a little bit on a
still really high number of a pretty
high number you know I mean the minimum
wage was not asked in this marys Paul
minimum wage increases poll quite well
and you've seen Democrats have lots of
success in the minimum wage in cities
where they are governing states or
cities the broad notion of universal
health care is popular although removing
private insurance is unpopular and
Democrats and Republican voters make a
pretty clear distinction between
Medicare for all who won at quote
unquote and Medicare for all which means
it's only Medicare you know big parts us
are fairly popular but it's just like
it's just like okay so if your movie
abstraction talked about earlier kind of
common sense would say don't worry about
being labeled as a liberal it's gonna
happen no matter who the nominee is
right but do like pick policies that are
popular with 50 percent to the general
public or more and just to get specific
about the difference between Medicare
for all who want it and Medicare for all
that replaces private insurance Medicare
for all who want it
Democrats ninety percent of Democrats
think it's a good idea 70% of adults
think it's a good idea that's your
public option Medicare for all that
replaces private insurance 64 percent of
Democrats think that's a good idea so
about two-thirds almost forty one
percent of adults so there's almost a
you know 15-point gap but for all adults
when you talk about taking away private
insurance and medicare for all who want
is more popular with Democratic voters
although aminika for all is also popular
but that's like they seem Bernie
starts get attacked from other Democrats
for his plan but yeah I mean I mean
there is one subtext here which is like
wanting to be a little bit careful about
things that pull well but our vague
slogans right yeah for a long time if
you just kind of say hey do you support
Medicare for all then the polls show it
polls pretty well because a lot of
people think Medicare for all actually
means a public option as a technical
term right Medicare for all who wanted
you know my joke is you should have like
Medicare for some of the people all the
time and all the people some of the time
maybe my plan I would like to say
everyone in charge of like the word
salad that that is like health care
discussions we got we got a fine
we gotta find more clear we gotta find
more clear ways to describe this stuff
and like maybe some of us but you know
but like a green new deal is over in
that category we're like what's the
meaning to you'll mean and if you were
to ask the twenty however many I have
now for you how many democratic ants
they are if you were to ask them all
what it means you would get that number
of different answers I think but there's
no stuff here you know I mean some of
the cultural stuff is pretty popular of
gun control measures are pretty popular
but let's can we talk about some of the
stuff that is very unpopular and not
even necessarily attracting the majority
of support from Democrats so I mean
looking at this polling of
decriminalizing the border forty five
percent of Democrats say it's a good
idea forty seven percent say it's a bad
idea adult twenty seven percent good
idea sixty-six percent
bad idea and when the Democrats in the
second night of debate discussed this
topic I think there were only two
Democrats who didn't raise their hands
for decriminalizing the border there's a
bucket of policies here that is like
another level of unpopular beyond you
know Medicare for all that replaces
private health insurance and that bucket
for the most part includes policies that
touch on race and culture so
decriminalizing the border national
health insurance for immigrants who
enter the country illegally reparations
those you know so reparations
seven percent of adults think it's a
good idea 46 percent of Democrats health
insurance for immigrants in the country
illegally 33 percent of adults think
it's a good idea sixty percent of
Democrats and then decriminalizing the
border as you said 27 percent of adults
forty five percent of Democrats that's
like that's sort of like nearing Trump
child separation policy level
unpopularity level you know I think that
also plays on racist strains in the
electorate about about giving money to
other groups right but like and I think
I think health care for people who are
here illegally it's not that hard to
understand why people be opposed to that
no I I'm not saying I'm so you're
categorizing all of the most unpopular
things as just having roots and racist
tendencies I don't know hold on hold on
I think that's not what I said I think
that I think that the Democratic Party's
debate on immigration is not robust in
part because of the level of
conversation at which Trump has put the
national conversation on immigration
which is to say you're gonna get in
debates if someone says no I'm not I'm
not gonna decriminalize crossing the
border then you're gonna automatically
get a tax from people saying right what
a racist policy right which is which is
and this is this has been talked about
there have been you know I thought there
was a very good I want to say January
piece in The Times magazine about
basically the Democrats immigration
problem right the idea that they they
don't currently have a very nuanced
policy stance on immigration and one
that's particularly satisfying to let's
say people in the middle of
middle-of-the-road
in America politically speaking so I
think we immediately get to a lot of
these like flashpoint racism things
through with through immigration which i
think is a bit of a problem for the
Democratic primary debates let's say it
totally is and look you know like the
thing is like you want to us being equal
right pick issues that kind of unify
your side and divide the other side
issues related to race I'm not even
saying all of them are
rooted in racism although many are
issues related to race divide the
Democratic Party so like you see that in
these numbers right 4 4 D criminal
decriminalizing crossing the border for
only 27% of adults to say that that's a
good idea
that means that Democrats have to be
split on that issue right so like I
think there's something going on there
you know all this talk that like Trump
is like strategically playing the race
card
and making that a centerpiece of his
2020 campaign as opposed to just kind of
being racist but there is something to
the idea I think where Democrats as
Claire just said have an issue on some
of this where these issues divide their
party more than the Republicans although
I think we've been remiss not to mention
the electoral college right because what
counts is a system with 503 because like
that does it the margins affect things
quite a bit right the fact that you have
states that have white working-class
voters are disproportionately
influential nationally is pretty
important to these marginal decisions
that candidates have to make about like
is it worth the political fallout for
supporting this or that stands sure I
mean can we come back to the more
overarching question of do candidates
who support non-majority positions on
policy how they do in elections I mean
so if you take Trump right building the
wall did not have majority support and I
don't want to rehash what happened in
the 2016 election of course Hillary
Clinton was unpopular etc etc etc but
there will be people listening to this
saying thinking you know you don't just
have to take the most popular opinion on
every position maybe that's not even
what people actually want politicians to
do because you know the Clintons were
almost famous for that and kind of maybe
had a bad reputation amongst you know
some people even within the Democratic
Party for that is that the right
strategy is how do you navigate that I
don't know that 2016 is a good example
of people people are you wasting all the
time of people just saying oh well you
can now pander to the base as much as
you want that's how you been election
I'm not so sure about that number one
polls in 2016 showed voters perceived
Trump is being closer to being a
moderate than Clinton in part because he
repudiated did not hold up when he
entered office but he repeated on the
campaign trail a lot of the kind of Bush
/ Paul Ryan slashed the welfare state
lower taxes kind of agenda again that's
not how he's governing people now think
differently about Trump on those
economic issues well never I mean he was
running as like there were as a
candidate some authentic strains which
could had brought it be very cynical
about of economic populism from Trump
and he still hasn't you know tried to
privatize social security or enact
entitlement reform or anything like that
right I mean that was a priority for
Paul Ryan Trump didn't seem interested
and Clinton by the way has a pretty
liberal agenda right I think because she
beat Sanders people kind of thought of
her as a moderate well like she was
liberal pretty liberal it's I think you
know there are ways to try to quantify
it so you're actually looking at the
terms use like the Democratic platform
but probably the most liberal platform
since like 1972 yeah or something but so
I think like an actual wisdoms a little
backward on that potentially yeah and
none of this is like determinative right
so like it's not like oh if I just
choose my policy platform as you know
finally choose popular opinion and the
more popular the better then I'll win
certainly you know a talented politician
can can overcome taking an unpopular
stand and the mood of the country
matters and you know as Claire always
says you know the pheromones almost
probably matter more than then like the
literal policy stance people taking but
the two aren't disconnected right so
peoples kind of pheromonal impression of
Harris or Biden or Castro or any of
these candidates is you know it in part
the the kind of some an impressionistic
take of what they're saying and how
people react to that stuff it's not like
just like
how do I feel about that image on the TV
right it's like an amalgamation of that
Plus what people are saying plus what
the candidate is saying so I so it's not
determinative but like all it's being
equal you what you want to take popular
stands politicians change public opinion
sure sure but in both directions
oftentimes if a politician
begins advocating fiercely for a
position it can become less popular
actually it's thorough most Bernie
Sanders I think has really shifted
public opinion I think seen in favor
right obvious in favor of more
progressive thing I mean I think Sanders
but would if he won the nomination would
that still hold I don't know I mean it's
a good question because people yeah you
might have been painted as a wild
socialist crazy right in the general
election who knows but I think Sanders
is you know and arguably one of the most
influential politicians of the past 25
years in a lot of ways because he has
just radically shifted a conversation so
yeah I think think I think soul
politicians can I'm just trying to think
and so could I guess the question
leading off of that is could a
politician just take one of these
unpopular opinions positions and kind of
make it I mean you'll hear through the
force of their personality and you know
campaign and things like that depends on
the politicians good you know yeah
one thing I will say that's that I think
is interesting and perhaps particularly
to Sanders is that perhaps him losing
and Clinton eventually losing amplified
his idea even more right so I don't know
what that says about like I can imagine
if Sanders had won the nomination and
then he loses to Trump right in this
electoral college state you can imagine
if you're like oh my gosh so what yeah
so what I'm saying is like maybe Bernie
won w but like canape an a candidate run
a winning campaign by pushing a new
policy idea like this like yeah maybe
but I do also think it's a bit of a it's
maybe it's built on the backs of say a
previous election I eat
20:16 and the project 16 primary which
actually really introduced the policy
you know and and it's it's it's soften
the ground a bit I mean you want there's
some complicated connection between the
policy stances you articulate and some
notion of whether you're authentic or
not yeah you know I think voters
perceive both Sanders and more and as
being quite authentic
I think Biden actually it's a fair
amount of that to where he's kind of
coming from like a moderate liberal
place right you know I do wonder a
little bit about Harris I think she
introduced a palace this week that if
you were a Pell Grant recipient you
could get your student loan cancelled if
you opened a business in a disadvantaged
community and operated for three
consecutive years so that's like that's
it seems a little too finely tailored
maybe my sister was telling me about
memes going around that were like yeah
you know if you if folks I'm gonna tell
you right now if you open if your parrot
recipient and you open a good like taco
truck near the five great office we will
pay you back by purchasing lots of tacos
people in the office like tacos so
that's my plan for but like but that's
mid silver point did the Sanders
campaign in the aftermath change public
opinion or or shift which issues had the
most salience I think he activated or
helped to catalyze like a left as a
political yeah movement and the less
that's agitating for things and on some
things like these $15 minimum wages has
already had like quite a bit of effect
on American policy because I don't know
if it's s really like opinion on like
universal health care has shifted that
much one way or the other right but like
but like certainly like I mean again to
the so-called Overton Window right but
certainly shifting the polls of the
debate we're now a $15 minimum wage
which would have been perceived by you
know people as being quite extreme a few
years ago is now the reality in a lot of
American communities and popular
all right well I think we've run through
a lot of the various questions having to
do with the Democrats new kind of
leftward policies I am sure that this
will continue to come up throughout the
coming campaign and we'll talk about it
again but for now let's leave it there
thank you mate
thank you Galen Thank You Claire thanks
again Thank You Micah thank you
