the US Women's National Team is
beginning its hunt for a fourth World
Cup title in France this week and 5:38
has identified 14 potential impact
players a mix of likely starters and
super subs let's start with the goal
scorers who should be familiar looking
at the expected goals per 90 minutes
among these 14 players you see Tobin
Heath up there along with Mallory Pugh
and Kristen press even higher up is
Carli Lloyd but leading the squad is
Alex Morgan at point five two expected
goals per 90 minutes now who's going to
be supplying these goal scorers with
that chance this is how these same
players ranked in shots assisted per 90
minutes with Megan Rapinoe leading the
way she is tallied 14 assists for the US
since 2017 and she currently assists
about 2.2 shots per 90 okay perfect
crosses and ridiculous goals are nice
but the attack really starts way before
those things happen here's some of the
players you should keep an eye on in the
build-up to a potential goal expected
starter Tobin Heath and potential super
sub Mallory Pugh lead this group and
progressive runs for 90 minutes which
are runs past a defender that advanced
the ball at least 10 yards or into the
penalty box look to them to be advancing
the ball into the opponent's third for
much of the game similarly here's how
the group ranks in progressive passes
per 90 minutes you'll find a trio of the
u.s. as talented midfielders out front
on this stat with Samantha MUOS leading
the way over Lindsey Haran and Rose
LaBelle speaking of that midfield teams
playing against the US should prepare
for a tough physical battle in the
middle of the pitch
Roosevelt leads the group and tackles
and interceptions and four interceptions
it's not even close and Lindsey her an
leads an areal duels with 4.2 per 90
minutes with these skills spread out
among so many individual players the
question now is whether they can bring
it all together to get that fourth star
they have a tough road ahead the 538
forecast currently gives host country
France the highest chance to win be sure
to follow our World Cup coverage with
live in game win probabilities
throughout the tournament at five thirty
eight.com /ww see
hey folks I predict that you're gonna
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
