[Music]
welcome to the 538 politics podcast on
this edition we discuss the preliminary
data on what voters think about how the
Democrats did in the third Democratic
primary debate hosted by ABC in Houston
we also talked about the Republican
primary race there are three Republicans
challenging President Trump for the
nomination they may not have great odds
of winning but will they have an effect
on the race you're watching the 538
politics podcast on ABC News live we're
now four days out from the last
Democratic primary debate and that means
we've had some time for some data to
come in giving us an idea of how the
candidates did it's good news for
Elizabeth Warren not great news for who
Leon Castro and we'll get into exactly
what the data tells us we're also going
to look at another primary race the
Republican primary President Trump has
three challengers at this point they are
former governor of South Carolina Mark
Sanford talk-show host and former
congressman joe walsh and former
governor of massachusetts bill welt
who's been in the race for quite some
time now
Trump's approval rating among
Republicans is also reliably in the mid
to high 80s so even if Republicans like
Trump will any of the challengers affect
the overall race we're gonna get into
that later on but here with me to
discuss all of this our editor-in-chief
Nate's over how's it going it's going
pretty well I'd say I like the Pink
Floyd t-shirt you've got keeping it
casual for Monday yeah
there you go again if you're watching
those on ABC News live you already knew
that Nate was wearing a Pink Floyd Dark
Side of the Moon t-shirt there you go
also here with us is senior politics
writer Claire Malone how's it goin and
managing editor Micah Cohen how are you
I'm very good thank you
fantastic let's begin with the
democratic debate Micah yeah what data
do we have so far on the candidates
performances in the third debate we have
a wonderful poll conducted by 538 and it
sews my friends our friends at it says
which is rare for us
first days actually friends are the data
ya know it's actually really weird we
can talk about what the what the poll
showed but as far as I've seen this if
those poll is the only really scientific
post-debate poll there was a Chegg -
college pulse poll of college students
but other than that it's like we're dis
if says you know 538 it says Paul is
kind of the only game in town which is
good for us I guess but I mean we should
say by the time the podcast records Oh
maybe or you listen to this podcast and
morning consult usually late Monday
evening comes out with their weekly
tracker you know we always hear rumors
about other polls in the field
all right so based on what limited
knowledge we do have and we'll make that
caveat it's our poll in this college
poll so far what can we say about how
the public viewed the third democratic
debate I think we can let's do let's do
what they thought of the debate and then
how that affected the race let's
separate those two things well I think
the public didn't like the the
infighting yes so that so the our poll
with our friends she shows that Castro
and Biden took hits and they were the
two candidates at the center of a lot of
sniping Castro in particular but I will
say that I think people seem to have
taken a second look a little bit at some
of our second tier candidates so
O'Rourke probably had his last night I
would say workers also became part of
the conversation for tragic reasons
because he his hometowns was targeted
and in a mass shooting and so a lot of
the Democrats talked about that although
there was some interesting we can get
into this later but there were some
interesting permutations Cory Booker in
particular kind of said I'm glad you now
care about gun violence but I've cared
about it for years it's been a problem
in my community so I thought there was
actually some interesting stuff but I
think it was a pretty good night for
if only in part because he became a more
central part of the debate but Buddha
judge also had a decent night so I would
say second tier candidates benefited and
Elizabeth Warren also benefit baby talk
about her more fulsome laughs
interesting strategy so clear loser is
Biden and Castro were there any other
clear losers of the night according to
you I actually test for more than by day
I'm not sure the clear loser is Castro I
mean his ratings are way off the charts
low and has unfavorables went up a lot
more than his favorables with biting we
got to learn a little bit more about you
know so Harris seemed to have a bad
night in fact her ratings were slightly
lower than Biden's when people ask about
her debate performance Bernie had maybe
a you know equal night to Biden and so
the question is is there a world where
Biden benefits from from war and gaining
ground at the expense maybe of Sanders
and Harris because you know if we look
at the numbers we know that like there's
has not seemed a lot of crossover
between Warren and Biden there does seem
to be between like between Harris and
Biden which we saw after the first
debate and some extent between Bernie
and Biden they're both kind of competing
for non-college voters who the media
ignores a lot of time but that's a
conduit there right so would it shock me
that like Biden's position is a little
bit worse no would it shock me if it
looks about the same to strategically
slightly better because like kind of
Harris declines another a couple of
points or something I don't know I mean
I guess kind of might my um my overall
hot take is like I do think we're gonna
see probably a lot of muddling from
positions for and below so you know if
bunch of polls came out and had Harris
at four or five percent and Budaj at 45%
Anna Roark and Booker and I don't know
maybe Club which are even yeah also
about four or five percent you're saying
I'm saying it's kind of I mean I think
Harris had like a fairly bad night right
if you look at our poll of who are you
considering
the person who dropped off the most was
Harris she went from twenty seven point
seven to twenty five point two which is
only a quarter electric now as
considering you right given multiple
choices like that's not super great and
that's a lot closer to like Beto who's
at sixteen than it is to Sanders who's
at forty and dropped off a little bit
but not much right and so you know so it
wouldn't surprise me if the very thing
that we were kind of overt if he's kind
of arguing against the idea of like this
big three verse everyone else that's
might be what we went up with right you
might wind up with it with the big three
versus everyone else you might wind up
with the big two meaning biden warren
and then sanders pretty clearly in third
and then everyone else right can I can I
ask something know about these
considering numbers I guess even before
the debate and and especially after the
debate all right forget that I was just
surprised by the extent to which he's
considering numbers are low where
tomates point about sort of how
top-heavy the field is I mean less than
ten percent of likely primary voters are
considering Klobuchar Castro yank right
mm-hmm
so for all intents and purposes like if
less than ten percent of voters are even
considering voting for you you're in a
fair amount of trouble right about a
quarter of likely primary voters or
fewer are considering voting for Harris
Buddha judge O'Rourke booker Yankelovich
are castro i mean let me that means it
just the top three right let me give one
technical detail here which is that i'm
not sure
the survey instrument the ipso used to
ask this question right because they're
two ways to do it if you're on the phone
you would go through one by one and say
are you considering joe biden are you
considering better O'Rourke right I
believe if you're if you're taking the
poll online and this is an online poll
then it probably has a list of box that
you can click and you can click as many
boxes as you want
I would bet that produces like slightly
fewer considerings
then if you actually went through people
one by one okay that's like just if you
force me to ask am i considering Castro
sure right but I'm not gonna check his
box when I really like Warren or Harris
or something but that I would almost
think making people check up boxes more
accurate might be better I guess kind of
like I'm you know
like literally like am I willing to
spend the effort to click Andrew Yang's
box or cory booker's box right like okay
that's at least some some type of work
you're doing yeah all right Nate you
talked a little bit about who else maybe
had a not-so-great night in addition to
caster so that was Harris you started us
off Claire by talking about better
having a pretty good night you also
mentioned Warren and I'll note that
according to our favorable ratings those
were the only two people in the race who
decreased their number of unfavorables
so they not only increase their
favorables but got people who had
already decided kind of against them on
their side to maybe small degree what
about you mentioned the shooting in El
Paso what about Elizabeth Warren made
her night particularly good or put her
in a stronger position coming out of the
debate so last week's podcast I think I
said at the very end and Mike and I were
talking I think and we said it'll be
interesting to watch how two women on
stage who are major frontrunners kind of
handle it and that was talking about
Harrison and Warren and also how Warren
handles her woman who decide kind of
inching up to frontrunner status at
least big three status I think she did a
savvy thing which was she never really
attacked Joe Biden all that much you see
her you know she was one of the
candidates who gained support she and
the other sort of lower to your
candidates gained support I think in
part that's because she sort of
maintained a sort of smiling presence
throughout the debate so she used was
she was certainly part of policy back
and forth with you know she and Sanders
versus Biden versus a couple other
people on the stage but I do think she
had an ability to to have a presence of
affability and that was very helpful
particularly in on a debate stage where
things got a bit nasty no I should say
that like people did her dirty work for
her in a lot of ways and so she probably
knew that was going to happen on some
level that other people could could come
at her you know I don't think that
anyone on stage had an agreement per se
but who Leon Castro attacking Biden
on a variety of fronts in a pretty
hardcore way was certainly redounded to
live before in this benefit and she
certainly knows that sorry you guys
surprised by sort of how clearly Warren
came out the winner in these numbers
I mean I'm gonna say couple things one
is that like we should look at the kind
of horse race numbers we don't want to
look at one poll actually in our second
way we got more responses over the
weekend that came in and we published on
Monday and those were like a little bit
more tepid for Warren than the original
responses so it's still pretty good but
like so now if you look at our updated
numbers her unfavorables did technically
increase by 0.3 percentage points oh
it's interesting yeah
which might mean that kind of debate
watchers like Warren also people who
watch debates tend to be
college-educated that tend to be policy
focused so they may have been a good
audience for Warren in the first place
but look she has this term I usually
hate but she has momentum it seems in
the sense of like gradually gaining
ground as people are exposed to her more
and I don't think the debates gonna do
very much to halt her momentum she got
by the way this morning endorsement from
the Working Families Party which is a
nice little get for her they endorsed
Sanders last time around and in some
states such as New York they actually
have a ballot line I believe yeah New
York and California I think so it's not
bad better I mean in some ways like
still though the overall message that
Warren and Beto had good night's I think
is true I mean in some ways Warren and
Beto are interesting that they've had
kind of all cycle long these oscillating
perceptions right Warren started out
where it was all about Pocahontas
Pocahontas Pocahontas
sentiment was quite negative toward her
not just among the media but also among
certain types of Democratic voters at
the start of the campaign and she's kind
of been gaining ground ever since and
kind of playing off like low
expectations Vettel came in with very
high expectations initially actually
kind of had this big first-day
fundraising number and then just totally
kind of
flopped ever since and kind of became
like a whipping boy for the media and
became his candidate who was all hype
and privileged and so but now he's
reversing that trend a little bit too
maybe I'm not sure if it's toward any
ultimate purpose but like but you do see
kind of people recovering from changing
expectations
yeah and that's actually why I think
that debate was the debate and we should
emphasize right is separating out kind
of what people thought out the debate
from its effect on the horse race the
effect on the horse race we think is
pretty minimal right but one reason I do
think it it was a bullish sign for
Warren is she came in as Claire
mentioned with a lot of focus on her and
I think where earlier in the campaign
maybe there weren't high expectations as
made sad I think there were going into
this debate and just subjectively
watching it I thought Lauren did fine
but I wasn't like oh Warren cleaned up
right and so it's interesting to me that
she came out with pretty good numbers
out of this because it suggests okay a
pretty good by her standard performance
but not spectacular is enough even given
these increased expectations which i
think is a good sign for her campaign I
mean but you know again it may be that
the other three of what I thought were
the four leading frontrunners had had
bad night's
you know Biden I think clearly in the
second half a debate was giving
responses that you know we're a little
wandering I haven't understood Harris's
strategy frankly neither the last two
debates and Bernie was fine
I do think like actually like the
hoarseness thing makes it hard to listen
to and that matters I mean debate so
partly about aesthetics and the public
didn't love his debate either anyway
based on this polling and so it was more
like I don't think she was like doing
cartwheels on stage I think it was maybe
the worst of the three debates yet she's
had so far but I don't know I mean maybe
it's because our ABC News colleagues
really stuck to substance for all you
think that would help Warren but you
know it really sucked a substance for a
long period of time wears a little hard
a kind of BS
- your way through this debate and I
think that made for all four of the can
dates all four of whom are skilled
politicians right Elizabeth Warren is a
skilled politician so is Bernie Sanders
and so you know you had kind of a more
difficult obstacle course - to navigate
I want to ask a question about Elizabeth
Warren in particular we've described her
frequently on this podcast and in the
broader media ecosystem as well as
Warren is the person who has momentum if
you look at the average of polls though
over the past month her polling hasn't
gone up it's gone down a little bit and
kind of stayed the same for a while
gone up a little bit but there's not a
it's not clear that the momentum that
brought her - on average 18 points by
you know late July is still kind of
keeping at the same pace so I guess
where what are we talking about when we
mean moment when we say momentum I think
that if you do not adjust polling
averages for house effects maybe a
tendency of certain pollsters to to show
higher or lower numbers for candidate
then it can insert noise into a polling
average and therefore some of this
bouncing around might not really be
underlying public sentiment but like but
like the mix of pollsters that happen
have been active in the last two weeks
or whatever but I think Galen's point
that Warren has gone from like high
single digits in the spring to she's
essentially doubled her support a little
more than that she's now like in the mid
to high-teens
right but that was by July in theory she
had gotten - if you look at our friends
at morning consult and think about
morning consult it's just one pollster
okay however they do take very large
samples and it's one pollsters you don't
have to worry about the mix of pollsters
they show an extremely linear and steady
increase for Warren that dates back to
maybe mid-may or so right and they show
her kind of like literally every other
week she gains a point and you play that
out and she's at 22 or whatever bye-bye
Iowa and that's not bad but isn't it
what should should we play it out
because I think it
my question is in part based on what we
often tell people which is that past
momentum does not equal future momentum
and it seems the narrative has been
established that you know she has a
momentum of keep going up keep going up
but looking at some average of poles
it doesn't look like it looks like that
momentum may have stalled out I mean the
theory could be that hey she is a
persuasive candidate people began with
priors about her based on Pocahontas and
frankly some stuff based on her gender
and age maybe right and as people get
more information about them let me
overcome them and the theory will be
posted by the fact that like when you
ask highly informed voters who do you
like they are much higher on Warren than
the overall electorate they're also
lower on Sanders which might be related
there's like an elected I think the so
the weird thing about the last half of
the summer is kind of it was sort of
like a I thought of political dens
deadzone newswise sort of but I do think
that the you know sort of there has been
this maturation of the electability idea
at least when it comes to Warren and
that she is seen gradually as being more
electable and I'm kind of I think the
fall will become interesting because
perhaps we'll start paying more
attention to early state polls
specifically Iowa as neat has mentioned
before and New Hampshire and the idea
that in a place like Iowa filled with
you know with an electorate that is
dominated by white liberal
college-educated activists e-types on
the Democratic side of the caucuses that
Warren could do really well and that you
know you already saw last week and a few
weeks ago the Biden team really
softening the ground and saying he
doesn't need to win Iowa you know
perhaps prepping everyone for the the
possibility that Warren or someone else
could win those states and and sort of
trying to guard against perhaps that
like motivation expectation game do you
think do you think Claire so early on it
seemed like one real hurdle for Warren
was the gendered / sexist perception
that she was kind of a Hillary Clinton
Redux or to put it in a more charitable
light
just to worry that Warren would run into
the same gendered sexist issues that
that Clinton did I haven't heard that
question I think it's become that she's
a lot of people actually didn't know who
she was before that there was the kind
of there was a facile way to compare to
Hillary Clinton which is same age white
lady right um but I do think that's
probably why Warren's team has spent a
longer - like they have her out in those
selfie lines which I'm sure listeners of
the podcast know about which is she's
just out there and she's kind of being
affable and like literally touching
people right like literally being out
there
she takes debates as a moment just
talked about I used to be a teacher and
I got married too young and I went to
this commuter school in Houston so very
much conveying the idea of I'm a normal
middle-class lady not a Harvard
professor not a I go to the Hamptons
fundraising kind of circuit which I
think was very much Clinton's perception
and that's a little bit what I'm talking
about the electability thing is it's
yeah it's no longer
oh she's hillary clinton 2.0 and she has
trumped this trump pocahontas nickname I
mean hilarious how much a nickname in
2020 politics can really sway voters
perceptions but I do think Warren was
fighting that for the first couple of
months I mean I I do think it's um
fairly likely that at some point
Warren will become more of a target from
other candidates and and from the media
I mean she's enjoyed I think like a four
or five month period of like very
friendly and favorable media coverage
including things that like I think kind
of the media by is like hook line and
sinker to hey she has a plan for that
and everything is really like
substantive right when I think like any
other candy her positions are kind of
cleverly crafted politically and what
she advocated for is a liberal senator
from Massachusetts is slightly different
than what you did when she was not yet
in office and and everything else right
but you know I do think at some point
there might be a greater round of
scrutiny um and I think that'll come on
her wealth tax plan which you're already
starting to
see I think in more academic circles as
people kind of saying listen she's this
is perhaps not as rosy and outlook as
you might see and I think but I here's
what I think is that that will be a
general election thing if she got
through my one question is how much more
than what we saw at the past two debates
will Democrats go after Elizabeth Warren
in part because she's well-liked by I
think the other people on the stage but
also voters yeah like I don't how much
is how much we're gonna actually see
those substantive critiques in the next
what six months I mean I think one other
area of concern for her and I'm stealing
us from someone I had a conversation
last night so I polished them item if
you're listening god link health care is
potentially an issue we saw how Como
Harris really seemed to get squeezed in
that second debate for trying to have a
little bit both ways on health care
where it was Medicare for all who want
it sort of kind of right and Warren has
kind of tiptoed away from pure Medicare
for all kind of release this this kind
of essay about health care I think on
her site last week that wasn't quite
like a plan also wasn't quite you know
wasn't clear what it was exactly but
like she could get squeezed a little bit
between Sanders who I think I think look
to the extent Sanders has a shot to hold
off Warren I think health care is a big
big part of that message and also in
terms of elective bill on the other side
in terms of electability we've had the
conversation on this podcast before that
Medicare for all the version which means
no more private insurance is just not
broadly popular it's not but it's
probably better in the kind of
Democratic primary than mushy policy
stances right um both Medicare for all
and the public option like Biden
advocates for it have strategic benefits
in the context of a primary being
somewhere between you know I really
think Harris seemed to get in trouble
over that and you can imagine more and
kind of taking heat on that I want to
wrap up on this so that we have time to
get to the Republican primary I guess if
you want to call it that last
in here sure I want to call it that what
else what do we call it I mean you know
it's people are challenging Trump will
it will it have the feel of you know the
Democratic primary absolutely not and
and sometimes they won't even hold
primary contests as we'll discuss so but
anyway we like to talk about media and
narrative plenty so let me just give you
a headline from the debate and tell me
if you think it's a correct take after
the third primary debate political
magazine piece the title reads there is
no longer a front-runner after that
Houston debate is that a fair takeaway
no it's it's literally not true so yes
or no so now who are at this point who
is the top tier then is it the same
three as before well are you like
trolling me missing like piece last week
was it last week or two weeks ago I mean
I think like look you can cut the number
off at different numbers of candidates
right at one or two at one clearly one
candidate is ahead for Biden or national
poll remains the numerical frontrunner
but there's there are ineffable signs of
weakness I don't think I don't think in
the wake of the debate Biden's front
Biden's lead has been altered enough
that I would remove the frontrunner
label from him I think the most
meaningful change is maybe walk is sorry
is maybe Harris's claim to that fourth
spot has become a little more tenuous
that's and so effect so the takeaway is
maybe you know Nate argued for like a
top four top four and a half a week or
two ago and I think that was the case
then but at top it's a little more top
three now yeah right if hypothetically
so if the average voter was considering
two candidates and so we use are
considering numbers kind of a quasi
horse race number right then that would
mean Harris would lose a point or two
and a lot of these kind of second tier
candidates might gain a point or two
which would make it very close we'll be
right back here on ABC News live to talk
about the Republican primary there are
three
Republicans challenging president Trump
we're gonna talk about what effects they
could have on his long-term prospects of
being reelected and what they tell us
about where the Republican Party is
today are now three people challenging
President Trump for the Republican
nomination their odds are probably not
great of winning that nomination but
they could have some effect on the race
overall we're gonna discuss that right
now here on ABC News live so let's start
with kind of the big question Claire is
there any argument to be made that one
of these candidates or the three of them
together pose a serious challenge to
trump all right you know you know like
maybe there's some kind of amalgamation
effect of having three people attack you
instead of one I don't know so I think
I'll probably confine my comments to
Sanford and weld because they are most
like the traditional Republicans that
traditional Republicans are used to
voting for you get into trouble though
because I think those Republican voters
that used to vote for Republicans but
don't like Trump that much might be
tending more towards looking at
Democratic candidates particularly if
Joe Biden wins the nomination fight I
mean it is it's it's quite interesting
to look at the number of former campaign
managers for Republican prep the
presidents who are really like on the
Joe Biden train I think that kind of
indicates something so I'm not sure i
think i think bill weld and sanford will
have to convince those voters that they
should lodge a protest vote and that
they should you know kind of convince
them to vote in the Republican primary
almost yeah because I think that there
is a bit of disengagement with the
Republican political process if you're
not super into Trump that's my initial
inkling I think the other thing like
with Mark Sanford he has been a little
bit of a political joke now his
amazing scandal affair from a decade ago
which he told his believe that time
flies in which he told his wife and
staff that he was going to go hike on
the Appalachian Trail but instead flew
to South America to visit his mistress
so that was that was this guy's that was
a scandal that was a laughingstock thing
it was a big deal no I know he was like
a suit like otherwise became a serious
politician again it kind of came back
you didn't he did come back for it I
will leave the gender commentary on that
for another time but there is he is kind
of still land scible you know like he's
still a little bit of a and bill weld
glanceable yeah horrible to be lanced so
i thought it meant but and I think weld
is you know weld was on the libertarian
ticket in 2016
he was Gary Johnson's VP pick he joined
the Libertarian Party in 2016 in order
to be on that ticket then he left a
libertarian party to be able to run this
time around
interesting guy was a governor but again
not like it's not like a current non
scandal having Republican politician and
good standing is mounting these primary
challenges right that's like the the
nikki Haley bar right right nikki Haley
isn't running she's just tweeting well
yeah there's in-betweens between Haley
and like a Mark Sanford right because
Haley would be considered I mean she's
probably one of the most likely
Republicans in the country to become
president at some point maybe after take
it's not I take it off their vodka okay
no I think that's right yeah nobody
establish that way back when the Haley
bar is like when we would take the
Republican primary seriously as a horse
race yeah right which is different than
taking it seriously as like an
intellectual or even as like a rape so
let me just get this kind of stat out
there all three presidents who faced
significant primary challenges in the
modern primary air
did not lose the primary but went on to
lose the general election so even if
these are not horse race risks is there
an argument that just these three people
challenging Trump poses risks long-term
risks to his reelection they are there's
an argument that they are symptomatic of
Trump being weak enough where his
reelection is in serious doubt you guys
agree well I mean we already know that
Trump has a 41 and a half or whatever
percent approval rating which might lead
you to think that there is doubt about
whether he'd be reelected or not but
like but you know so they don't tell us
anything they'd have the effect of like
the Jill Stein disillusioned Bernie
Sanders voters at the end of the 2016
primary process and you know just like
deflating turnout or yeah well I would I
think I would put it this way is like as
Nate said we have very direct measures
of how strong Trump is in terms of his
reelection chances and they show he's
pretty weak right his approval rating
first and foremost but what that leaves
out is sort of like in what manner is
Trump weak right and this that kid that
gets thrown around all the time is his
approval rating among Republicans right
but as we've discussed and as has been
discussed elsewhere
that's his approval rating among
self-identified Republicans and so
what's interesting to me is like the
primary in some sense serves as an
exploration of where Trump lacks support
within the Republican Party do I think
that it'll have like a causal effect on
his general election chances probably
not maybe on the margins like having to
to wage a primary battle even a little
bit I think mostly it's a it's an
interesting exploration of like you have
this as Claire was getting out this kind
of diverse group challenging mmm
how do the how do Republican primary
voters respond to that yes sir
let's dig into that where is Trump weak
within the Republican Party well first I
think the first and most obvious group
is like the like group Claire referenced
which is like the never Trump first I
like more educated more well-off like
party inside our type who like care
about the GOP brand
I mean base and a little redundant to
say that he's weak among never jumpers
no like colleges you like the group that
we always are like all other
college-educated white people who live
in the suburbs and traditionally voted
Republican
right like that I think I think the
weakness and you guys were getting at
this a little bit right but could
certain critiques of Trump coming from
other conservatives a group that might
not include Bill well that probably
includes Joe Walsh something yeah could
that reinforce certain lines that voters
also hear from the mainstream media and
or from Democrats and could that have an
effect that you know I did feel like
look I don't really blame I never think
that Bernie Sanders campaign was a
particularly big cause of why Clinton
lost in order to really blame anyone for
playing out the string I do think that
like the fact that like kind of you
heard a lot about how the system was
corrupt in rigged to help her help laid
some groundwork for when Crump was
making different arguments but that made
some of the same rhetoric right so what
are the what are the lines of attack
that you think Joe Walsh or Mark Sanford
could be making that but that would
reinforce themes that you know maybe
soft Republican supporters are hearing
in the mainstream media
maybe themes that he hasn't drained the
swamp yeah maybe themes that he's not
quite up comput to the job those are two
areas that I think are vulnerable yeah
so that I think what what is
particularly interesting about Walsh is
like okay sure you know more educated
Republicans wealthier well-off
Republicans to suburban Republicans
kind of nevertrump group okay obviously
Trump is weak there I think there if you
look at the data there was like also
evidence that Republican voters voters
who otherwise would be really
sympathetic to Trump in other words
they're like hardline on immigration
maybe skeptical of trade like voters
maybe live in a rural area right there
or otherwise kind of have all the
hallmarks of Trump supporters but they
are sensitive to stuff about how we
conduct himself in public right like if
you pull on that it's not like those
people are just like I don't care about
it but just Joe Walsh the candidate to
not it's not not if I was building one
in a lab but what I'm getting at is like
both in in the sense of like how much
support like if well some of these
candidates basically run is like look I
agree with Trump on the policy issues
but I'm not gonna act crazy on Twitter
yeah I mean well and and again the like
I think Joe Walsh again maybe not the
best person that but yeah his argument
would be like I too believed in his
mission and his plan and I've been
disappointed by the results
he hasn't trained the swamp he's been
and yeah I guess I'm more skeptical of
the Joe Walsh approach because it is
going after Trump diehards
I wonder how pic awful they are because
the Trump thing is such a personality
based braggadocious swagger and kind of
thing and we have seen like even in
instances with let's take the tariffs
wick in places where it's had big
effects often rural places you know
anecdotally you'll still so people see
people sort of saying well from
reporting I've seen other people do
people saying it's hurting me right now
but I think it's for the best interest
of the country so I trust Trump on this
and to me that that is kind of like
showing a pup a certain power of the
personality so if Walsh is going after
people it I'm kind of curious about that
demographic yeah I don't I don't think
they are super pick off a bowl I think
most aren't but but we're talking on the
margins here right it's like the margins
that matter here and if like 10 percent
of them are open to this message and I
think they are
then I think that hasn't fat well right
and margins do matter here right white
working-class voters make up forty five
percent of the electorate so even small
margins can matter significantly and to
your point about who Joe Walsh is and
who he might be picking off we haven't
really filled out his biography in the
same way we did with weld or Sanford
he's basically got his rise in politics
during the Tea Party movement as a
congressman in Illinois and is a
hardliner on immigration said plenty of
things about Barack Obama that were
either Islamophobic or xenophobic etc
and so you know he is not a bill weld
style old-school New England Republican
who you know wants to lower taxes and
comes from some kind of like patrician
family or something like that
yeah and Walsh isn't like the best
messenger but I just think inherently
it's it's it's a more interesting
challenge to Trump because it's where
Trump is strong then then someone like
weld who is challenging where Trump is
we just because Trump in the Republican
Party isn't weak in a large enough area
for that challenge to be successful or
even interesting particularly I
mentioned at the top that Trump
generally pulls in the high 80s amongst
Republicans and I'm looking at a recent
Emerson College poll this was with Bill
weld so this was before the other two
got in the r8 the other two primary
challenge was got in the race which was
recently and the poll showed Trump with
84% two welds 16% is it fair to think of
that kind of a breakdown as the
Republican Party like there's 16 percent
of Republicans who are willing to vote
for somebody
another Republican who's not Trump or is
there a bigger pool of soft Trump
supporters out there I mean 16 seems
higher than some other polls it's not
really well because I mean I've seen
other polls where you know 40-some
percent of Republicans say they want to
see a primary challenge against Trump
yeah that's like the kind of the effect
of have like an abstract ideal what's
your take on how large because I mean
look back on the Republican primary in
2016 there were a lot of people who
didn't like Trump to begin with
and had to be kind of convinced could
another Republican just convince them
that they don't like Trump anymore well
I mean at some point in the process
between the middle stage of the primary
and the November general election a lot
of Republicans decided that like hey you
know if you can't beat them join them
and decide they do like Trump or they
were caught up in the kind of
partisanship of the general election
right or by the way again
you know one slight issue with using
self-identified Republicans as a metric
is that there are some Republicans who
say I'm no longer a Republican because I
don't like Trump and therefore the
universe of people who were present in
like say four years ago in late 2015 are
not the same as in 2019 that seems not
to have an enormous effect but it has
some effect at the margin so you know
and he also draws people into the party
said I never thought of myself as a
Republican but I sure like what Trump
has to say about you know immigrants for
example so it's not a perfect metric but
can I do a thought experiment here
that's yeah let's say as I'm checking my
Twitter feed Trump announces that he's
not going to run for reelection
perfectly healthy
he just wants more time to enjoy himself
he thinks he has a successful first term
there's no particular scandal or
anything beyond what's known currently
he just decides you know what I'm gonna
let someone else run who would fill that
void what do we think would happen next
so this is where the nikki Haley
Congress though it would be pence why
apart I mean I guess maybe thinking
about the Republican political identity
is it pence because he fits the current
Republican political identity or is
there somebody who better fits that
today so pence actually could more
easily roll into and did roll into the
populist form of things because he is
you know he's the Indiana guy he's what
what's what was his great line I'm a
conservative but I'm nice about it I'm
not mad about it yeah so um he's quite
conservative though right like he is the
older he is like the old-school
evangelical line of thinking so in in in
some ways actually I think so inmates
thought experiment
he is not interested in the results in
some ways I think in Nate's thought
experiment pent is actually I do think
Penta would be best position not only
because he's vice president but like I
think he perfectly represents where the
party is
in this way right I think the chances of
a snapback in the way that Claire was
getting at where all of a sudden like
the party is abiding by that like 2012
post-mortem or zero right do I think
that like Trump perfectly represents the
future of the party though no I think
the future the party is something like
pence which is like both super
conservative clearly fine with some of
the norm breaking that Trump has done
because he signed on for it right but a
little a little smoother around the
edges you said that you thought politics
would snap back is that just on trade
are there free trade look free trade
like this isn't helping Trump it's
probably hurting his chances at
reelection now because he's pursuing
although it's always kind of on-again
off-again
I guess we're friends now with China
again but adding uncertainty to the
economy and people are more Pro free
trade and they were before so maybe it's
like kind of it exception I don't know
you know but immigration I think
Republicans would say maybe this does
help us and in some respect again I
always want to run people that like the
fact that the electoral college and the
Senate tend to reward
especially the Senate kind of rural
largely white states it's important and
part of the reason why the kind of you
know emerging blue wave whatever a
theory was kind of wrong as far as the
electoral college goes but excuse me a
merchant Democratic majority blended
together different theories but I know I
mean you were saying well pence kind of
perfectly represents kind of the median
of the Republican Party we have a
Democratic Party right now primary right
now and the cannon who probably best
represents on average
all threads the Democratic Party is
probably like Kemal Harris or something
and she's down at six percent you know
I'm not sure that pence really has the
force of personality I think I think the
one strain though that the Republican
Party will definitely hold on from the
Trump era to is populism and I think
populism in general is on the rise in
America the conservative form of
populism has become sort of this like
cultural pop cultural populism like the
idea of you know protect our jobs from
outside foreign forces is a populist
spin is it is it conservative spin and a
populist thing of like the working
people should be honored in this country
right and I think that that's a that's a
smart tactic for Republicans to go after
it because they already have a foothold
in rural areas and exurban areas and so
why not sort of bang that drum more and
more and then I think you could I guess
refine the economics of it perhaps I
mean you couldn't I don't know I'm not
smart enough on this to know what the
more refined Trump ish trade
protectionist policy is it's probably
something more in line with like what
you know Democrats like sherrod Brown
have been pushing for for years and
that's not really like a Republican
thing traditionally so I don't know I
mean what about somebody who basically
held or promoted all the positions of
Trump but was just team and quote
unquote presidential in our classic
sense but that's with that like - that
totally obliterates the strengths of
Trump which is the being the powerful
voice of the people who perceived that
they do not have any power so like half
of his appeal isn't in his policies at
all it's in him getting up there and
raging I think on a raise I think the
research shows that sort of trumps
offensiveness in the eyes of the left is
central to his appeal on the right yeah
right but I think it's an open question
to what extent Trump's quote
quote offensiveness on other stuff so on
trade from the from the point of view of
a Republican elite or a democratically
right or on or on like just kind of some
of the strongman sort of inclinations he
has so I posited this very nice riding
off into the sunset moment for Trump
which is not the most likely way to his
presidency would end right his presence
II would probably end either by losing
re-election or winning reelection and
there a lot of sub scenarios there right
including losing by a lot versus a
narrow loss that he's contesting
including winning reelection and then
things go south the second term
responding reelection he's got a
fifty-two percent approval rating right
you know I do think like the scenarios
where Democrats have a great 2020 where
Elizabeth Warren or whomever else wins
by six and a half points and they win
the Senate and they have a bigger
majority in the house right and they win
Arizona or come with it in point in
Texas or something right like that would
look like that'd be a different scenario
where I think there'd be attempts to
repudiate trumpism although it would be
hard to say that Elizabeth Warren is not
a populist it wouldn't be hard to say
that I would I will say Elizabeth Warren
is kind of mmm maybe using populism as a
way describe her walkush ness the
Democratic version of populism comes
closer to at least being like kind of it
I mean I don't think anyone's really a
populist right because like if you
combine the kind of conservatism on
social issues which he definitely
doesn't have with the leftism on
economic issues which the Republicans
certainly don't have right then then I'm
not sure they're rating populist out
there both parties are half populist I
mean if you define populist I mean I
guess it's like one very mechanistic way
to define it right you know some
combination of conservative on certain
types of cultural issues
that promote the kind of masses over the
elites but also leftish on certain types
of economic issues I don't think anybody
that party really offers that exactly
I mean Bernie is a little closer because
bernie really does seem like he is
against the system and the elites and
the terms that he uses like that like i
think bernie is actually closer to being
a a true populous than then more it is
yeah I think Warren's like a
technocratic I don't think she's really
that much of populist at all I think
we're true populist oh maybe that's a
good episode no no a whole episode on
populism in America I think that's a
wrap for today's show so thank you Nate
Thank You Caitlin Thank You Claire
thanks Caitlin Thank You Micah no
problem my name is Galen drew tony chow
is in the control room our intern is
jake Arlo you can get in touch by
emailing us at podcasts at five thirty
eight.com you can also of course tweeted
us with any questions or comments if
you're a fan of the show leave us a
rating or review in the Apple podcast
store or tell someone about us thanks
for listening and we'll see you soon hey
folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
