well it's all about certain now that
LeBron James will miss the playoffs for
the first time since 2005 with their
loss to the Clippers Tuesday night the
Lakers have lost 9 of their last 12 and
are currently in 10th place in the West
with 538 projections giving them a
minuscule 2% chance of making the
playoffs the last two months or so
represent an enormous fall from grace
for the Lakers they started the season
as a projected six seed in the West and
come Christmas they were still sitting
pretty as that projected succeed with a
63% chance of making the playoffs
according to our projections but then
LeBron strained his groin on Christmas
and everything fell apart by the time
LeBron returned in early February Los
Angeles was projected to finish ninth in
the conference missed outside the
playoff picture and somehow things have
only gotten worse since then while
James's average close to a triple-double
since rejoining the lineup the team has
lost three in a row and is now projected
to finish in 10th place a lot of the
blame belongs with a couple of veterans
and the front office deprioritize
bringing them in this past summer
Rajon Rondo has shot 36% since the
all-star break and Lance Stephenson has
been even worse since mid-february
and a frigid 27% the youngsters aren't
totally blameless while Brandon Ingram
has played some of the best basketball
of his life lately second-year player
Josh Hart has seen his three-point shot
regressed terribly from 39% through the
end of 2018 to just 23% since the
calendar turned to 2019 in addition the
team's defense
LeBron included often looks
disinterested the Lakers were 6th in
team defense during the month of January
but is ranked dead last in the league
since then at this point we know exactly
what the Lakers shortcomings are the
real question now with their playoff
odds thinning by the day is whether
there's even enough time for LeBron and
company to fix them
