[Music]
hello and welcome to the 5:30 politics
podcast on this edition we're gonna talk
about Elizabeth Warren's ascension in
the polls her staying power how she got
there and what the path potentially
towards the nomination or an eventual
loss might look like we're also going to
talk about the aftermath of the two mass
shootings two weeks ago one in El Paso
Texas and the other in Dayton Ohio and
whether or not the conversation about
guns and white nationalist terrorism has
changed you're watching the 5:38
politics podcast on ABC News live so
Warren has been in second place in the
Real Clear Politics average of national
primary polls for a little over a week
now and it's the first time that she's
claimed that Spa apart from a one day
blip back in July and she overtook
senator Bernie Sanders to get there
Warren is now polling around 17% to
Biden's 30 and Sanders as 16% in those
national averages and is some measure of
the conventional wisdom a week ago
Warren overtook Biden as the likeliest
to win the nomination according to
betting markets on predicted it was just
a handful of months ago that Warren was
polling fifth or sixth nationally with
numbers in the mid single digits and
following the backlash to the release of
her DNA test she seemed like a long shot
so here with me to talk about how Warren
made her comeback and what her staying
power looks like our senior politics
writer Clem Ellen how are you I'm good
also with us is managing editor Micah
Cohen hello and joining us from
Louisville Kentucky is senior writer Pei
bacon jr. how are you likewise and Nate
is out today but also later in the show
we are going to take stock of how the
conversations about mass shootings and
white nationalist terrorism have
developed in the two weeks since the
shootings in El Paso and Dayton but
let's begin with Warren and perhaps we
can think of this as an updated theory
of the case like we did when candidates
originally got in the race so Claire for
starters how do you think about how
Warren made her comeback from fifth or
sixth in the polls nationally so
all kind of crib from a very good piece
by Walter Shapiro in the New Republic he
did a profile of Warren and he basically
is talking about this this whole
narrative of her sort of gradually
ticking up in the polls and he's saying
you know what changed you know in the
movie version of this how would it play
out and his answer is nothing really
changed she's sort of been doing the
same exact thing the entire time and it
sort of seems like the slow and steady
wins the race kind of kind of thing not
literally but slow and steady ticks up
in the polls and overtakes the second on
the leaderboard for polling average I
guess in the 538 parlance but I think to
answer it more fulsomely
she is over a period of several months
basically since she launched kind of
built an identity that is surrounded by
policy plans now that you know there's
there's like this whole meme this whole
thing that her campaign is sort of
trying to use of the I the plan for that
she has t-shirts all this stuff now if
you read some of the plans are more
detailed than others but they are all
out there and you know 2,000 to 2,500
words on medium and so you can read them
and so the idea is she's sort of
presenting herself herself as eminently
prepared to govern I have a vision of
this all this stuff and she is caught on
among like essentially Hillary Clinton
voters I would say of the Democratic
primary electorate like a surprising
number of like professional urbanites or
like college-educated white people which
and to be like the readership of the New
York Times and the columnist of the two
york times so there's a certain like I
would call it word of mouth energy
that's a little bit of a trickle down
from from the top is that a good kickoff
yeah it is a good kickoff and I agree
with all of it except I do think I do
think there is a distinction between
warrant voters and Clinton's voters I
mean there's overlap it there but as you
would expect with Clinton you know she
was pulling out like whatever 60% in the
polls and Warren has you know 15 to 20
percent
Warren support is much more limited to
very liberal why educated urban
religiously unaffiliated then Clinton
support was Clinton support was a little
more diverse sure look and I guess I
guess yes I mean a two-person primary
field versus of course however many
person primary field and I guess I say
Clinton voters to Warren voters because
I'm surprised because Warren so has so
much in common policy wise with Sanders
I think it's just notable to say that
that she is as much as she is the
economic candidate she is an identity
candidate for a certain kind of Democrat
that wants that woke white white person
vision of America to them she sort of
yes she's a woman but she's like they
they ran a white a middle-aged white
lady before you could either go with
well she won the primary or you can go
with well she and and she won the
popular vote she can also say well she
lost the electoral college but Warren
kind of combines that like oh the
populism of Bernie I don't know there's
a certain like safeness I think that a
lot of Democrats seem to be starting to
feel with Warren that to me feels a
little bit like all these are the kind
of people who shunned Bernie Sanders but
now a person who holds a lot of his
politics is being embraced by them
I agree with that and actually it's
notable we we ran a piece last week that
showed that Warren is actually from if
you look at who people voted for in 2016
Warren is actually drawing her support
equally from Bernie voters in 2016 and
Clinton voters and in 2016 which i think
is notable as you say because she has so
much policy similarity with Bernie it
suggests this other thing going on with
her drawing from Clinton voters I think
it's interesting that you described her
as feeling safe to some people and I we
can get more into you know what doubts
people may have or whether they really
do think she is safe in either the
primary or the general but before we get
to that Perry can you weigh in here on
how Elizabeth Warren has kind of risen
steadily from fifth or sixth nationally
now to
second though I think she actually had a
really good campaign strategy to line up
with her like so you have to campaign
for you know more than a year so her
thing is I'm the luckiest of the
luckiest of the wonky and each week I'm
gonna roll out or each two to roll out a
plan thumbing in America happens and
though she has a plan so feel like it
fits really well into a campaign like
you compare her to Joe Biden's camp
campaign is basically I'm electable you
can only say that what you can say that
every day was it's not effective
interesting way to campaign qumola
Harris's campaign is like I'm left but
not dead left and that's sort of like
was about other people not you heaps is
about I'm young and who says I'm young
in a variety of ways but still the same
method I think Warren is a great way to
sustain a year-long campaign and you can
tell people like every issue
Jia's our response to she is in the news
cycle people are talking about her other
chemistry at dinner I don't think it's a
really well organized and thought-out
campaign do you think that this is
somewhat of a reversion to the mean in
the sense that this is where we would
have expected her to be all along
without the negative coverage and
backlash surrounding the DNA test or is
this something totally different like
this is a strong campaign working its
way up through the polls and it's not
when she was fifth sixth it wasn't just
about the DNA thing that's really where
she was naturally and she's progressed
since yeah I don't know I mean I thought
an interesting thing that that Walters
piece pointed out was that they they and
I kind of forgotten this I think we
talked a lot about how she made this
announcement about listen we're not
gonna take big fundraising big donors
dollars and her had a finance quit and
she really spent a lot in the first
couple of months in early states kind of
building up like an organization and
they're lying in that pieces well you
could nor his line that pieces like you
can build up an organization and do the
media after but you can't have a
months-long organization
whenever right you need there are some
things that need to come into place
first so maybe it's a
sense of like oh yeah they've kind of
been plugging and chugging the whole
time and had a vision of what this is
gonna be I do think though their their
initial stumbles with the Native
American DNA test did Bulai a certain
blind spot of the candidate and probably
her inner circle which is not as diverse
and not as like with it necessarily but
they seem to course-correct pretty
quickly on that all things speaking for
this campaign
yeah I think that's right I think I
think a lot of it is just kind of
reversion to the mean I'm if you
remember when she was languishing in the
sing sing low single digits in the polls
we were all sitting here being like well
yeah why isn't she doing better even
weeks after the DMS DNA test controversy
the other part I do think is what Perry
said which is she's and what Claire just
mention which is she's run a really good
campaign it's been substantive I think
she's she's been smart about organizing
in the early states having that
infrastructure the other thing though is
she's caught some breaks in terms of who
else has struggled so one Bernie I think
has I think it's safe to say the
campaign for Bernie hasn't gone as well
as they probably hoped just in terms of
he starts off really high name
recognition preening meaningful support
in the polls that support dips a little
bit he's kind of feels a little bit I
think like a rerun at 2016 not a lot of
new notes Warren capitalizes on that
better or work struggles I also think
have been kind of inherently good for
war in in the sense that he's the white
college educated well yeah exactly so if
you're if you're if you're trying to
target at least as a first step the kind
of super educated super liberal white
segment of the Democratic Party the
other candidates going for that doing
poorly helps you write even even Buddha
judge the fact that the Buddha judge
surge kind of has tapered off a bit I
think that's helped her to the Micah's
saying the other candidates have
underperform I do think Warren huh Biden
had a very logical theory of the case
Warren kind of bumbled into she couldn't
run electability because Noah bases
electable so she sort of bubbling to a
good strategy of running as issues
person I feel like bado Booker Pete and
Harris are all trying to run the Obama
campaign of 2008 I'm not left
I'm not Center I'm charismatic look how
charming and exciting I am and I do
think that that strategy may have not
worked and so Harris hadn't opened I
mean so Warren had an opening to run
sort of a policy based campaign because
she was running his for people who were
kind of really not saying anything and
then Biden who was to the right of her
yeah I think that's that's that makes a
lot of sense because there is that sort
of inchoate like I'm gonna make a
soaring speech edge of things and then
there's there's Biden who does just say
like I'm good friends with Barak and
also you know me and and she is and I I
will say like she has to Warren's credit
got into electoral politics very
recently but her brand was always
incredibly specific I mean think about
her first kind of national viral moment
I think it was was this video of her
doing that very small in someone's house
speech about if you're wealthy in
America you used our roads you did all
these things like you didn't get rich by
yourself and I do think she has a little
bit of that
god forbid I use this to describe a
politician but folks enos right like
she's there is and by the way she plays
it up to the nth degree on the trail her
her stump speech is a yes perhaps anyway
it's very folksy but I think that that's
kind of authentic to who she is I mean
I've talked about this with with friends
before about the way she presents
herself is actually quite different from
a lot of female politicians let's just
look at like Harris Gillibrand and
Clovis are all dressed in the
the the confining tailoring of the of a
professional woman right for lack of a
better word sheath dresses sharp suits
pearls in fact Harris sidebar there's a
sort of like interesting little thing
she has with like she always wears
pearls because someone a relative
broader pearls back but like really she
just wears pearls because pearls are
what you wear when you're in public life
and you want to look pretty but you
don't want to be distracting anyway
Elizabeth Warren wears loose sweaters
and when she goes on the debate stage
she kind of wears her own version of
like a suit jacket but it's not quite
the suit jacket that other women wear
she's but she kind of looks like your
mom's friend who wears either Eileen
Fisher or something more downmarket
the athleisure almost sometimes yeah and
it's kind of this that's probably how
your grandma or your mom dresses and I
think that's sort of to her strengths
and I should also note that after we
recorded our podcast last week a video
of Warren went viral of her running up
on stage in New Hampshire and I saw said
when people comment on Twitter like oh
Claire pointed that out last week that
they're the older candidates are always
trying to show themselves running and
being active in order to you know make
the case that they're not too old to be
President it's as if Elizabeth Warren a
an older woman is proving like this is
why women live longer than men is just I
don't know there's that there is a
certain like yes she is projecting like
I'm you're spry grandma so we've
described where Elizabeth Warren is
right now but of course she's still in
second place and barely in second place
kind of just got there you know Biden is
still more than ten points ahead of her
in the national polling averages and
when you look at Warren support as we've
already described it's very white it's
very college-educated
it's very liberal it's very one part of
the Democratic Party so how does she get
from here to there
and that's kind of the question that we
asked when a lot of these candidates got
in the race which was what's their
theory for the case how do they win the
nomination so Perry what do you see what
would have to happen from here for
Warren to become the Democratic nominee
though I tend to see it in terms of
states and I can
see it very clearly as she could win
Iowa because she there is that white
liberal base in Iowa that exists for her
you could win New Hampshire because
other White's states very educated she's
Barrett near where she lives
i and then from there if she could win
those first two parameters not easy at
all but totally the real possibility
then I think it becomes a question of
like I don't think she's just people
gonna do well I think she was struggle
the South with a lot of sort of more
conservative white voters and
african-americans who are I think I mean
more closely to Biden her hair somebody
else like that but I think if you win
those first two primaries they give you
the momentum and helps her sort of grow
her base maybe should get some
endorsements after that yeah I think the
question is how does she grow her base
outside of what you described I think
the answer is some early wins probably
help with that yeah like I could
potentially see Warren doing kind of
well in Nevada like like getting maybe a
big a big Union endorsement because she
speaks the language of unions her having
an organized team on the ground turning
people out to those caucuses that could
be good and then you could get momentum
I agree with Perry like there's a lot of
votes in the south and she probably
aren't isn't gonna get those but she
could win a few super choose one of the
two super Tuesday's you know she could
get some of those Midwestern states I
could see her winning Michigan I mean
Sanders won Michigan and 2016 who's not
to say that she would she couldn't win a
thing like that so you could see her
making her way through Oklahoma let's
say I mean you know just states where
where we don't think about that their
votes hiding and I actually think to her
credit actually to a lot of the
candidates credits you are start you are
seeing them say I'm campaigning here in
Mississippi or Alabama and I'm gonna
come back right like the idea that they
are Warren as a as the candidate as a
white candidate and the current
candidate of like white college-educated
people is real is is cognizant of the
fact that she it would be embarrassing
if she had no black support or outreach
like that is an important part of the of
the Democratic coalition why not just
embarrassing but also proud
not viable her you know candidacy for to
win the nomination so we've talked about
maybe a strategy in terms of just the
sequence of primaries but where does she
actually have upside in terms of voters
like who could she which other
candidates could she gain support from
if they faltered you know like because
even where she is now she still wouldn't
win who's whose cards does she get when
they fold I mean mmm
so she okay so one there's a share of
Biden supporters who are mostly with
Biden now just because they think he's
the most electable so if Warren wins
Iowa New Hampshire you would imagine all
of a sudden she seems a lot more
electable because she's winning
elections you know she picks up let's
say a handful of percentage points from
from Biden right Sanders has been sort
of like hovering at around I don't know
what what's he been at like 13 14 15
percent in national polls you know if he
is stuck there all the way up until Iowa
what like what does he do I mean do you
think there's any circumstance in which
Elizabeth Warren could make the argument
to Sanders if you don't drop out Biden
will win so if you believe in your cause
Jeremy yeah and would that be would that
be convincing to Bernie Sanders I don't
think with endorse Warren if she he
definitely does not endorse Biden yes
absolutely but I don't think it happens
until like after March that that's just
we and that's more reading into like the
psychology of Bernie Sanders as a true
believer in his singular cause yeah and
I don't I mean they're all listen wait
this is not to like slag Bernie but
they're all crazy but like we also have
the template of 2016 as some sort of
indication of how Bernie might make a
decision which is to say like
he I mean he was a little like play to
the whistle kind of guy so I don't know
I don't know what he's gonna do this so
here's another way to think about it is
what you know what demographic
characteristics does Warren kind of over
index with right now and how could she
could she improve her support among the
opposite of that in other words right
now Warren does disproportionately well
with very liberal voters and when you go
to somewhat liberal she does worse and
when you go to moderate conservative she
does way worse could you see her doing a
little bit better with somewhat liberal
voters maybe but she's really liberal
you know so so I think that'll be tough
let alone moderate conservative sorry
yeah and then you know the look at race
right she does really well she does
disproportionately well with white
voters worse with black voters worse
with Hispanic voters how could you
reverse that that's a little hard to see
- honestly it's the same problem Bernie
had the one area where I where I can
imagine it happening more and remember
though these demographic groups all
overlap right so this actually isn't a
perfect way to think about it but she
over indexes right now with very well
educated voters but you could imagine if
she doesn't write her kind of populist
structural change message resonating
with voters without a college education
voters who just have a high school
degree in the same way Trump's right mmm
populist message did still though it is
a little bit of the of the of the Bernie
problem the only other thing I'd say is
if you if you look at like how it this
is all from a really interest in Pew
report that came out but right now the
support by candidate isn't super
differentiated by gender in other words
there's not like there's not a kind of
that's doing really met well among women
or men relative to one another
and I'm curious to see if that stays the
same or changes depending on how the
field winner was I think that I think
the point about Warren I don't frankly
ever see her excelling or competing with
Biden or Harris like like Perry sort of
predicted with black voters in the south
but I do think she has an opportunity to
win over moderate white voters and to
make a to make an argument that in the
general election she could do something
to appeal to more moderate people and
what I think is interesting that her
campaign hasn't hasn't done more of is
play up the fact that she used to be a
Republican play up the fact that she
took a little bit of a winding road to
get to her liberal positions she in fact
almost like a full lifetime to get to
those positions and I think that that's
actually it's less of a neat narrative
then single working mother which she is
which is currently sort of the the
threat of her her stub speech grew up in
a you know household teetering on the
edge of the middle-class and poverty but
I think that idea that she was a
Republican for much of her adult life is
very compelling if you want to win over
those more moderate voters and I think
this is where some of the like the weird
how women and men are perceived when
they when they try to do populism is
really interesting because while Warren
grew up super middle-class and spent
most of her life as an as a Republican
she sort of reads as a woman Harvard
professor where as Joe Biden who has
been a senator since he was thirty you
know it's been in the national spotlight
for a long time is still Scranton Joe in
a lot of people's eyes middle-class Joe
and so it is it's just a little bit of a
different valence on those two things I
want to read a quote actually from from
columnist Henry Olsen in the Washington
Post and see what you got if you think
this is right and we'll go to you Perry
he wrote Warren's tactics so far have
more in common with those of evangelical
religious right Republican candidates
than with eventual nominees those men
Mike Huckabee Rick Santorum and Ted Cruz
used strong support from a large party
faction to win early knockout
of other candidates with broader-based
support but they each lost when the race
winnow down to the final stage because
the factors that earned them support
from the religious right alienated them
from the parties silent majority pari tu
does that sound like Warren and perhaps
an argument for why she wouldn't go on
to win the nomination um not quite I
mean I don't I don't think of I guess
the idea I guess here's a college
educated voters the Democratic Party are
like evangelicals they're looking party
out I don't totally see it that way but
I guess what I would say is being a
candidate people with white white people
with college degrees is limiting that's
about a third of the Democratic voters a
lot of Hillary I do think one natural
place for Warren to go is to go to there
are college-educated people who are not
white then that's a part of Democratic
Party that we don't talk about a lot but
that's one place where be logical but
you can imagine sort of a space the
Abrams style person that came down to
Biden versus Warren we want to I think
would endorse Warren over but over Biden
and I wonder if you get some more black
elected officials Hispanic elected
officials people who are prominent to
endorse Warren down the line if she
wanna sleep in the black boat was she
like narrow because the key thing is she
can't have a gap that is the Sanders
Clinton gap was so big him and make up
for that if Warren can sort of have a
more narrow gap dustiest not can't be so
I think Henry's right but she can't be
so back soon as you can't win I think
the other talking about getting like
prominent politicians and surrogates of
color in certain states would be
powerful her for her she people have
made a lot of sort of like in the inside
baseball baseball stuff about oh would
she choose Castro as a running mate they
seem kind of chummy they seem kind of
like like they they've complemented each
other publicly so the idea that she
couldn't you know someone like that
dropping out and endorsing her you know
like that if you're playing that kind of
game or getting certain prominent
mayor's like like Andrew Gilliam that
endorsement will will matter I think
when it comes when it when it happens
like there are people like that around
the country
who could basically like lend her
credibility sort of like to be a little
bit Frank about it kind of do what Obama
does for Biden which is sort of lend
Elizabeth Warren like more reach in
minority communities and more
credibility yeah I agree with that and I
should also say and this to slightly
correct what I said earlier in that Pew
poll and I think this goes to the Castro
point you know Warren did best among
white voters like I said we got 20% of
first choice support but she actually
didn't do that much worse among Hispanic
voters she got 14 percent of their first
first choice support she got four
percent among among black voters so
maybe maybe that suggests that Hispanic
voters are illogical sort of like next
step for her which overlaps with what
Perry said about college-educated
non-white voters the other thing though
and I think just gets that Claire's
point and it's a it's a key advantage
Warren has over Bernie even though we're
talking about how like in some ways they
have the the same problem in terms of
how they build out their coalition I do
think it's more likely as Claire said
that Warren can get elite endorsements
then Sanders has been able to or will be
able to for whatever reason she's just I
mean there are a lot of reasons but
she's just kind of more a part of the
establishment and then sorry I'm
rambling here but the last thing I'll
say to that point about is the kind of
very liberal college educated white
section of the Democratic Party akin to
the evangelical section of the
Republican Party and therefore is Warren
affectional can be in the way that
Santorum was I think this gets at the
conversation we're having on the podcast
last week about Iowa right Iowa in both
parties is defined by those factions
right for for Republicans evangelicals
for Democrats
very
pearl white voters and yet I was been
predictive in the Democratic Party but
not predictive in the Republican Party
and I think that's why is a complicated
question but for whatever the reason it
does suggest that the relationship
between those factions and a larger
party is different between the two
parties Perry as Elizabeth Warren has
gained steadily in the polls does it
seem like concerns about her quote
unquote electability have subsided at
all I don't see I mean I I read these
polls to say more people think she's
electable than they did six months ago I
I read them but I don't do be about them
why you know I know we're at data
Vocalist website but if you asked
regular people and use go to South
Carolina tomorrow and ask people what
our weekend Warner Harris win they'll
say are you are you insane we just
watched Hillary loose you know I mean I
think the women can't win as a really
deep feeling among Democrats and I think
that's her biggest barrier yeah bill is
it more about her ideology or her gender
at this point does it seem those
questions I think it's much I think I
post well that is what say I think it's
people say it's about her ideology
because that's safe to say
in columns and on TV but if you actual
voters talk about gender a lot cuz they
don't know much about ID yellows I think
we underestimate the truly pessimistic
streak running through the Democratic
primary electorate in general just the
idea of people not voting necessarily
for what they want in their heart of
hearts but what their brain tells them
they should do because they're sort of
trying to seek out what other people
want and yes I mean I think there's
there's just a lot of pessimism about
who can win and where America is right
now after Hillary Clinton and after
Obama's presidency what at this point
can we is what do the numbers tell us
about how people view Warren's
electability they view her as
not as electable as as people like Biden
or even or even like Bernie I think
Bernie's view this more like to pull
them Warren is yeah and I think I mean
we actually haven't talked as I think in
part because there's lots of frankly
this summer has been like the summer of
the racialized remark blunder however
you want to say it like there's been a
lot of talk about race right and Joe
Biden and Harrison Booker and how
they're going after Joe Biden's support
in the black community and we I think
we've like we haven't talked about
sexism for a while but to go back to the
idea of electability like yeah like
remember 2016 like a lot of people there
was there was a lot of remote sexism and
like odd nauseam from all the dudes who
follow us on Twitter I got like where's
the numbers on that it's like well you
can't you can't apply numbers to sexism
everywhere some of it just like lies
deep in your hearts but also like but
there is but this is not a crazy thing
to think that like some of the
electability notions surrounding
Elizabeth Warren have to do with like
she talks she talks kind of annoying and
she reminds me of my teacher like people
do like people listening to his podcast
might be like that sounds crazy but
people say that stuff and people feel
that stuff so but just to put some
numbers to what Galen asked a YouGov
survey asked people to select each
candidate they felt could beat Trump and
Warren was ranked second behind Biden
far behind Biden 661 percent of people
picked Biden 46 percent picked Warren
then came Harrison say and there's a
forty three percent and it was a survey
in which you could just mark whoever you
thought you could make as many cats as
you want and in a a Monmouth poll from
June ask people to assign a number value
from zero to ten to each candidate's
electability and Warren placed third at
six point four behind Biden at seven
point one and Sanders at six point five
now I think a lot of that to Perry's
point is just like as her support has
grown in the polls first choice support
there's more people who I think are
inclined
to answer positively on warrens behalf
in other poll questions such as these
but look like I don't know this is such
a tricky conversation but like we know
that oils being equal
on average candidates further from the
ideological center do have more trouble
in general elections that's just true
you know will it apply to Warren if
she's the nominee in 2020 well I don't
know you know we also know that as Clair
just said there's a deep sexism within
this country that manifests itself in a
lot of ways now studies show that when
women run they they win at at a rate
equal with men right in similar
conditions but all those studies are of
Cosmos House races and Senate races in
gubernatorial races and I think there
are reasons to suspect that running for
president is different but it's very
hard to predict how that will play out
in fact it's hard enough to predict how
that will play out that like I don't you
know the probably safest bet is not to
make a bunch of assumptions about who is
electable and new and who isn't I don't
think we know when you look at 2016 of
course Hillary Clinton won that
nomination relatively easily and came
very very close to winning the
presidency and so to take all that and
ferment she was you know highly
historically disliked and so to take
also that information and then say
there's no way a woman could win feels
like kind of over emphasizing one part
of the data and not allowing other parts
of the data to speak as well no
absolutely but I think this is sort of
tying to other issues which is that
there is a divide in the Democratic
Party between it's sort of left left and
it's left center Michael Bloomberg does
not want Warren to win yeah does not
agree with her in the issues
how will he say that Lee's on television
my guess is he will say she's elected
Aloysius is to left so these things are
tied each other there's a real war
between the sort of Pelosi wing and the
Sanders wing and honorable don't
warrants big problem also is that people
who don't want her to
because they don't like the wealth
checks and they don't like her ideas on
the substance are very easily able to
hint at her gender and hint and note her
left as among policy issues I think
she's gonna have a real problem she wins
Iowa New Hampshire also that the a
certain part of the party yeah
endorse anybody else who's standing
there to make sure she doesn't win the
same way Sanders had a big problem sick
that he's different than Warren but he
had a big problem sixteen that the
basically every black person in America
who is a look at official visibly
endorse Hillary Clinton J Sanders won
New Hampshire because the party does not
like the party with the party elites who
prefer Harris or by them to war in her
sand can can she win the Democratic
primary without making at least some
inroads with black voters no right I
mean she's gotta make another somebody
voters are only I mean black voters are
only what twenty five was the electorate
so yes if she if she can't do that
without she can't lose whites without
degrees and black voters yeah which is
what she's doing now I think you're
right Perry that like numerically sure
she could put together a coalition that
gets her above fifty percent
you know combining very liberal white
voters edgy college-educated white
voters with let's say some non college
white voters let's say some Hispanic
voters black voters are such an
important part of the constituency
though that I you know how I do think as
I said earlier one advantage Warren has
over over the burning campaign is I
think she will be more acceptable to the
party establishment will the party
establishment be okay with a candidate
who hasn't shown any appeal to with
black voters I mean historically no
right when we look at Obama when we look
at Kerry when we look at clinton gore
they all had clear support from black
voters yes but how much of that is sort
of just like a coincidence of the kind
of path of least resistance coalition
being you know black voters and
you know somewhat liberal white voters
or something like that as opposed to the
power brokers in the party actually
being like hey if you're you you know
one reason Hillary Clinton lost in 2016
was black turnout was down right I don't
know the answer to this I'd most curious
like well you know how much will
officials demand if you want to be our
nominee you got to show an ability to
win non-white voters generally and black
voters in particular that's a wrap for
our conversation about Elizabeth
Warren's ascension in the polls but
we're going to be right back and we will
talk about the fallout from the two mass
shootings in El Paso Texas in Dayton
Ohio just two weeks ago we're back and
it's been a little over two weeks since
thirty-one people were killed over a
single weekend in mass shootings in
Dayton Ohio and El Paso Texas since then
polling has showed an increase in
concerns over the threat of white
nationalism and support for stricter gun
laws remains the majority opinion as it
has for a while Congress is still in
recess and won't be back until Labor Day
but 2020 Democratic candidates have
continued to talk about the attacks on
the trail Perry I want to start with you
two weeks out does it seem like the El
Paso and perhaps maybe Dayton - but of
course
El Paso brings in the issue of white
nationalist terrorism as well but does
it seem like those mass shootings were a
defining moment in American politics I
think there were and they were and we
can discuss how we define American
politics but I think if you look at how
the New York Times and other
publications are covering white
nationalism Trump's speeches there's
been a much Fox News there's been a lot
of stories saying this shooters words
and you know in words and messages were
echoed from I think there's been much
more aggressive coverage about that in
the media
so you're seeing I'm seeing a lot of
stories about people calling in or the
local law enforcement arresting people
who have put up you know who have
written about white supremacy and there
seems like there's a heightened
attention in the public and from law
enforcement on the idea that by
Nationals and the students I mean though
I do think that the media and maybe
institutions outside of government in
some ways are changing their approach
and their sense that white nationalist
is bait the FBI and my guess is gonna be
do more focused and so I do think
institutions are changing and I think it
might be galvanizing in that way without
this slide changing kind of votes in
Congress is that the sunset you got well
my eye shape my initial response to that
question was gonna be no but I think I
think Perry's right it's like maybe the
answer is something like it did produce
some lasting change in terms of how as
perry said people and institutions treat
and think of white nationalism
but not with guns right because on guns
i I don't think we've seen as many as
many changes and honestly even on white
nationalism
I think Perry's right that you will see
some like you know the FBI will probably
announce some effort target and blah
blah blah and I do think we've seen some
media outlets be a little more explicit
about the the threat white national
white national imposes now and has post
historically will that last
you know so just to I mean we've talked
about guns before and this on this
podcast and it's always in the same
framework of like is public opinion on
gun control changing and I think we've
generally come to the conclusion that it
has sort of steadily changed and gotten
more in favor of gun control and I would
guess push back a little bit and say so
the Republican Governor of Ohio
obviously one of the shootings was in
Dayton Mike DeWine called for a version
of a red flag law so it's background
checks things like that and I think
Trump you know wishy maybe initially
wanted to support it but then perhaps
actually today I
think he he made some noise about well
remember we already have a lot of
background checks and it's really about
mental health so he kind of yeah yeah
but I I guess I would say there is a
with every shooting there does seem to
be I think some nominal change as far as
the idea of talking about white
nationalism and talking about white
supremacy which I actually think are
interestingly now being defined like
those definitions are being refined
quite a bit so talking about right-wing
terrorists and use that using a language
of this is a white nationalist people in
the media drawing kind of comparisons to
well like San Bernardino that was sort
of an isis-inspired terrorist attack so
this shooting in El Paso was a white
nationalist inspired terrorist attack
they're essentially the same kind of
thing we should talk about them the same
way but I think the white supremacy idea
is the one you're seeing like Tucker
Carlson pushback on in this way where
he's saying white supremacy is only the
KKK and people who go to meetings and
tattoo swastikas on their heads and and
do that kind of thing whereas I think a
lot of institutions are
smartly and rightly talking about white
supremacy as the idea that systemic
racism exists and that it's promoted in
various ways cultural and political over
hundreds of years but that's a hard
concept for people to get a hold of and
that I think has been more difficult I
think the idea of designating white
nationalist terrorists in the same
category as Muslim terrorism is it is a
is like an easier job for the media to
do the white supremacy conversation is
much harder and it's tied into slavery
and everything that came from that in
America so it's like talking about
American history in a radically
different way yeah that seems right to
me I do think the media has has is now
with white nationalists or white
supremacists terror attacks uses much
more of the tropes and just the has
takes up much more the position at the
similar position as I do
al-qaeda terrorism as it existed or Isis
terrorism I mean so are you are you guys
saying that in a way the American
conception of the threat of white
nationalism has changed it sounds like
yes I don't think that I think you said
unequivocally yes that this is a much
more serious and unwell initiative
threat than it was three weeks ago
and that is a meaningful change in the
electorate and institutions that matters
even if there's no gun control bill or
white nationalism bill that passes next
week I'm not predicting any legislation
I'm just saying that I think that these
kinds of cultural changes do matter and
I think something happened to last week
but you think it'll last peri I do I do
think that we'll see the net you know
there will be more of a focus on
somebody wrote some weird post on their
Facebook page yeah how they hate Jews I
think it'll be more likely that the cops
in that city will be like let me do
something before the Walmart gets shot
up not I just think there'll be more
aggression around these kinds of things
in this in thinking it's like Isis I'm a
certain way like Claire said I think
that is I think that is a department yes
I do and there was a there was a
shooting that was supposedly stopped by
law enforcement right that was similarly
motivated like white nationalism
motivated so but it's I mean it's I
think it's probably been the
identification of that has probably like
in American media has probably been
slightly slowed down by you know outlets
like Fox News where it's it's like if
it's a if it's a right-wing extremist
okay what we're now calling white
nationalism because it's
it's always that they they talk about
the mental illness thing and it's and it
then that becomes a whole conversation
and so Mike it's very apropos that you
say the Trump was saying this morning
it's all about mental illness like I do
think that that talking point has
severely [ __ ] progress of talking of
like how we talk about that and identify
that in media in terms of talking about
politics government we usually talk
about I guess I so it looks like the
House Democrats are going to be come
back and sort of push when they get back
and regions gonna push bills on banning
high-capacity magazines and some kind of
red flag loss so it's not like fate you
know it's not surprising they're taking
those fans but they're gonna try to ramp
up the issue in terms of the presence of
campaign what you've seen is the big
idea that sort of emerged last two weeks
is I think Cory Booker was the first
person had this idea this to those
national gun licensing which is kind of
something the the idea is like getting a
gun license to you or like process like
getting a passport you have to apply you
get do some interviews you that make
sure you weren't crazy essentially so
what's win from being Booker to now
Warren baito Castro that's now kind of a
mainstream idea and the party I don't
think Biden's taking it up yet there's a
lot of candidates on good idea so I
think that's a shift this happened and
the third way is if you Thurmond is like
Beto's campaign specifically you think
about the candidates buying this kind of
running a basically anti Trump campaign
Trump is the problem of America you know
Warren and Sanders are a these kind of
campaigns along the lines of the big
business the wealthy the other problem
of America Biggio is now moving pretty
fully to a kind of an anti racism
campaign racism is like if you've seen
him he way to Mississippi to talk to the
ice you know to talk about the ice
situation there he sees at the he's you
know a Houma today visiting the memorial
for the Pacific native to striking a
watch and I'll be curious to see what
four months of running is kind of a sort
of my campaign as an anti racism
campaign looks like yeah and he was also
an I mean anti racism but also like
doing the whole thing or he's like but
I'm willing to talk to the other side
like he was in Arkansas and he went to a
gun show and talked to gun owner you
like there is that kind of the relaunch
of his
campaign after the El Paso shooting is
interesting I mean in his sort of
relaunch kind of address some people say
I should run for Senate but I'm here to
like fight the higher forces at work in
America I in frankly like skeptical of
it still because it see I mean it could
who's to say what works in this
environment but yeah the idea of running
not just an anti-trump campaign but an
ante like bad things in America and I'm
here to like make us a a to sound a
sonorous note in and feel your pain in
some ways it I don't I don't know what
that it looks like and I think it I
agree with you Perry it'll be
interesting to watch but it but it's not
I mean not to be too cynical but is Jiri
launching his campaign if he was at 18%
in the polls
no right you're saying that he wasn't
working out and this is another thing
that he'll try and the chances are that
given that he already wasn't working out
yeah this won't work out either Perry
did outline some of the ways in which
Democrats have well responded to the
mass shooting in El Paso both you know
in Congress and on the 20/20 trail how
have Republicans reacted I know you know
Claire you mentioned the governor of
Ohio have we seen anything I know Greg
Abbott of course the governor of Texas
also launched a you know domestic
terrorism task force what about Trump
what about other Republicans what is the
response been like I mean you could
describe it a bunch of different ways
but I think there has not been much
response from the Republic of engagement
yes like look Democrats I think if you
look at the long history of guns as an
issue in this country there really has
been changed on the Democratic side
Democrats are officials are much more
willing to come out forcefully for gun
control now than they were ten years ago
let alone twin
years ago Democratic politicians now and
you see this among the 20 20 candidates
are very willing to come out forcefully
for gun control
have we seen some Republican officials
come out and favor over the red flag law
or you know the the Trump administration
signed Trump signed that the bump stock
thing they talk about mental you know
they I think the the error of mass
shootings if you can call it that has
resulted in Republican officials being
more willing to pay some lip service to
gun control and then to nibble around
the edges a little bit policy wise but
but our Republicans gonna get on board
with an assault weapons ban or like
Harry do you think there's any chance
Republicans in Congress would get on
board with a ban on high-capacity
magazines no of course not but I do so
what I see is in this happened after the
shooting in part room two is initially
Trump and the hähnel say I'm open
anything let's have a big discussion
let's you know and then and I don't be
too cynical to say this but it seems
like they're sort of running out the
clock in a certain now so absolutely the
first speak the first few days is were
prepared to do reelection the next week
it's like yeah and by the time Mitch
McConnell is very smart he knew the
shooting happened in August and Congress
was better start in September so he was
able to make comments that maybe you
know there were maybe if not
disingenuous he knew the heat would be
off of him by the time Congress back in
September so my guess is rump will do
something in the executive branch to
sort of make it harder people who are
mentally ill to buy guns it won't pass
in Congress but I don't think most
Republicans in Congress want to vote for
a gun control bill but I think if Trump
give this we're gonna cover that's what
I'll expect to see all right well I
think that's a pretty good explanation
of where things stand at this point so
with that let's wrap it up Thank You
Claire
thanks Kalyan Thank You Micah you're
very welcome
and thank you very for now my name is
Gale Andrew Tony Chow is in the control
room our intern is Jake Arlo you can get
in touch by E
telling us at podcasts at five thirty
eight.com you can also of course tweeted
us with any questions or comments if
you're a fan of the show leave us a
rating or review in the Appel podcast or
or tell someone about us as people are
getting back from vacation and heading
back to work and paying attention to the
primary and politics because what else
were you gonna do when you get back to
work just scroll through Twitter tell
people to check us out anyway thank you
for listening and we'll see you soon hey
folks I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
