the sweet 16 is set for the 2019 women's
college basketball tournament and we
have a new favorite to win it all but
more on that later let's talk about our
teams first there's no real surprises at
the top the number1 and number2 seeds in
each region have made the sweet 16 in
Greensboro it's all chock numbers 1
through 4 are all there in Portland and
Albany each region has a number 6 seed
as its lowest but we do have one
Cinderella and that's in the Chicago
region number 11 Missouri State
we gave Missouri State just a 3% chance
of making the sweet 16 before the games
began but here they are after knocking
off number 3 Iowa State in the second
round Missouri State plays number-2
Stanford next and they have a 16 percent
chance of pulling off that upset now
where does the tournament go from here
if the games play out according to our
predictions in the Final Four will have
to number one seeds in Baylor and Notre
Dame and to number two seeds in Oregon
and UConn Notre Dame was our pre
tournament favorite we gave the Fighting
Irish a 30% chance to win before any
games tipped off but now our favorite to
win the entire thing is Baylor at 35%
the Bears powered by the nation's number
one defense
according to her hoop stats calm I've
held there to attorney opponents to an
average of just 51 points a game their
potential remaining opponents in the
region aren't offensive powerhouses
South Carolina who's up next for the
bears has an offense ranked 14th NC
State is ranked 18th and Iowa is 8th but
if they do make it to the Final Four
that number one defense could be on a
collision course to face one of the top
two offenses in the country in Oregon
and Mississippi State but we're getting
ahead of ourselves there's a lot of
exciting basketball to be played before
that matchup could happen for now though
we have some exciting sweet 16 games to
look forward to for more live wind
probabilities and predictions throughout
the tournament visit fivethirtyeight.com
hey folks I predict that you're going to
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
