the City of Angels is about to be packed
with a whole lot of star power this
season more so than usual but one and
all of the crazy offseason moves for the
LA Clippers and Lakers due to their
projections for the upcoming NBA season
let's take a look first a quick recap
after the Lakers added former all-stars
such as Anthony Davis and boogie cousins
here's what their potential starting
lineup looks like you got LeBron James
reportedly playing point guard we'll see
how long that lasts to go with Danny
Green who was on the NBA champion
Toronto Raptors Kyle Kuzma at small Ford
Congrats on not getting traded Kyle to
go with cousins and Davis who had
previously been together on a pretty
imposing Pelican frontcourt
that's a lineup that according to our
projections all offer positive ratings
on both offense and defense
except for Kuzma who's a slight negative
on defense now here's a potential
clipper starting lineup based on who our
projections think we'll get the most
minutes for the team a point guard
you've got noted defensive pest Pat
Beverley and on the wings he's joined by
the two big offseason acquisitions of
Paul George and Kawhi Leonard finally
rounding out the starting five you've
got Landry shamit and montrezl harrell
coincidentally that's also a lineup that
features players who are entirely above
average on both offense and defense
again with one exception this time
it's Landry shamit who's a negative on
defense now it feels like neither team
is completely done tinkering with their
rosters but even now we can see some
trends emerge with that Lakers lineup
plus their bench players the full
strength Carmelo rating for LA is 1647
which is good for about 51 wins
according to the 538 projections after
accounting for injuries and things like
load management which is a new feature
of the system this year that allows
players like LeBron James to rest
themselves during the regular season as
for the Clippers their full strength
Carmelo rating is 1629 and they project
for 48 wins during the regular season so
it's looking really close between the
two teams in the battle for LA and we'd
have to give the Lakers just a slight
edge on paper and you also have to
remember that the
Clippers won't get a fully healthy Paul
George back at the start of the season
he's still recovering from an offseason
surgery but the bigger picture is that
la should be prepared for both of these
teams to make deep playoff runs which is
after all the whole point of building
these super teams according to our model
the Lakers have a 13% chance of winning
the NBA championship and the Clippers
have a 5% chance why do the Lakers have
the edge there well they get a boost for
a slight edge and top-end Talent and
also for the collective playoff
experience of the veteran players
neither team is a favorite to win the
West because the Houston Rockets exist
hi Houston but this is the most relevant
both la basketball teams have probably
ever been in their entire shared
existence in the City of Angels
the only other contender was the early
2010's when he had the Lakers still with
Kobe Bryant and Pau Gasol going up
against the Clippers who had just formed
their own big three with Chris Paul
Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan but
even then the Kobe era Lakers were
already on the decline and the LOB city
Clippers never quite scratched the
surface of their potential so it's fair
to say that for the first time maybe
ever the center of the basketball
universe could be squarely in Hollywood
you might say that the NBA couldn't have
asked for a better script that was
terrible let's cut that
hey folks I predict that you're going to
either subscribe to our YouTube channel
or watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
