hello and welcome to the 538 politics
podcast I'm gayland Rukh this weekend
that the country was confronted with
back-to-back mass shootings one of which
was explicitly tied to white nationalist
terrorism a young man targeting
immigrants killed 20 people at an El
Paso Walmart on Saturday that attack is
being investigated as domestic terrorism
another nine people were killed in
Dayton Ohio on Sunday in a shooting
where the motive is still unknown at
least 53 people were wounded in those
two attacks and another seven people
were wounded in a shooting in Chicago
also on Sunday so today we're gonna take
a look at the trends in mass shootings
and white nationalism how politicians
are responding and what the American
public thinks and here with me to do
that our editor-in-chief Nate Silver
how's it going good thank you also here
with me is senior politics writer climb
alone how are you thank you and managing
editor Michael Cohen hey so I mentioned
some of what we know about the attacks
and law enforcement investigations are
still being conducted but at this point
what else is notable about the attacks
that happened this weekend Claire let's
start with you given that we're on a
political podcast I think the mass
shooting that stands out to me the most
in that context and I realize that
that's a pretty macabre easing and I
don't mean to be flip about it but the
El Paso shooting at a Walmart a Walmart
that is frequented by people from Juarez
in Mexico as well as by American
citizens the shooter posted on a online
forum white supremacist theories about
demographics specifically about you know
Latinos and whites being replaced and he
quoted Trump reportedly quite a few
times now I actually can't read the
manifesto anymore on its original forum
the link doesn't actually open for me so
I'm assuming that it has been taken down
but those are those are the reports
about it so he didn't explore I read the
manifesto he didn't explicitly quote
Trump and he
kind of goes out of his way to say I
have these beliefs before Trump got into
office and we can debate whether or not
that's true and there's also complicated
issues surrounding how much to
specifically refer to this manifesto
because it was written to manipulate the
media anyway he doesn't explicitly quote
from there are obvious themes references
document yeah there any that have been
brought up in Fox News and by Trump etc
sure
anyway um the geographic location of the
shooting the fact that El Paso has been
at the center of you know a lot of back
and forth rhetorical attacks mostly from
the president and you've seen you know
Congress there's former congressman
better O'Rourke who's obviously from El
Paso who this morning we're recording
this on on Monday late morning you know
this morning basically came out and said
to a media gaggle listen guys of course
the president's rhetoric is connected to
the shooting and made some pretty strong
statements so this is you know it's it's
it's unfortunately part of the political
conversation well that's that's what
stands out to me and some of this walk
echo what Claire said but you know this
has become a thing in in the u.s. now
where you we have these mass shootings
and then there is always a political
conversation that follows and and that
conversation has different flavors and
different tenors and focuses on
different things depending on the
specifics of the shooting right what
stands out in this case is just how
political just how snugly fit this this
tragedy was within our politics I mean
the language that the shooter used in
what he wrote as you guys said echoes
what Trump has said echoes Fox News you
know the point about it predating Trump
you know that that that doesn't
disconnect the two right we have
research that shows that the way that
political rhetoric can affect violence
is is not by like making someone who has
never had a had these thoughts before
all of a sudden adopt them right it's by
folk
and activating people who who already
believe some of this stuff so to me it's
like it's just sort of how closely tied
the two feel it stands out what's what I
keep on thinking about is if people
remember when congressman Gabby Giffords
was shot in a parking lot along with
several other people several years ago
there was a there was a conversation
that said you know there have been I
guess a some sort of Primack these are
the district's to target right yes
Sarah Palin led kind of these are the
different district was one of them these
are the districts we want to target to
like turn over right to make it to into
Republican districts and initially there
was a lot of people saying look you put
you put a you know a gun crosshairs on
these posters and someone shot actually
shot this congresswoman these things are
connected and then there was a push back
in the media to say no that's those
those things aren't connected and I
think listen I'm not here to talk about
that shooting necessarily but I think
that the fact that we're having a pretty
explicit conversation in 2019 about the
way political rhetoric can incite
political can incite violence is very
very different and you know you people
people constantly make references to the
language that Trump uses about an
infestation or you know those Asian
invasion and I think it's in light of
this weekend's events it is it is really
striking to go back and look at the way
we as a culture a media ippolit a
politic political system reacted to the
Giffords shooting first the way we
reacting to now and I don't think we're
reacting to it wrong now to to Thai
political rhetoric to violence and and
there you know I think that they are
likely going to treat this shooting as a
a insome domestic terrorism and be a
hate crime yeah and I do want since
we're talking about the relationship
between rhetoric and violence I want to
quote an article from Nathan kalmo who's
an assistant professor of political
communications at Louisiana State
University he wrote an article in
Politico last October
yes political rhetoric can incite
violence and here's his quote
researchers have good circumstantial
evidence from the real world as well as
evidence from scientific experiments
concluding over all that rhetoric is
probably not the main cause in most
attacks but violent hateful language can
inflame people who are already inclined
toward violence and focus their rage so
something to keep in mind throughout
this conversation neat to put this in
context what do we know about the
incidences of mass shootings and
domestic terrorism in the United States
today according to the nonprofit gun
violence archive there have been two
fifty-one mass shootings in the US and
2019 and they define the shooting as
anyone in which at least four people are
shot not kind of a shooter in the same
incident that could include cases where
we think of it as urban kind of street
violence or things like that and not
necessarily this sort of premeditated
we're usually white shooter stands up
and but like obviously these things are
happening more often they are a
relatively small part of the number of
overall gun deaths in America which
averaged about 33,000 but you know
obviously the way to think about it is
in the frame maybe not obviously to me
in the frame of terrorism I by the way
don't like the modifier domestic before
terrorism terrorism is terrorism and
whether it's domestic or international
seems like about the eighth most
important modifier but you have someone
with an expressly political motivation
who is trying to instill fear through
violence that stretches beyond the death
toll from the incident alone and so
that's the else a little bit different
here and like to kind of like to betos
statement for example and you had
several candidates who are like swearing
about this and I'm usually kind of in
other context in favor of more swearing
in politics if you want my votes we're
more but like it is like a what kind of
moment right because like you have two
ingredients here
that are very very important one is that
in the u.s. we have easier access to
guns and two is that you have a revival
of white supremacism which sometimes is
aided and abetted by rhetoric from the
president and like we can talk about how
different solutions might even work
difficult or the contextual factors or
economic anxiety or whatever right but
like but those have to be the first two
things you mentioned many outlets in the
media have been pretty frank about and
that goes to Clare's point about
unfortunately we've had enough of these
mass shootings since the since the
Giffords shooting that the media has had
practice and just repetition of you know
just frankly people are way more
comfortable including us going to the
politics the political implications of
these shootings more quickly after yeah
which we think is a good thing but like
and it's you know it's interesting
because when was Colin by 1999 somewhere
in the yeah back in the late 90s I mean
that was I don't remember talking of
listen I wasn't a sentient adult I was a
you know kid but I remember it and I
remember people talking about video
games was certainly a part of it right
the culture blah blah blah but as the
conversation has evolved over the past
20 years it is turned into people
explicitly first you know people
explicitly tongue it to the NRA and NRA
policies and now we're at this the
president's rhetoric kind of stage of
things not to blame everything on
Twitter or what or whatever but like a
lot of the like the sound bite culture
of political media or the Twitter
culture of political media like that
doesn't necessarily lend itself well to
like the nuance to say like it's a hard
thing to say like the words you're
saying could potentially be causing
murderous events right that's and that's
a big thing to say yeah
and it's a big thing to digest in the
time it's like I mean I'm not sure where
I'm going here necessarily but like yeah
I like the press gaggle and the yeah
they're trying to get a sound bite out
of the the the press
candidate about this really massive
issue is kind of a rough situation to be
in
knowing the reaction I think is in part
again it's we don't know the exact
question but the media will some
reporters will sometimes ask candidates
like factual questions in order to do
what Nate said which is like you put you
won't you launder the opinion right
through through the through one side or
the other but again I I think I think
many outlets including many major outlet
outlets have been pretty good about
being being straightforward about this
although that said like just to just to
be a little big the conversation
obviously hasn't come that far because
we still have mostly coming from
Republicans
you know people pointing to video games
and people pointing to Trump to that
news it's almost so I mean like it's
just so I don't know I mean you know me
I don't suffer fools lightly and the
video game argument is just so
incredibly some people believe it and I
think you have to I think good if if you
believe that then I don't think you're I
think you're beyond persuasion because
it's so stupid
that like your brain is addled by
partisanship or stupidity and I'm not
sure that we're gonna help you out I
mean obviously like you know it's worth
saying that there has been research done
on this topic video games violence
I don't coast on your statement though
that we shouldn't like go through the
steps of proving to people or
consistently slamming their heads
against the wall and saying no these
aren't Commission recognize when
powerful people are acting in bad faith
well we this was a complex problem why
are we trying to find of course you
should and of course you should call
politicians out but also I think being
repetitious in the way that you cover
these events and continuously saying to
the American public not just
disingenuous politicians know video
games are connected let's talk about the
root causes that's not a futile act
futile act right no I see I agree with
that and let me actually add one other
thing which is I actually the idea that
video games are linked researchers
shouldn't there's not a there's not a
link so like let's be super clear about
that I
not sure it's a stupid idea like have
you played some of these video games
there it's not crazy to know to play a
lot of video games
I think per capita highest spending is
in South Korea very few mass shooting
South Korea he's saying just don't
dismiss that yeah he persuaded the idea
that having violence in media in general
having violence in video games having a
bunch of people play violent games that
people might be persuaded by the idea we
know from the research that it's not
true but let's move on from this
specific part of the conversation okay
we have said that this is a complicated
conversation that different media
organizations are doing maybe a better
job that Democrats have been somewhat
straightforward about connecting the
rhetoric of the president and the you
know attack in El Paso specifically how
much does this event conversations about
white supremacy white nationalism
Trump's rhetoric violence mass shootings
gun violence how much does that play
into Democrats message to the public if
we're going to be kind of explicitly
political here because after 2016 I
think there was some reticence among
Democrats to talk about quote-unquote
identity politics
I think Charlottesville changed that a
lot and I think you see Biden brings up
Charlottesville's a lot and that's part
of his argument to say look at who not
just look at these terrible people in
Charlottesville but also look at the
president like look at the president
ouchy for these terrible people and it's
part of his whole the country's on a
wrong track and I'm the one to take on
Trump thing so I think that that it has
you know it has been talked about a lot
the presidential debates are notable for
the sections of the debates that have
focused on race people talk about white
supremacy in the United States right
like it's a pretty I do think that the
Democrats are using that phrase white
supremacy I think people it probably in
the past few years it has been used so
much more and in a different I think in
a different way
most people understand stood white
supremacy in recent decades right which
is people tended to think of white
supremacy as the KKK lynching people and
burning crosses and they didn't think of
it maybe maybe necessarily buy it like a
dictionary definition of white supremacy
which would be systemic racism and the
belief that that whites are whether
you're burning crosses or you know
putting in poll taxes or whatever it is
an institutional privilege of whites
over people of other races and I think
we are using that term white supremacy
much much much much more in the context
of regular everyday politics and calling
things out and that's been interesting
to watch and the Democratic debates
because it it doesn't just have to do
with political violence it kind of goes
into the rhetoric and some of the other
systemic things that that Democrats are
now pointing to and saying we need to
change that you know maybe we can't
answer this question but even watching
interviews with better work Cory Booker
and who Leon Castro over the weekend
some were more or less willing to tie
the president's comments to the violence
right who Leon Castro said there's one
person who's responsible for this attack
it's the shooter now of course this
happens in an environment where the
president is saying these kinds of
things may be better took a stronger
stance and connecting the two is it is
it wrong or bad politics or whatever to
basically say the president is
responsible for attacks like this on the
Democrats part bad politics in what
sense I mean I you know because as we
read you can't it's kind of like climate
change right you can't say that storm
was caused by climate change but you can
say I mean you've had a lot of the
Democrats kind of say expressed that
they think the president is a racist
that it was one of them if I'm not
mistaken and you've had you know Joe
Biden kind of launches campaign around
Charlottesville so supposedly he's the
most prudent and moderate candidate of
the major candidates in the race but
he's willing to kind of go there
as well I mean look to some extent
you're gonna have a process where you
probably have some camp candidates
emphasized gun violence more I have some
thoughts about who that might be based
on who said more this weekend and whose
communities were targeted but to some
extent Democratic voters will signal in
various ways how much they want to
prioritize gun control and gun policy
versus other issues right I'm gonna be
interested to see which candidates so
there are two mean there are a lot of
things going on here right but two of
them are in terms of issues in the
political realm guns and then white
national I'm white nationalism white
supremacy and it'll be interesting to
see what candidates like lean more into
the guns part of this and which lean
more into the race part of this and so
the white supremacy part of this or
which you know tie them together and I'm
not sure which of those is like a better
political move to be crass but and there
was some talk about Trump this morning
in his in his press conference that
people are saying oh he's going to call
for universal background checks and it
didn't happen it could sort of he said
something like whatever will work so
when he mentioned he it was I mean he
you've read like straight off them it
was a it was a tweet this morning he
suggested that background checks be tied
somehow which is immigration reform
which it is weird that like Trump can't
sometimes even do like the minimum right
like the minimum to say like let's focus
on background checks and and have a
modest background check bill and like
lobby for it with the GOP Congress and
not tie it into something more
complicated like you can't even do that
simple stuff or refuses cannot can't
won't right there's always a he did bump
stocks you ban bump stocks okay okay yes
something can I read the part where he
said we could never he thought some
parish base
Republicans Democrats must come together
and get strong background checks
perhaps smearing this legislation with
desperately needed immigration form by
the way he also goes on to he says the
media has a big responsibility to life
and safety in our country fake news has
contributed greatly to the anger and
rage that has built up over many years
so and the shooter used the phrase by
the way fake what he puts on Twitter and
frankly what he kind of said in a speech
it's just so meaningless so what what
part of what I was interested in is if
he says the same thing on Twitter that
he says in the speech which is scripted
and which he stayed on prompt therefore
you could tell right then it was like
okay Trump Twitter and his staff the
speech or at least on the same page here
and maybe agreed but it didn't seem that
way but it didn't seem that way right
and he did say in that speech quote in
one voice our nation must condemn racism
bigotry and white supremacy cannot he
said on Twitter so what he was reading
off the teleprompter but tonight's point
that I mean that verges on gaslighting
right because the the other things he
has said up to and including his tweets
that day are so discordant with that and
that is one thing we're talking about
the press getting smarter I do think
that like you don't see people saying oh
if Trump has pivoted toward a new law
right because a very large Church of the
time either when he has a moment where
he acts like a more typical soothing
reassuring angered angry escena
president are followed usually 24-48
hours later where he gets caught up in
some dispute and winds up undermining
the entire thrust of that more olive
branch aversion of Trump and the view
that Trump is racist is now a majority
opinion an aramis a nearly 52 percent of
Americans I think say he is racist forty
percent say no and it's not like some
partition yeah I think it cuts mostly
along partisan lines
Wow although it is strict but like it is
striking that that's a poll question
yeah so I mean specifically I'm working
like this Quinnipiac poll
is do you think Trump is racist
fifty-one percent said yes 45 percent
said no there are some unknowns there or
they don't know then asked whether
Trump's immigration policies are about a
sincere interest in controlling our
border or racism forty-nine percent said
sincere interest forty one percent said
racism genic that also shows us that the
racism question whether or not you think
Trump is racist
he's not just partisan because when
asked about his immigration policies
people are a little more nuanced about
whether or not he's being sincere or
whether or not it's racism you don't get
a majority of Americans saying that his
immigration policies are rooted
specifically in racism but yeah when we
talk about what happens next
politically Donald Trump in some ways
you know mentioned universal background
checks and then backed off we've also
talked a little bit about which
Democrats are going to call for stricter
gun laws we've had this conversation
before on this podcast about what
happens after gun violence is there any
reason to expect that we will see
changing laws in the coming months it's
I don't think it's out of the realm of
possibility I mean you saw they passed
that bum stocks bill in the next few
months could they could they pass like a
kind of lukewarm background checks bill
though I don't I don't think that's
impossible I'm not sure it's likely but
I mean yet again you have a big divide
between the house and the Senate where
in the house obviously a big problem for
the GOP was the suburban area swinging
blue those areas gonna tend to prefer
Democrats policy on guns and you know
it's a big problem for Republicans in
the Senate overwhelmingly
disproportionately represented by a
rural states and so it's a very
different calculation but yeah look
again there are for a long time the kind
of belief was that well you know sure
most Americans want background checks
and work gun control but Republicans
feel more strongly concerta feel more
strongly about the issue
that polarity has shifted I think post
parkland yeah where it's not clear
actually in the Gallup survey midterm
voters last year I think more Democrats
said gun control was a higher priority
than Republicans did and so that has
shifted a lot but again a lot of policy
would look very different if you didn't
have a deliberate bias in the Senate
toward rural states and that really
affects kind of where policy is the
other thing I wouldn't be super
surprised by is if they passed some type
of this like red flag legislation which
Trump mentioned in his speech which is
like you can go to court to sort of get
someone's guns taken away or preempt
their ability to buy a gun if they if
they if they've had interactions with
the police right or you know some type
of violence there was a poll by our
colleagues at ABC News in the Washington
Post from last year that showed 83% of
Republicans backed some type of that
provision yeah I think that could happen
I think you know parkland
do I remember having a podcast with you
guys after Parkland and there was the
big CNN Town Hall where you know you had
a confrontation between Rubio and one of
the students dana lash from the NRA was
on it was a big deal and I think in part
because Americans react really strongly
to shootings in schools I mean we saw it
with Newtown when there were like
essentially toddlers who were killed so
people I think do have really strong
reactions to those school shootings and
I my sense with all this stuff is that
it's like the the smallest of nudges
along the way like each one kind of
accumulates up together so like I think
Mike it might be right like maybe
something will happen with background
checks
Nate's also right that that this is you
know the gun issue because of the rural
bias of the Senate it does become just
on some level you're not going to get a
huge change
the huge change that Democrats want
unless you change the makeup of that
chamber so to me it feels like this
nudging along at this really really slow
pace that's understandably disappointing
for a lot of people yeah and the other
part of this you know and just to
contradict myself you know 80 something
percent of Republicans my favorite that
might say they favored that type of law
that the red flag type of law but like
guns is so tied in with identity now
particularly partisan identity but now
add race in there and and I think you
know you obviously wouldn't be
surprising if you just saw kind of
hardening of the partisan lines and
nothing gets done that's probably the
modal outcome here right I would maybe
argue though that Republicans know that
even if they have rural voters have an
advantage in the Senate if they want to
be competitive in the house and in
national elections they do have to win
back suburban voters they can't just
seed I mean look at the country broadly
you add up
urban and suburban voters and there's
not that much of America left to vote
for I mean with us in this in the next
segment right but like the Republicans
who know they have to peel the suburban
heights are dropping are leaving but
does it wouldn't that scare the
Republican Party and take your strategic
point but also in some ways I think the
it's the end of a Republican Party right
it's the it's the idea that in some ways
there is a deference to the needs of the
National Republican Party right we want
to win the presidency we want to hold
the set like we want to hold the Senate
like and the idea is maybe a little bit
from a strategic sense it's like well
we're not gonna win we're not gonna win
those leaning Democratic districts
anymore anyway so let's let's let's play
to the Trump message or the minutes if
you're on the battleship Trump right and
you're the captain but half the crew by
the way you're the ballast of Trump
which is a lot of momentum toward toward
all these things that you think are bad
for the party and furthermore
three-quarters of the crew
are either true believers and trumpism
or are from districts that are very very
strongly Trump and a very rural and
therefore where your constituents might
not like anything to limit availability
of guns right that's a really really
really hardship to turn around and I
know I mean it's occurred to me this
weekend
people are so short-term focused there
are lots of scenarios where Trump's
presidency results in a long-term
disaster for Republicans we're back and
we just started the conversation about
Republican retirements in the house and
essentially Republican strategy going
forward as a result of some of those
retirements now the news that were
reacting to is that one today Kenny
marchin in Texas announced his
retirement but on top of that last
Thursday will hurt also a congressman
from Texas congressman from the border
actually and the lone black Republican
congressman left in the house also
announced his retirement on top of that
we had some other recent retirement
announcements including Martha Roby at
this point nine Republicans have said
that they are retiring so far in 2019 so
is let's just begin with putting that
number in context is nine retirements a
lot for Republicans so far this year so
at this point as of August 1st so not
quite the same but almost the same date
two years ago you had eleven Republican
retirements at that point but remember
last year was like a legendarily kind
very high number of retirements
Republicans and so the fact that they're
almost on pace to last year less cycle
is not good for the GOP especially given
that they now have fewer people period
and so like their who people fully
retire from so it's a bad sign at least
a couple of these Texas districts look
like they're gonna be quite competitive
and that's it you know but Texas angles
interesting into itself but like but
yeah I mean I don't know right both will
hurt and Kenny Mara come from competitor
of districts in Texas yeah look
political ones can shift quickly in a
lot of newly elected Democrats that were
looked in a very blue year in 2018 would
be inherently vulnerable in 2020 but
like but if you have all these remaining
GOP suburban incumbents dropping out to
be replaced by someone who's more
trumpian and then I mean certainly in
terms of like where the GOP Zod's of
retaking the house this is material
stuff right both for like the immediate
impact in districts like will hers which
is probably they're what leaning
democratic district and in terms of like
that the signal it gives for other
retirements and also kind of candidate
qualities so it's not just who retires
but also where you know like actually
get a well-heeled stay saint senator are
they gonna run for the house now knowing
they're gonna spend the next two years
dealing with Trump's rhetoric knowing
that they're gonna probably be in the
minority you know maybe not and
candidates men are a lot in these races
and so and so if I were Republicans why
I'm take over the house I'd be very very
very worried about this one the reason
what you kind of got at me that it's
especially worrying for Republicans is
it's like doubly bad right it's it's
both bad as a signal in that you have
these members who know their districts
really well who are getting polling who
are talking to people and clearly
looking around and being like oooh 2020
is gonna be rough on me maybe it's
better if I just kind of like pack my
bags and go and it's bad in the way
nature subscribe which is you know
there's an advantage to being incumbent
a lot of these people had run before you
know there it will be hard to rip for
the party to replace them with a
candidate of equal or better quality and
also just I mean I think some of the the
stories in various outlets that have
talked about these retirements have made
the point that these the people who are
retiring the kinds of districts that
they're they're coming from you know the
fact that you might have two that you're
asked about the president's comments all
the time the fact that you might have to
you know defend his comments on things
you probably don't agree with
yeah and on a variety of issues I'm sure
that there's some sort of you know
there's also like a job quality of life
aspect to this right I think you saw
this with Bob corkers retirement in
Tennessee senator bob Corker 'he's
retirement think at the end of the day
he was just sort of sick of being I mean
there were certainly electoral arguments
to be made but it's also like you know
you didn't you didn't want to fight for
you know a year to have to do something
that maybe wasn't actually all that
great day-to-day to begin with in in a
Trump era do you remember when trey
gowdy renounced his retirement and then
went on vice and gave one of the most
blunt political interviews I've ever
seen in which he was just like honestly
it sucks I didn't enjoy this I came here
with like my idealism and it was just
totally squashed and I'm leaving unhappy
about the experience I actually have
like a I mean this is an earnest
statement but like I do think that there
is a certain point passed which some
people should not go in public service
like there's this weird thing with like
it when Bishan is a strange beast but
like a lot of people you know get really
into local government there on the
school board in there on city council
and then maybe they run for state rep
but then they're always like what about
Congress I mean what's wrong with being
a state rep or a city councilor or the
mayor of a small town like good
governance can happen on a small level
and you don't have to like flashing
white anyway so I know that there are
probably a lot of local politicians who
listen this podcast and I mean this in
all sincerity and I thought about this
okay where you are I've seen I know I
thought about this a lot why not stay
where you are
and like be really good at what you do
for the people you actually know lower
your ambitions but there's nothing wrong
with that I do it every day one thing I
wanted to mention mica you were saying
that there's two ways in which this is
bad for Republicans it's materially in
that you know incumbents can do better
but also the message that it sends
there's one more notable aspect here
which is that as we already mentioned
will Hurd was the only black Republican
in the house on top of that according to
Politico there are now more men named
Jim in the house than Republican women
running for re-election so this is
somewhat of a hollowing out
of demographics with whom the Republican
Party already does poorly with and we've
talked about the gender gap before on
this podcast you know the gender gap can
potentially be fine if you're doing as
well with men as you are doing as poor
poorly with women but once you know for
example Democrats start doing better
with men but keep doing as well with
women you're screwed and you have to
make up ground with women does this also
pose a challenge on that front the
Republican Party is mostly white
disproportionately male
disproportionately old those are like
the defining features of the party and
and has because that has become
increasingly true over the past couple
decades and and there is a
self-fulfilling cycle here where if you
don't have a woman in the room if you
don't have a person of color in the room
if you don't have under someone under 50
in the room then it's hard to - it's
hard for the end product of whatever
people are cooking up in that room to
appeal to those people right or to even
speak to these people to be relevant to
those people so the yeah this is a
long-term problem for the for the
Republican Party so okay so if women are
the new swing voters for it's like white
college-educated women and white
non-college educated women are kind of
the new swing voters there is a real big
strategic strategic argument from this
from the Republican side of things to
start to think smartly about ways to
pitch your policies to women right like
I actually think the most interesting
person there was an interesting moment
on the stage this is obviously the
Democrats but Andrew yang talked about
his universal basic income plan through
the eyes of we should give stay-at-home
mothers and fathers but mothers was what
he said we should give them money for
the work they do that's an interesting
way to frame it right and to me it's
it's it is fascinating to watch the GOP
not have a consistent message to women
and even in the Democratic primary you
see all these new issues coming up
because that that refined the way you
talk to women politically that are super
interesting and I bet my bottom dollar
they come because more of the candidates
are women Kamala Harris is
plan for pay equity where the burden
falls on a company that's not paying
women as well as men not the individual
woman kirsten gillibrand saying that we
should have a plan for IVF for poor
women not just for wealthy women so
there are this is just to bolster your
point but to me it doesn't make sense
that the Republicans aren't thinking
more in a more fine-tuned way about how
to get their policies across in a
relatable way to women specifically
because they're the swing voters yeah I
mean it makes perfect sense
there's not many women in the in the
room so it's like yeah you have to
overcome without more representation in
the room first of all there's ignorant
right - there's you don't know what you
don't know speaking as a white man I can
say this with lots of confident you
don't know what you don't know right so
it's like there's a constant process of
if you don't know okay
asking questions and being and learning
right will pass that there's also apathy
and then there's like outright hostility
you have to overcome all the you know
it's it's a anyway I mean I do want to
bring it back I get it okay
I do want to bring it back again to a
point that I always raised in these
contexts maybe you guys are tired of
hearing about it right but it's about
the structural advantages that you have
toward having a coalition of like older
white working-class voters in the Senate
and the electoral college and so you
know to some extent the GOP is
responding to that if you can imagine
that everything was determined by the
popular vote then as about a years that
GOP had in the house if California had
you know 25 times more Sanders in
Wyoming they'd be effected there as well
and if they had the popular vote they
would not control the presidency right
now and so a lot of things would be
quite different but I do wonder if it's
like a kind of bargain with the devil in
the long run cuz because with like very
few exceptions men and women populate
the United States in equal prevent many
I'm talking about white people versus
Donnelly okay and to some extent
rural people versus urban people
and you know to some extent I mean Texas
is like is like a little bit like kind
of when the iceberg starts to melt where
when Texas begins to go purple then all
of the advantages the GOP has from
having at least electoral college and
the Senate they kind of have like a
there's a permanent built-in and rather
profound advantage toward whichever
party performs strongly in rural areas
that's not going to change unless unless
more states are added and there's rural
states urbanized where the Dakotas
combined right or the coalition's change
like also what if all the people in
Nebraska start living in Lincoln right
like you know who knows or what if we
got rid of North Dakota from the combine
the Dakotas but this doesn't account for
Republicans difficulty with women and to
get back to that let me just read this
one more quote from a New York Times
article about the retirements this is
what it says representative Susan Brooks
of Indiana the head of recruitment for
the party's campaign committee had been
tasked with replenishing the ravaged
ranks of Republican Women she announced
in June that she would retire an
indication of the long odds of that
effort so literally the person who was
tasked with replenishing the house with
Republican Women retired I mean I don't
know I guess it's all kind of like to
use the term like intersectional in some
ways you know probably on average if you
have people who are kind of entrenched
and conservative and in power they tend
to be both white and men if they're
older especially and so those things
kind of reinforce one another the there
is also Perry and I worked on this big
piece we did a while ago headlined why
the Republican Party like so few women
and part of the issue is that the system
is biased against women in a number of
ways right and so to elect women you
can't do nothing you have to actively
try to elect women if you just let the
system play out that the system will
favor men women are less likely to run
if they run there they're just as likely
to win
but there are anyway there are million
impediments to women running so so in
other words you have to actively put
pressure on the system to elect women
Democrats have that in the form of most
importantly like Emily's list right
Republicans don't have the equivalent of
that right now you can ask they
literally do but in terms of strength I
probably is not equivalent right like
they have susan b anthony is list they
have some they have like Maggie's list
but it's not it's it's it's often
contingent on a on a particular issue
yeah and it's not and it's not of
magnitude or scale or whatever it's it
just doesn't have nearly the power and
they're there reasons for that right
Republicans in general I think part of
their ideology puts less emphasis on
aspects of identity right and so the the
party in general is less comfortable I
think in a real way and opposed in a
real way to to actively trying to elect
this identity or that identity right but
then without that you you know you you
kind of let the system run its course
and that that'll give you
disproportionately men
there's obviously also just a question
of like the Republican Party is on the
wrong side of some issues that that
women are on the other side of right
obviously so okay I was talking about
earlier how win voters white women
voters are becoming more of a of a swing
constituency and I think white
college-educated women we're trending
that way pre this midterms but then we
saw white non-college educated women's
in his past midterms going a little bit
more in the Democratic column I think
it's interesting because you know I was
talking to someone about this recently
and they made the interesting point that
in their view you know the way that you
as a Republican turned those white
non-college educated women against you
is you make them believe that you are
the party of rich people and taking away
their birth control right the idea that
those those working-class white women
or non college educated white women
they're not evangelicals there they
might have they might believe racist
things they might live in largely white
areas but but culturally in some ways
they are liberal and they don't like
rich people right and so the idea that
as you become a more male centric party
that really and conservative male party
that sort of key point of taking away
it's not just sexual freedom but
economic freedom you know via the
ability of family plan that's actually
sort of a you know but a potentially
damaging long-term perception of your
party and so I thought that was an
interesting point which is like those
women might vote for Trump in a national
election but they might be irritated at
their congressperson on a you know in a
midterm election or whatever and they
might say I'm going the other way I'm
balancing out my ticket just to wrap up
I do want to ask before we on the
podcast the last time we spoke we were
in Detroit it was Thursday right after
the two Democratic primary debates and
we had only had one poll out post
debates we have a little more data now
so Nate what does that tell us about how
the American public reacted to the
Democratic debates in Detroit well it's
fascinating because nothing seems to
have happened really no I mean it hasn't
minute that was my hot tape yeah
there has been no as everyone saw take a
little polling it's just fascinating
there has been little polling which
maybe maybe maybe maybe maybe maybe
maybe suggest that Harris is down
another pointer too and Warren is up
another pointer to when everyone else
seems to be pretty standard maybe up a
pointer too but clearly this debate is
not gonna be a major I'm sorry for the
phrase a major game changer I don't
think and I think like especially with
the new cycle moving on to we'll see we
we haven't had we haven't had a
traditional high quality live telephone
poll post abates yet as of this taping
but at this point wouldn't we start
getting with incoming polls wouldn't we
getting into territory where voters are
also or Americans in general Democratic
voters are also reacting to how those
politicians reacted to that I mean the
politicians are more forceful in
reacting might get more of an advantage
yeah it sounds callous like predict
who's gonna go up or down but like but
like well I'm more just saying that the
demographics of the debate could be
muddled in all of that considering
they're now reacting to more them there
is like a real struggle here among the
Democrats where there is a group of
candidates who sort of want to talk
about like economic justice and
distribution of wealth and health care
on the one hand and there's like another
Nexus where people want to talk about
cultural issues slash how terrible Trump
is slash race on the other hand and
those kind of clusters go together and
you can kind of go through one by one
and kind of figure out what you can
answer in which cluster I want to talk
about what right and and some are in
both is that fair to say who's in both
Elizabeth Warren know Elizabeth Warren
is clearly not in the culture and race
cluster she talks a lot about race well
cashews a good round range politician
but I mean she Warren when during the
debates she was one of the wires
mentioned Trump the most and why are
supporters so white I mean like you know
I don't think she's one of the candidate
who if you're being callous is happy for
the conversations who turn to those
issues versus issues like health care
which is still the number one issue for
Democrats and was the focus in some ways
of the debates if you're being calloused
and like that's not her comparative
advantage people come to her for like
you know kind of wonky left policy
solutions and like and like I think it
was Miriam William said who says like
you know race racism is like not an
issue where the wonks are gonna like
have a lot to say right
and so yeah I watched her on the stump
it seems like she talks about this stuff
pretty often and openly but I think she
often yeah I think she often ties race
to economic issues which i think is
interesting or
you know like she is she talks about
plans to end sort of or give additional
funds to areas that have been
historically redlined she has you know
we want to build up black wealth like I
think a lot of her stuff is smartly
which talks about race she smartly ties
it to economic issues which I guess is
why I would say both clusters is how I
would I think it's a little generous I
think if you look at the way that like
what what black Democrats are well now
he's just gonna do one I'm saying like
maybe she talks about race in a way that
appeals to white voters maybe to the
slice that of of the Democratic primary
electorate that is the like the woke
white people right the increase we
increasingly liberal particularly on
race segment of the primary which tends
to be yeah college-educated white people
you know wealthier way people that's
right all right well with that we're
going to wrap up today's podcast thank
you mate
thank you Galen Thank You Claire thanks
Kalyan and thank you Michael
thank you hey folks I predict that
you're gonna either subscribe to our
YouTube channel or watch some related
videos or both you can do both but you
can't do neither so either subscribe or
watch more videos
