drew brees nick foles Ben Roethlisberger
Cam Newton Sam Darnell
all of these quarterbacks got injured or
sick within the first two weeks of the
2019 NFL season for Darnell in the Jets
they even lost their backup quarterback
Trevor Simeon to injury as well as these
quarterback injuries keep mounting and
teams start planning around their
backups one name keeps coming up as it
has for the past couple of years Colin
Kaepernick this got us thinking let's
put aside the strong possibility that he
may have been blackballed from the
league two years ago over his protest
against racial injustice and assumed
there's at least one team who would want
to sign him does Kaepernick given his
current age and skill level still
deserve a spot on an NFL roster right
now here are the 2019 preseason
quarterback ratings for every starting
quarterback in the NFL
according to 538 CeeLo metric the 538
quarterback rating is a rolling average
of recent performances and includes both
passing and rushing stats the rating is
framed in terms of how many ehlo points
each quarterback adds to their team's
rating relative to an undrafted rookie
replacement you see guys like
Roethlisberger with a quarterback rating
of 250 e low points not surprisingly you
also see Matt Ryan and Brees up there
with 231 and 220 for a low points
respectively on the other end of the
spectrum we have starters like the Colts
jacobi versed at 108 and the bengals
Andy Dalton at 123 II low points this
brings us to Kaepernick when he ended
his last NFL season in 2016 his QB
rating was 17 points lower than an
average quarterback so in 2019 that
would put him here with a 146 elos score
for comparison's sake recently injured
jaguars quarterback Nick Foles is here
at 172 and the league average going into
2019 was about 163 so end of 2016
Kaepernick would be a below average
starting QB in the league this season
but not by to much his rating of 146
would have come in 22nd going into the
year of course it might be unfair to
make this comparison using Kaepernick's
2016 stats after all he's been out of
the league for two seasons he's
older now maybe he's also slower his
ratings probably lower than it was in
2016 but how much lower to figure this
out we examined our ela quarterback
ratings for everybody since 1950 who
started at least one game at both age 29
Kaepernick's age in his final season and
aged 30 to the age he'd be at the end of
this season we also narrow down our list
to quarterbacks with at least 50 career
starts but no more than 100 through age
29
Kaepernick had 64 career starts when he
went into NFL exile two years ago the
median quarterback in our group of
similar players saw his rating dropped
by 10 point 2 points between the end of
his age 29 season and the start of his
age 32 season that's not great news for
Kaepernick as a quarterback with an e
low value of 136 or 27 and a half points
below average would rank 27th among
starters in the league and that's the
median for quarterbacks who played a lot
of games between the ages of 29 and 32
if Kaepernick's rust accelerated his
decline and he aged it say the 25th
percentile of our group his ehlo rating
would drop to 44 points below average
but it goes both ways
if Kaepernick's two seasons off helped
him stay fresher than the average
quarterback maybe he'd age at the 75th
percentile and actually improve to a
quarterback Ehlo just four points below
average but let's stick with that 25th
percentile assumption just for
argument's sake if so our 2019
quarterback e low rating for Kaepernick
would be 119 if we go back to our chart
of 2019 starters that would place
Kaepernick here so when one of the
worst-case scenarios this rating still
puts him in the neighborhood of low
level starters like Daulton and versed
what's notable here though is teams who
are already down to their second string
or even third string cubies like the
Steelers in the Jets should even more
seriously consider giving cap a chance
among backup quarterbacks 2019
Kaepernick is higher than Teddy
Bridgewater and Daniel Jones and the
same as Brian Hoyer and Josh McCown
so while Kaepernick might not be a top
starting quarterback in the NFL anymore
he would still probably be better than
most of the backups that are on NFL
rosters right now now obviously this
ignores external factors that we can't
really quantify here things like the
media attention and fan reaction that
would come with signing Kaepernick nor
do we know what kind of role or salary
Kaepernick himself would request and
these considerations would go into the
decision any team would make before
signing him but considering how you can
never be too sure about quarterbacks a
lot of these NFL teams should still be
giving Kaepernick a strong look even two
years after he was banished from the
game for taking a knee in protest
