[Music]
you know I was on debate team in uh in
high school so probably winning the Wake
Forest tournament I think it was my
senior year was my most memorable big
moment but like in terms of watching
other people debate I mean the first
thing that comes to mind is it's
probably Marco Rubio and Chris Christie
in that New Hampshire debate and 2016
Chris Christie really took her vo to
task for recycling his statements on
Obama that was a good singer this notion
that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's
doing is just not there it is he knows
exactly what the memorized 25-second
speech that's the very campaign is so
important that's kind of a classic
debate moment where someone underperform
and I think it cost them quite a bit I
think that my favorite most memorable
debate moment has to be the Rick Perry
oops moment Rick Perry had to come up
with three agencies that he wanted to
get rid of if he was president it's
three agencies of government when I get
there that are gone commerce education
and the what's the third one there let's
see
I mean it's cringe-worthy television it
was dramatic
the third agency of government I would I
would do away with the education the
commerce and let's see
I can't the third one I can't sorry
really sank his career actually which I
guess shows you the power of these
debates it was just comedic although I
guess you can't really say it sank his
career cousin runs though
Department um but anyway oops well my
favorite debate moment does it have to
come from a primary debate if not then
it comes from the 1988 vice presidential
debate where lloyd bentsen stared down
Dan Quayle and said I serve with Jack
Kennedy
I knew Jack Kennedy Jack Kennedy was a
friend of mine senator you're no Jack
Kennedy epic burn so in 2008 Democratic
debates Joe Biden was still in the race
and Biden was really not doing well it
was basically a three-person race
between Barack Obama Hillary Clinton and
John Edwards
and Biden was on stage and at the time I
think Rudy Giuliani was the front-runner
in the GOP race and Biden had just an
all-time classic line Rudy Giuliani
there's there's only three things he
mentioned this sentence a noun and a
verb in 9/11 I mean there's nothing else
for me the most memorable primary debate
ever came in early March of 2016
essentially Marco Rubio decided that the
way that he was going to gain traction
in that Republican primary was by
stooping to Donald Trump's level of
personal attacks the subject of his
attack were Donald Trump's hands he
suggested during the debate that Donald
Trump had small hands of course Donald
Trump responded look at those hands
and he referred to my hands if they're
small something else must be small I
guarantee you there's no problem I
guarantee and so in March of 2016 Donald
Trump defended the size of his penis in
front of a national audience on the
debate stage my most memorable debate
moment is when ben Carson didn't come
out right away when he was called
and it created sort of a pile up and
then Trump got confused and was just
standing there for a while and it was
sort of a comedy of errors and that
whole thing was funny but the best part
is you can see the stage manager peek
out and be like go go the whole time
that was my favorite moment hey folks I
predict that you're going to either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
