it's brutal it's exhausting it's
captivating it's the World Chess
Championship this year's edition is in
London where Magnus Carlsen is facing
Fabiano Caruana
Carlson from Norway's the closest thing
just has to a rock star and this would
be his fourth world championship Caruana
is representing the US and he's the new
face of a well-funded resurgence in
American chess the two grandmasters are
in four grueling weeks ahead
each game can last up to hours and the
championship is best of 12 if it's still
tied then the two will progress to a
series of quicker blitz games until a
winner has determined people have been
playing chess for at least 1500 years
but it's only for about the last hundred
of these that we've had an official
world champion for much of that century
the championship has been dominated by
Russian players that changed at least
briefly when Bobby Fischer won the World
Championship in 1972 America's Bobby
Fischer was formally named world champ
today at Reykjavik Iceland if he's
successful
Fabiano Caruana would be the first
American undisputed world champion since
Fischer these two grand masters are
trailblazers in an unbelievably complex
game and the great games that they do
play at the World Chess Championship
will be written down and could be
studied by many generations to come
