the final four is finally set in the
2019 women's college basketball
tournament on one side of the bracket we
have number one Baylor
against number two Oregon on the other
side it's number one donor dame against
number two UConn in the first matchup we
give Baylor an 85% chance to advance to
the title game it should be an
interesting clash of styles the Bears
are ranked number one in the country and
defense
according to her hoop stats calm while
the Ducks have the number one rated
offense Oregon is also the best team in
the nation from long-range shooting
threes at a clip of 41.4% Baylor will
obviously try to contain that and
they've done a pretty good job
throughout the tournament so far their
first four opponents have shot an
average of just 26 percent beyond the
arc to avoid the upset Baylor will have
to keep that up on the other side Notre
Dame and UConn will be duking it out
once again this is a rematch of last
year's national semifinal which Notre
Dame won 91 to 89 on the way to its
national title UConn will be out for
revenge but our model gives Notre Dame
the edge again at 57% to 43% it seems
like these teams are always really
evenly matched Notre Dame is the number
three team in the country according to
her hoop stats while UConn is number
four and when you break it down even
more Notre Dame ranks third on offense
and fourth on defense while UConn is
number four on offense and number two on
defense you really can't ask for a
closer match up so it should be a great
game follow along on five thirty
eight.com for more predictions and live
game probabilities throughout the
women's and men's college basketball
tournaments hey folks I predict that
you're going to either subscribe to our
YouTube channel or watch some related
videos or both you can do both but you
can't do neither so either subscribe or
watch more videos
