[Music]
this is the 5:38 politics podcast and on
today's episode we're gonna preview the
Democratic primary debate in Houston on
a Thursday we're gonna talk about some
of the lower tier candidates and then
we'll talk about some of the candidates
who are polling the best you're watching
the 538 politics podcast on ABC News
live we spent some time last week
discussing the strategies for the top
three candidates but this debate is also
an important opportunity for the lower
tier candidates to try to gain some
traction so we're gonna discuss what
their strategies might be so here with
me to discuss all of that our
editor-in-chief Nate's open how's it
going Nate going well good to hear also
here with us senior politics right at
Claire Malone how are you I'm good Gail
and how are you good good and managing
editor Micah common let's begin with the
Democratic primary debate it's on
Thursday at 8 o'clock Eastern hosted of
course by our friends at ABC and as I
mentioned we spent time last week
talking about how Biden Warren and
Sanders might position themselves in
relation to each other so today we're
gonna focus first on the other 7
candidates although we will get to Biden
Sanders and Warren at the end and the
way we're gonna do this we're gonna have
a little bit of fun we're gonna go
around the table and I will give Nate
Claire or Mike a candidate and they'll
have to assign them a strategy based on
you know how they're doing in the race
what upsides they have etc and we'll
also want to hear what the candidates
main opponent is their main ally and
what their biggest risk factor could be
in the debate are you guys ready ready
have some fun I like how this is our
definition of fun mm-hmm all right Nate
you are first yeah and I am giving you
spin the wheel but I don't know that
that's not the sign now it's gonna come
up already actually and it is rubbish I
Club a Char Char Char you get senator
Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota what is her
strategy going into Thursday's to be I I
mean to be a bit blunt it's to not suck
I think let's get a little deeper than
that
hashtag analysis hi
I think she's one of the candidates who
has not had a strong debate yep which in
a sense is good news because she hasn't
gained in the polls so at least we
haven't tested the proposition and what
happens to colobus chart if she has a
strong debate but look in the first
debate she seemed not terribly assertive
and sort of nervous and I think that was
a little bit of the second to me but
kind of carried over right her campaign
I wrote the club a chart introductory
piece when she entered the race this
spring thought the debate to be a big
strength for her she why because well
it's probably things campaign say but
their theory of the case was that number
one she is funny and that can translate
well in debate and number two she's
prosecutorial you know who else people
said was funny in private Hillary
Clinton but Hillary Clinton was pretty
good in the debates right if Amy
Klobuchar had Hillary Clinton the
debating skills and you know right so I
think just having more of a presence I
think kind of maybe more assertively
I mean her path is like relatively
straightforward right her path probably
involves Biden imploding and voters who
want a more moderate more electable
alternative deciding that she needs to
be drafted to be that person right and
it probably also heavily involves Iowa
which is the other strength her campaign
should have she's from a neighboring
state and so I think it's probably maybe
just kind of more maybe she's someone
should adopt the past the torch
slogan I mean she can emphasize
electability but kilometer just has to
be more assertive
I think her strategy is like one of the
simpler ones actually which is like you
want to like play in that moderate
electability lane so you can make it
pass the torch argument but people have
to like people have to remember her you
know she cannot be like the six
sub-headline at the end of the night
people have to like she's sorry again
she should go after Biden
explicitly on age I think that's the
strategy so you said who her main
opponent is does she have a main ally on
the stage well I mean one of the issues
for Klobuchar is that is that she's one
of the more plausible vice presidential
nominees
and it does seem like maybe she is
someone who is playing that angle a
little bit I think all the women a
perspective the vice presidential sure
okay I think and I think that a lot of
people want a woman on the ticket so
that's probably right I don't actually
think closure has a lot of allies I
think she has competition with Biden but
she doesn't have the strength with black
voters that Biden has so she has to sort
of make them more in some ways like
general election argument right to them
to the white moderates basically and
that's what she has going for her so
maybe she'll end up being like the
delaney of the debate maybe she could
draft in the sense of like moderate
right vocal matter but maybe she could
draft Buddha judge in terms of allies
into a generational change argument and
in that sense kind of although she's not
young I mean like boo did you know it's
she's not as young as Buddha judge but
but she has more of an air of youth
about her than Biden but what's she
gonna she's gonna say Pete Buddha judge
and I are the young she's gonna say well
I'm just imagining like maybe
unbeknownst to Peabody just like if
clovers aren't we're on stage to be like
Pete Buddha judge and I and all of a
sudden it like the camera goes to put a
judge and he's like wait why no no she
would say she would say listen I have a
lot of respect for the vice president
and I I happen to agree with him that
some of the plans offered by my
colleagues here are far-fetched and
unrealistic and blah blah blah blah blah
but I think that you know as mayor Pete
has said something something
generational change something something
you want her to draft off of people I
want her to I want her to go after Biden
on electability grounds using age I
think that's the best play for her and I
think in terms of like who could be an
ally in that mission I think she could
draft Pete Rourke the younger candidates
and all of a sudden if there's a
conversation but if there's a pass the
torch conversation
I think that plays to her advantage in
hurting Biden okay
even if she's not like the face of
Generation Z you know all right thank
you
clam alone you are next and Thanksgiving
drew you have hue on Castro Julian
Castro what should he do
question mark space space
I think Castro should keep doing what
he's been doing in the debates which is
namely to continue to be a almost like
substantive pillar of the debates
someone who is a little bit attack
doggie in surprising ways I mean the
last debate I think he was a really
notable somewhat surprising player for
kind of going after the Obama
administration in the sense of like
coming from a sort of principled
progressive left position and saying
listen I was a member of this
administration but I don't agree with
everything that they did and I'm I'm
here to show you that I'm smart and more
competent than say better or ork and
maybe kind of pick off some of these
people these other people who are also
low in the polls maybe try to get to the
level of like cory booker in the in the
level of conversation that the american
public and the media are having I think
Castro kind of needs to bump himself one
level up so what would that be in Nate's
tier of things I guess level two that
would be the Buddha judge currently only
mayor Pete is in level two and well I
mean so I think that Castro wants to
bump into level two with Buddha judge
you mentioned that amy klobuchar may be
gunning for VP and because people would
like to see a woman on the ticket but of
course there's there's plenty of
opportunities for a woman to be at the
top of the ticket right so is Castro
also in a similar position of Klobuchar
in interest in being VP or or yeah I get
the question I think that sorry I think
that Warren and Castro have have sort of
been talked about as have people who
have who like each other personally
who seemed to be on the same policy
wavelength people made sort of a
hilarious big deal about like who's
who's texting whom to say like good job
who's getting like the hug or the
handshake on stage and people have sort
of been noticing that Warren and Castro
seem to have a friendly relationship so
I think you could possibly say that like
if Warren is you know becomes the
nominee she might really like Castro and
if not you know VP then certainly
somewhere in her tummy
Castro feels like Warren single most
likely VP pick right what just like
inside your your gut or for the reasons
I mean reporting no just based on the
reasons he's lying and he puts her Texas
in play right and he's like liberal but
not like super liberal I know but I feel
like by if Biden wins the nomination
he's gonna have to pick Warren as his VP
I don't think that there's many hot
takes worth of material to unpack that I
mean okay so let's say Claire I am a
wealthy Houstonian donor I have said all
you have to do is move to Houston and
stuff my family made money from oil or
something but I'm doing good
philanthropic work right and I call you
and you're cool Ian's campaign manager
and I'm like okay well look I thought it
was good in debates but why would you
keep doing the same thing you're doing
if you're still stuck at 1% in the polls
why did he bump up in the polls after
the his favorability rating horse race
number so you're making an argument
against Claire's position that he should
stick with the same role I mean in some
sense like I have very similar advice
for all the minor candidates minor is a
derogatory term but all the campaign's
who are not in the more robust range in
the polls right now which is look there
is more competition on the Left than in
the moderate lane acknowledging that
moderate vers left is just like one of
several vectors that's relevant in the
primary a not the most
necessarily but I do wonder if like
Castro should also be trying to position
himself a little bit more like not so
trying to and the less crowded
moderately not trying to out woke
everyone but being like I'm business
friendly I'm very electable of course
I'm very progressive oh I get what
you're and I may be from a strategic
point of view but I also think we have
to remember that like these candidates
are people with beliefs and and his
issue has been immigration and I feel
like it's hard right now to do like the
moderates take on immigration right now
in the Democratic Party ends up being
this wonky abstruse thing where people
are like but don't you have a problem
with the morality of the Trump
administration's policies and it's sort
of like it would get messy so to me I'm
not necessarily seeing the place where
hooli and Castro naturally goes into the
moderate lane yeah I mean he came out
swinging in favor of decriminalized and
crossing the border it feels weird to go
for and like God in an argument with our
work in the first debate over his more
moderate stance it feels weird to then
go and be like okay I'm kind of a
moderate now but what if you go hard in
on because there are a lot of Democrats
clear Democratic donors you're like this
what if you go hard in on to the left on
immigration and race like if I were him
maybe it's too late now right if I were
him to be like yeah I'm gonna be very to
the left of immigration but I'm also
gonna be for a public option and stuff
like that right I'm the should Castro do
something different question part of
what this comes down to I think is like
how random you think the primary system
is in general and by system I mean
everything that debate the media you
know Castro declares point has has done
well in the debates generally gets good
reviews he usually has a couple sort of
exchanges in which he gets the better of
someone his favorability ratings
increased a lot after that first debate
and so the question is then well why why
hasn't that translated into more for
first choice horse race support you
couldn't make the argument that it's
just kind of random you know we got
overshadowed by other stuff the media
happened to not focus on it voters
happen to not be paying attention now
that we're on Labor Day more people
are gonna be paying attention only ten
tenants on the stage and so I do think
like doing the same thing isn't the
craziest thing in the world for someone
like Castro but also Castro I mean
Castro no he just doesn't have like an
obvious constituency when you look at
him
well Hispanic I mean if you look at the
one cause if we're talking about
coalition yes correct
Hispanics but if we're looking at her
like the coalition building model who's
his other natural constitute
constituency he's kind of like he's
being kind of blocked out by a lot of
other people on that I mean if we were
to Castro becomes a nominee and we're
kind of playing back how it happened I
mean I think you would first get your
foothold with Hispanics which is like 15
percent of the electorate right and then
all of a sudden maybe you're at six
percent in the polls and then you know
with the thirdly Hispanic vote and then
you get kind of gained from there and
you look a little bit more viable and I
see moderates peel off and say hey I
want to win Texas and some liberals are
like hey I really think immigration and
race are salient issues and here's well
pushback will think he's electable say
like I agree with you that that's the
natural constituency Hispanics and that
how that's how he builds his foothold
but maybe this says something about the
current state of like democratic
politics but Hispanics are getting more
powerful as a block within the party but
they are still not the like for lack of
a better word like kingmakers of the
party right there's not this whole
concerted effort to go into Hispanics
you know all the candidates go through
this one Latino community place like a
church or whatever the same way that
like the black vote quote-unquote like
in certain states gets really there are
certain stops that all the candidates go
to there are power brokers that are
recognized I think that that doesn't
really exist in this the the highly I
don't know how to put it like refined
way that it does in the black community
particularly let's say in like South
Carolina and that's probably a thing
that works against Castro is like the
the less formalized
way to court the span the Hispanic vote
and to say like
these people are gonna turn out to vote
for you and these are the kingmakers
within these communities that are going
to that are going to turn this vote out
for you and here's another challenge
which gets us to the next person on the
list is that currently Latino Democrats
in Texas at least favor or work over
Castro so mica you are up next with a
work
what is his strategy for the third
debate on Thursday um I have a pretty
jaundiced view of O'Rourke's prospects
in this race maybe I'm not the best
person to answer this question as
campaign has just given you a million
dollars to fix his strategy and get a
boost in the polls after this debate
what to do okay let me sort of half
answer that question which is I think if
you're them you're probably thinking
okay we just had this campaign reset
we're really focused on Trump and really
focused on issues of racial justice
immigration guns this debate is really
our chance to kind of roll that out in a
big way
and so I would expect him to do appear
in Houston and just hammer those issues
do I think that'll work
not especially why not because it hasn't
worked so for like so
so one it it it you know I think the
reset is like more in name than in
practice which is to say or work was
talking about these issues before the
shooting in El Paso right moreover
moreover that the tragedy amp a so again
I've it's like kind of crass to say but
it presented an opportunity for a Rourke
in that the spotlight was on him yeah I
mean I would go a half-step more crass
and be like this is the sort of
opportunity you wouldn't get that often
that there is a
right terrible shooting in your hometown
that thematically ties to issues that
you tend to emphasize and he got a
fairly big boost in media attention I
don't know look maybe it was late summer
maybe people more paying attention now I
mean I agree his best bet is to like see
if I can consolidate that into into
something right but he's also a lot of
these candidates are running into
trouble that like it feels like a lot of
people on stage who are not Biden or
Bernie actually let's exclude Bernie to
everyone who's not Biden or Bernie has
been really trying to appeal to
college-educated liberals or college
could have white liberals especially
right and I don't know it's a very
crowded market in part because like
there are a lot of strong candidates in
that domain most notably Warren but also
that's Harris and bit of chechen
whatever else right and so you know and
so you know Beto too kind of fell into
that trap and like you know I think
Warren kind of won that Derby at least
for now at least for this summer maybe
the fall will be different but like he's
run this campaign now it's it's not it's
not 2018 it's like not working people
aren't buying what he's selling and and
he could kind of try different things
but I think the kind of proof is in the
pudding at this point and you just kind
of have to accept it we are moving on to
the next candidate in line more or less
in the polls and that is Cory Booker and
Nate you've got Booker
again I can't preview this before but I
think I think Booker has to think of can
I be the safe alternative if Biden
implodes I think you might also have to
think about like is there a way that I
can out leap Kamala Harris and become
the first or second choice
that's not Biden for black voters you
know I don't know quite how he does that
it's a difficult needle to thread and
again he's someone who might be
frustrated he has been like from start
to finish one of the stronger performers
in the debates so far
but you know maybe he wants to start a
narrative where where hey Kamala is I
mean this is something where you could
imagine like the media narrative helping
him if Harris is a bad debate you know
she's a pretty good debater so she
probably won't but if Harris is a bad
debate there are already a lot of
stories I think justifiably being like
watch you drop from 15 percent to 7
percent in the polls and her fundraising
number seems to be not very good frankly
from like apparently like her campaign
left like some strategy document and
like a diner or something in New
Hampshire which I'm always suspicious
whether that's you know was left there
intentionally or not but you can imagine
like a narrative where people like well
Harris is kind of toast but it doesn't
really make sense to have three old
white people vying for the nomination
and Booker is kind of the next most
viable so let's elevate him to the next
tier like it's that crazy right yeah I
don't know I think what makes Booker
viable is doing well in Iowa or New
Hampshire right because he can prove
he's you can maybe maybe already it does
I already have inroads and saying like I
am a u.s. senator I'm the former mayor
of a struggling City that is largely
black I am a black man so I can connect
on that level with the community
innately but if I win in white states
like Iowa and New Hampshire then I prove
an electability argument which is I am a
viable candidate and I can build a
coalition of like white establishment
people in those states plus a black vote
and that's like a lot of the coalition
yeah Iowans aren't real keen on Biden
his problems there and so Annie and
Booker is supposed to be decent on the
stump and so yeah we'd be kind of going
to Iowa I think and being like hey look
aren't you a little scared of of Warren
and Bernie not to not to everyone
a lot of Iowans loved Warren and Bernie
but to those that don't to kind of say
I'm you know it's the same thing that
Club achar is doing but like Booker's
like a little bit Booker is actually
pretty good out there like he's a good
speaker right he's like a friendly
personality and I think probably that
resonates better with a crowd
some of the other lower tier candidates
look I think he has I think I've said
this before I think he's kind of
underrated oh well you shouldn't read my
piece on fivethirtyeight.com tomorrow
then Claire but wait how would how would
how would running to the right of Warren
and Bernie and I help him that seems
like the opposite well he's not if he's
not gonna win the like progressive
voters because I mean he's not like but
that's the Iowa electorate that's part
of the problem is problem right is like
I well they're I think that there are
he's not going to out progressive those
people so why try like why try to be a
weaker flavor of tea right I mean
there's clearly like 30 percent support
for Biden right so there are people who
aren't looking for just like the most
press okay let that's my point where
this I think he has to go up to Biden
not sure or hope that go after Biden I
don't think that's a different thing
like it's it's it's he's going after
he's like hoping that Biden slips up
more maybe I'm one of the like issues
that'll probably a race issue or an age
or something like that goes after those
voters but he kind of basically for a
lot of people the open the lane that is
least crowded is the middle lane and
Biden's taking up all the space but he's
sort of an interesting like not wounded
frontrunner but potentially wounded
front right no I I think that's right I
think I think the dividing line in the
primary is like people who have a chance
and people who have a chance only if
Biden collapses and I think Booker's in
the in the second half right only having
a chance at Biden collapses yeah yeah
even though I agree with everything I
said about like I think he's that good
debate I think he's good on the stump he
has he has a good resume but like yeah I
mean I think he's hoping I think the
race I think we're okay September
September 9th I think people want the
next three months
to be a I think a lot of people in the
race want the next three months to be
really problematic for Joe Biden do you
guys think but they're running they're
kind of run like a lot of people will
say like well you're running out of time
right like you have to have established
endorsements and filled organizations on
the ground in addition to hoping that
Joe Biden has a really bad three months
do you think so there was a article I
think it was today or yesterday about
how about this idea that a lot of
campaigns think Biden is like a paper
tiger and their their strategy
essentially amounts to
I didn't collapse it and then we do and
need you were you were pushing back on
that but is were you pushing back
because you you think Biden is a strong
frontrunner yeah I think it shouldn't be
too hard to I mean by it's not doing
that well he's at 25 percent in Iowa if
your campaign can't get a quarter of the
electorate maybe your candidates the
problem with non Biden but like but look
I mean you probably write that like I
mean maybe it's like I guess almost like
a Hillary versus Trump strategy in the
debates where she's trying to antagonize
him maybe just want to like force Biden
to work hard during the debates and you
want to force him to have a risk of a
stumble or a gaffe right and just
challenge him because it's kind of a you
know David versus Goliath strategy a lot
of canidates would benefit I mean almost
everyone would benefit if Biden were to
obviously stumble in a debate that's not
named Biden yeah so you know to some
extent like just yeah I just kind of
take take your shots and he might look
kind of bad and there are scenarios
where that were downs to Biden's benefit
because it look like he's sticking and
coming fire and handling it well I mean
do you think that's just the dynamic we
will see on Thursday like everyone
attacked Biden yes it should everyone
but well everyone benefits from it
almost everyone yeah like if you're well
who doesn't who doesn't benefit Bernie
Bernie I think Warren is maybe happy
enough to have bars of foil Warren
doesn't need to write like other people
what's weird about Bernie is like
he does personal attacks don't really
like work on Bernie Sanders there's like
this weird I mean people have obviously
talked about his age but he just he's so
because he himself is so myopically
issues oriented that anything I don't
know there's just something odd about
like he'd just say like what my life is
about fighting for working people looks
the same as they did when he was 40
there's something odd odd about that
like know what everyone's I mean I do
think it's it's the difference between
the way Sanders and Biden men of similar
ages present themselves Bernie Bernie
has like a polemical fire and brimstone
air about him which makes him seem very
vital and Biden is a more low-key
speaker and more of like a just folks
anecdotal you know not back-slapping but
like you know hugging kind of politician
I don't mean that in the life I mean it
in the way of like if you see him on the
stump he's he's kind of the classic like
I want to have an emotional connection
with you I want to like look at you
while you tell me your story and I'm
gonna shake your hand for a really long
time like he's that kind of person
whereas Sanders is is yeah fire and
brimstone I think you're right India in
general that a lot of the people
watching the debate and voting in these
primaries or party people right and so
like almost by definition they don't
like to see the party fight they want
the party to you be unified at the same
time I think if there are a lot of these
camps you have to take the risk
again the canons who like can have a
path to victory with Biden at 30 35
percent or somewhere in there our war in
Sanders maybe Harry I don't you know
Irish and Harrison fury she has a high
up side of her cold yeah Harris
everybody else you gotta go on the
attack
Harris I think is competing because of
the black vote she is competing work
kind of directly for I mean she seems
had the biggest like one-on-one trade
off we saw
in the polling we did last time was that
the first there was a big flow of voters
from Biden to Harris which then
gradually reversed itself but clearly
like a nexus there of certain groups of
voters who we're kind of think of those
two was entertainment not energy but
interesting we'll be right back on ABC
News live to continue our conversation
about the Democrats who are going to be
debating each other in the third primary
debate in Houston on Thursday you're
watching the 538 politics podcast on ABC
News live and we're continuing our
preview of the democratic debate in
Houston on Thursday it's going to be the
first time there's only one debate so
all of the top tier candidates will be
debating on the same stage all right so
let's really sort of fly through these
final minor candidates and then we will
get to our top three and we can debate
whether or not there is a top three but
Claire you are up next with Buddha judge
okay well as previously stated I think
mica was right that Amy Klobuchar and
Pete Buddha judge should paint
themselves as the voice of generations
II what if they announced their a ticket
the teenybopper ticket the cruise
Fiorina play no I think that's like that
is Buddha says Buddha judge is probably
the way he wins is like having a really
good performance in Iowa New Hampshire I
think that those are places where he's
like he is most likely to be able to
make a dent in those very white states
the place where he needs improvement is
with black voters he was on like The
Breakfast Club a couple days ago which
is a New York like hip-hop radio show
that has become kind of a stopping-off
point for candidates he talked about his
he calls it the the Douglass plan it's
like the Marshall Plan for
basically it's like his version of
reparations or his idea of like fixing
wealth inequality in America for African
Americans so he's obviously trying to
make inroads with that and I would guess
that he will try to talk about that plan
as much as possible on the debate stage
on Thursday because that is his weak
point obviously some of that is just due
to the fact that he's a guy from Indiana
but it's compounded by the fact that his
Police Department has has had some
problems with racialized policing or
allegations thereof but I think Budaj
edge was kind of like a nonentity at the
last debate you know like I don't there
are no moments that I'm you know a month
on I'm sort of like I remember when that
happened he was just sort of like there
and I think that's bad news bears for
him he needs to make some kind of I
think he's he's better on the debate
stage then O'Rourke is for instance like
but he probably wants to make similar
like woke guy arguments like I am both
progressive and pragmatic because I
don't believe in Medicare like I have
problems with Medicare per all I'm still
sort of here like a sensible young man
he's also better at making stage moments
like he is a quicker
wit like he can do a little insulin I
mean what if I were to play devil's
advocate for a change and say that I
don't think Pete bit attached should
worry very much about the black vote yet
because his path to kind of the nominee
involves winning or at least coming a
very close second in Iowa there are not
very many black voters in Iowa yes
no I'm single yeah maybe just have to
like like maybe the national media
doesn't it come off as disingenuous if
you haven't mentioned your plan for
black America until the South Carolina
the South Carolina primary in the
speaking from the like the language of
continuity isn't it best to sort of get
that in that you're not just performing
for the next primary contest ie
February's
white state primaries I'm just saying
he's not a terribly likely nominee
although maybe the fifth most likely I
guess but like but like you have to go
all-in on Iowa because that's a scenario
where I mean that's plausible like an
you told me people go to touch won Iowa
like it's not that crazy I feel like
there's also like a little elephant in
the room which is like there are a
decent minority of Democratic voters who
are not comfortable currently voting for
a gay man or a lesbian that we don't
talk about that cuz that people are so
progressive right but like if you look
at polls and people don't always aren't
always honest about the stuff in polls
they even impulse it's like a decent
minority that might limit the potential
number of voters in his universe
especially among groups that are more or
less college educated whatever else
right
and so you know you know I think his
issues with black voters who
historically are more conservative on
gay rights might have that much do with
that is like with the is with the police
situation in South Bend well and also
how much is how much is sexual his
sexuality hurting him in Iowa in
particular is a super interesting
question because on the one hand I would
be a place where where you would expect
the kind like Buddha judge to do really
well right progressive progressive young
that kind of optimistic message in the
way Obama did on the other hand you know
well the the and you know and it's a
super white electorate too right to your
point a but on the other hand it's also
like had has this more kind of like
working-class progressive populist vibe
there
yep that you could see Bernie voters
yeah but Iowa Iowa also is one of the
first states through its courts I
believe to legalize gay marriage I mean
look I think was through the legislature
look I I think when when NER Pete had
this moment and what was it what was it
live podcast we did was like oh my god
buta judge when Murphy had this moment
where he like kind of Rose all of a
sudden from like two percent to 10
percent
five percent or whatever right my
impression of that was it was partly
based on Democrats I think was kind of
this underdog story right with a small
town game error and the gay part of it
was part of it you know all the sudden
is like on the big national stage and
gonna outflank all these big famous
names right I think he has to kind of
somehow like we capture a little bit of
that you know I think he may be because
a the underdog factor probably helps him
and B he has plenty of money so he's not
worried about like he's not worried
about running out of oxygen he is the
one candidate who I think probably
should actually be a little bit
conservative and doesn't need to like
win anything
yeah the the the optimist case for bida
judges is he kind of came out of nowhere
had this surge in the polls has had a
huge fundraising boost and has just
started to kind of make big investments
on the ground and I won New Hampshire
and so maybe to your point aid like
maybe he doesn't he doesn't need to hit
home running this debate and like he has
he has more of a runway there apart from
the leaders in the polls
the only remaining person left is yang
and that goes to you Micah what is his
strategy yang yang I don't know actually
I thought Yang's incentives in the
debates are sort of weird we're in a lot
of ways he's running as just an issue
candidate for universal basic income but
in the debates he hasn't like behaved
really as a single issue candidate he
kind of I don't know he hasn't he hasn't
really stood out in the debate so I
don't know if I think yang should just
kind of answer every question that comes
to him make it about income and yang
sort of louder on the internet the news
I think that yang I don't know I think
he should just play up his I thought I
think last debate I think it was he had
a really I think resonant line where he
talked about the people who would
benefit the most from universal basic
income are largely women who
you know stay at home with children or
who are the primary caretakers of sick
members of their family or the elderly
and I actually that's a very compelling
argument for him to make and he should
make it better and more often because I
think it cuts against the grain of his
sort of like male internet persona and
it kind of Universal eise's it and it
takes it out of this oh here's this like
weird rich guy who has a plan about
giving us all money and he should he
should sort of make it well this is what
it actually looks like day-to-day and
this is who we're trying to reward for
there non-salaried work that that help
society move and I think it's actually
quite compelling argument and he should
pay it up and help and his idea for the
debate should be to make it a mainstream
part of the the dialogue meet Kamala
Harris what does she need to do on the
stage on Thursday so Kemal Harris
kind of the strength and weakness of
Kamala Harris in general is that she is
sort of in the midpoint of different
parts the Democratic coalition so you
know you could see on the one hand her
deciding I have to win back
college-educated liberals from Warren on
the other hand you could say I have to
win back black voters and some
electability voters from from biting him
and I don't know I mean this maybe seems
over simple but like do more of what you
did in the first debate and less of the
second debate the first debate you were
more assertive and aggressive and kind
of tough and no-nonsense the second
debate she was very subdued and and not
as not as combative and I don't know
here's oh and now there's like
narratives there I think somewhat
justified that like she's kind of
falling in the polls so I so be
combative eat well here's a question she
lost almost all of her advantage from
the first debate by the time of the
setscrew right so why was that like why
couldn't she maintain the you know eight
percent that she gained in the polls
I think this goes back to I think a lot
of voters didn't like that she did that
I think a lot of voters still find
residents Joe Biden I think that Harris
should play up her prosecutorial record
I think for her she's gotten a lot of
endorsements from like black power
brokers and that's important like she
definitely has more than Booker and
she's basically like competing with
Biden for those things I think she's
another candidate like Booker who needs
to prove that she can win in Iowa or New
Hampshire or in order to like broaden
out the idea that she is at the
electable candidate in the kind of
candidate who can beat Trump why
wouldn't she just say I had a really bad
second debate in the first debate I went
hard after Biden and it worked but it
didn't yeah because she lost all the
games she made because she had to
because right after the debate she also
had to kind of say like well my official
stance is basically the same as Biden's
on well so that so that goes to how do
you explain why she lost that support if
you think that support so that there's
one explanation which is the kind of
substance of what Harris did in the
first debate doesn't really matter what
mattered was she had the headline moment
of the debate got all the media
attention and so therefore her support
increased by 50% just because people
knew who she was all of a sudden so if
that's your explanation then it's like
okay going hard after someone in debate
isn't on its own enough because you what
you need is really that kind of headline
moment right this unless you get
something where the substance is better
for you then that's a fleeting high
right like it'll go away
or she had this great moment of going
after Biden voters liked what they saw
or some voters did that's why her
support basically doubled and she kind
of fumbled that moment in having to walk
it back in in having kind of another
couple awkward moments in that
interregnum period
and if that's the case then it's like in
other words if it's if you believe that
she actually just kind of screwed up the
aftermath of the debate then I think her
strategy should be to try again to get
to have another big moment and and this
time handle it better I'm not sure I buy
the premise that going after Biden
triggered a backlash for Aris no no no
yeah I don't I don't think it's a
trigger to backlash I think some some
people didn't like it but those people
didn't jump on board some people did
like it I mean I'm just saying if we're
looking at the history to polish because
she did not fall all the way back to
where she is now before the second
debate she lost a big chunk of it but
she was sold like 11 and then she had
this kind of bad second debate and then
she's gone from 11:00 to 7:00
I think Harris needs to go full
electability honestly that's why I think
she needs to do polls show most
democratic voters care about beating
Trump Harris is a coalitional candidate
she can sit she can stand up on stage
and say listen I love Joe and I love
Elizabeth you and I have a ton of
respect for them but this one's too hot
this one's too cold but in the
goldilocks because if we're talking
about like the refinement of the terms
the debates we're at debate number three
and people have already kind of like
staked out their personalities a little
bit and so this debate does become Biden
is still the front-runner but a
different kind of frontrunner crowded
field
Warren slowly edging up I think a lot of
people need to make electability
argument so Warren is up next and Claire
Warren is yours what is her strategy
going into the debate well I think it's
kind of what I was just saying before
with Micah which is I think she needs to
establish herself probably as she needs
to make an electability argument and I
think a lot of that comes down to her
the air she has about her on stage which
I know sounds like stupid theater
criticism blah blah blah but the idea of
how you what posture you take versus the
numerical frontrunner ie Joe Biden but
obviously I think he's he's a piece of
Acurio kind of
front runner and so Warren needs I would
say Warren would need to act on stage as
Biden's equal which frankly I think
she's done for decades yeah I mean it
seriously go back and look at the Senate
hearing clips like they they have a
they've I think they view the system
differently right and I think that
they're sort of like it's an interesting
thing to watch that they are sort of
decades long or a couple decades long
Democrats who think about the party very
differently and in Warren's case maybe a
later to identify as a Democrat first
and foremost and I think that that's
going to be really interesting to watch
and I think Warren probably will in may
be in her heart of hearts want to
eviscerate Biden but I think you kind of
have to walk this interesting line
particularly as a woman yeah of being to
eviscerating to circulating and there's
a line to because I think expectations
are very high for Warren in this debate
in general she's gotten very favorable
press coverage in the past few months
she's gradually moved up in the polls um
or she's had a quite formidable number
she is seen I think based on her first
two two debates fairly is like a good
debater right but then she does have
this like fairly difficult balancing act
where especially as a woman were on the
one hand like she is not someone who
needs to win the nomination today she
has at any candidate in the field the
most reason to think just the passage of
time tends to help her right on the
other hand if she's like too meek then
you can imagine like a meeting narrative
being that oh she was disappointing this
was her big moment following the stage
with Biden and she didn't deliver and I
feel like I know meeting areas well
enough maybe doesn't really matter in
the long run right maybe one reason well
you see these bouts that reverse because
like people filter out the media after a
week or so and they revert back to what
they thought before but I feel like a
little bit like with Harris like kind of
people didn't really see it coming when
she had kind this meeting for debate the
second time around right you could see a
case where like Warren months worth of
favorable press coverage and all the
sudden there's a plot twist
and she makes a guy from the debate or
she's very flat right or she gets
rebuked by somebody and I'm just saying
there's like upside downside no I I grew
that like yeah the risk is you don't
have a good debate I think that
different like I have trouble seeing
Warren being meek not because of
personality but because like her
positions within the party and the
spectrum of issues stances of candidates
almost forces her to always be scrapping
and so even if she were like I don't
know didn't have coffee before the
debate or whatever like didn't recharge
her batteries like she would still she's
still gonna say things like it would
still be thrown into the position of
being the defender of the left spectrum
of the party along with Bernie Sanders
right like she said earlier this week
that if she becomes president when she
becomes president of course they always
word it that way she'll ban fracking
right look you can't say that in a kind
of just like shrinking violet kind of
way because it's a it's a pretty extreme
position to contrast with Harris Harris
has placed herself in the you know she's
in the milky tea kind of this the the
temperatures a little tepid but a little
hot and so therefore she maybe more like
more can slip into having more of a like
mmm middle ground kind of debate because
she her position the thing the way she's
trying to posture herself on stages I'm
kind of in the middle here I'm kind of a
good compromise and she's not taking the
sort of like steak out of place alright
and we have reached the end with senator
Bernie Sanders he has been kind of
remained steady in the polls for quite
some few months now some ups and downs
what is he what does he do how does he
regain his 40 percent plus forty four
percent something like that support from
the 2016 Democratic primary Mike I think
that goes to you
I think he has to I feel like my answer
to all these questions
attack attack everybody but like the
media will not cover you unless you do
something like pretty aggressive
tactically unlikely he's kind of been
flying under the radar as much lately as
much as a very famous politician in
America can can no that's right and like
it used to be the case that you know
like his policy statements were
considered aggressive by the media
because they were by the by the kind of
standards of the day that's not the case
anymore so like just calling for like
structural change isn't enough to
differentiate yourself or to get the
media to like put you at the top of
their next day story right yes like it's
like the maturation of Oakland
essentially like a one-issue candidate
like decades ago Bernie Sanders was the
aim Andrew yang of the Democratic Party
right he was the guy he was who was
constantly talking constantly talking
about income inequality this is one
thing he has his big breakout moment in
2016 he shifts the paradigm right but
then what does the paradigm shifter do
after the paradigm has shifted all of
these other people who are like
detail-oriented wonky politicians come
in and they kind of over we're all we
all support Sanders Medicare for all and
then wrote we're all spinning off and
like Harris does a pragmatic thing and
Warren does the wonky take on it for the
educated like white establishment so
where does that leave Sanders I think he
has like a little bit of a there's this
funny moment of to go back to this his
real talent and strength and like it has
moved the party is is his his ability to
be polemical to say to say that the
system is all broken blah blah blah I
think the problem with that his campaign
faces now is they a big part of them
their outward message is everyone's
against us
which isn't necessarily the kind of fun
that's right come come join us and
you'll get attacked by everybody yeah
I've I've one minor critique so first of
all Bernie I think as the steadiest
debate performances never bad never
cartwheels terrific right it's a very
steady debater but I have one minor
critique in one maitre d k-- of his
strategy the minor critique is getting a
little bit's what Claire was talking
about which is like I think sometimes he
focuses too much the debates on abstract
ideas and not the impact on people and
so the thing that I think usually
politicians do too much we tell a story
about a voter in Iowa blah blah blah
right like I think he could stand to do
more of that folksy stuff and just kind
of explicitly say like hey look if
you're like a working-class Democrat I
am looking out for you because a lot of
these cans are implicitly competing with
for college-educated Democrats the media
frames around the debate cuz all the
media folks are college-educated
Democrats who have college-educated
friends right so Bernie can gain ground
among non-college Democrats and that's
kind of where you see overlap with his
support and Biden's the bigger critique
gets more complicated is like also
echoing what earlier comments but like
it's hard to win a nomination which
inherently is a consensus building
process it's built into the rules in
fact that you need to win a majority of
Delegates it's not plurality take all
it's hard to do that with and everyone
is against us lying right it's a great
way to retain your 15% it's not a good
way to get to 30% and so being like I
was the original G the Original Gangster
behind a lot of these ideas that other
Democrats are now taking from and it
kind of makes sense that that therefore
you want to nominate me is kind of the
heir apparent in the party how can do
without seeming like arrogant I think
it's a little bit softer be softer
Bernie
after Bernie yeah show some humor right
I mean it's kind of like a little bit
with Trump or like people like people
know the Trump's gonna get the back of
like his base bright so Trumpkin a Ford
to soften that and wouldn't lose as much
I don't know yeah I think actually so
the softer Bernie thing
agreed like the right strategic pivot
and again it goes to these politicians
are people with idiosyncrasies and
Bernie Sanders is supremely
uncomfortable with talking about his
personal life his his life story in
general you just look at it and there's
you there are never these sort of like
there's a lot of soft focus what was her
life like about the the women candidates
there's a lot of narrative building
around Warren and Harris and how their
their life you know came to politics
with Bernie Sanders it has always been
kind of a black box around his private
life this is the lowest stakes for him
of any of the major candidates right
it's hard to imagine a scenario where he
implodes because of debate it's also
hard to imagine a scenario where all the
sudden he jumps up seven points right
it's kind of a low stakes to be for him
a lot of the focus is on widen Warren
versus Biden and to some extent Harris
versus Warren they've not been the same
States together right so just kind of
experiment and like literally this is
very on brand for me to say but like
collect data on how voters like it
because you're probably gonna need
another gear at some point in order to
get up to get up to 24% and win Iowa and
like this is a debate where there are
ten candidates on stage focal point is
somewhere else you can kind of like
we're a little randomized control trial
and like not be a big disrupter but just
kind of see how people react to it I
don't know all right well of course we
will see how this all plays out on
Thursday night 8 o'clock on ABC some of
us are gonna be down in Houston so we'll
have a post debate reaction podcast in
which we'll be able to judge all of our
strategies whether or not the candidates
took them whether or not they worked and
that'll be fun but that's it for now
thank you Nate thank you Galen Thank You
Claire thanks Kayla and Thank You Micah
thank you and check out our live block
yes we have a live blog on Thursday
night starting at what time Oh
launch at like 7:30 but really get go
man the debate starts you can get in
touch by emailing us at podcasts at five
thirty eight.com you can also of course
tweet at us with any questions or
comments if you're a fan of the show we
rating or review in the Apple podcast
store or tell someone about us thanks
for listening and we'll see you soon hey
folks
I predict that you're gonna either
subscribe to our YouTube channel or
watch some related videos or both you
can do both but you can't do neither so
either subscribe or watch more videos
