I've been in Wisconsin for less than 24
hours I I have you see that kind of
someone shouted lucky you and see that
kind of self-deprecation is what you're
famous for I've had cheese curds in 100%
of my meals I feel I feel great I have
discovered something what I have
discovered is that beneath this gay
Jewish coastal elite exterior is the
digestive tract of a Midwestern Obama
Trump voter
oh you're applauding that because
speaking of Obama Trump voters apology
not accepted
face what you did you have given us Paul
Ryan you have given us Scott Walker and
and you have given us Donald Trump two
of your main exports are dairy and
 let's talk about Scott Walker
so Ian axe act 10 attacking the state's
unions and undermining the rights of
working people he cuts education by
billions he fights to privatize the
public schools and universities he forts
he forces cuts to teacher salaries and
this is something I find Boo is right we
hate that here he tried I missed this
one's amazing i he tried to change the
mission of the University of Wisconsin
from improving the human condition and
searching for truth to meeting the
state's workforce needs
I vote for me you interchangeable cogs
vote for me
you miasma of productivity I can sack
you you peons meet the state's workforce
needs how grants how nice that would be
for all of you to meet the state's
workforce needs why did you come to the
University of Wisconsin well I thought a
lot about it and I was very interested
in meeting the state's workforce needs
what are you majoring in um killing the
part of myself that feels
also under your former governor
wisconsin joined the lawsuit against the
ACA rejected medicaid money because he
cared more about making a case running
for president than he did about this
state and that sucks because he was so
bad at running for president that people
said he should drop out to make room for
 Jeb people looked at Jeb Bush
and Scott Walker and they said we need
the one with charisma
why are you applauding he represented
all of you oh you try did you oh oh you
tried okay good
thanks for your thanks for your efforts
sorry thank you
only one of you said sorry and of course
finally so not only is he stripping the
government for parts and undermining
workers not only is he trying to
privatize institutions he's trying to
undermine the democracy itself Walker
also passes a draconian voter ID law
they redraw the district lines to make
the elections less competitive a
undermine election oversight and after
losing despite what the voters in this
state wanted they pass a bill to
enshrine their politics and their
policies forever despite what every vote
despite what the voters in Wisconsin had
to say and I know that that lawsuits
continuing and it's very exciting
because it's such that
is the experiment that Scott Walker ran
in the state and it's the experiment
Donald Trump is running right now to
strip the government for parts to crush
working people to suppress votes and
campaign on division and fear to win and
and they killed your train Scott Walker
killed a train that would have
okay
I forgot about that why do you
conservatives turn on trains I ran love
trains that book was about trains so
that is the conservative experiment that
you guys rebuked here in Wisconsin but
the fight continues there is a big fight
in Wisconsin a judicial race here in
April how many of you guys have been
following this we need to get Lisa
Neubauer elected to the Wisconsin
Supreme Court losing this seat would
guarantee a conservative majority on the
state Supreme Court when redistricting
is done in 2021
that will put the that will jeopardize
the congressional map that'll that'll
jeopardize the state legislative map so
everybody here needs to do their part to
elect Lisa Neubauer
you can donate you can make calls you
can write letters from anywhere in the
country and you can knock on doors if
you live in Wisconsin or nearby go to
swing left calm slash Wisconsin to learn
more and get involved the next two years
Wisconsin is gonna play such a big role
not only what happens here but what
happens in national politics listen
alright let's just be honest we were
caught a bit flat-footed by what
happened here in 2016 I feel like
everyone here was pretty surprised when
they woke up let's admit it but I
knocked on a couple more doors
can't make the same mistakes in 2020
that we made in 2016 you guys have won a
battle here by electing a new governor a
new lieutenant governor you can help win
that seat on the Supreme Court and you
can do your part to organize in the next
two years because listen all right we
wake up on that Wednesday November 2020
and Wisconsin shits the bed again
buckle up you'll never see me again
and Tommy and John may want to come but
I won't let us
[Music]
