there's the obvious way as Trump makes
it hard right he's he's so extreme but
are there other ways in which Trump
being this larger-than-life figure makes
it hard to write fiction about this
moment I think so because discourse has
sort of fallen away and and the way
people communicate with one another is
he's that landscape has been changed not
just by him by the way you know I think
we have a lot of folks to yeah in here
say he is a symptom of the disease but
it's like so much of what the show was
built on doesn't seem shocking I mean
it's sort of what I was saying before
just doesn't seem shocking the language
doesn't really seem shocking or we had
to push it so far that it got almost
borderline crazy shocking and I guess
that sort of there's that concept of
like maybe it's time for like another
West Wing show like something a little
more inspirational is it under the ocean
but you know just in the sense of like
go the other way from something yeah
exactly because are horrible people
watching are horrible people
I'm not it stopped maybe being an escape
from the real horrible people you know
there's a there's a line in the last
episode I think you're talking to
Margery or Cather and you say restore
faith and democracy we couldn't do that
if we wanted to and that felt very real
very meta very frustrated yeah like what
are we supposed to do I can't
[Laughter]
