very serious today Thursday pon welcome
to pod save America I'm John Favreau
I'm John Lovett in for Dan Pfeiffer
that's right Dan's on vacation so you're
here mm-hmm it's great to have you here
on the Thursday but I'm gonna bring all
my seriousness to bear today we'll see
about that later in the pod my interview
with House Intelligence Chairman Adam
Schiff about his committee's hearing
with Robert Muller before that we'll
talk about all this special hmm before
that we'll talk all about the special
counsels big day on the hill and what it
might mean for impeachment we're also
going to talk about how Joe Biden is
getting feisty er with his opponents
ahead of the next debate over issues
like health care and criminal justice on
this week's episode of POD save the
world Tommy and Ben talk about how the
hell Boris Johnson became prime minister
of the United Kingdom why Trump mused
about killing 10 million people in
Afghanistan during a recent Oval Office
press conference and how he's trying to
get ASAP rocky out of jail quite a range
of topics on that part of the world
check it out sounds like a good one
finally the last installment of July's
crooked minis on patriotism came out on
Wednesday hosted by Ken Harbaugh and
featuring an interview with Pete Buddha
jej subscribed to crooked minis wherever
you get your podcasts and check out the
whole series also we're having a merch
sale of it I've been told we are so
there's some great stuff in the store
check it out at cricket comm there's a
lot more in this copy that made me seem
like a Salesman I'm not gonna read it oh
yeah
20% off this act now get 50% off your
order here I think we it's time we face
that given the amount of advertising we
do I am selling underwear in home
security systems I think this is a
nuance that is lost on most listeners
anyway there's a sale go get some
t-shirts okay let's get to the news in 6
hours of testimony before the House
Judiciary and intelligence committees
special counsel robert muller limited
himself largely to confirming the
already explosive findings of his
investigation that the president and his
campaign encouraged russia to commit
crimes to help him win the presidency
eagerly accepted and then benefited from
those crimes lied about it and then
obstructed the investigation into those
crimes and other crimes Muller did not
however break a lot of new ground he
refused to answer a lot of questions and
he seemed a little hesitant
a little rattled at times but it was a
day of hearings where I think anyone who
watched heard a pretty damning story
about the president's corruption and his
Adam Schiff said his disloyalty to the
country before we get into it I believe
we have a clip of Jerry Nadler the
chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee opening up the first hearing
of the day so the report did not
conclude that he did not commit
obstruction of justice is that correct
that is correct and what about total
exoneration did you actually totally
exonerate the president no now in fact
your reports expressly states that it
does not exonerate the president that
does and your investigation actually
found quote multiple acts by the
president that were capable of exerting
undue influence over law enforcement
investigations including the Russian
interference and obstruction
investigations is that correct correct
so love it it's been now a a full day
since the hearing of everything we
learned or at least everything we heard
yesterday
what has stuck with you it's a great
question what has stuck with me I think
overall it is the moments where Muller
talked about the Russia interference was
probably to me the the place where he
showed the most emotion and where I
think for him is where he believes we
have a real moral obligation that were
not fulfilling it was one of the few
places where I think he didn't didn't
exactly go beyond the report but
expressed some real outrage and fear for
the country because of Russia's
continuing efforts to interfere with the
election and he was willing to refer to
some of the conduct around Russian
interference and the collaboration that
while he didn't call a crime and the
collaboration between the Trump campaign
and Russia that well that you know which
he didn't call a crime but did have
strong words of criticism for and was
willing to I think express some moral
language about I mean those to me were
the two
moments and types of things Muller said
that I think will have the most the
lasting impression for me yeah I mean he
said of trumps praise for WikiLeaks
quote problematic is an understatement
and that such comments give quote hope
or some boost to illegal activity and
that it certainly calls for word
investigation he also as you referred to
you used the terms unpatriotic to talk
about it that was about the past he also
said that Russia and potentially other
countries are trying to meddle in our
election again as we speak as we sit at
that hearing which I thought was rather
alarming yeah what else what else do we
learn that is new that sort of surprised
you from history that wasn't in the
report anything yeah I mean the one the
one big piece of information that we
learned toward the very end of the
intelligence hearing was robert muller
saying that there were portions of the
president's statements that were in some
way untruthful the exact language he
used while he was asked the question he
was responding to leading questions from
Democrats but he agreed generally that
the President did not tell the whole
truth in his written answers to the
special counsel yeah I thought that was
pretty fascinating and I was also a
little surprised that that didn't make
it into the report itself if there were
untruthful answers though it may be hard
to actually prove perjury there's a
couple other things you know that he
emphasized that I thought are not
exactly new but definitely confirmed the
fact that you know there is substantial
evidence that the President did commit a
crime that he obstructed justice
Moeller agreed that lies by the Trump
campaign and the White House impeded his
investigation he said that because
Justice Department guidelines prevented
him from indicted a sitting president he
did not make a decision either way on
whether to indict the president for
obstruction of justice though this was a
walk back to an original answer he gave
to congressman ted Lieu that seemed a
little more forward-leaning i believe we
have that exchange i like to ask you the
reason again that you did not indict
Donald
is because of OLC opinion stating that
you cannot indict a sitting president
correct that is correct so I don't know
if that was a mistake so much as it was
a Freudian slip yeah that's a really
good point yeah so first of all it was a
stunning moment it was it was an
important moment because it did go
further than what was in the Muller
report right the mole report doesn't say
that it specifically doesn't say that
and actually this is this has been one
of the most central parts of the
narrative around the Mulla report
because it's actually what Barr hung a
lot of his argument on in his four-page
summary of the mullet reports so the OLC
memo says you cannot indict a sitting
president that memo was something that
robert muller was going to respect that
meant that robert muller could not
indict the president and based on that
logic it meant he couldn't say in his
report this is what you glean it's some
tights it vacillates between something
he's saying explicitly and less
explicitly but what that meant is not
only could he not not indict a sitting
president he did not feel it was
appropriate to say that he would indict
a sitting president but for the OLC memo
because that is basically saying I would
like to indict the president which
achieves the same end without actually
being able to put someone on trial and
having them an opportunity to defend
themselves yeah in the report I'm sorry
in what we just heard in that clip that
is an effective accusation against the
president even if it's not technically
an accusation because it's saying I
believe as a prosecutor he committed
obstruction of justice but because of
this rule I couldn't charge him now it's
interesting like not everyone agrees
with Moeller's conclusion there one
notable person who did not agree with
Muller's contention that he did not have
the power to say he would have charged
him but for the memo is William bar and
Neil Koch all who was the Solicitor
General in the Obama administration and
also wrote the special counsel
regulations he brought this up yesterday
in an interview he reminded us that Barr
said in an interview after the report
was out that Muller could have reached a
conclusion on a
destruction if he wanted why didn't he
I mean I I sort of took it as okay well
that that you know Muller was doing the
right thing here but I sort of wonder if
we'll look back and wonder why didn't
Muller say yeah I did reach a convened a
here's all the evidence I reached a
conclusion on obstruction but you know
there's the OLC memo I can't charge a
sitting president so this take this as
an impeachment referral yes I actually
don't think we'll have to do very much
wandering far into the future I think we
can actually wonder about it pretty well
right now it feels like a kind of moral
probity that goes so far beyond what was
necessary to uphold I think a sincere
conviction around the rule of law and
the limitations of the spent the special
counsel rules you know I take the author
of those rules at his word and I find I
understand
Robert Muller's general principle of I
would like this the facts for to speak
for themselves I do not want to be part
of an ad I do not want to be part of a
partisan campaign one way or the other
I'm going to trust the system protect
the Department of Justice provide all
the evidence I see fit as a kind of
statement of what the law should be how
the law should work I understand all of
that I do believe that those are our
principles worthy of being upheld and
could have been upheld by being more
explicit I think I think he's a bit
twisted around the axle in these in
these moments because there's this like
there's this logical argument that ends
in I can't really say very much at all
yeah and another moment where it seemed
like he had sort of twisted himself in
knots around this question is when ted
Lieu was questioning him on you know
he's basically saying there were three
elements to obstruction of justice you
have evidence that it met this element
that you have in he basically gets
Muller to admit that all three elements
of obstruction of justice have been met
the legal elements to make up some
objectives and then
basically stops at the end of that
realizing that he had sort of just
walked into this trap and said yes but I
didn't I didn't formally reach that
conclusion and it's like well what other
conclusion could you have reached
because you just agreed that all the
elements to obstruction of justice were
there right it's it's like he's um
it's like he's singing happy birthday
and just not playing the last note right
you know it's like we we all know what
you we all know what you think the
Republicans know what you think the
Democrats know what you think you know
what you think the lawyers sitting
behind you know what you think the
reporters watching this and scoring this
you know to make sure this you know to
see who's triple axels landed and you
know who got the quad everyone knows
what you think you laid it out on your
report there are ten instances of
obstruction of justice it's as clear as
day he did it on television he did it on
Twitter he did it to you and to Jim
Comey someone you know well you know a
member of the a member a leader of the
FBI someone you respect someone you
admire you know the the the the
challenge in all of this is we are
having an incredibly important and large
debate where no one really underneath it
all disagrees on what happened here
right this the subtext is not subtext no
but I think I mean and I think it's
confusing for some people because the
media treated his correction of his
statement is some giant walk back is if
you can put that back on the box but you
can't we know what he knows what he
believes is what he originally said to
ted Lieu and by the way that's also
what's in the report there is nothing in
the report there is no evidence that
there are other reasons why he did not
bring a charge against the president for
obstruction of justice it was not for
lack of evidence no and and and the the
part of the report where Muller says you
know there were other issues that
prevented this conclusion from being
reached it's what bar hangs his hat on
it's what a lot of this debate hangs its
hat on the walk back isn't robert muller
denies that but for the OLC memos would
have charged donald trump the walk back
is robert muller won't say that but for
the OLC memo right he wouldn't have
charged donald trump it is a semantics
walk back ultimately in fact it actually
argues for saying that him
saying it isn't ultimately as important
as we made it out to be even in the
moment that yes hearing him say it I I
was taken aback by it I thought it was a
big statement but then you you want help
I also thought Oh obviously that's
obviously true well that's why I thought
it was like I'm glad he's finally saying
yeah but I wasn't I wasn't blown away by
it it was like it was like when the the
you know the gayest kid in the theatre
troupe says finally says he's gay it's
like yeah okay great
we're gonna talk about it me too you
know so robber Muller came out of the
closet on obstruction and then
immediately went back in yeah that seems
like what happened so that's so that's
some of what we learned or heard
confirmed out loud by Muller now before
the hearing House Democrats were telling
reporters that their goal for these
hearings was to bring the Muller report
to life how well do you think they did
on that front and what could have gone
better do you think the Democrats were
effective and then I guess we should
talk about do we think Muller was
effective well it wasn't exactly
Shakespeare in the Park you know I'm of
two minds on this you know we were
watching this we saw you know we
criticize pundits for saying that you
know the optics were a disaster it
wasn't exciting it wasn't dramatic there
wasn't a big reveal and yet at the same
time it's also true that that given the
expectation that Muller wasn't going to
say very much beyond the report in the
hearing a lot of this was about taking
the words that were on the page and
bringing them to life and showing them
to the American people and by the way
one huge obstacle to that goal is that
you know a night or two before the
hearings Muller's people said to
Democrats
oh he's not even going to read parts of
the report out loud so that you have
that soundbite which I thought is a
bizarre decision and in no way warranted
or necessary yes I guess I understand it
because in terms of from his perspective
right as use of time and actual value
reading out loud words that have already
been released to the public is pure
politics yo its well it is again in line
with the Democrats goal of a lot of
people in this country didn't read the
report we want we believe that Robert
Muller
should stand by the words that he wrote
that he does stand by the words that he
wrote so if he stands by them and
believes in them why not say them to
people and who may not have read the
report you know I think it's a very fair
request yeah I think right I think it's
I see I see both sides of it I don't
actually ultimately think him reading
from the document would have been was
that it wasn't magic beans
no it wasn't magic beans as we say but
classics Marie Claire's classic magic as
the fluid as we say in politics it
wasn't magic beans but you know there
were a lot of big moments that came out
of the hearing Nadler asking about
exoneration and getting some of those
answers on the record the moment about
Trump being dishonest the moments about
a lack of patriotism about things
deserving to be investigated about
Russian interference
I thought shifts questioning was really
effective there were other questions
other moments of questioning that were
very effective and I I think those
moments were played pretty often on
television I presume many of them were
played on the local news and were you
know part of the coverage but also part
of the coverage was the was the general
critical response and the Republican
response that Muller was you know he fum
furred a bit he had to search his pages
he asked for questions to be repeated he
wasn't very dynamic some of the some of
the lines of questioning didn't lead to
very much Donald Trump went out to the
to that to the to the helipad and
started shouting over the sound of
propellers about how it was fake news
and saying both I I didn't watch the
coverage but what you did was wrong and
what you did was wrong and what you did
was wrong so all of that is infused in
how this is and how this is received is
there a version of it where we got more
out of it yes did we still get a good
amount of coverage of Muller's
underlying claims in the report in a way
that hadn't happened at any point
previously yes yeah this is you know I
thought it would be reversed when before
the hearing in that I thought we would
be critical of Democrats for not getting
the right questions or blowing it and
then be like oh thank god from Muller
I actually think for as much as we've
criticized Democrats I'm Pietschmann
other things I think that the Democrats
on the committees handled themselves
quite well I think especially chairman
Adler an especially chairmanship
I thought was outstanding and within the
context of interviewing a witness who
had said at the outset that he would not
read parts of the report and would not
go beyond as he said the four corners of
the report at all within that context I
think they got a lot out of it and I
think the Muller thing did did surprise
me you know I don't think he was as
sharp I don't know why you know there's
one theory I had was you know he didn't
really want to prepare for this hearing
that much because he didn't want to do
the hearing in the first place and he
knew he wasn't gonna go beyond the
report so it's not like he prepped
himself like crazy because he knew he
was gonna keep saying I refer you to the
report I refer you to the report and I'm
not going to answer that question which
he did but even if he was going to take
that strategy he still seemed a little
lost at times and I do wonder what's
going on there yeah I think that's right
I also think it's a matter of mindset
and going into something like this I
think it was pretty clear that he went
into this hearing with a whole set of
places he didn't want to go yeah and
very few places he did want to go right
you know if I was prepping Robert Muller
and obviously I'm a partisan but you
know if I were prepping Robert Muller
and I was thinking about someone purely
from the perspective of caring about
making sure that the report has the has
its best airing in a nonpartisan way and
that we defend the prerogatives of the
rule of law in the United States I might
have pushed to say all right here are
some of the areas I think it's worth
making an important point about whether
it's the integrity of the Department of
Justice the importance of the of the
protection of investigations at the
Department of Justice from interfering
on Russian interference from
interference from the White House on
Russian interference I do think he was a
bit more expansive in part because
whether he prepped around that or not
whether he was worried about it or not
it was a place where he felt comfortable
yeah expounding a bit a bit more I do
and in his defense too I mean we just
said that the Democrats overall did
quite well but I do think some of the
questions because they couldn't get
Muller to read the report they read you
know a paragraph at a time very quickly
and you know if I was sitting where
Robert
right we could all hear the sound very
well on our televisions but in that
hearing room a lot of reporters who were
in there said it's sometimes hard to
hear the questions and they were
speaking really fast and you have to
think yourself do I want to answer the
question quickly and strongly or do I
want to make sure I don't lie under oath
and get something wrong like I better
look into the report you know so who
knows what was going on there but I
didn't the important thing is like I get
that the main goal for the Democrats was
to bring the report to life I don't
necessarily think that Robert Muller
giving a shaky performance detracted
from getting facts out into the public
sphere that people needed to know that
much like it might have at the margins
but you know we just you you reference
or the the pundits on this there were a
few pundits and reporters who decided
early on that Muller was a little off
our friend David Axelrod tweeted that
quote he does not appear as sharp as he
was in the past Chris Wallace then said
he was uncertain that the hearing was a
quote disaster for Muller and Democrats
Chuck Todd tweeted quote on substance
the Democrats got what they wanted but
on optics this was a disaster another
word disaster and there were plenty of
others like that and of course then the
White House picked up on all of those
talking points and basically thanks to
all the pundits who said it was a
disaster it gave the press secretary at
the White House and Donald Trump the
ability to say it was a disaster as well
so the argument that I heard from some
reporters on this was you know Democrats
said that their goal was to bring this
to life and that's all about optics so
why shouldn't we judge optics yeah I
mean fair enough I think with that I
think the problem here is actually it's
it it is not that the Democrats didn't
get what they wanted out of the hearing
and as I think why the conversation
around optics is so frustrating the
issue is what we learned in the hearing
given that Muller wasn't doing a you
know dramatic reading of the testimony
it was not a few good men it was not a
few good men it was not you know Muller
didn't finally admit to the code red
it's a little bit what we learned is
that Democrats made a mistake weeks ago
you know that that even in Democrats
saying
wanted to bring the report to life what
they were what they were in some sense
saying was I need robert muller to do
something i'm either unable or unwilling
to do which is take this report and all
the information in it none of which will
be new by the time we get to Muller's
testify testimony delayed and delayed
and delayed until now which is bring it
to life for the american people and hold
it up and say this is that this is
enough this should be enough
it's that that this this um slouching
toward reasonableness and this effort to
create the illusion of some some coming
information that finally makes the case
worthy of being made on impeachment
elevated the muller hearing into
something that even if he had been one
of the great dramatist of our age would
not have been possible because we
already had the information we have the
information the president is guilty of
crimes we all know it we all know it and
maybe maybe bars memo was too effective
in slowing us down maybe it took the
wind out of our sails
but Muller wasn't gonna be able to put
the wind back in and so I I I was
frustrated with the with the focus on
optics but maybe part of that is
frustrated with what led the Democrats
in Congress to believe that the optics
of this were work what were what was
going to matter yeah I mean look I much
understand that unfortunately optics are
important in politics I get that I get
that you know we watch these debates and
a lot of the debates are judged by
performance right I also think that this
should be treated as something different
obviously there are partisan interests
at stake in the outcome of the Muller
hearings and this investigation as a
whole we all understand that but we also
had an independent special counsel so
registered Republican conducted a
two-year investigation into a serious
attack on our democracy and the
connection to the President of the
United States in that investigation as
well and to treat that as just to treat
the presentation of that report in
public
as you know the most important thing is
to judge it via optics whether you know
Bob Muller was was shaken or not you
know a lot of people are going to judge
and sorry a lot of people are going to
only watch news coverage of that hearing
they're not gonna watch the whole
hearing people did not have time to
watch the whole hearing so they're gonna
get what the media filter is going to be
incredibly important to help people
judge that and if someone turns on their
news and they've been busy all day don't
they deserve to hear what exactly
happened in the hearing and not a bunch
of talking head saying it was a disaster
for democrats because bob muller was
unprepared don't they deserve don't the
American people deserve to hear the
substance of what Robert Muller told
them about a foreign power attacking our
election yes this is this is in this one
instance we're just asking for one
 instance in in you know what I'm
not I'm asking for more than one I am
too I just set my sights low and I know
I know that says to the reporters that
hear this criticism there's like a bit
of a rolling of the eyes like yeah no I
know
like what world do you live in well they
say you know oh you yeah yeah you blame
you blame the media for Trump it's like
no I don't blame the media for Trump I
don't think that if you know Maggie
called it alive that again the magic
beans would ya we're not making that
we're not making that case I just think
it's worth reflecting collectively I'm
not pinning it on any journalists but
like some of the hardest things for us
to talk about it are the larger kind of
contours of the way we talk about
politics that have been developing and
growing for decades not born of this
election not born of 2016 but have that
are a culmination of a lot of changes in
how we talk about politics there is an
assumption inside of the political
coverage that says the optics were a
disaster for Democrats which is that I'm
saying that for you the pundit the
observer the the the person watching
politics from the outside but it assumes
that you are not the only mediator it
assumes that there is some other form of
coverage that is covering the substance
and revealing the substance to people
and you're watching that coverage and
saying here's how I think it's working
the problem is there isn't that other
kind of coverage this is the way we talk
about politics this is the way politics
is mediated for people the way you say
it seems is how it seems and so it's a
it's it's a vicious circle I sometimes
think that reporters and pundits don't
understand the power they wield to
actually shape the public narrative
exact that's partly because no one
reporter a pundit has the power to do it
themselves and so they often say oh well
it's just my tweet what are you getting
upset for but collectively and there is
there is a hive mind approach here to
this right like one person on Twitter
says it's a disaster then the other
person says and then all the folks who
are who are stuck in DC start thinking
the same way and suddenly that's the
narrative and those people all know they
know how damning the report is they know
how damning Robert Muller's testimony
was they know that and and and so when
you say you know the objects are a
disaster that is the optics being a
disaster it is the saying of the it is
the description of the optics that
becomes the optics it is it is a
self-fulfilling prophecy and it is naive
and it is a fantasy but it ought to be
at least part of how we talk about this
where there must what if the instinct
was in some cases for some people to see
what Robert Muller is saying to see how
this is a culmination of weeks to get
smaller to testify about the content of
Israel of his report and the response
was wow this is important substance it's
really important and necessary
information it was conveyed in an
undramatic and halting way it is now our
job to bridge that gap to help people
understand what it is to overcome the
optics oh no the optics are done are
preventing people from seeing why this
is important
I better overcome those optics and make
it my job to show people what really
happened yeah and look you can you can
do both you know we didn't we didn't
start this whole thing by being like no
no Robert Muller was perfect yesterday
and he was amazing and he won that like
no we you you can admit that he was
stumbly
also let people know the relative
importance of that in relation to the
overall testimony in what we learned
it's not that hard yeah so let's talk
about what happened after the hearing
the president very predictably declared
the day of victory for himself and
pointed out all the pundits and
reporters who agreed with him that it
was a disaster for the Democrats
Democratic leaders responded in a press
conference where Nancy Pelosi said this
of impeachment quote my position has
always been whatever decision we made in
that regard would have to be done with
our strongest possible hand and we still
have some outstanding matters in the
courts she's referring to the lawsuit to
force former White House Counsel and
molar star witness dawn began to testify
and for DOJ to hand over all the
underlying evidence from the malla
report but according to Politico
Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler tried to
push Pelosi to launch an impeachment
inquiry in a private caucus meeting
Wednesday after the hearing and the
speaker the speaker basically said not
just yet love it wasn't gonna take care
does impeachment get easier from here
harder from here what do you think it
did I do not believe impeachment got
easier let's face it it just didn't we
are where we are now is in many many
ways where we were before the Malheur
testimony which is Muller was never
going to provide you the perfect recipe
for for impeachment
he's not gonna do your homework he
wasn't gonna do it and not gonna take
the test he's at you he's it's a hard
decision you're going to have to make
for yourself and and no one's gonna make
it easier for you you know Democrats yes
and I you know a lot of the coverage has
been around how much Muller did or
didn't reveal but one other facet of
what we saw unfold was actually the
Republicans on the hearing just throwing
their conspiracy theory punches and
trying to drum up at you know insults to
the special counsel to the partisan
witch hunt of the investigation all the
usual affair some of it some of it you
know a new gloss on sort of a classic a
remix but it didn't land very hard
either it actually sort of I think
didn't change the conversation in the
other direction at all because where we
are is where we were before we have the
same we have basically the same amount
of information a little bit more nuance
a little bit more insight we from what
Muller said Muller built on his
statement in response to bar in some of
his answers we've got a bit more context
for this report it might not have
provided the great TV fodder and
dramatic moment that would have
galvanized impeachment more quickly but
we're where we are we have the
information if what your claim is is
that we need something more damning more
clear-cut than the many many public and
private client crimes outlined by Muller
not to mention the ways in which he is
unfit and unsuited for the office is
racist outbursts and all the rest if
what you're saying is that's not enough
I'm not sure whatever would be yeah look
I get how hard this vote is I get that
it's not popular and I also understand
that the Senate's you know going to
acquit him I get all of that I also
understand that it is a legitimate
strategy to say I want to tie up all the
loose ends before we have this vote I
want to you know compel Magan to testify
I want to compel the DOJ to get us all
the documents that we need I get all
that but we are running out of time
mm-hmm it you know that in an election
year in 2020 it's going to seem foolish
to have an impeachment hearing while
this presidential campaign is going on
and so and you've said this before love
it like that leaves that leaves the fall
and I think look Jerry Nadler clearly
wants to do this like Nancy Pelosi sort
of standing in the way here and she's
trying to cover for a lot of Democrats
who were just not there yet and I think
it's I'm sorry to her but it's like
she's in some sense covering for those
Democrats but also in her standing up
standing in the way she helps make it
less likely in some way so it's both
that's all yeah and I also look watching
that unfold yesterday I for the first
time started seeing the risks in
impeachment in terms of all right we're
gonna hold a bunch of televised hearings
on impeachment we better lock our
down and make sure those hearings go
well if the reason that we are
impeaching him is not just for the moral
case but to build a political case
against Trump that can help
defeat him in 2020 and if we're going to
build that political case all of these
hearings better sound like atom shifts
opening testimony and his questioning
and daring Adler's questioning yeah and
it better not sound like a whole bunch
of other that we heard you know
look we're not gonna be able to prevent
Republicans from like throwing out their
conspiracy theories during the
impeachment hearings if we have them but
gotta lock that case down but I
still believe in you know I i sat there
we're gonna talk to Schiff in a bit but
I watched his because I only caught
parts of it I watched his opening
statement last night and it is this sort
of clarifying moment when you hear the
story put together in that way and I
started thinking to myself you know this
is seven minutes here but imagine this
message over and over for months during
impeachment hearings I mean you Tommy
brought this up yesterday you know the
one one thing you can say about Trump is
he's on message he's been on message the
same concise consistent message on this
whole investigation for years now no
collusion no obstruction witch-hunt
total exoneration you hear it over and
over again and Democrats don't have a
message and sometimes when you're all
struggling to come up with a message
this happens in campaigns too you need a
forcing mechanism right and obviously
the 20/20 campaign is a forcing
mechanism for whoever the nominee may be
but I think that for the House Democrats
who have been by all accounts sort of
flailing for the last couple months
intra-party feuding the investigation
strategy hasn't been going that well by
any standard yes that's right an
impeachment proceeding would be a
focusing mechanism to get them all on
the same page and to figure out what
their story is about Donald Trump and
why he's unfit to lead this country
which is a very important story to have
for his for beating him in 2020 yes I
totally agree and by the way I say that
as somebody who does not view you know I
agree with you as somebody I was again
and I agree with you and I say that as
somebody who doesn't view impeachment as
some silver bullet no at all I think
there's a good I actually think the most
likely outcome of impeachment well
there's two most likely outcomes one it
helps us a little bit and right behind
it helps us a little bit is it's a
complete wash and doesn't matter in the
election whatsoever and then I think it
hurts us is below that for me I really I
think I think it could be nothing yes I
do and but but
one thing that it would do is it would
change the current dynamic it would get
us out of this
this kind of feckless dull ache of a
oversight period that we've been in that
I think has been a source of a lot of
the internal strife amongst Democrats
because you know when you step back from
the from from from Muller from from from
Pelosi blocking for the moderates from
the from from some of the from some of
the bickering then and and legitimate
differences we've seen there's a lot of
pain for Democratic voters there's a lot
of anger and frustration among
Democratic members here we are a
majority we fought so hard for against a
president we all recognize his unfit
corrupt and must be removed from office
as soon as humanly possible who we all
believe every member who supports
impeachment every member who opposes
impeachment believes that Donald Trump
is guilty of impeachable offenses and we
have now spent months watching this
president prevents subpoenas from being
fulfilled and Democrats debating amongst
themselves as to whether or not
impeachment is worth it maybe a 20/20
campaign can change that dynamic on its
own I'm not so sure and he's continuing
to abuse his power as we wait because he
knows he can get away with it right like
we saw him yesterday yesterday he was
distracted by this hearing and he was
angry yes and I would rather him
distract it and angry and tweeting about
impeachment hearings than I would doing
all kinds of other bad which he is
I mean there he is he is out of control
his presidency is out of control we
haven't even talked about the fact that
you know Customs and Border Patrol
you know detained an American citizen an
18 year old American citizen for three
weeks no showers lost 26 pounds because
they didn't give him a food put him in a
cage with a whole bunch of other
migrants which you know we also don't
talk about nearly enough but we are now
we detained an American citizen a child
a teenager because he has brown skin
that's that's the country we are right
now that's the president we have right
now and we are just going to say we can
wait until 2020 to render
judgment against that man because
because we have concerns about the
politics not the merits not the not the
facts not the law not the morality
because we have vague concerns about the
politics we cannot fully articulate and
we cannot know for sure yeah this is our
chance to go on record to use the powers
of the house to say we do not find this
conduct acceptable in fact we find it so
egregious reprehensible and illegal that
we are going to say on the record this
man has no business being president of
the United States and if we're up to us
we would remove him we don't have the
power because we hand it over to the
Senate but let them go on record and say
the opposite and if this president is
reelected and the house returns to
Republican control the statute of
limitation runs out on a lot of the
crimes that Donald Trump committed and
he will never be held accountable and if
and this might be so what the house the
house making a decision to impeach maybe
our best last chance to hold this man
accountable for the crimes he's
committed and and and imagine Donald
Trump being re-elected and Democrats
losing power
having for quotidian political concerns
which turned out to have not been
affecting correct and not been borne out
by what took place after failed to use
their power to say what they believed
which is that this man had no business
being president to forego an opportunity
to say for history and for the world
that we weren't this that we weren't
behind this that we were going to use
our power to stop this that is a that is
a grand mistake
that is not worth making based on
political concerns that no one really
knows for sure are accurate nobody knows
look and and they are real right like
yeah I am eyes wide open that the flip
side of this is we vote to impeach we
drag the country through impeachment
proceedings and it is very unpopular and
we regret that - it's very but there are
there are two really tough choices but I
don't think either choice is easy when I
and I think when both choices in front
of you in politics are very difficult
you go with the choice that you believe
in you do what you believe in when both
are difficult especially when
I don't think there is anyone who is
part of this debate who would argue that
where we're at right now feels
politically Seattle rating is at its
highest it's been right now so the fall
is the moment it is the opportunity to
have this to have these hearings to
concentrate the focus and by the way
after that we'll be off to 2020 we will
have come together and Democrats in the
house will have come together to - to
hold the president accountable and make
a case it may not have a huge impact at
all but it will have been done and that
will free up Democrats running for
president to make their case for why
they are a positive response to Donald
Trump as well okay let's talk about 2020
Joe Biden is getting scrappy ahead of
next week's Democratic primary debates
he's getting into it with Cory Booker
over criminal justice reform he's
getting it into it with Bernie Sant he's
getting into it with Bernie Sanders and
Camille Harris over healthcare on the
first issue Biden released a criminal
justice reform plan last week that would
decriminalize marijuana expunge prior
convictions eliminate mandatory minimums
for nonviolent crimes and the death
penalty abolished private prisons get
rid of cash bail and discouraged the
incarceration of children first we're
getting to the politics where we think
of Biden's plan I think it's good I mean
I think it's where the Democratic
consensus now is which is undoing some
of the the harsh sentencing laws and the
can't big came from the 1994 quad and
famously support it yes I also getting
rid of cash bail I think his it saying
it's good how quickly it became a kind
of mainstream position it went from
being something that I don't think was
talked about at the national level at
all and has sort of quickly become
something people it's an interesting
case of people quickly realizing like oh
wait a second there's a there's an
injustice here
that's incredibly common that we aren't
talking about enough I think it's also
another example of you know Biden's
criminal justice reform plan may not be
the most ambitious or most progressive
in the field but relative to anything
we've seen in the past and past
campaigns it is very progressive and I
think that is a testament to the left to
activists to organizers who have really
pushed the
filled on this I mean Biden is seen and
you know we've said this to as the
centrist candidate in the field
there's nothing centrist about a
criminal justice reform plan like that
that is a very progressive plan that
would do a lot of good so Cory Booker
who helps pass a criminal justice reform
bill in Congress this year and has been
critical of Biden's evolving involvement
has been critical of Biden's involvement
in the 1994 crime bill tweeted the
following in response quote it's not
enough to tell us what you're going to
do for our communities show us what
you've done for the last 40 years you
created the system will dismantle it
Biden defended himself and his plan and
called into question Booker's record on
criminal justice and public safety and
he was the mayor of New York telling
reporters this quote his Police
Department was stopping and frisking
people mostly african-american men he
said leading the Obama administration to
intercede quote we took action against
them the Justice Department took action
against them held the police accountable
he objected to federal interference if
he wants to go back and talk about
records I'm happy to do that who that
guy that got heated fast really fast
though when people put out some good
criminal justice reform plans and
suddenly we are off to the races
I'm old enough to remember where Biden
wasn't gonna get in the fray and Cory
Booker talked about love there's two
weeks ago so what what do you think's
going on here why do you why did Booker
take the shot and why did Biden respond
and respond so quickly I think that look
Joe Biden's uh he's been the archer and
he's been the prey I think he's been the
prey mostly this is the first guy he's
the first instance of him being an
archer yeah that's right I think he was
sick of being the prey and decided it
was time that he might have to be the
archer because he wondered there's a
whole bunch of people who just don't
understand that reference at all
probably hopefully mostly straight
people the the yeah I mean look I don't
think it's that complicated Biden is
about to head into a debate in which he
is probably going to face criticism from
Booker Harris he'll be flanked by the
two of them
yeah and it's if Biden had more debates
like the last debate he would very
quickly no have no chance of being the
Democratic nominee there's no way that
that could continue again and again
it's not possible not at it not when so
much of this debate is about who will
stand up against Donald Trump so they're
making a change they're gonna they're
not gonna take punches they're gonna
punch back and they're drinking they're
going to the thing that was most
interesting about what Biden said is it
was so it was it was a signal to
everyone at the debate that Biden's
gonna punch back and the thing he said
the thing his spokesperson said was that
he said Anna spoke sorry the thing that
the campaign said was if if if Booker
wants to talk about the past
we can do that that's an argument we'll
win but we want to talk about the future
and I think one of the lessons that one
one thing we said about the previous
debate one thing that was obvious
probably to his campaign as well was
that by needs to talk about what he's
gonna do he needs to talk about the
future because if they're talking about
the past it's unhelpful to their
campaign so I think this is a way of
trying to signal that you can try to mix
it up but I'm gonna try to push towards
the future and if you come at my record
I'll come at yours so let's have a
different kind of debate I think that
last point is very important because all
of these top candidates none of them
have none of them just appeared
yesterday right like there's some people
who have been in Washington much longer
than others like Joe Biden but Cory
Booker has a long record as mayor of
Newark before he was in the Senate
Kamala Harris has a long record as a
prosecutor as Attorney General as a DA
before she was in the Senate we found
out that Pete Buddha judge has a long
record or not a long record but a record
as mayor in South Bend and you know all
of these records have elements that the
candidates can be very proud of and want
to talk about but there are also sort of
weaknesses in the record or at least
controversies in all of their records
and I think you're right that Biden
wants to let people know you can come at
my record if you want and there's a lot
of votes you can pick and there's a lot
of issues that I've evolved on and then
I wasn't so great on back then but by
the way I'm gonna come after your record
too and I wouldn't be surprised if he
does that with Booker if he does that
with Kamla Harris on stage like I think
you're right that he is sort of putting
them on notice yeah he is and look
Booker's response to Biden is a very
hard hit it's also an ad hominem attack
and I don't say you know ad
what that's a non hominem attack and
therefore it is unacceptable that's not
that's not what I mean I mean it is not
a criticism of the policy it is a
suggestion that while this policy may
have elements I agree with and actually
I'm not gonna be critical of the act of
what you've laid out at all I am going
to say that basically you are not the
person to actually execute this policy
because in some way your heart is not
fully in it because your record reveals
the kind of president you would be right
and I think sometimes that argument is
valuable and I think sometimes it's not
I'm not sure yet here I think this is a
totally worthy debate that they're about
to have about their records but it's
worth keeping in mind that this is a
this is a conversation outside of the
policy and trying to basically say I
don't I you should you should be
skeptical that he'll actually be the
kind of president that would that would
that would fight for these policies and
I think it can be a very effective
argument against Biden by the way and
and and Booker added something in his
sorry again
and I think Booker said something that
makes it more effective which is you
know I'm glad that Vice President Biden
has come along on these issues but we're
Booker's setting up and I'm sure Komal
Harris is setting this up too is okay
who do you trust to change the system do
you trust someone who has changed over
time and evolved to a good place or
someone who's always been there that's
that's the argument that ultimately they
want to all make against Biden right
that it's great that he served as
Obama's vice presidents and was
progressive and supported Obama's agenda
it's great that he has progressive
policies now but who do you really trust
when they're President to stick by you
and I think that's I think that that
could be a good argument but there is
the danger that you overdo it and that
you expose yourself to your own problems
in doing that so the other issue where
there was some Biden feistiness this
week as health care Biden continued his
criticism of Bernie Sanders Medicare for
all plan saying that during the
four-year transition some people might
be stranded without health insurance
plans because during the transition what
might happen is private insurance
companies knowing that they're about to
be extinct could pull out of a lot of
mark
it's and do price-gouging like they do
now but maybe worse
but then the vice president said that at
least Bernie's being honest about how he
pay for Medicare for all by raising
taxes on the middle class or his
candidates who insist you can pay for
Medicare for all by just raising taxes
on the wealthy or living in quote
fantasy world it seems very clear there
he was talking about Kamala Harris
because he had just been talking about
her loved it what's happening here and
how do you think this the public option
versus single-payer debate is playing
out so far so I you know we've reached
the part of cocoon where Don Ameche is
dancing again I saw that I saw that I
saw your wheels turning on that one as I
talked about Biden spicy about saying a
man in the 70s is feisty or spry and
it's like boy the typical media really
bring in a snap joe biden slammed this
week I know I know it's just so but yeah
so the the line about Bernie at least
being Bernie at least Bernie is being
honest about raising taxes it is
interesting hit on count comma lots of
funny it's a funny ed shut yeah it is it
is a bank shut you know I'm gonna live
in a fantasy world for a second a
fantasy in which Joe Biden articulates a
case for a Medicare buy-in that isn't
about sort of I think vaguely unfair let
me say again I want to I want to live
for a moment in a fantasy world where we
have a debate about a public option or
medicare for all who want it versus
Medicare for all that is not just based
on substance and policy based on
substance and policy but even more than
based on substance and policy is where
both sides speak about the pros and cons
of their own plans and each other's yeah
I really the fantasy it is a fantasy I'm
with you I know and and and I guess it's
just sort of just take a moment to
imagine what that would be like it would
be someone like Joe Biden saying I see
the value of us transition to Medicare
for all the efficiencies that will be
gained from the system a simple system
in which everyone knows they can rely on
Medicare and they will never again have
to worry about falling through the
cracks of a broken system in which
insurance companies and pharmaceutical
companies
hospital companies prey on people
because you will know that you have the
most reliable insurance that there could
be which is Medicare provided for the
government however there's a downside to
a plan like that which is that we'd have
to raise taxes on the middle class and
while ultimately a lot of middle-class
families would pay less there are people
that are happy with their private
insurance who might not be up for that
bargain and actually because Medicare
for all is less popular it might make us
harder to just improve the system
because we won't be able to get
fermented to Medicare for all that kind
of a criticism and I also think people
judge actually has one of the best
arguments here where he says we should
provide Medicare for anyone who wants it
anyone who wants to enroll should be
able to enroll in Medicare and hopefully
if people really like that plans so good
and if people like that plan it will
strangle all the different private
insurance plans because it will be the
plan that everyone wants and then we
will have Medicare for all that Bernie
wants but I think that people should
have the choice to go there and not have
the government make the decision for
them I think it's a very effective argue
I do too and I actually think you know
Gillibrand who's someone who signed on
to the Bernie bill and it talks a lot
about how much she worked on the
transition elides this debate by kind of
making that mayor Pete argument yeah
while supporting Medicare for all
basically saying it's a step to the
public option or Medicare for America or
whatever plan is a stepping-stone to
where we're gonna get to which a
single-payer right but that's the
argument I think some of the
single-payer supporters are making by
simply saying the public option will
become medicare for all so the
transition will be more smooth than
you're anticipating on the other side
you know some of the broad sides against
a public option I think have also been
unfair there are legitimate critiques of
Medicare for all but I think sometimes
the kind of attacks like this is a tool
of the insurance industry this is the
tool of the pharmaceutical industry this
is allowing these companies to have too
much power I think some of that is quite
legitimate but it actually means you're
avoiding making the most important case
for Medicare for all versus a public
option that has to be made which is why
everyone's switching is better for
everybody and I think that that argument
that the hold hands and jump together
argument right we all go if we're gonna
do this we should all do this at once
single Network everyone can keep their
doctor and picked the doctor they want
because all the doctors will be in the
same network we have all these
efficiencies and if we're gonna do it we
can't do another piece mail transition
we have to do it all at once and and and
how it helps you control costs and helps
make sure insurance make sure everyone
has quality insurance and that the
system as a whole
provides better care for everybody
without some of the the massive overhead
and administrative cost that that that
that that way down the system and
without cracks in the system that a lot
of people fall through to this day
despite the passage of Obamacare
you know because part of the reason I
think it's important is if you support
Medicare for all you need to reckon with
the fact that there are polls right now
that show Medicare for all who wanted
polls 70% 70% support Medicare for all
who want it defined as quote all
Americans I'm sorry
defined as quote allowing all Americans
to choose between a national health
insurance program in their own private
health insurance even forty six percent
of Republicans said they support such a
program this is the NPR PBS Maris pull
from this week forty-one percent support
Medicare for all defined as a national
health insurance program for all
Americans that replaces private health
insurance and I do think Medicare for
all supporters have to reckon with these
polls particularly because they have
been the ones who have been citing so
often polls that say Oh Medicare for all
the American people wanted it's very
popular yes but the way that the poll is
asking that question is do you believe
you know do you like Medicare for all
right which people are assuming to mean
Medicare for anyone who wants it but
they assume that choice baked in and I
and I've seen and there's there's there
people who criticize that and say
actually you know it's actually hard to
get at this information and they're
people who I'm sure it is and of course
and they're people who claim they like
their private insurance but the next
file question has to be have you used it
how good is your insurance how do you
know your insurance is good right there
there are complications in this but all
that's a way of saying accept all those
complications if you believe Medicare
for all is the right policy I really
rather than attack the the the the
polling result I would like to hear
arguments to close that gap and by the
way getting to forty percent on Medicare
for all is an achievement it is an
achievement it speaks to the current
failures of the health care
and the incredible work and activism and
organizing that's gone gotten so gotten
this issue so quickly into the
mainstream yeah and I will say on the
financing point because Biden did make
the point about middle-class taxes about
Carla Harris we haven't even started a
debate about that yet right most of the
debate so far has been about a single
government plan versus keeping your
private insurance I don't necessarily
think that is going to be the most
important thing in the end here like the
financing is very difficult for a full
Medicare for All system Medicare for
America which Center for American
Progress since and sort of like Pete
Buddha judge better work they've sort of
hovered around that you know they just
released a plan you can finance that
purely with tax increases on the wealthy
Biden is correct and Bernie is correct
and honest about it that you do have to
raise middle-class taxes now Bernie says
that by raising the taxes you still end
up saving money because you're not
paying any premiums anymore which
eventually is true but I do think that
Kamala Harris does need to answer you
know how she's going to fund Medicare
for all or at least some funding options
particularly because her first piece of
legislation that she wants to pass is a
middle-class tax cut so she wants to
pass a middle-class tax cut but also is
signed on to Bernie's Medicare for all
bill which is trillions and trillions of
dollars I think that this is uh this is
why we have seen a lot of common of
raising your hand and then explaining
the hand raise and signing on for
Bernie's bill and then avoiding this
part of the question I have a feeling
we're gonna I don't know if calmly
Harris is gonna actually try to answer
and solve this problem or try to try to
hide from it like like Wacom all you
mean what what she is said in the past
when confronted on you know plans to pay
for things is Democrats too often
worried you know about how we can afford
it and my question is how can we not
afford it right and and I think she's
speaking to sort of this feeling that's
in the Democratic Party at least among
the activist base that in the OPA and in
the Obama presidency we worried far too
much about deficits and debt and that is
a very valid critique but I think there
is worrying too much about deficit
and debt and then there is not caring at
all about how you pay for things I think
there's a gap between those two things
it's not even honestly to me it's even
the the the policy question is actually
a projection of the moral and personal
question which is what are you gonna
fight for you know you've signed on to
Medicare for all that's are you do you
believe in Medicare for all so much and
your bones that you're gonna go out on
the campaign trail and start making a
case for I even though middle-class
taxes will have to go up ultimately
middle-class families will save money
and everybody will be safer my honest
view is I don't believe that that's her
position I think she signed on for this
bill I think she really loves her
middle-class tax cutting she likes her
middle-class tax cut and I think
probably you know she's seeing polls
like this and thinking I need to find a
way to go from signing onto Bernie's
bill to ultimately being for a Medicare
for all who want it tight plan right I
mean that is I think where the
Democratic consensus is likely to end up
yeah well it certainly in the polls
that's where the party is now yeah you
know okay so when we come back my
conversation with chairman Adam Schiff
