are we recording great welcome to love
it or leave it I love it we have a great
show it is Friday afternoon in Los
Angeles stones are following trumps are
caving first I am here with Jon Favreau
hi I'm here with Tommy Vitor what's
happening we're gonna talk about these
late-breaking developments the end of
the shutdown and the end of Roger stone
not being indicted then we'll go to the
live taping of love it or leave it last
night with then we'll go to the live
taping of love it or leave it last night
with Darcy Cardin Zoe lister-jones meet
Raja Hari and Andrew T oh we recovered
polo shirt oh god of it that looks great
line up punching those are the funniest
people their grave ever had they're
great people and we covered Pelosi's
confrontation with trump the nationwide
teacher strikes Magga teens dueling fire
festival documentaries and more this is
our season premiere and you can come see
love it or leave it on tour we'll be in
DC I think the more people don't deal
with it hmm Chicago Madison Milwaukee
and more but those are the most recent
one those are the those are the but
those are the upcoming ones and and pods
and pod save America we'll be in
Charleston on February 7th New Orleans
on February 8th Durham on February 10th
mean come see us there too you go I'll
be there what a scam right all right
let's get good swing two big stories big
let's start with the shutdown let's be
responsible all right obviously save the
dessert for later yes okay on Friday in
a rose garden speech Donald Trump
announced the end of the shutdown
through gritted teeth as Mike Pence
waved a white flag while kneeling in
front of Nancy Pelosi who decided to let
them all live Trump agreed to reopen the
government for three weeks with no
strings attached which is exactly where
we were before the shutdown began all
the pain all the misery all the
uncertainty and fear for workers all the
disruptions Trump rent Trump went in
without a plan he got out with
nothing he is still threatening to
declare a national emergency if he
doesn't get his wall in the next few
weeks John start with you is there any
way okay we have addled partisan brains
is there any way to find this is there
any way to call this anything other than
a total surrender is there any possible
way to argue that this is not that
no I mean I just I'm trying to think
like so Trump said basically that three
weeks either he shuts down the
government again or he declares a
national emergency and builds the wall
he could have done
he could have declared the national
emergency if he wanted which is a
horrible idea but he could have done
that back in December when this first
happened like basically the 35 days we
just went through absolutely nothing
changed since December when the shutdown
started zero there was zero progress
made by Donald Trump on any front ever
anywhere at all come on John give me a
little both sides I need my fix I'm
gonna try read legal work both sides
close that's me here's how you know
there's an argument a reporter asked
Mitch McConnell today so what changed
yesterday you voted against open
government what changed and McConnell
said I don't have anything to say this
was Donald Trump's plan that we voted on
so you'll have to ask the president yes
Tommy at this point I'm PSA earlier in
the week but it is so clear that Mitch
McConnell is just quietly walking behind
Donald Trump and just like hoping he
learns hating has got actually I hadn't
yet read the like insanely long New York
Times magazine profile middle a comma
which is really just a celebration of
like awful cynical politicians that do
nothing but block things but basically
one of the subtext that comes through in
the story is that his press guy keeps
sending people for the reporter to talk
to who can sort of show distance between
Mitch and Trump it's also worth memory
to that you know to the point of he
could have declared a national emergency
it's not like when he declares a
national emergency all of a sudden like
pallets full of bricks start showing up
no nothing happens there's a huge long
messy process roots other people's lands
lawsuits it's a endless thing nothing
changes Tommy so it's worth remembering
how this began he pointed this out
earlier Paul Ryan basically the Senate
unanimously passed what is virtually the
same as what they just they just agreed
to yo then Ann Coulter and others got
mad at Donald Trump then Donald Trump
said he wouldn't go along with that plan
without his 5.7 billion in funding for
the border wall and then Paul Ryan in
his last are basically his last act as
Speaker refused to call a vote
the bipartisan passed Senate bill is
this Paul Ron is this shut down Paul
Ryan's finest accomplished it's his
legacy it's his magnum opus it is why we
hate him I mean the problem is Paul Ryan
so Trump obviously did this because they
saw in their internal and external
polling that Trump's disapproval had
gone up five points to 58% over the last
few months so that is clearly why Trump
caved there was no path out of this they
were losing the war etc what is also
true though is that if you're watching
the reaction on Twitter right now the
alt-right Mogga meltdown is absolutely
this compari enjoyable and give yourself
a tree and coulter is tweeting that he's
not-- that he's wimpier than george HW
bush which for the Trump is which were
hers the meanest thing you could ever
say about any all right so what's likely
to happen now is it George easily Bush
went to the war yeah she's an awful
person that's a different conversation
but so what's likely to happen is even
the people that were mad at him about
the shutdown who might come back home
and support him again it's likely he's
also gonna lose that equivalent number
of people on the right wing so this was
foreseeable preventable but because of
the cowardice of McConnell and Ryan they
didn't just stop him in his tracks and
say how about this idea was John do you
think it matters so I we have people
like though I don't even want to say
their names they're just the most
vicious and disgusting entities in
right-wing politics who have been in
Trump's corner the whole time and there
are the people who were pushing for this
shutdown who have kind of been his
advisers on it they're turning against
him now is this the kind of thing we'll
look back on and think it mattered or
will they be back in his good graces
soon enough what do you think we don't
know but I think it's very possible we
could look back on this and think that
this mattered I mean here's the thing if
there were other victories the Trump
could win for his base that we saw in
the future then maybe no one would
remember this but like he's pretty much
down to just the wall right like
he between now and 2020 he's not gonna
get a single legislative accomplishment
because he lost the House of
Representatives right so the only thing
he could do was force government
shutdowns to extract policies that he
wants from Congress that has not worked
because Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer
and the Democrats
we're not gonna let it work so now he
can't do that anymore
so Donald Trump he's not gonna either
gonna have a lot of love from his base
and from the right-wing pundits at least
now because they don't really believe in
anything but power and clicks or
whatever they you know they could come
back into the fold in another month or
so because all they care about is you
know owning the libs but I think that I
think he could have lost some some
support in some quarters of his base at
this point so okay so Trump gives a
meandering speech on the border wall he
it's a strange thing he goes he clearly
knows he knows he's he knows he's
caving so he goes out there and he
basically talks he sort of jumps over
that and then gives a deeply strange and
long meandering speech about the
importance of a border wall why it
matters the sort of immigration speech
is basically what he gave and in it he
of course threatened to call for a
national emergency again we're now in
this three-week CR you know we don't
want to predict the future but there's
about to be a debate about border wall
funding versus border security funding
what are you what are you looking for in
the next few weeks I mean it feels like
the debate is gonna be entirely
predictable and that the Trump people
want border wall funding and the
Democrats say no you don't get any kind
of wall will maybe give you some sort of
smart wall which means drone feeds and
more personnel and security features and
they probably don't meet in the middle
so then he either declares a state of
emergency or he does not but declaring a
state of emergency creates real problems
for him among Republicans so there's not
a great solution here other than to
maybe pretend this never happened yeah I
don't think you can predict anything but
I I would bet that the one outcome that
won't happen is another shutdown at the
end of three weeks like I think it will
be either in that conference committee
between Democrats and Republicans in the
House and Senate look they've all agreed
on one point seven billion five billion
whatever it is in border security non
wall border security funding previously
so maybe they up that number to two
billion I don't know so they
have a little more non wall border
security funding and maybe that's an
agreement and then maybe Trump just
doesn't want to deal with this anymore
because he wants to move on to the next
episode
his television show and so at three
weeks from now he's just like yeah I got
some money and we're building the wall
anyway it's happening we're invading
Venezuela in three weeks I'd like that's
what the great stay tuned all right
before we move on let's just take a
moment to talk about Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer because you know I think
it's all of our natural impulses to
worry that the Democrats aren't up to
the fight against Trump I think we've
had that feeling for a very long time
one of the things that one of those
stories reported that basically there
was a final meeting between Mitch
McConnell and Chuck Schumer in which
Mitch McConnell said can you help me I'm
buddy and chuck was like no I cannot I
cannot help you out and we lost I guess
we lost mansion on one of these votes or
whatever yeah but Democrats held
together Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer
they had a far better hand
but they played it really well right I
mean it's worth pausing to say like
here's an example where Democratic unity
really made a difference yeah yeah and
look at them nice work Nancy Nancy
Pelosi gets all the credit all of her
detractors you know not a great day for
them and she hung in there and so did
and so did Chuck Schumer and so did all
the Democrats except for Joe Manchin
yesterday so fantastic but you know we
focus so much on personalities I think
when you step back this is what happens
when Democrats have power you know we
said two years ago when Donald Trump
became president the most important
thing that we can all do is to work our
asses off for two years to elect a
Democratic House because if a Democratic
House exists then Donald Trump won't be
able to get away with anymore that
he won't be able to pass bad bills if he
won't be able to shut down the
government like this because if we all
stand together we can prevent him from
doing it and that's what happened so
like all the work that everyone did over
these last two years like came to
fruition today when we what Donald Trump
cave like a okay Cait like I
don't know like a I gotta make like a
drug tunnel yeah well I'd like a drug
tunnel you have because well doesn't
work that's exactly right good yeah you
know you know what else is nice about
this is there's because Trump is had can
control the entire government that this
mythology has built up that he's somehow
an effective communicator or effective
politician magic he's Teflon
he's an impulsive idiot yeah this
proves it and the fact that we had the
numbers in our favor meant we could
block everything he did all of his
little plans his little meltdown in the
Oval where he took you know he thought
he was just sandbagging Chuck in Nancy
with the press corps and was gonna have
a big moment and show leadership it
didn't work he's a negatives
skyrocketed they failed miserably yes
since he has won it's you know a lot of
pundits have said oh just Trump always
defy political gravity is he Teflon does
nothing matter anymore we now have two
very big data points that that is
 number one the 2018 midterms
and number two him caving on the
shutdown he is he is not a special
politician he is in he you know he the
same pressures that work on any other
politician the same constraints they
have constrain Trump as well yeah I
think that's right and I do think that
this was such an important case maybe
we've been talking about this for a long
time that we the policy was wrong but
giving in would have been so dangerous
because it would have shown that this
kind of governing could work but I also
think it's worth remembering that it's
not just that we want it's also that
Democrats said we're gonna stay together
we're gonna stand up for this and we're
gonna hold we're gonna be disciplined
and discipline is a muscle and it's and
I think it's really important that that
Democrats in the House Democrats in the
Senate have seen they saw it here they
saw during the healthcare fight that if
we really do hang together even when
pundits start turning on them it works
it really that party unity was
incredibly effective and it is our
greatest tool especially because we do
only control one house someone should
print out all of the both sides
whoa as Democrats takes from the last
two weeks and just put them up in the
house like ours just tore just to remind
the freshman members the sophomore
members some of the members in Congress
the centrist look at these takes look at
how wrong they all were not only
not only I mean they were just ruin them
not only politically not only wrong
politically they were morally wrong
because these people are more interested
in the appearance of reasonableness than
what is actually reasonable the only
reasonable position was not allowing a
border wall argument to allow the
government to be held hostage burn burn
takes
burn the takes to the ground I want the
fires from the burning taste to be seen
from space I just imagine aoc
with like a torch outside the wedding a
Washington Post editorial on fire hey OC
walking down Broadway every 2020
candidate following behind where is she
going so that we may lead her all right
okay all right now also today Trump
advisor Republican off operative also
today Trump advisor Republican operative
and Nixon cosplay aficionado Roger stone
was indicted on one count of obstruction
five counts of false statements and one
count of witness tampering the charges
flow from stones to Sisseton the charges
flow from stones desperate and genuinely
bunkers attempts to conceal his
relationship with WikiLeaks and the
Trump campaign stone promised he would
never testify against President Trump he
then removed his shirt to reveal a new
tattoo that he thought said pardon me in
Chinese characters but actually just
said USA filth creep so you know but you
can see why he would want the part that
the pardon thing because he's in today's
what a day newsletter Brian boiler does
a great job of walking through how just
how stones served as an intermediary
between Trump's campaign and WikiLeaks
stone informed the Trump campaign in or
around June and July 2016 that he knew
WikiLeaks possessed documents that would
harm Hillary Clinton's campaign before
WikiLeaks public before WikiLeaks
published John Podesta stolen emails
stone wrote to a supporter involved with
the Trump campaign he said spoke to my
friend in London last night the payload
is still coming let's just pause and
just recognize that these people these
people talk like like they just
saw too many fast in the Furious movies
it's out of control the next day the
next day a high-ranking Trump campaign
official known to be Steve ban and
emailed stone to ask why the emails had
not been published stone responded that
WikiLeaks would release a load every
week going forward which it did why does
Roger stone think only in lodz I mean
yeah I mean it seems like so most of
this most of the indictment that what we
learned in the indictment had been
in other places it seems like the one
big piece of news in here was that
Bannon or there's also another
high-ranking Trump official some
speculated that might be Rick Gates one
of them or both of them was directed to
reach out to stone and that's all it
says it's just it doesn't even say like
by an individual one or by a person it's
just a passive voice yeah yeah but the
speculation is that that's Donald Trump
yeah I mean because we've all been in
campaigns like who directs the campaign
manager Steve Bannon to reach out to
reach out to someone tamil either either
the kamalani upon the candidate or the
family like maybe Don Jr I guess Tiffany
could be right we don't we don't know so
that's what we think is new here Tommy
can you just talk a little bit about
what it means for a presidential
campaign to be coordinating with an
organization like WikiLeaks in this way
yeah I mean so I think WikiLeaks first
came on the radar screamed a lot of
people in like 2009 or 10 when they
started releasing a really horrifying
video of some civilians getting shot
from a helicopter and in Iraq I believe
then there was a whole series of cables
that have been stolen and dumped out and
then over time I think Julian Assange
and WikiLeaks began to be seen as
someone who is a proxy for Russian
intelligence that they you know the the
Russians the KGB the GRU all these folks
they don't necessarily do all their
dirty deeds themselves they launder them
through various parts of organized crime
or individuals or whatnot so that's all
long been the speculation about
WikiLeaks and Assad so that wouldn't
have been a secret like if a person who
read the newspaper for the past few
years could to figure that out so they
would have known that they were working
with a really shady guy so one of the
reasons we know that Roger stone knew
that this wasn't kosher let's say is the
efforts he went to cover it up when it
became a subject of an investigation
because we all deserve it let's dive
into the threats Roger stone actually
issued to an associate he was a clear
that he was clearly afraid would spill
the beans he referred to Frank
Pentangeli from Godfather Part 2 he's
the guy that goes in front of the
congressional comedians like I don't
know Michael Corleone yeah he's just
saying olive oil
but again like these guys just other
such wannabe JV gangsters it's so
ridiculous well it's it's it's
incredible like it's the gangster movies
were trying to be authentic to the
experience of gangsters and then idiot
gangsters took the movies as the way
they were supposed to act what do you do
yes it's an Ouroboros I don't know if
this is a well-thought-out operation no
no no this is I think if this Dan who
says this they're criminals but not
criminal masterminds but but because we
do we have been look it has been a long
you know what let me just let me just uh
anyway here are the delightful messages
Roger stone sent to his associate to it
to his associate if you testify you're a
fool because of Trump I could never get
get away with a certain my Fifth
Amendment rights but you can I guarantee
you you are the only one who gets
indicted for perjury if you're stupid
enough to testify then you are so full
of expletive you got nothing keep
running your mouth and I'll file a bar
complaint against you against you keep
running your mouth and I'll file a bar
complaint against your friend and this
is the best one you're a rat a stoolie
you backstab your friends run your mouth
my lawyers are dying rip you to shreds
and he threatened to quote take that dog
away from you I am so ready let's get it
on
prepare to die expletive let's get it on
prepare to die we're gonna them and
I murder you isn't there a movie that
starts with him someone shooting a dog I
think don't I don't want I haven't seen
yet but I know the movie yeah and I
don't ask whoa for other people but it
just starts saying I know I know it's
solo it's Harry Potter you goes to a
 castle it's actually it's green
Valkyrie it's green book it's it's green
book green book starts ego Mortensen
killing a dog that's 102 Dalmatians a
sequel Wow
all right so I don't think Roger stone I
don't think Roger stone is gonna have a
really easy time of it although I will
say it is worth pointing out he does say
he's not guilty so it's worth mentioning
can I just mention my two favorite
things from today so Roger stone comes
out of
the courts he does a little press
conference he's kiddies happy as
a pig in these people care about
him because he's a stupid scumbag oh
quick aside everyone keeps describing
him as a dirty trickster a fraudster
he's a racist lying scumbag why
do we use these euphemisms it tries me
crazy right it's the dark arts they call
it dark arts like oh wow what a
mysterious process you go people to vote
based on racial animus like the dark
rites of the Willie Horton and the dark
arts are saying john mccain had a black
child the dark arts of Nixon's silent
majority it's the same thing every time
you're racist you're racist so anyway he
comes out he does the stupid Nixon
two-finger peace sign things he thinks
that's funny which Tommy called
he's about to come out in time he's like
he's gonna come out and do the
Nixon handed did you really call that
dude that's really impressive
that was cool that's cool to have gotten
that right it's good because it's you
know it's you know it's like it's like
your theory you know your science is
good yeah that that ability is like my
college philosophy major sort of not
applicable so most life events but
whatever here we are and then I also
love this morning just waking up to
trump tweeting greatest witch hunt in
the history of our country no collusion
border coyotes drug dealers and human
traffickers are treated better who
alerted CNN it's on meltdown it's the
the being reduced to just shouting
distraction words is very funny just
like a blue car elephant no collusion
whoa what's over there well I don't
think things are gonna go well for
Rogers death so before we close out on
today's incredible developments so you
know as John John you pointed out that
the Roger stone a lot of what we a lot
of what Roger stone had done was
reported on previously and yet it does
feel like we're starting to see the
shape of what Muller is circling right
both the collection of crimes that took
place during the campaign and then the
effort to cover those crimes up after
the campaign was through are we at the
beginning of the end here are we now
past the point of being able of just
saying we have absolutely no idea what
Muller is gonna turn over and are trying
to see the real contours of what he's
building I think we still don't know you
know I mean like
what we do know from today and we've
knew this before too though that like
the the Russians wanted to interfere
with the campaign to elect Donald Trump
we know that they had this whole
campaign it was a social meet it was a
hack it was the social media campaign it
was all this other and we know that
the Trump campaign was game for it yeah
they were because they were game
remember in June they were down to part
in June all the knuckleheads
took a meeting with the Russians this is
a meeting on behalf of the Russian
government support of Trump and we want
to give you dirt on Hillary Clinton in
July a period of time and then in July
there's the hack and there's the
dissemination of emails and then there's
the report that it was Russia that did
that and then it was after July that
someone on the campaign high-ranking
official was told to reach out to Roger
stone by someone who we don't know but
probably maybe Trump and and then tell
Roger stone like when wins more coming
when is more stolen goods from the
Democrats coming because we want to do
that so from within the campaign we know
that now people were trying to
coordinate through Roger stone to get
stolen documents from Democrats that
they were laundered through Russia with
a blow-up from Russia through WikiLeaks
you know so like we know all this I
think the only question is like will
Muller be able to put all this together
in terms of additional indictments and
possible criminality on behalf of the
President or is Muller just gonna say
here's the story of how the Trump
campaign essentially betrayed their
country couldn't find an exact law that
they broke but this is the story of what
they did yeah that I don't think we know
yet I think in part we don't know
because a lot of these indictments they
are written they are written with
descriptions of vague vague descriptions
of other potential crimes yeah and it's
unclear whether they are just he's
putting it there for contacts or because
there's more to come yeah I'm always
Payton a big beautiful canvas we're
looking through cracks in the wall and
you can see little items you know you're
the that's an indictment that's a
settled racist but you know you can't
see the full picture who is that it's a
Hieronymus Bosch yeah it's um I was
think I've been watching better call
Saul
which is great and I'm always reminded
thinking better call Saul which the old
saying that you can't con an honest man
it's that you know the Russians came
to all of these different people with a
bunch of offers that were just too good
to be true and they all took it
yeah all rights when we come back we are
going to go to our live show with when
we come back we're gonna go to our live
show with Darcy card and Zoe
lister-jones Mitra do Hari and rooty
were recovered all the rest of the
week's news we had a great time I came
up with a new nickname for Nancy Pelosi
that I'm pretty proud of all right
thanks guys
you
