Avra I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor
later in the pod love it talks to Dave
Roberts from Vox about the rather
terrifying climate change report
released last week by the Trump
administration also they talked about
why more Democrats are pushing the party
to support a green new deal we did you
did we do we do okay
Tommy what's uh what was on the most
recent episode of it was a two-parter I
talked to Karen Atia who is a global
opinions that are at the Washington Post
she was Jamal Shoji's editor so we
talked about the pretty disgraceful
statement that came out of the White
House last week about Saudi Arabia and
how they will pay no cost for murdering
a journalist and then I talked to Jared
holt from right wing watch about all the
work he does to keep track of the Mogga
all right and worse online good episode
check Isis
okay how's everyone Thanksgiving it was
great Thanksgiving was lovely I ate
everything and never left California
which I love great combo yeah highly
recommend that I tried Connecticut pizza
how was it whoa and I'm glad you got any
feedback I will say this now a limo race
to the Twitter machine to make sure we
go make it public before this comes out
I want to say to the people of
Connecticut something your pizzas
delicious Wow
and I will say this big walk back it's
you know people change all right Marco
Rubio's for immigration reform that he's
not based on the winds Marco Rubio of
Pizza sort of set that up cut all this
the pizzas good it's the best PC get
outside of New York City okay well one
holiday down another holiday coming up
we have on crooked media on cricut.com
we have holiday merch it's that it's
that time again so check out the holiday
merch if you want some ornament less you
work at California Pizza Kitchen now
your your feelings are hurt all over
again I think the California Pizza
Kitchen people know what they make and
know what they do we love you CB Kent
okay let's uh let's get to the news the
caravan has made its way back into the
headlines now that a few thousand
migrants have reached Tijuana and other
places along the border but primarily
Tijuana where they've been camped out in
a Sports Complex for the last few weeks
as they wait for the United States to
process their claims of asylum on Sunday
a few hundred of those 5,000 or so
migrants peacefully marched towards the
border they were stopped by Mexican
police and at that point many of them
started running towards the border when
they got there American Border Patrol
officers fired tear gas and rubber
bullets at the unarmed families many
with children guys tear gas is banned
for use in warfare by the Geneva
Convention but it's allowed to be used
for domestic riot control and it has
been in places like Ferguson and even at
the border in the past but unarmed
families seeking asylum what is the
possible reason for that
no defensible reason don't fire
tear gas at families with kids a little
babies and diapers are like getting
teargas wiped out of their eyes I mean
Brian shots Center from whites we did
teargas across the border against
unarmed families is a new low and he's
absolutely right and I hope that this
incident becomes one of the many things
we investigate about Trump's immigration
policies because it's been a slow
descent into total madness love it what
do you think yeah I mean I thought two
things one this it coming to this is not
just it's not just what happened on the
day it's the culmination of the
mercurial and vicious immigration
policies of the administration that's
left a lot of people in a state of limbo
unsure of what the law will allow unsure
of whether the law will be enforced
unsure of whether they will be treated
humanely or not unsure of what their
future holds after having made a very
long and dangerous journey and then the
second thing is to your point you know I
saw a lot of people outraged about the
tear gas and you're right to be outraged
the tear gas but it takes a long time to
get to the point at which these are the
kind of things that not just happen but
then get applauded and celebrated by by
a lot of conservatives a lot of a lot of
right-wing pundits and it is about this
slower long-term process of
dehumanization of people in our prisons
of protesters of immigrants of people of
color and that that to me is what I see
when I see that not just that there the
term administration is willing to go
this far but that they view it as not
just politically palatable but a
positive story for them and then just
one one last point about it is only that
you know that's it no I mean to your
point I think that some people on the
right wing in the Trump administration
and Fox News and some of the propaganda
machines that they have they want people
to think of this as a black and white
issue right that it's either you send
teargas over the border and rubber
bullets and and use all the force
necessary to stop these people from
coming in or suddenly our country's
invaded by a horde that's going to
commit crime right like there's no
recognition that yes it can be
complicated when thousands of people
arrive at our border but there is an
orderly way to process asylum
applications and there has been in this
country for a long time and the reason
that 5,000 people have been camped out
in Tijuana for the last couple weeks is
because the Trump administration has
dragged its feet in processing the
asylum application it's like they could
have sent a whole bunch more judges a
whole bunch more officials to go process
the applications quicker like we have
had for decades people who apply for
asylum in this country which is their
legal right to wait in this country
while their applications are processed
and 80 90 percent of them they wait here
if their application is granted then
they then they're in the United States
and it's fine if it's not then they go
home and they are sent home this works
we have a process so they like most of
their argument for this is based on lies
and it's important to realize that
because they want to make us think like
what were we supposed to do the other
thing this isn't some remote border
crossing area where there were just a
few guards on duty this is a hundred
thousand visitors go through this
crossing place a day I mean there's
heart that's not a place with no wall or
no infrastructure or no CBP forces there
so
to deal with it I mean I can't
understand what would get you in place
to not shoe one to your gas canister but
literally dozens of these people and and
this rights law was saying like this
comes on top of an escalation where a
decision was made to let us military
members defend with lethal force CBP
patrolmen but it when the you know comes
on top of sending 5,000 troops down
there for literally no reason I mean
it's creating manufacturing a crisis
these images or what Stephen Miller
wants you to see when you turn on the TV
yeah well it's also like Fox News had
some former Border Patrol official on
this morning who said it's pepper spray
you could put it on your nachos it's
fine like there's there's a reason why
like you choke on it people have have
died from too much exposure to it like
this is not something that you
play around with and then of course
there's people say well there was an
incident in 2013 when a group of
migrants came over the border during the
Obama administration and they all
descended upon one Border Patrol agent
who used tear gas I'll use pepper spray
pepper spray right so there so first
that's one difference ii like when a
whole bunch of people are going after
one person and he tells them stuff and
they don't that's very different than
sitting where you are on the United
States side of the border and lobbing
multiple canisters over the side when
there are women and children there don't
tell me that's the same thing it's this
is the right this is the this is the
shift that happens when you have someone
like Trump at the top it is permission
it's permission to go farther go harder
everything Trump says and winks at tells
people like do what you need to do do
what you want to do do what do whatever
because I'll have your back and again
like you know it's this isn't a national
emergency this isn't a national crisis
Fox wants it to be they wanted to be on
television all day Trump wants it to be
he wants us talking about this and
nothing else and and the thing I was
struck by was like watching this and
there was obvious people have been
circulating that photo of a family and
the the mother is wearing a Disney shirt
as she's trying to get into the country
and everybody noted the the irony built
into that but we're talking about this
very ultimately small issue of asylum
seekers at our southern border and
what's ironic about it to me is all
these people are trying to get in
and Trump is trying to make it an issue
because the thing they think they can
get in this country now which is a
chance a dream success all those things
are slipping away from everybody and no
and and Trump became president by
playing on those fears and those
insecurities and those and that sense
that that these people are out to get
you these people are taking something
from you and we're gonna talk about this
and we're not going to talk about all
the actual problems we have to solve and
this is why demagoguery this is why
scapegoats hurt people is why they hurt
more than just the people they're
directing the tear gas at because it's
solving this issue of Donald Trump
thinking the asylum seekers should be on
the southern side of the border instead
of the northern side of the border while
they're seeking asylum is a made-up
crisis right and in just some more
context I mean BuzzFeed's Mexico bureau
chief noted that 11,000 people in the
last 37 days have been deported by
Mexican authorities back to their home
country so like there is a major
movement happening that you know
apparently the Mexicans have agreed to a
policy where asylum seekers will now
have to wait in Mexico while they're
going through this process now I imagine
that that's exactly the kind of policy
Trump desperately wants something Fox
News will cheer but now you're have
people living on a baseball diamond in
one of the most dangerous parts of
Mexico for up to a year waiting for this
process yeah it's not humane and so
Mexico is denying that they ever made
that deal and so now and the iterative
and the question is it will that even
work and what incentive does the New
Mexican president have to make such a
deal where they where everyone waits
there because the you know the
authorities in Tijuana right now are
saying we don't have the money to even
house these 5,000 migrants in our city
and there's no indication the u.s. is
offering Mexico food shelter or care for
these asylum seekers but I imagine the
the cost of doing that would be
exponentially less than 100 million we
pissed away to send 5600 troops on the
border to ruin their holiday again well
in this and this goes back to like how
would a normal administration handle
this right because it is true that it is
a problem to deal with it's not a crisis
with like they're making it out to be
but we can't pretend it's not
unissued to deal with and we're not
saying yeah open the borders everyone
coming all the time we're simply asking
for an orderly immigration process or an
orderly Asylum process where you grant
asylum applications based on need like
we have for our whole history it's also
just this version of America this sort
of this it's like America wounded and
desperate and sad and unhelpful and
broken
how could America accept a thousand
asylum seekers we're in no position to
have these people here 300 million
people in the country it's the you know
who should you know who's in a better
position is Mexico what are you talking
about I mean this sort of this this
version of the country that's just so
weak weak in like pathetic is sad and
the numbers are not big eighty percent
of Central Americans past the
perfunctory credible fear interview when
they reached the US and seek asylum but
fewer than ten percent are ultimately
granted asylum by a judge and the
backlog of those cases has ballooned to
750 the how was in cases so you could be
waiting for years literally right so
there was also by the way a 60 minutes
piece on Sunday night that everyone
should watch which reported that the
Trump administration's family separation
policy lasted four months longer than
what was previously known and that close
to twice as many children might have
been detained and separated from their
families and previously accounted for
due in part to just awful record-keeping
that they didn't even bother to keep
records when they separated families
from their children so they took these
kids from their parents they deported
their parents and in some case they just
didn't keep track of the information
should this be one of the top things
that Democrats investigate we get back
the house exactly what happened during
this period yes it's not just that this
went on longer it's that they set up a
pilot program to test this pool to NASA
in one area to see just how mean they
could be everyone should watch this 60
minutes piece it is heartbreaking to see
this family try to reunite with their
three-year-old son who just doesn't
really act like he knows them anymore
the damage is real and it's ongoing you
know they didn't take any steps to
ensure proper record taking so they
could get people back together we also
know now that I mean we knew this
already secretary Nielsen is a liar you
know and she should be hauled up in
front of Congress to explain how she
lied to us repeatedly from the White
House podium because there's a memo that
says the point of the policy is deter
people from coming something she
explicitly rejected and she took umbrage
at she's a liar this government is run
by cruel terrible people
we're playing to a Fox News base because
they would thought it would help them
politically and also by the way
deterrence doesn't work as a policy like
that even even though she lied about
deterrence being the policy deterrence
as a policy didn't work which we've
known for some time which we knew from
when this happened in the Obama
administration like if these people are
running from Honduras from Guatemala
because they fear violence because they
fear that because they're being
threatened to join a gang or will kill
you right so they're not thinking about
what happens two or three weeks from now
when they get into the border who knows
the policy they don't know yeah they're
not they're not following CNN and
they're they're just trying to escape
for their lives and their children's
life last quick note it costs $30,000
per kid to reunite them eighty million
dollars total to your point to you about
deterrence you mention oh there's you
know there's this asylum backlog there's
no great Trump plan out there to try to
solve any of these immigration problem
there's no this has been true on so many
issues it was true on daca it is true on
family separation it was true on
Obamacare it was true on the Iran deal
it was true on the Paris climate Accords
when there is something from the Obama
era or when there was some policy that
has humane that Donald Trump takes a
problem has a problem with they suggest
that this is part of some broader
strategy to solve some deeper issue that
is that is real to them but there's
never any plan they just shoot the
hostage that's what they do and that's
what they're doing here that's what they
will do again and again they're they're
shutting the border creating chaos
unleashing this a scapegoat for their
Fox News viewers and it is toward
absolutely no end because this
administration has no discipline or
forethought or plan to kind of get to
any kind of a policy outcome so this
isn't going away anytime soon
Trump is still threatening to shut down
the government in a couple weeks or at
the end of this week to figure out what
it is anyway I'll say Trump is still
threatening to shut down the government
soon if Congress doesn't allocate five
billion dollars to fund his border wall
they're trying to get that done in the
lame duck on Thanksgiving day he said to
reporters quote there certainly could be
a shutdown and then it would be about
border security
Democrats respond here and and what kind
of leverage do we have now I think we
should just let me shut it down I don't
I mean the you need 60 votes right he
needs Democrats so there's been talk of
attaching legislation to protect
Muller's role too I think let's attach
five billion dollars worth of let's
let's do Daka
let's do Muller let's do every single
thing we can load up and if he wants to
shut down the government over that fine
but I want to make this hurt as much as
humanly possible on a policy front to
get us things we want like daca reform
to get funding for whatever we need but
also to protect Muller but like we
should make this a fight because for him
39 days until we take back the house or
have control of the house I would love
for him to set up this crazy scenario
where he's shutting down the government
once again with full control of it yeah
I mean I just don't think this works
long term for him because even if he I
guess what would happen is he says okay
I want five billion dollars in border
security funding the Republican House
gives him that it goes to the Senate he
doesn't get sixty votes for Democrats
Democrats would say absolutely not we're
not giving you five billion dollars
especially for nothing right we're not
getting to be five Bono's for a while
then the government shuts down he tries
to blame it on Democrats for not funding
his wall which seems absurd because we
just had an election where Republicans
were beaten as badly as they were in any
time in 30 years and then in about a
month
less than a month in January a new
Congress is seated and the they have to
do funding bells all over again and the
House Democrats are gonna say okay well
now we're House Democrats where you're
still not given you don't give him he
just doesn't have he doesn't have the
votes to fund the wall no yeah well even
President for quite some time this
Congress has been to Congress for that
entire time and it has not happened yet
and we actually did make a deal with him
we made a deal we said protect the kids
protect the daka kids and we'll give you
your border wall funding everyone told
everybody we shouldn't do it but the
Democrats did it Schumer did it they
made that deal or they said they were
you know in the way that they can say
they made the deal they made the deal
and then Trump walked away so you know
he didn't wasn't willing to do the deal
he's not willing to give anything up for
this thing they haven't gotten it done
now
get it done now yeah I mean a broader
question here since Trump will continue
to force immigration onto the national
agenda how should Democrats respond do
you think the midterms have changed the
politics around immigration in any way
we went through all kinds of fits and
starts over the last two years about
this because I think a lot of us thought
we should do the right thing the
politics are unknown let's see what
happens in the midterms now we have seen
what happens in the midterms does this I
mean do we have more leverage to sort of
ignore his as one of them masks
it's hard I mean I don't think let me
start that over
it's a complicated it's a complicated
question because immigration isn't leo
it's a complicated question because you
know immigration isn't a monolithic
issue where the politics are the same I
may think when family separation was at
the forefront that was very very bad for
Trump though some of the worst days of
his presidency I think I think to the
extent Democrats can hold hearings on
family separation to hold hearings on
the fact that hold hearings on the fact
that his lovett said he's bad at being
president and he's been president for a
long time and he hasn't it's all the
problem I'm fine with that if he wants
to keep having these funding fights
about the wall I sort of don't care and
think we can ignore it yeah I mean I do
say Amy Klobuchar on one of the sunday
shows said you know Democrats would be
willing to negotiate funding for border
security as part of comprehensive
immigration reform I realized like this
very dry boring position that we've had
for the last however many years should
be the message right like yes of course
we want border security by the way
there's also more border security than
there's ever been ever in the history of
the United States so I don't know how
much more you need I mean we
were talking to your making those jokes
during the Obama administration where
we're saying how we've every time he
would increase border security they
would say now we need border security to
get the comprehensive immigration reform
right yeah but what I think I think just
Democrats need to say like no of course
we're not for open borders but we do
want to pass the citizenship for the
people who are undocumented we want to
protect dreamers in this country and we
want to fix a broken immigration system
we have forever if Republicans ever come
around to wanting to negotiate on that
sure we're here but if Donald Trump just
gonna keep screaming about his wall and
firing tear gas over the border
then we're not gonna play with you son
right yeah it's almost feels like
there's two tracks there's the here's
what we want right here's the Democratic
position which is comprehensive
immigration reform that includes border
security and the other is these one-off
fights where he wants border security
money for the border monitor for money
for this money for that whatever he
wants whatever he's whatever he's sort
of clamoring on about that week I think
on those cases you can decide how much
do we want for that right and you can
set a really high price I think we
should set a really high price but I
don't think we need to be drawn into I
think the one of the lessons of 2018 is
our position on immigration has been
successful and it has not been one that
required us to reach moral compromises
with Trump on immigration yeah he
basically went as far right as he could
possibly go in the midterms said there's
going to be invasion of our country it
led the news every single news channel
everywhere for two weeks straight and
Democrats won almost 40 seats in the
House
and lost Senate seat or two and a couple
seats and states were Trump won by
double didn't they try to continue
before that and maybe try this forever
yeah okay speaking of elections we have
one more Senate race on Tuesday the
runoff election in Mississippi between
Democrat Mike espy and Republican Cindy
hyde-smith polls favored hudsmith but
have narrowed a bit after a string of
race related revelations let's call them
hyde-smith said she'd be in the front
row if someone invited her to a public
hanging she attended a segregation
Academy in high school has praised the
state's confederate history and once
offered a measure in her state
legislature honoring a Confederate
soldier for defending his homeland SB
who was the state's first
african-american congressman since
reconstruction is trying to become the
first Democrat to win statewide in
Mississippi since the early eighties
so guys during the debate last week the
only debate between the two of them SB
took and the word the New York Times a
milder approach to HUD Smith's public
hanging comment saying quote the world
knows what she said the world knows that
those comments were harmful and hurtful
what do you guys think of this strategy
and what is his what is ESPYs path to
victory in Mississippi I mean I he had
his most recent television ad
essentially talked about her being an
embarrassment to the state and I thought
that was an interesting tone that was
similar to what was used in
yeah when they ran against Rouen more I
imagine they have something that shows
that that might work
you know I his path to victory involves
getting a huge turnout among
african-american voters and somewhere
between 25 to 30 percent of white voters
so II you know SB is run a pretty
moderate I think pretty universal
campaign but I think I'd like this
there's sort of these think pieces
written about how or how much should one
talk about race in these campaigns
neither candidate has a choice because
she Hyde Smith is so terrible
instead unbelievably stupid awful things
like I don't know there's this false
choice out there that like we should be
ignoring this or not talking about I
think that he's talked about it in the
right way I mean it's I don't even get
it you know it's the story of politics
in the Trump hair it says it goes back
to Hillary and Trump in 2016 like Trump
says something racist and sexist and
whatever and like yeah obviously you
want to stick on your own message and
talk about the economy talk about health
care and stuff like that but when
someone injects racism into the news you
got to talk about it yeah I mean look
we're tired we were talking about
Trump's policies along the southern
border today we're doing it because even
though we know that's the topic he wants
to discuss it's important because he's
doing inhumane things yeah
fired tear gas of children got to talk
about it yeah it's it's it's news it's
newsworthy it's notable you know it's a
tough State for Democrats we haven't won
a Mississippi Senate race since 82 four
years ago our candidate got 37.4%
against that Cochran so that's not great
but bad Cochran is a
once-in-a-generation political figure
but I mean I do think that you know
hyde-smith has said terrible things and
major companies like Walmart and major
league baseball are asking for donations
back so I do think attention to who she
is and what she's done and said has
benefited espy politically yeah it's an
odd thing to say the question is is her
are her embarrassing racist gaps in
history enough to equal the stories
about pedophilia that sank right Melissa
no didn't mean it time you said his path
here and you're right it's it's exactly
what you said
sort of the third ingredient that Doug
Jones had that we will see if SP has is
a bunch of conservatives and Republicans
staying home right like ultimately Doug
Jones won because of astronomically high
african-american turnout and a bunch
Republicans staying home and if SP can
replicate that he wins if can't if you
can't he'll fall short I just and one
other thing just also a lot of ESPYs
chance of winning depends on turning out
african-american voters it's about
turning out people who may not be
regular voters and it's worth also
remembering that Mississippi is a state
that disenfranchise is a lot of people a
time which is gambling so which is again
something that dogged dogged us
basically everywhere but of dog dogs us
in these races so yeah yeah and that's
what that the voter suppression tactics
that have been ongoing forever
I think undergirds this whole discussion
about how and where we should be talking
about race in a way that it frustrates
me because it's not front and center
yeah you know like if we were taught if
Stacey Abrams hadn't had votes stolen
from her we would be talking about the
Georgia results in a very different way
and probably that would set the entire
narrative about how to talk about race
if Andrew Galton Gilliam had a little
better turnout in miami-dade I'd be
having a very different conversation
about how to address race 2018 so I
don't think we should over learn from
these elections if Hillary Clinton had
had worse been able to receive more
votes in Wisconsin she might have won
that state despite their efforts to
disenfranchise people yeah I just wanted
to make sure I had the fact which is
that almost ten percent of citizens in
the state of Mississippi are
disenfranchised well one in ten adults
so that gets us to the larger analysis
in this New York Times piece that I just
referenced which is written by Jonathan
Martin and he wrote even as Democrats
made gains in the 2018 election and the
suburbs that were once Republican
pillars they're seeing their already
weak standing in rural America erode
even further the campaign's of Stacey
Abrams in Georgia Andrew Gilliam in
Florida and better o'rourke and Texas
may have electrified black and
progressive white voters but they had an
equal and opposite effect as well in
rural county after rural county this
trio of next generation Democrats
performed worse than President Barack
Obama did in 2012 now I have a few
issues with this analysis but what do
what do you guys think I was the editor
he combines two things that shouldn't
that
evidence doesn't suggest to combine
Democrats have a problem in rural areas
that's real it's a serious issue for
long has been for a long time now I
think based on the outcome of this
election you could say well focusing on
the suburbs instead of in rural areas
seems to be what Democrats ought to do
but if you're some of new things
Democrats need to compete everywhere
that in order for us to do things like
pass climate change legislation you need
to be able to win in smaller states
because you need the votes in the Senate
that is a reasonable question I think
it's an important question I don't think
it's a question to dismiss out of hand
what is not supported by the data what
is not supported by the evidence is to
equate decline of voting for Democrats
in rural areas with more progressive
candidates that to me does not seem to
have a basis in fact yeah and and and
j-mart said this too at one point you
know he said oh I did say in the piece
that moderates and conservatives also
did worse than Obama 2012 in rural areas
and it's like well yeah but then why was
the piece about vetto and Abrams like
but that that is exactly the point is
that there is no evidence connecting
progressive policies or progressive
candidates to a decline and for
democratic decline in rural areas
there's just zero and in fact and you
pointed this out love it right after the
election progressive policies did quite
well in very red states Utah Idaho
Nebraska expand Medicaid Arkansas raise
the minimum wage minimum we also passed
a pro-union resolution in 2018 Democrats
did very well with voters you might get
up to 63 million votes 2018 in them
 midterm when it's gonna be about
what Trump got in 2016 with more than
Romney it's more than McCain in Kansas
Laura Kelly outperformed Clinton in
rural errors in Kansas Laura Kelly
outperform Clinton in rural areas in
Wisconsin Tony Evers outperformed
Clinton test her out from Clinton in
rural area so there's a lot of anecdotal
evidence I struggle to draw large
conclusions from this because it's a
little bit apples to apples when you're
looking at the midterm versus the
presidential blah blah blah I think we
need to compete for all voters
everywhere and we shouldn't wrap
ourselves around the axle yeah Bates my
issue and you just pointed this out is
Democrats cut Republicans margin in
rural areas by anywhere from 7 to 13
points depending on the exit poll
between 16 and 18 so we actually did I
mean it's weird to use Obama 2012 as the
jumping-off point as this piece does
because
we improved upon Hilary's margin to 2016
and in fact if Democrats had done as
well as Hillary did in rural areas in
2018
the three people you just mentioned
Tommy wouldn't have won Laura Kelly Tony
Evers or Jon Tester and so that's not to
say we figured it out and now the trend
is reversing and now we've fixed our no
we have a problem in rural America
but it's to say that because this is
such a closed country and all these
races are so close it matters when
certain groups of voters in certain
areas of the country sort of go back and
forth between elections even if it's by
a little bit because of which is what it
should tell Democrats is yes you should
go and play in rural areas I mean what
happened in Wisconsin the Democratic
Party the local Democratic Party the
National one they went up there they
went to some of these counties than
Clinton loss that had been trending away
from Obama and they you know rebuilt
relationships in those counties and it
helped Tony Evers you know I would also
just say a larger point on this stories
that that look to find evidence of a
simple divide inside the Democratic
Party between the progressive wing and a
center wing sometimes they're true
sometimes they're very good stories
sometimes they are are a thesis that
goes in search of evidence you another
example of it just there
Jerrold Nadler has been talking about
subpoenaing Whitaker sang-hee I'm gonna
invite him to testify or I may subpoena
him Elijah Cummings gave an interview
where he said we're gonna be very
careful about subpoenas and make sure
we're not going too fast and those two
things were set side by side as some
sort of evidence of the kind of divide
within the Democratic Party should we go
too hard should we not go harder and
it's like those two things allied
aligned they do and so I just think
they're there we have we've done a lot
we've spent a lot of time in the space
between Bernie and Hillary in the space
between Manchin and Acacio Cortes you
know that's been a big part of our
conversation but there are many other
conversations to have yeah I think that
is so important like there are real
debates in this party to have especially
around policy areas like is it Medicare
for all is it a public option that gets
there is that what how big is the Green
Deal how expensive right have all these
debates for sure but just know that the
media has a lot of people immediate have
a very strong incentive to come up with
simplistic divides about the party
that aren't necessarily true especially
and they the one that's most common and
one of the laziest ones is ideological
right like is there a divide between the
center of the party and the left of the
party oh now this this time around it's
also should you go hard at Trump or
should you go less hard at Trump right
and like all of this stuff is just so
silly because usually the answer to
everything is it's always a little bit
about it's also premature if Nancy
Pelosi and Cummings they want to go out
and in their messages we're gonna find
common ground and we're going to use the
subpoena sparingly Bob see what they
actually do what's always that's that's
a smart thing to say even if you're
about to put more subpoenas you know
start rolling subpoenas out like toilet
paper
yeah you just raining down subpoenas on
Washington like you're trying to tell
North Koreans that things are pretty
good in South Korea cool all right on
that note I think I think we're done
when we come back we will have lovitz
conversation with Fox's Dave Roberts
about climate change and guess what he
loves it
you
