welcome to positive America live taking
your questions with us as always
Priyanka err Benji hello we got lots to
talk about today we have lots to talk
about holy we woke up to a surprise
announcement that our friend Robert
Muller would be making a statement yeah
and have a quick rundown and we have a
little clip to refresh your memory so
let's get straight into it eclipse now
yeah
clips alright so today special counsel
Robert Miller made his first public
statement about the conclusions of the
Russia investigation while announcing
that he's closing his office resigning
from DOJ and probably trying to find a
Maitai somewhere on a beach without
Wi-Fi or Twitter he basically said that
his office could not clear President
Trump of obstruction of justice if his
office had the confidence that the
president clearly did not commit a crime
we would have said so for the record
they did not say so his office could not
accuse Trump of committing a crime even
if they thought that he did because of
Justice Department guidelines and only
Congress can formally accused Trump of
committing a crime so Elijah has a clip
for us to watch jogger memory to see it
all Elijah let's see what we got the
order appointing me special counsel
authorized us to investigate actions
that could obstruct the investigation
and we conducted that investigation and
we kept the office of the acting
Attorney General apprised of the
progress of our work and as set forth in
the report after that investigation if
we had had confidence that the president
clearly did not commit a crime we would
have said so we did not however make a
determination as to whether the
President did commit a crime the
introduction to the volume 2 of our
report explains that decision it
explains that under long-standing
department policy a president president
cannot be charged with a federal crime
while he is in office that is
unconstitutional even if the charge is
kept under seal and hidden from public
view that too is prohibited
the special counsel's office is part of
the Department of Justice and by
regulation it was bound by that
department policy charging the president
with a crime was therefore not an option
we could consider the department's
written opinion explaining the policy
makes several important points that
further informed our handling of the
obstruction investigation those points
are summarized in our report and I will
describe two of them for you
first the opinion explicitly explicitly
permits the investigation of a sitting
president because it is important to
preserve evidence while memories are
fresh and documents available among
other things that evidence could be used
if there were co-conspirators who could
be charged now and second the opinion
says that the Constitution requires a
process other than the criminal justice
system to formally accuse a sitting
president of wrongdoing alright so that
was a lot and we have many questions
about this first up us to why was this a
big deal Muller speaking out today he
just kind of repeated the report didn't
he what do we know that's new and what
are like the big implications of this
first of all first of all we've learned
that there are a lot of people who did
not read the report that it turns out
and do your homework turns out that on
someone reading aloud from the book they
wrote gets a lot more attention than
reading the book that they wrote yeah I
think the best example of that was I
think Bret Baier on Fox News was like
whoa this is different if we had known
this this would be and it's like well
you basically basically said exactly it
was in the report you know there was I
mean I will say he he clarified a few
things and I think he needed to clarify
a few things because we now know that
the Attorney General William bar lied to
Congress and lied to the American people
he didn't mistake things he didn't shade
things he lied this is this is actually
what he said in front of the Senate
Judiciary Committee
will it William bar said Muller told him
three times quote that he emphatically
was not saying that but for the
Department of Justice guidelines he
would have found obstruction molar
basically says the opposite today so so
we should just break like that's an
incredibly important thing because you
know as much as elite opinion matters
and it much is like you know we live in
this system where Trump says something
crazy and then a bunch of
intellectualism Boney's come up behind
him and clean up the mess
there was a really important argument
that was part of what bar said and it
may not have been you know plastered
across headlines but it really
undergirded a lot of what a loud bar to
make Muller's report go off with less of
a bang than you know a little fart in
the wind and it was saying that the
wreath at that the Justice Department
guidelines say a president can't be
charged with a crime and what Barr said
was that's not the reason Muller didn't
choose to charge Trump that actually
there are other reasons that have
nothing to do with the fact that he
couldn't do it anyway and it's a really
big deal that Robert Muller went to the
cameras today and said actually it is
explicitly actually ever it is
explicitly actually actually that is the
reason that is the reason I did not
charge the president with obstruction
what Barr said is the opposite of what
is true and yeah and and what Muller
said today that was not in the report is
specifically saying and Priyanka I think
you just said this and I think we saw
this in the clip we did not have that
option we did not have the option of
charging the president with the crime
and then he goes on to say and this is
basically just dancing around the word
impeachment he's saying everything he
possibly could but the word impeachment
itself quote the Constitution requires a
process other than the criminal justice
system to formally accuse a sitting
president of wrongdoing that process is
impeachment it's not Big Brother it's
not American Idol you know it's no it's
not chopped you're not gonna do what I'm
chopped
stern Pietschmann okay so in this
statement muller said that he wasn't
planning to testify and that the report
is his statement but now that he's
resigned do you think the house should
subpoena him and will he have any
limitations on what he can and cannot
talk about on the limitations I I think
he has fewer limitations than if he was
a Department of Justice employee but I
do think you know it classified
information there's still limits on that
even if you're not a DOJ employee so
there are some limits but I think he's
he's gonna be freer to say what he wants
to say now that he's a private citizen
though I do believe the DOJ can impose
some kind of restrictions but to the
question of whether they should subpoena
robert muller yes i think it robert
muller doesn't get to decide whether he
speaks or not i think what he wanted to
say today is to make clear that he is
not going to go beyond much beyond what
are you put in the report he's basically
saying stop Chuck pinning this on me so
yeah that I'm the one that's gonna get
you out of this I told you what I think
about this in a 400 page report
it was pretty obvious
I thought except - all you
idiots right what I was trying to say
partly because bill Barr tried to cover
it up yeah it's not like you know it's
like it's not like when when when Muller
shows up to Congress he opens up his
briefcase and takes up the
answer his briefcase is just filled with
magic 8-balls in this plane like I just
don't the what was been needed for it
doesn't really make any sense what what
what we've said for a long time is the
point the importance of Muller
testifying is and this will make John is
said actually a lot which is it matters
to hear from him even if he doesn't say
anything particularly new it matters to
see the words leave his square-jawed
face and now we have so it is it has
become lesson realized to you I realize
it's hard for everyone to realize this
but it's like the magic of television
you know like I'm sorry that we're you
know if I can television adults culture
here but yeah there's a lot of people
who don't read the report
and just by Muller saying almost exactly
what was in the report he you know made
a lot of news today yeah and if he's
there in Congress and he even doesn't go
beyond very far beyond what he says in
the report it's going to be a big
deal
I also and someone was making this point
to I think that Muller does not want to
go testify in front of Congress if it's
just testifying absent an impeachment
proceeding if you just go in there to
testify because then he worries that
he's going to be used as a political
prop by the Democrats by the Republicans
he doesn't want to be used as a
political prop but within the context of
impeachment proceedings which which is
the legal remedy that Muller himself
spelled out as the way to accuse a
sitting president of wrongdoing within
that context of an impeachment
proceeding people who know Muller do
think he would go testify within that
context because now it's an actual legal
proceeding that could lead to need an
expert he's an expert on what they'd be
impeaching him over because he's laying
out the case for a case for impeachment
a little bit feels like you know that
old that old story about like a person
drowning in the ocean and they say to
themselves like God's gonna save me and
a raft comes along and they say no no no
God's gonna save me and a dinghy comes
along and say no God's gonna save me a
helicopter comes along crazy and anyway
they get to heaven and God's like I said
you the raft I sent you the dinghy I
sent you the helicopter I feel like
Democratic members of Congress or just
float in the ocean being like Muller's
gonna come like mothers gonna come along
and say something the real evidence is
gonna come along and say something and
meanwhile it's like hey guys there's a
lot of grab on yeah he put 400
pages together about how the president
obstructed justice and obstructed the
investigation into Russian interference
in our election I did that for you we
asked you want me to do float on it like
rows okay so we have a bunch we started
talking about impeachment here we have a
few questions down the line but before
we get away from this moment I just
wanted to ask about Robert Miller's
voice I was personally very surprised by
what we heard we've never I don't think
we've heard him speak publicly before I
wanted to get your thoughts really
quickly what did you think did it match
your expectations your thoughts in
general
didn't quite match my expectations it
was a little softer a little more unsure
than I had imagined I feel like yeah
when Robert Muller open his mouth like
Thunderbolts would come out I think
Jerry Lewis it was it wasn't quite like
hearing Jared Kushner speak for the
first time I know that was chilling that
was chilling that was um just a balloon
exhaling yeah but it was it was weird
yeah it's odd just to have looked at
pictures of someone for so long and not
actually have any idea how they sound
yeah it was the thing just a side note
anyways back to the questions this next
one how much do you guys think that
Democrats needs to capitalize on this
moment they fell short on the molar
report release and now we have Muller
himself saying on TV that his report
does not exonerate the president do they
lose the argument if they continue to
slow walk this yes III think so because
there's only going to be so many big
media moments like this that offer
themselves is a hook for Democrats to
say all right my mind is made up we
should begin impeachment proceedings I
mean this is sort of but love it the
point love it was just making right like
they're gonna keep throwing us the raft
yeah like there's not there's there's
not going to be some blockbuster witness
who shows up before Congress and says
you know what I did see him shoot
someone in the middle of Fifth Avenue I
saw it myself and then everything okay
it's time for impeachment the
Republicans are finally gonna go along
like yes for sure we can continue
investigations and the house should
continue investigations on all the
different wrongdoing potential
wrongdoing from the administration but I
don't know that there's going to be
anything bigger or a bigger blockbuster
than robert muller saying rushar
interfered in our election the president
united states obstructed that
investigation and we couldn't charge him
with a crime because there's a
constitutional process for doing that
but here's all the evidence of his
obstruction yeah I mean oh I don't know
it's on when your case is going to be
stronger well it's it's
so it's all a big charade
Sharada if you will that uh everyone you
know impeachments theater well what do
people actually think right this is not
a situation in which we're trying to
make an argument in good faith to people
that disagree the Donald Trump committed
impeachable offenses there are very few
people in Congress democrat or
republican who deep down believe Donald
Trump is innocent there are very few
people who believe he who actually
sincerely believed he didn't commit
impeachable offense offense offenses
when Justin Amash I'm a shamash came out
and said what he said when you know the
Amash brothers came out Smosh mouths
it's a live stream what's gonna happen
nothing no consequences when he came out
and said what he said and it took
actually political courage and integrity
to say what he said there was all these
reporters who immediately pointed out
that Republicans behind the scenes agree
with him that of course they agree with
him and Democrats publicly say that
Donald Trump committed impeachable
offenses so they publicly say they agree
with him they don't just take to the
take the logical conclusion so we have
two groups of people people privately
who believe you should be committed
impeachable offenses people who publicly
believe he committed impeachable
offenses but shouldn't be impeached so
when people say that impeachment is the
theater impeachment is doing what we all
believe to be true the theater is
pretending that we're going through some
kind of a process when really what is
happening is there's a set of obvious
facts that there is a group of people
whose reputations and careers depend on
not recognizing and us trying to find
out ways to make them see what's obvious
when they probably never will so we
should probably just tell the
truth I also believe that Democrats need
to understand that the jury according to
the Constitution is the Senate but the
real jury here is the voters the reason
for an impeachment trial is not because
we believe that we're gonna convince 20
Republicans in the Senate to finally
show courage and vote to convict this
man of the crimes that he's committed
it's to make the case for why Donald
Trump shouldn't be President in 2022 the
American people make one case that is
going to be televised all the time live
impeachment hearings day after day after
day
it is the perhaps one option for taking
away the megaphone from Donald Trump who
is the world's assignment editor
who can command attention any time he
wants the only thing that can stop him
from taking that attention away from
commanding that attention is to begin
impeachment trying trials that will be
televised live on television for weeks
and weeks and weeks at a time and then
we make an argument why this man is
unfit for office to the millions and
millions of Americans watching who will
go to the polls in 2020 maybe it will
make maybe it will change zero minds
perhaps I also changes a couple in a
close election there you go I also just
think is - does everyone feel like what
we're doing now is working right we live
in this it's a liminal space halfway
between nothing and impeachment it
 sucks Democrats are demoralized
Republicans are emboldened Trump is
emboldened his administration is
emboldened this is what will drag on
until we find a way to wrench the
conversation to health care or the
economy or taxes or whatever takes place
in 2020 to kind of make our main
argument but right now this space
halfway between sucks it sucks living
here we're where we have investigations
that can't get off the ground because
they're ignoring the subpoenas because
they recognize that they're ultimately
toothless we have Democrats crying
bloody murder at Maggie Haberman for
pointing out that hope Hicks has
determined that whether or not to honor
a subpoena is a choice when in fact
that's exactly the situation we find
ourselves in because we see a bunch of
Republican operatives and Republican
administration officials deciding that
agreeing with the subpoena or not is a
choice so it may culminate enough
acquittal by the Senate Donald Trump
crowing on Twitter that he's been
exonerated but but at least then there's
a process to make the full case forced
Republicans and Democrats to go on the
record declare it was a partisan outcome
even if he's acquitted and then we could
move on but at least we'll have done the
thing though one thing left the one big
step we can take to make a case okay so
about the thing we got a good basic
question here can you guys break down
how impeaching proceedings are initiated
I see a bunch of members of Congress in
the Senate tweeting about how we need to
start them how does this happen the
House Judiciary Committee is the
committee responsible for opening and
impeachment inquiry so however many
members are on the Judiciary Committee
obviously it's controlled by them
because Democrats control the house
Jerry Nadler is the chair of the House
Judiciary Committee now they would call
a vote if there is a majority on the
committee that are in favor of opening
and impeachment inquiry then an
impeachment inquiry is opened then that
committee the House Judiciary Committee
would hear evidence hear testimony and
the the hearings the so called
impeachment hearings would be conducted
by the House Judiciary Committee over
weeks months whatever it takes
then the Judiciary Committee would vote
again do we recommend impeachment to the
Full House of Representatives if they
vote YES on that after all that they
send it to the house then the entire
house votes if there's a majority of the
house that recommends that the president
be impeached then Donald Trump becomes a
third president in history to be
impeached by the house then there is a
trial in the Senate Chief Justice John
Roberts
the Supreme Court preside over the trial
he sits in the chair and the House
committee chairs act as lawyers they're
called had their managers and they
basically present the evidence to the
members of the Senate we have we call
more witnesses during the Senate trial
and then the Senate votes on Fat John
Lindsey Graham was actually one of those
managers for an obstruction of justice
and research against Bill Clinton that's
very true and then one fact you need 67
votes in the Senate to convict the
President and remove him from office if
not then he goes down like Bill Clinton
and Andrew Johnson as someone who was
impeached but not removed from office
and then they just you know live with
that I'll just say something to you
which is that like I have not been uh I
have not been totally sold on the
arguments for impeachment politically I
think the legal arguments the moral
arguments are unassailable and
undeniable I've been open to the
political arguments and I also think
Pelosi deserves some credit because I
think sometimes people attribute what
she's saying to her actual view when in
fact she's trying to manage a caucus and
she knows that there's probably a lot
she knows a big chunk of her caucus as
she said today is not for this yet and
she's very good at letting her caucus
take take us take her to where she wants
to be
but I've had this sort of feeling for a
while that that maybe impeachment isn't
politically advantageous in the way that
we want maybe it ultimately doesn't
result in Donald Trump being removed
there are consequences to it or maybe
not foreseeing but one thing that has
become increasingly clear to me is that
what we're doing is not working and I
don't know another option and I
increasingly ike recently think that
when you're when you're confronted with
someone like Donald Trump you may not
like the tools at your disposal you may
not have all the answers you may feel
cowed and bullied and exhausted by the
ways in which he obstructs and uses
institutions against him against us but
at the end of the day what I land on as
the simplest option is when you're
confronted by someone with like Donald
Trump the only thing you can do is
everything you can and to me impeachment
is everything we can yeah I mean I think
we have not talked enough about what
happens if there is no impeachment right
and you know there's an argument okay
the majority of the American people are
not for impeachment right now
Democrats are in favor of it
independents are slightly opposed
Republicans are obviously very opposed
we need independent and Republican
voters we they helped us win the house
in the first place
Nancy Pelosi needs those voters to
maintain her speakership next time
around and so if these people are all up
against impeachment what are we doing
when we have better arguments on health
care wages all the other kind of stuff
oh that's true but that also presupposes
that the runway from now until the
election in 2020 is going to be clear
and that we're just gonna have a free
and fair easy election in 2020 to make
our case for why you know Trump's gonna
take over your health care and we're
gonna give you more health care and all
that other kind of stuff and then
everyone goes to the polls and that's
that when we have seen over the last
couple of months especially that that's
not the runway that we're gonna have
that he's already started to use the
powers of the presidency to target his
political enemies that he's using the
Department of Justice to open
investigation as to his political
opponents that he could very easily ask
foreign governments once again to
interfere in our election on his behalf
this is not going to be
a free and fair election and so the
question for Democrats is yeah
does impeachment stop all that maybe not
but is it the only tool that we have
that we haven't used yet yeah and so
because we don't know the politics of it
then maybe we should do whatever we can
do to stop what is a very abnormal
presidency that we've been saying since
the beginning I also just you know again
like we're not this is also isn't about
predicting what happens when you do it
right I don't know what happens when we
do it I also think one possibility that
people aren't discussing enough is we do
it and it's neither here nor there it's
not a little with some great change in
how people see Donald Trump it's also
not some deleterious thing that prevents
Democrats from making a case come the
fall that it's just a two-month reverie
and focus on this problem that is hard
to measure you know in terms of what it
actually caused in public and public
perceptions and views about Donald
Trump's corruption etc etc so there is a
real possibility that we end up in a
situation like that I mean you can make
an argument that that's what happened
with the Clinton impeachment so you know
that it was this big phonetic thing the
American people wanted to move forward
but by the way george w bush was able to
campaign on a message of restoring
dignity to the office and he made that a
big part of his case so you know i think
the fact that we can't remember news
that happened two days ago speaks to
that very possibility yeah Donald Trump
just walked out of a meeting with Nancy
Pelosi and people were like that has
never happened before months ago
remotely something's gonna be like
explosive it's like yeah he was in the
 report that he were you ever get
the report already yeah like you're
you're right that they very likely
outcome of this could be that we go
through an impeachment he's acquitted
and we're not talking about it in
September October of 2020 and fairness
to reporters it is true that robert
muller speaks like a riddle the
sphinx you know he'd like gets out there
and he says things like it is my
conclusion that donald trump did not not
commit the crimes for which i cannot
accuse him but would if I could and he
weren't but not with any of that
emphasis no it's all kind of in the same
tone no you now thanks Bob one more time
with feeling you know but then throw it
away
[Music]
I'm talking about so in this process
that you guys laid out a bunch of people
are on Twitter right now asking us if we
can talk about this how this goes in the
Senate so we have 1 & 2 here 1 even if
as most believe the Senate would never
convict is there something to be gained
by making Republican senators up for
reelection listen to the evidence and
justify their vote and then second
question can Mitch McConnell block a
trial in the Senate it's the same
question no he cannot on the first
question yeah I think in fact I'd
imagine if he said no no no value yeah
there's value yeah because I think but I
think it's important of how for how
Democrats set this up because you know
and and and Pfeiffer made this point a
few months ago the anxiety is once Trump
is exonerated by his Republican lackeys
in the Senate he runs around saying
total exoneration and now look at Trump
now he's actually now when he says total
generation he's right because backed up
by a by a ruling by a verdict I think
Democrats have to go into this being
like we do not expect Republican
senators to show political courage for
the first time in the trump presidency
by doing the right thing but if we're
gonna all face voters in 2020 they need
to face voters with the vote that they
decide in impeachment and we'll do the
same thing and if Cory Gardner who's in
gonna be in a tight race in Colorado
wants to say that the president has done
nothing wrong
even though robert muller has laid out
evidence of obstruction cory gardner can
take that vote if susan collins and main
wants to take a vote and say that
president has done nothing wrong even
though we've laid out all this evidence
for the last couple months susan collins
is free to take that vote and we're all
gonna take our votes and we'll see what
the voters say i also just you also had
to imagine too that these are votes that
are alkyl that will come with statements
and i don't know what the future holds
no one does but one thing that if there
is a trial in the senate you can imagine
is Mitt Romney voting no on removing
Donald Trump and putting out a very sad
statement about the crimes and mistakes
of this president and the shame he's
brought to his office like this is not a
clean there's no clean way out of
impeachment for the party whose
president is being impeach I don't care
how bad things have gotten I don't care
how much politics seems to have changed
other thing I would just add is nobody
knows the future nobody knows what
happens through an impeachment inquiry
and what happens in a trial in the
Senate
obviously it's outlandish to imagine
things changing dramatically and yet
Ricks Richard Nixon had I believe a an
above 50% approval rating among
Republicans like a few days before he
resigned
you know things look like they can't
change and then all of a sudden they
fall apart that could be true for the
Trump administration could be true for
America you know really could go either
way okay as with every announcement I
asked will this really change anyone's
mind it seems like everyone's already on
the side of their choosing and nothing
can sway those opinions do we think
those opinions or any opinions are
getting changed by what we saw today we
have no idea but if we didn't believe
that opinions could be changed we
wouldn't do campaigns we can shut this
whole pockets down I can finally do the
the Star Trek podcast I've been dreaming
of yeah I mean that's an important point
like we we have no idea if this will
change any minds but people who say
definitively that it will not change any
minds don't know what the they're
talking about and also it's um there's
not just one big blob of mind we need to
convert from leave him in office to take
remove him from office there's obviously
there's a chunk of of Republicans who
ironically don't seem to believe in
vaccines but are vaccinated against
objectivity because of Fox News and
other trumpian media but so yeah there's
a chunk of people who will never be
persuaded we don't need to persuade them
there what we have seen what is clear
over the past two-and-a-half years three
years is that there is still a big chunk
of people in the middle that are movable
sometimes it's just what's on their
minds right like the Access Hollywood
tape happens they remember why they
don't want to ever vote for Donald Trump
they then soon get this get sort of
lulled back into uncomfortable being
uncomfortable both candidates we saw in
2018 a huge swing not only in
independence voting for Democrats but
people who never voted for turning out
young people turning out in huge numbers
to vote for Democrats in a way that was
transformative and new I mean there's a
poll the
came out today that showed for the first
time Gen Xers and Millennials and
younger outvoted older voters that that
is a form of persuasion so uh you know
the engines thrown off Sparks and
 screws and you know chunks of
tire but we're still moving forward this
car still runs Justin Amash represents a
district in Michigan that is six points
more Republican than the national
average it's an hour plus six district
he walked into a town hall over the
weekend and a couple hundred people
there they all stood up and gave him a
standing ovation because of what he did
yeah and not a Republican district and
there was like three people who said
what are you doing are you part of the
deep state coup which you know out of a
crowd that big in a Republican district
not too bad not too bad so you just the
point is you never know you never know
how people are gonna react until you
actually lead and do something as
opposed to just worry about what the
polls are gonna tell you to do yeah it's
yeah okay this is the last thing before
we move on to our different topics this
is less of a question more of a
statement and we are fine with that
actually because this person is asking
if we can please tell our listeners to
call their reps in Congress and voice
their opinion on the matter that is all
we have a phone number for you it's the
switchboard the Capitol 202 2 2 4 3 1 2
1 give your reps give your Senators a
call let them know how you feel guys do
you have anything to add before we move
we agree with that statement good
statement do a phone cop give him a call
look I mean I think it was a couple
weeks ago before this happened today
that Katie Hill who's obviously from a
district just north of here in LA said
calls into her office were 2 to 1
against impeachment for a while and now
they've moved four to one for
impeachment so it matters it met like
when the there's there's 38 Democrats
now who said that they're for
impeachment which means there's 200
something who are if you're undecided or
opposed look up your member of Congress
find out where they stand and put those
calls in because especially for
Democrats they can be persuaded this is
it's a real thing that that is actually
do
yes changing Republican minds very
difficult figuring that out yeah it's a
real real pickle for you know the future
the America the planet you know whether
we have ice caps all that but uh thorny
really sticky wicket but there are two
hundred very persuadable House Democrats
like those are people that a personal
call from you really does make a
difference going to their town halls
when they came home come home over the
next break whenever they take a break
from I don't know whatever they do
whatever they're doing say hi and
tell them that this is that this is an
issue for you that you're you know I
don't want to say you're an impeachment
voter but maybe you're an impeachment
voter alright one more time it's two oh
two two two four three one two one
if you want to give you a rest call
alright we'll move into twenty twenty
questions because we have some fun new
news today as well the people want to
know what are your thoughts on the DNC's
new qualifying rules for the third
debate I can read them to you if we we
need them off the top of our heads
so basically they're doubling the
thresholds that candidates need to meet
to show up to the third debate so they
need to be hitting over two percent in
four major polls and they need one
hundred thirty thousand unique donors
including four hundred from twenty
states so what do you guys think about
this moving a threshold up yeah and the
other thing is so the first for the
first and second debate it was 1% in
three polls or sixty five thousand
annual donors for the third and fourth
debate it's as you said 2 percent in
four polls and a hundred and thirty
thousand unique doters 400 unique donors
per state in at least 20 states look it
is very difficult to figure out how you
solve this problem of 23 candidates on
debate stages so like no matter what I
don't think there's a perfect solution
here but to me it does seem fair that
you have you know everyone has been now
campaigning for a couple months by June
and July when we're hit the first and
second debates you know that'll be five
six months of camp
and then there are two chances for every
single person in this race who hit the
first threshold to be on that debate
stage and make their case to the
American people
and so then by September which is when
the third debate is we're talking about
September that is you know nine months
nine months into this election cycle if
at that point you can't hit two percent
in the polls and you can't get 130,000
individual donors then yeah maybe maybe
that is a good way to do it yeah no I I
respect it I think it's a difficult
balance to strike I don't think anyone's
had a better idea and to me you know I
think that there's two equities that are
really really important one is making
sure that that that the dump the DNC
gives everyone in there a fair chance
and I think the first two debates will
do that I do think there's another
equity that won't be as well served in
the first two debates but that is
incredibly important which is making
sure that this debate represents the
ideological and philosophical debates at
the core of the Democratic primary
process the the big conversation that
Democrats are having all together to
figure out who to represent them and I
don't know who the front runners are
going to be when we get to that third
debate but I want to know that they're
on stage together talking to one another
I do I want to know that that whether
it's you know Bernie representing a
revolution or Elizabeth Warren
representing a critique of capitalism or
Joe Biden representing a more kind of
main stryn of what it means to be a
Democrat I had a man it was a delicate
dance for afraid that one 2016 we were
saying there's 20 candidates and we need
to get them all off stage that Hillary
and Bernie can go at each other right
because the candidates this would leave
you with are likely Joe Biden Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren Kamala Harris
Pete Budaj edge better or Roarke Amy
Klobuchar Cory Booker probably that's
still eight candidates that we have to
see on stage together and make up our
minds who we like that's still a lot of
candidates to choose between and I think
at some point the Democratic Party has
to say we have a lot of good potential
candidates up here
and they are ideologically different
they're diverse they come from different
parts of the party they have different
experiences different backgrounds and
you still have a tough job to do making
up your mind between this many
candidates but here they are all on
stage debating each other and that's
still hard go to the key keep in mind in
September of 2019 there's only two or
three months left until voting begins
you go to the Cheesecake Factory
alright you open up that menu
you got 40 pages of fantastic options
alright you just can't believe how many
good options there are for what you're
gonna eat it the Cheesecake Factory
there's even ads in that thing you got
to go buy at a certain point that you
just have to say to yourself you know
what maybe fish tacos would have been
good tonight you know maybe I would have
gone crazy and gotten a steak at the
Cheesecake Factory like a animal
I don't know but some point you have to
say to yourself it's a chicken night and
we're just gonna choose from chicken
options across this menu got a window
you got a window to give yourself the
best chance of choosing the right option
which is always across the chicken
romano but what can but what candidate
is that what candidate is crusted
chicken romano
i don't know if he is or not but i just
went how about me repeat for his head
do you think his example is instructive
because you're probably gonna have some
candy to say i just need more time to
break out of the pack here and and i
need more time and more exposure to
break out of my 1% well mayor Pete
launched his campaign what it was
sometime in February the CNN Town Hall
slash pod save America interview with
Dan Pfeiffer equal equal launched his
candidacy into the stratosphere what a
month later and then now he's you know
one of the top five or six candidates so
it only took me repeat like a month and
so if some of these candidates that are
still complaining that they're under 1%
and not on the debate stage five six
seven months in I don't have asthma
I mean mayor Pete did it so if yeah if
you're exciting as him then you should
be able to do it too i I'd say two
things to that one I'd say he's a Madera
I don't you know I'd say Madera - yeah
exactly
you know what minute if if what your
claim is that you haven't had
the chance to prove that you are a
unique voice who belongs on that debate
stage you got to figure out what it is
that you're saying that's not breaking
through and say something else you know
it's like at some point it's you know
it's finish it or get off the townhall
[Music]
[Laughter]
would you guys mind discussing betos
comprehensive immigration reform package
that got buried by the miller
announcement this morning tough day to
announce a comprehensive but yes I will
so this now makes Beto one of only two
candidates the other is Julian Castro
who have announced and rolled out
comprehensive immigration proposals
detailed policy proposals which is sort
of surprising in the field so far that
there's only two but so via executive
order he would there be you know no more
wall obviously no ban the travel bans
over no family separations that's over
this is interesting no more deportations
for immigrants unless they have
dangerous criminal backgrounds and he
believes they can do that via executive
order as well as part of the enforcement
mechanism he would separate immigration
courts from the Department of Justice so
they would be their own article on
courts and not part of DOJ which is
allowed sessions and now bar to kind of
implement the family separation stuff he
would end for-profit prisons and
detention centers he's got a new thing
called community based visas which would
allow certain communities and
congregations to sponsor refugees so if
you're a community that wanted to take
in refugees you could do that that's
cool he would raise the cap on visas
also regionally so that you can match
the number of visas and you want to give
immigrants to the economic needs for
that region and then of course pathway
to citizenship for 11 million
undocumented immigrants it would
expedite that and then also for the nine
million immigrants who are here who are
already here but not documented but have
green cards or temporary protected
status or whatever it may be
he wants to expedite that process for
naturalization and would make
naturalization free so you'd get a pre
paid for filled out form mailed to you
you'd sign it and then you could be
naturalized faster which is a which is a
cool thing oh and then there's a foreign
policy component that Castro also has
talked about too and some other
candidates which is he wants to have
five million to Central American
countries to work with them to reduce
violence there so that fewer people are
seeking asylum in the first place
 or get off the podium nothing all
right we're gonna skip ahead to the fun
questions
we got a few the first one is another
non question but I feel like you're
gonna like it it's just fleabag that's
it there's nothing after one word thank
you for a great question everybody's
tweeting you got to watch fleabag ghetto
watch this Amazon Prime show fleabag and
I think to myself fleabag that's a
terrible title for something I'm
probably not gonna it's so good it's 12
magnificent episodes by Phoebe Waller
bridge who's a genius and who I will
follow to anything she makes she's
making killing me which I just started
fleabag is incredible
she also played a robot and the to my
mind only redeeming part of solo alright
people don't know that Elijah didn't
even know that think about somebody
who's writing killing eve starring and
flee by flee back and playing a robot in
a Star Wars movie that is a triple
threat if I have ever heard one
end of answer got another TV question
for you can Chernobyl and Watchmen soon
carry the HBO mantle after Game of
Thrones departure what do we think I
could first of all I only saw the first
episode of flea bag which was fantastic
so I really gotta dig in to flea bag
that's on my list
Chernobyl I have not started yet look
what I've heard fantastic things about
Chernobyl yeah the reviews have been
glowing the yeah the thing radiates
intensity but the No
so I don't know if Chernobyl can replace
Game of Thrones it's only six or five
episodes and it's not it like it's not
like I would not called a a beat read of
a watch I mean it's very intense
what well I just mean that it's like
it's a very harrowing harrowing story
about a very difficult and ugly and
violent thing that happened I do think
it is beautiful and worth watching and
does complement Game of Thrones in the
sense that I think what we talked about
in our Game of Thrones episodes they are
both show they're both showing what
happens not when heroes emerge to solve
a problem but when people try their best
inside of a system that's making all
kinds of determinations for them and
trying to struggle even though they make
mistakes at Jared Harris plays one of
the leads he's fantastic and he actually
is like makes mistakes he makes huge
mistakes in trying to solve this
Chernobyl problem as anybody would but
he just keeps going so iving Chernobyl
is an incredible achievement by Craig
Mazin and the director whose name eludes
me who's also fantastic the music's
fantastic Watchmen I'm looking forward
to it yeah they got me on the hook looks
good they got me on the hook
I see Don Johnson in that trailer I'm on
the hook Don Johnson is back Watchmen
Don Jon all right Don
 Johnson I think I think
hahahaha I'm glad we got there and
that's that's all for this you excited
about Don John Johnson Tom
Johnson Don Johnson is back well that's
all the time we have for today I think I
can go another 13 minutes oh my gosh
from Downton read that what's the phrase
esprit de escalade google it I don't
even if I said it right because French
is nonsense sugar get off the pub end it
Stream
you
