might keep it happened today a trailer
was released for Kylie Jenner's new
skincare line I have some questions hit
me I don't need a 21 year old releasing
a skincare line everyone's skin looks
great when you're 21 also it has it's a
walnut scrub that she was promoting this
is not it's basically saying eyes but
also do not use a scrub on your
face please and especially do not use
walnuts it will tear your skin bacteria
will get in it use a face wash no no
listen if you want to do an exfoliation
you do a peel like a civilized
human some marula oil on top of that and
then you take your ass to bed and you
wake up glowing we know the Kardashians
history with plastic surgery I just I
don't need skin products from you the
nerve to have a mrs. Potato Head face
and then to hock skincare products is
roll rich yeah I mean please
really different face it's a different
face unless the skin care product comes
with a dermatologist come into your home
with injectables I don't know what you
think is gonna do listen Harry's not a
joke drag does potato also you're you're
trippin white people which is way worse
right no black black person's gonna buy
this but you're tricking white people
who already have a tough time with aging
into these to this awful system like
it's just mean it's so mean don't you
guys don't do that put on some sunscreen
wear a hat because the Sun is your enemy
and that's what you need to look like
Meryl incredible yeah it's possible
