I am honored to have in the crooked
media HQ today President Obama's former
national security adviser my former boss
Tom Donnellan Rhode Island's finest I
should have added thank you so much for
being here I'm sorry it's monsoon and
literally as we speak
Tommy it's great to be here and great to
see you it's great to see you uh so many
memories come flooding back of literally
hours and hours and hours in the
Situation Room grinding through really
hard issues and in watching the the
seriousness with which you and the team
around you took those issues and
wondering if that's currently happening
today I don't know I don't think I think
well it's a different approach right
it's a very different approach and you
know and in all seriousness you know
President Trump has brought a different
style a different approach to US
leadership different approach to making
foreign policy yeah and which has there
been a real departure from the way that
American presidents have approached
foreign policy for the last three
quarters of a century decades and a very
different style and highly disruptive
and we can talk about this during that
of course the podcast and with without
the kinds of process I think that ensure
that you can make the best decisions
possible Dwight Eisenhower once said
that good process won't guarantee you a
great outcome but a bad process will
almost always guarantee ya that you're
not gonna get an optimal outcome and I
think that really bit has been a lack of
that kind of really serious process and
some of this has been due to the fact
that they have been able to staff the
government mm-hmm and there's been a
high level of turnover but a lot of it's
due to the president's approach yeah I
totally agree um I can't wait to get to
all of that but the first thing I'd love
to ask you or have you talked about is
is for how you how the hell you become
national security adviser because there
is no linear path to sitting in the the
upper suite as it's called the the
office you occupied in the corner of the
West Wing how did you get there like
what prepared you for that job well
basically work I've worked for it been
fortunate enough had the privilege to
work for three US presidents during the
course of my during the course of my
career I grew up quite interested in
politics I grew up in Rhode Island as
you mentioned with a family that was
kind of immersed in local politics and
it was
the topic of conversation every evening
at the at the table I ended up in
Washington and right out of school
through the help of a couple of
important professors normal Ornstein
who's obviously a very prominent vehicle
scientist in Washington and his
colleague Michael Robinson who
recommended me really a couple of weeks
after I graduate from college to friends
of theirs who worked in the car White
House so I worked with President Carter
yeah and began in the political sphere
ultimately doing his delegate selection
work and managing the convention in 1980
and you were like twenty-one twenty-two
work in the White House I was 22 we're
the youngest person in the whole
building I was the youngest assistant he
was the youngest one of President cards
in the in the White House and ended up
doing the campaign in 1980 of course
that campaign was you know really the
last real floor fight for the nomination
of the Democratic Party and Ted Kennedy
against senator Kennedy and we went to
the floor of the convention in Madison
Square Garden with the really with the
nomination at at issue and so I managed
that 10 managed why I like that
convention was 24 years old that's a
hell of a lot of responsibility so I
guess that I mean so it was but at that
age you don't really you don't really
have a full census may be able to enable
if you they do the job right because you
don't have it's full of sense of the
responsibility might when they were
older right but it was a wonderful
experience I work with wonderful people
and President Carter than a friend ever
since and then I worked for President
Clinton and when then I first prepared
him for his debates love the debate
preparation team in 1992 and then when I
was chief of staff of the State
Department but in between had been a
turn from politics to foreign policy
under the mentorship of someone who was
as a leading citizen of this city or in
Christopher mm-hm who when I started
practicing law came to me and said you
know there's a different way to do this
I think he'd really enjoy national
security foreign policy and he really
put me on a path for over 30 years of
you know serious study and practice and
in foreign policy in the mid-1980s and
by 1992 I was a chief of staff the State
Department then came into the Obama
administration in a similar way you know
helping to lead the debate preparation
is you know Tommy when we first started
working together for
and Senator Obama in the 2008 campaign
and then was the director of the State
Department and National Security Council
transitioning within his deputy national
carrier visor and the national security
visor so it's a long path it was a
non-traditional path you know not I'm
not a military officer or or a PhD in
the national relations but we said it
was a path through three administrations
and great mentors and of course a lot of
fortune
so you'd incredible mentors that got you
to become national security adviser I
had mentors who led me to sell underwear
ads on radio on your phone so thank you
thank you for all you did for me so I
mean I got to watch you every day
firsthand and the way a little every
White House job can just be upended by
events right I mean for us it was you
think you're gonna work all day on
Afghanistan North Korea tests a nuclear
weapon and that's all consuming for
weeks but a constant for you was the
president's daily intelligence briefing
every morning you led a small group of
people in the Oval Office for an Intel
briefing with Obama by the time you left
I think I remember counting you had done
it 700 times can you take us in the room
and sort of what that briefing is like
and how that conversation unfolds every
day well it's part of the job of the
National Security Advisor there's
multiple roles I hope you might start
with that
the National Security Advisor runs a
National Security Council staff which is
about four hundred people in the White
House who were the principal staff to
the to the president the National
Advisor chairs the so-called principals
committee which is the cabinet level
committee that advises the president
serve the options up to him
dives into the issues that that the
country needs addressed in our you know
in the first term when I toured the
committee it was it was a really an
incredible group of people from yeah
from Vice President Biden the Secretary
Clinton secretary gates the IU director
Panetta General Petraeus a lot of cool
personalities it was a lot of big
personalities around the table as you
can do well as you well remember you
know you're responsible for the
interaction between the president and
foreign leaders including summits which
we worked a lot on yeah together and you
coordinate the intelligence diplomacy
military
aspects and homeland security aspects of
the of the United States government I
was you know blessed to have you know
tremendous deputies right people reflect
on this the deputies that I worked with
me within where Denis McDonough John
Brennan and Mike Froman right then roads
so we had to create really terrific
terrific crews now that you said one of
the responsibilities for the National
Security Adviser is to provide the
president's daily briefing and that
typically called the Fred PDB the
president's Daily Brief the history is
interesting those briefings began during
the administration of John Kennedy when
he wanted to have an intelligence
checklist that he could work through
because he had been surprised in the Bay
of Pigs fiasco right so two things
happen they established kind of this
daily input of intelligence to the
present in a formal way and also Tommy
they established Situation Room
yes which were quite familiar with which
is really kind of the hub of managing
national security international affairs
in the basement of the of the White
House staff by professionals from around
the government who come through for one
and two year and one thirty two year
tours really amazing people - really
amazing people and and the you know the
idea today is become a highly stylized
process it's it has the full weight of
the intelligence community behind it and
what gets produced is the premiere
product for the intelligence community
every single day that goes to the
president at present over the kind of
have different ways of dealing with
someone at briefed to them you know the
meeting some wanted to get an in advance
and read it
of course our boss President Obama was
someone who did read right he wanted it
and wanted it in advance you like to
read and he wanted to commit and ask
questions um so what we would do is
he'll you'd prepared that document will
be prepared and delivery to the
president but the president would also
want to know what he was gonna do about
the intelligence and that was a word you
know kind of the second power of the
briefing came and so the first part
would be 10 or 15 minutes of briefing
the intelligence to the President and
then you'd ask the intelligence
professionals they would not be there
for the rest of the meeting because we
in our administration in most
administration's before us try to
separate intelligence from policy
interesting and then you'd have a small
group led by the National Security
Advisor that would react to that
intelligence and work through it
would take the president through
different issues that were kind of
moving up through the system and it
would also allow the president every day
to put his imprint formally on the
process so I think the highest stakes
pop quiz I could imagine every single
morning well yeah you know and you know
now you prepared early you know really
from from six o'clock in the morning
until 9:00 or 9:30 when the president
came to the Oval Office that was really
the principal function that the National
Security Council staff was working on
each day was to prepare that briefing
and allow another nasca advisors would
be prepared to kind of move through move
through the move through the issues and
it really essentially it was an ongoing
conversation about key challenges facing
the country and it was a tour of the
world most days as to where we were you
know where we were on various issues
around the world and allowed the
president I said to give direction to
this process each and every day to be a
fly on the wall in that meeting um I
want to get it also by the way this is
true as you said I think I delivered the
the president's briefing over 700 times
you weren't always on and when the
president would take out you know his
black beret you knew there was time to
end the meet you can't you're fat you
can't have your fastball you know kind
of yeah get out of here every single day
uh-huh but it was a you know with it's a
really important a really important part
of kind of the president's management
the foreign policy process um I want to
ask you about some specific issues in a
bit but I mean just a just stepping back
when you think about your time at the
White House what days just jump out at
you and what as you reflect on being the
most difficult days and decisions and
what are the best days or high points
yeah well it's a good question I think I
think generically and you saw this the
most difficult days the most difficult
decisions that you participate in and
ultimately that a president has to make
is a decision to send men and women into
combat these are exceedingly difficult
decisions you know you're putting men
and women at risk of of casualties
deaths and it weighs heavy yeah and it
should weigh heavy these are these are
the hardest decisions Tommy and you know
we and we had to make a number of those
decisions when we came into office
we had a large number of troops in Iraq
we had real kind of a failing effort in
Afghanistan and we had an ongoing effort
against terrorism and there were tough
decisions have had to be made including
dispatching US servicemen and women
around the world in the combat and in
harm's way and those were always the
hardest decisions they were the harsh
decisions for the president I think and
they are for any present yeah I imagine
I mean I guess when I think of best days
I imagine the bin Laden operation must
must leap to mind well an important
moment in the presidency right and it
was at you know and it was yeah the
result again I think of a successful
process right we began that in August of
2010 when the Central Intelligence
Agency came to the to the White House
and the president learned that there was
a lead the best lead the best evidence
that we had with respect to where bin
Laden was that we had had Sinti since he
had disappeared in the mountains of Tora
Bora early in the mm mm-hmm it really
become a cold a cold case and the
president asked for that effort to be
reinvigorated at the beginning of his
presidency it was and it was an
extraordinary story over two
administration's really though of the of
our intelligence agencies kind of
staying on the case and ensuring that
the promise that justice would be done
was fulfilled and we did that and then
that process you know took place over
eight months so if you begin in the
summer of 2010 the actual operation was
in May of 2011 and during the course of
those eight months or so it constantly
worked on the intelligence he then
working on the planning he considered
all the options that would where you
could address bin Laden if he was there
it's also important to know that you
know the case was a circumstantial case
right this was not a direct evidence
case and Michael Morell said the case
for WMD in Iraq was stronger than the
case for bin Laden being in a bottle box
so the very very tough set of decisions
that had to be made and history was in
the room you know it's interesting
history was in the room where you had
you know secretary gates who has said
this in his book and other books that he
was initially against the raid right and
largely because of the experience of the
United States and
1880 in the failed raid to rescue the
hostages in Iran what we had a number of
service keeping killed in the desert is
a terrible tragedy for the obviously for
the service people who were killed but
also for the country um history was in
the room because at the end of the day I
think what really tilted the president's
decision and ultimately his decision cuz
a split room there was a split room and
he went around the room and asked on the
Thursday before the operation whether
people were for or against it it was
split down the middle and what we do is
we ask our presidents to make those
calls yeah and I'll never forget walking
out with President Obama after that
meeting and him heading towards the
mansion walking down the colony between
the West Wing and the mansion and he
said you know I'll I'll work on this
tonight and I'll call you tomorrow
morning with a decision and I remember
standing watching him just walk walk
away by himself right but that decision
on his shoulders and that's what we
asked our presence to do and he didn't
he called the next day and we won a
little raid but one of the things that I
think I wanted to say that kind of it
tipped that decision right was his
confidence in the Special Forces mm-hmm
at the unique American asset and he had
worked on many many operations right
with the Special Forces and this case
led by Admiral McRaven and that gave him
the confidence right that basically that
if bin Laden was there that they would
address that if he wasn't there they
would get out safely and so and that's
and that's important and where did they
come from they came out of the tragedy
in the desert of 1980 where we put
together kind of joint operations and
have a Special Forces operation the
United States because of a failing sense
of history was in the room it was a I
think a courageous decision by the
president was the correct decision and
it was executed brilliantly yeah I mean
I think you know in hindsight I think
people think okay should we go get bin
Laden obviously but had he not been
there we would have invaded a sovereign
nation Pakistan gone to a military town
humiliated their leadership potentially
been picked up on radar fired at maybe
kick down the door where innocent
civilians lived maybe killed the wrong
person I mean it would have been a
disaster yeah well it did this might the
entire set of circumstance could had
decision points and place it where it
could have gone well and gone bad right
yeah there could have been an accident
getting in or not it was an
extraordinary opera
in there right the different
helicopter crashed well I don't know I
don't know if I briefed it exactly that
way at the time we did have an accident
at the beginning of the operation but
again the training the anticipation of
contingencies yeah you know the focus of
our Special Forces was extraordinary it
was one of these operations by the way
you know when John Lynch on Brennan let
a lot of the planning where we were able
to kind of work through every every
contingency but you could have had an
accident you could have had four with
Abbottabad was a military town you could
have had a bigger reaction the
Pakistanis could have caught on to it
earlier when he'd had a confrontation
there were all manner of things that
that could have happened but most were
anticipated and I think we took that you
took the right steps to kind of work it
through and of course it was an
important moment for the nation yeah
they all as I said we worked through
almost every contingency right and you
know when we sat down for a 15 hour
meeting that morning the night after the
White House Correspondents Dinner yeah
where people were coming up in numbers
and say you only did this party that
part you know I got this thing tomorrow
but the we kind of we kind of work it
through right and it was literally a
literally a tabbed notebook of
step-by-step kind of working through the
various aspects of it the thing that
surprised me though was after it was
announced I was walking with the
president a couple of our colleagues
back from the back from near the mansion
where the president in Easterwood made
the announcement and there was this
noise I remember really remember this
and there was this noise right you know
what I'm saying to the Secret Service
and what's going on here was it where's
that coming from he said he said there's
a really incredible demonstration out in
front of the White House right and so it
hit me then with an important it was an
important strategic event for the
country it was also an important
cathartic event it really was yeah I
remember walking out I mean it was 1:00
or 2:00 in the morning God knows when we
left and there was just a crowd of
people chanting USA USA all night long
so it still gives me chills to think
about okay another issue you spent a ton
of time on was us-china relations yes
you know you are constantly taking
visits to China and sitting down one
with Chinese leadership given that
history and that experience in your
knowledge of these individuals what do
you make of Trump's trade war and what
looks to me like a chilling of relations
meanwhile the cyber attacks the theft of
IP the South China Sea military buildup
all those irritants still exist yeah the
the the it's important to focus on the
trade aspect of this but it's an it's
not the entire story by any means you
know the president has an obsessive
obsessive focus on bilateral trade
deficits he considers contrary to the
advice of most every economist in the
world that if you have a surplus we're
winning if you have a deficit you're
losing and of course it's a more
complicated yes a formula than that so I
think this is what's going on energy
said I've been alive spent a lot of time
and China a lot of time with the Chinese
leadership over the years we are in a
much more competitive phase between the
United States and China is the first
point the second is that that
competition that competitive phase is
across a myriad of fronts it's economics
obviously and we're in the middle of
discussion with China about our our
deficit trade relationships their
conduct and whether it's consistent with
their obligations which it isn't in many
many cases but it also includes military
you think that includes geopolitical
issues and increasingly also it includes
ideological issues which way I think we
can if you talk about China really is
putting a full alternative model on
offer to the to the world and what's
happened in Washington really and around
the country is there is a really
fundamental rethink underway of us-china
relations it's interesting I think China
missed this context and I've had lots of
conversations with Chinese leaders about
this and acquaintances in China I think
they missed the fact that there that a
lot of their conduct had kind of kind of
forced this rethink and in us-china
relations and the rethink is bipartisan
and it's and it's broad and I think
we'll look back on 2018 is the year when
US policy moved from a cooperative
engagement with China which has really
been the approach since Richard Nixon's
trip in February of 1972 and certainly
after the Cold War to a much more of a
of a strategic competitor
face at this point does that worry you
this summit to the Li get to the
challenge right um you know to some
extent this is also rooted in the fact
that a story that we told ourselves
about the direction of China didn't
didn't happen mm-hmm the story we told
ourselves didn't you know kind of didn't
it didn't play out what was that story
the story was that as China became
wealthier as China integrated into the
political and economic institutions of
the world that it would become more
liberal and democratic in its political
system that is not what's happening no
all right that's not that is not what's
happening and so we're in a new era
you know the contours of which are still
being explored and developed and we need
we will need to develop new new rules of
the rules of the road going forward
because this is going to be really the
central challenge for leaders in the
United States coming into this - going
into this century is how to manage this
relationship you know our friend Graham
Allison at Harvard written a book called
destined for war and it's and it's an
exploration of something called
acidities trap where he looked back on
16 examples of where you had a dominant
existing power and a rising power
challenging it and what the outcomes
were in 12 of the 16 cases it ended up
in conflict so one of the real you know
I'm not a a believer I was skeptical at
first about this because I don't think
international relations is like a subset
of physics there's a lot of human agency
and you learn from history but the
tendencies I think are correct so it's a
really important management I think
issue an important issue for us to
develop and approach last thing I'll say
about this is it's manifest right now in
the economics these in the trade kind of
the trade conversation those are
important and I think though you know
they can be worked through I think
hopefully but that's not the main game
it's underway right now the main game
and the economic sphere really is
technology technological competition and
and I think that that's the you know
it's really kind of a a an effort by you
know various by the United States and
China to really kind of seize the
commanding ground for the industries and
technologies of the future and we're
moving towards a place when we may be
decoupling technical technology sectors
and we're certainly moving towards the
place where the United States none is
taking very aggressive effort to go
after with ceases a threat from China of
technology or a while waste investing
yes Chinese telecom company we're we're
just arresting their executives in
Canada expert mmm yeah let me say what
we're not in jail rot yeah what we're
not doing this is the missing piece for
us China policy right now we're talking
a lot about how to defend ourselves
against China right we're talking a lot
about changing their conduct and we can
change some of that you know I hope I
hope we do that's not really the main
game ultimately it's about what we do
and there's no discussion Tommy's really
about that missing piece of China policy
what is our innovation strategy what's
our research and development levels what
are we doing about educating our our
people what are we doing about meeting
the challenges of artificial
intelligence and the labor markets right
what are we doing up bring science back
to the center of policymaking which has
not been the case in this administration
so I would urge us in the industry
us-china policy to address this missing
piece yeah yeah um China is that make
sense to you oh yeah
China is one of the the great power
relationships that I know kept you very
busy another one was Russia yeah you
know I remember you spend a whole lot of
time with Dmitry Medvedev was a brief
leader of Russia Vladimir Putin then
came back and you spent a lot of time
with him and the Russian leadership the
ambassadors are day Lavrov the foreign
minister again knowing what you know
about those individuals what do you make
of Trump's approach to to Russia their
policy the ongoing you know odd open
question of whether he's compromised or
why there were hundreds of contacts
between Trump officials and Russian
officials in the transition what's
interesting question indeed I think that
the run US Russia policy right now with
one of the oddest aspect of president
Trump's foreign policy you know you can
understand most aspects of at this point
because he has a specific approach which
has emerged it's personal it's
transactional its bilateral supposed to
multilateral it's focused on trade
Russia's and exceptions it's it there
are inexplicable elements thus far to
the US Russia policy from the current
administration Russia today is actively
hostile to the United States across the
board no I saw Putin the Friday night
before he was not inaugurated it was
even clear then that he was taking
Russia in a different direction were you
did
in Russia those in Moscow so you went
over yeah and it was clear that he was
taking Russia in a different direction
lots of reasons for this as is always
the case a lot of it has to do with
domestic politics some of it has to do
with his image of Russia some it has to
do with these concepts which we may
consider kind of inaccurate Akron
esthetics fears of influence zero-sum
outcomes where he saw very real concepts
to him and it's and they have become as
I said actively hostile to the to the
United States including and in attacking
the elections in 2016 and if to believe
our intelligence services which I do and
their latest global threat briefing
before the Congress and plan to do so
again in 2020 and so the resistance of
the President to address these issues is
I think a failure of policy and
inexplicable the you know the
willingness of the presidents really to
kind of believe representation this
president delude representations from
Vladimir Putin and not the assessments
of his own intelligence services it's
kind of inexplicable it's an odd it's an
odd and I think dangerous part of our
foreign policy or our posture now you
know it's interesting on Russian
contacts
I was the co-chair of the Clinton
transition 2016 it was charged with
overseeing the planning for the for the
national security aspects of the next
government for a person whom everybody
believed was going to be the president
knighted States I don't remember any
Russian call anyway or not they weren't
he was a this has been this is an odd
relationship between the Trump campaign
and his associates in the Russian
government you weren't calling the
Russian ambassador from your Beach
vacation like Mike Flynn
well it's it just hasn't been fully
explained right you know bath at this
point and it has really restricted us
from putting together the kind of all of
government effort to resist the kinds of
interference that we saw in in 2016 and
it really has caused us not to have the
kind of conversation we have to have in
this country I think should be led by
the leader of the free world the present
United States about how to protect the
democracy this is a really important
piece of this thing and we're not I've
never really heard the president discuss
democracy I mean no
a lot has been made of Trump's meetings
with Putin often they were on the sides
of summits they were one-on-one maybe
just a translator wouldn't you heard
that and you thought back to your time
staffing President Obama and one-on-one
meetings with Putin or any other leader
what was your what did that make you
think and feel well you you want to have
you know typically we want to have
someone else with you when you're having
a meeting with a foreign leader in order
that you have your record you know what
happened right you know there's
obviously an interest in having you know
kind of presidential records and
historical records of what went on
between nations and between leaders but
more importantly kind of in the kind of
in the short term here right instead of
managing foreign policy you want have a
couple of things you want to make sure
that you have a record of your version
so that you're not subject to a version
of that meeting that the other side puts
out right that's a real danger and
that's just kind of classic statecraft
right that's just common sense common
sense statecraft so I it's a and you
also you want to have you know a record
and a report out of what happened in
these meetings so that the government
knows where you're where we're going
right you know and can assess by the way
also what you heard from the foreign
leader so you can take advantage of you
know the vast kind of analytical skills
that we have in the we have and I don't
know what the route of that is I don't
know whether it's a whether he has kind
of a distrust of you know the
professionals and even the political
appointees that he works with or there
are other reasons that the president
doesn't want to have these conversations
you know kind of come and he notes
taking these conversations or or explore
to analyze by by the rest of the other
activists senior people but you know you
have to be able to trust your most
senior people yeah in these in these
conversations and it was a again it's an
odd aspect Tommy of of this of these
kinds of this relationship between the
president and implant amir putin which
by the way is in sharp contrast with the
relationships that he has with our
European leaders European leaders and
our closest allies where the president
is constantly critical yeah literally
and you're pushing and pushing and
pushing away right and really not taking
up this mantle of being the leader of
the free world but lat but but really
unfortunately raising questions about
whether he feels more comfortable on the
other side yeah yeah um I keep saying
this but another issue that occupied a
lot of your time was North Korea I mean
I remember our first trip I believe in
Europe I think we were in Prague in the
middle the night 2 a.m. 3 a.m. the I
believe the North Koreans tested a
missile president had to be woken up to
address it and deal with it I hope I'm
getting this right but you know it was a
major major threat to the point where I
believe President Obama has been
reported that President Obama told
President Trump in their final oval
office meeting that this would be one of
the biggest things he'd work on fast
forward
I mean Trump's about to embark on the
second major summit with Kim jong-un I
think all of us are happy that they're
not tweeting about fire and fury and
smack talking our way into war but I
think I know you're worried about the
trajectory of these talks and I was
curious if why that is yeah I mean you'd
have to it is a good thing that the
tensions have been decreased yeah but a
lot of this tension had been built up by
President Trump during its very high
during the course the first part of the
administration but that's a good thing
and I think it's a good thing that we
have direct conversations going on
between the United States and North
Korea and I think highly for example as
well of our special envoy Steve Egan
yeah who is who's now that you know the
chief diplomat if you will leading up
the conversations but the but the North
Koreans but I am worried about the
specifics in the direction for this
reason one it was clear coming on this
thing for summit that in fact North
Koreans had not agreed to the concept of
a complete irreversible denuclearization
of of its of its program and in North
Korea they didn't agree that the classic
language they had a different
formulation which essentially meant that
they were looking towards a longer term
dean in turin that was linked to what
are pulling back in the south koreans
pulling back
in various respects so we didn't get the
kind of kind of core commitment that we
had insisted on from anybody here that
wasn't in the documents that came on the
second thing is that you have had a
situation where you haven't had a
nuclear test and you haven't had a
missile test for a period of time but
that doesn't mean the program's frozen
yeah that doesn't mean the program's
frozen and so you've had the Secretary
of State testifying in front of the
Congress you had a report put up by a
prominent student in North Korea said
Hector Stanford University just this
past week that says if North Koreans are
continuing to develop this all material
which the more you developed the more
potential potential weapons you have
there have been reports and actually
overhead and overhead imagery put out by
CSIS and Victor cha who is going to be
the ambassador right now the current
showing a number of missile bases
missile bases that are being hardened in
protected going forward so the bottom
line is again I can no details I think
that the bottom line is that the program
continues so when the president says I'm
not in a hurry we'll see how long it
takes you know that's an analytical
mistake it's an analytical mistake
because it makes a difference how many
weapons North Koreans develop it makes
difference from a whole variety of
issues including the operation and risk
and missile defense risk right but if we
haven't have an open-ended negotiation
and the North Koreans continue to run
the program we're gonna put ourselves at
the end of the day and a much more and a
much more difficult much more difficult
but much more difficult circumstance and
we likely are headed towards a
circumstance where we end up having to
accept North Korea as a country with a
lot of nuclear weapons yeah so some sort
of freeze and cap and what they're doing
during the pendency the negotiations
seem to me to be kind of absolutely
essential moving forward here so we need
to have when they meet at the end of
February we need to have more details
here and hopefully a a stop in the
program during the pendency of the
negotiations so certainly what we did in
the and the Iran Iran right right when
you look around the world you you pick
up the New York Times in the morning and
read the international section what do
you see what various geopolitical
trends worry you what do you think we're
not talking about enough you know you
know I don't think we've kind of fully
appreciated the the major change which
is the really emergent of great power
competition and the need to develop a
strategy to deal with this principle
with respect to China and as I said
earlier I don't think we're having
anywhere near the conversation that we
need to have about the missing piece of
China policy which is what's the United
States going to do you know why isn't
this a Sputnik moment for the United
States you know you remember after you
don't remember but but if you heard
about it you know in the late 1950s when
they when the Soviets launched the
Sputnik satellite the United States
undertook an enormous national effort
that changed the way we taught math that
established NASA that established you
know really is this Golden Triangle of
technological and innovation development
between the government and research
universities and private companies it
was an enormous ly important moment in
American history and we face a similar
challenge I think at this point type in
terms of technology competition and
continuing our lead and so that I think
is something we need to be talking about
a lot yeah the second and that includes
by the way a lot of things include R&D
it includes immigration policy by the
way it includes infrastructure
investment education investment and it
includes the second thing I think we're
not talking about enough and that is the
impact of technology particularly
artificial intelligence robotics and
automation on labor markets you know
populism is not as its peak right now
right Popular's in my judgment is not if
this point typically a cyclical thing in
response to the economic and uh ups and
downs we have a much more fundamental
populist challenge in the Western
democracies underway right now and one
of the essential things to dealing with
this going forward is having a really
serious discussion about how we're going
to manage the future of work in the face
of technology we just had a two trillion
dollar tax cut that was passed last year
okay I don't remember a single
discussion about investments in this
kind of essential thing for the
government to do who's going to do this
our company is responsible about it
are it's the government responsible and
where are we where are we going on this
right that that I think is a is a
fundamental yeah discussion that we're
not having I don't think we're having an
enough of a thing enough attention to
cybersecurity the president's given to
state of the union's addressed a DNA
dresses he's never mentioned
cybersecurity right no so and why is
that kind of again kind of this
disconnect yeah
the intelligence services go in front of
the Congress once a year and they have
over the last five or six years said
that the principal threat faced in the
country one of the principal threats
facing the country is cyber threat right
if the president really hasn't hasn't
mentioned it they this established the
cybersecurity coordinator job in the
White House which I think was a real
mistake yeah right it is not possible to
have an all in government effort to
protect the country on cybersecurity and
develop cyber policy without having
driven from the center it's too hard
there are too many divergent interests
in the government there are too many
different different differential guns
capabilities and the government has to
be driven from the center and we've just
established it you know the president
really hasn't talked to kind of the
basics that we needed to make ourselves
a more resilient to society so I think
that's one where I'm concerned that wind
up we don't have the kind of focus and
instead of course we've had this
dramatic focus on the southern border
which was never mentioned as a threat
and by the intelligence services when
they went in front of the Congress and I
think last time I think we're heading
towards having an important conversation
about nuclear weapons you know I want to
ask you about that I saw recently that
Elizabeth Warren and Adam Smith the
congressman Adam Smith senator Elizabeth
Warren have introduced legislation that
says quote it is the policy of the
United States to not use nuclear weapons
first or so-called no first use policy
what do you make of it well I think it's
an important discussion to have you know
there are and that that's a complicated
issue it's a complicated issue in terms
of assurances that we have given allies
and in terms of extended deterrence and
their being able to rely on the United
States to defend them so that was a good
and in Europe right including and in the
event of attack right
and there are so those those are
important kinds of conversations to have
I think they're important conversation
to have about you know what the United
States would do in the face of a
biological attack for example okay but
it's an important conversation have an
important conversation I think that
they're driving to have given the
development of our conventional weapons
which are substantial and can address a
lot of these a lot of these issues so I
think that they're driving an important
conversation but it's part of something
bigger yeah you know I oversaw the
coordination of you will the 2010
Nuclear Posture review that we had right
and you know President Obama's driving
principle and that Nuclear Posture
review indeed it's been the driving
principle of most presence of the last
half century has been to reduce US
reliance on nuclear weapons and I fear
the administration is moving up on kind
of in moving in a different direction
right where they are trying to establish
types of nuclear weapons but today
quote-unquote C is more usable right
lower yield more usable nuclear weapons
and I think um blurring this distinction
between nuclear weapons and conventional
weapons really isn't a really important
policy for us to address right and to
have a present United States at this
president Trump did the other night at
the State of the Union address really
kind of welcomed an arms race saying to
the Russians you know if you want to
have an arms race about
intermediate-range missile capabilities
we'll bring it on
we'll have it that is not the direction
that you want Tommy rightly this is so
it's we've seen here this is this change
right from a policy that drove hard
towards reducing reliance on nuclear
weapons as part of the National Arsenal
and limiting sharply the context in
which you would ever use nuclear weapons
and having a realistic conversation
about this I think is really an
important thing to do so that the
conversation that Senator Warren and
congressman Smith or we're driving here
is an important conversation to have and
to ask ourselves whether it is that kind
of moment ya know that's actually where
it would fit in the negotiations and
things like that but it's say I'm
concerned about the direction in which
the Trump administration is driving the
nuclear discussion yeah
that is me too um speaking of things
that make me concerned about the trouble
administration John Bolton is now
sitting in your old office the things I
know about him
based on what I've read is he seems to
be taking a lot of trips and sort of
serving as an emissary it seems like
he's really skinny and our meetings or
moving away from the traditional
principals committee process that you'd
mentioned earlier and in locking people
out of all of government conversations
or what should be all government
conversations he's also treat tweeting
more about you know like regime change
in Venezuela yeah do you have an
impression of his tenure so far or
things they're working on listen a
couple of things one every president
designs the White House that he or she
you know thinks best works best for them
at their first point and it's
interesting ultimately every president
gets the people that he's more here she
is most comfortable with and you know so
you can have conversations about
different kinds of people and their
effect on the president and moderating
the president ultimately ultimately
presidents get the team that they want
and the president seems more comfortable
with ambassador Bolton at this point so
that's that the first megaphone and that
as part of my introduction to this
answer it's always easier from the
outside yeah okay that's to take shots
at and criticize people who are doing
these jobs which you and I know from
personal experience are you know
enormous ly difficult jobs fertile and
with tremendous amounts responsibility
that's the first point the second point
is that the government is not staffed to
the extent that it needs to be and that
is a real failure in cetera thing it had
its roots and that has its roots in the
transition it has its roots in president
top and president Trump's management
style
we had a busted transition here yeah and
I wasn't I was part of the other
transition that we that we that ended on
an election day but we now have a book
by the person who ran that Trump
transition Governor Chris former
Governor Christie of New Jersey which i
think is probably the best window we
have to date yeah what happened and it
was really kind of a all the work that
had been done preparing names for people
for for jobs planning thinking about the
opening gambit of the administration
was all literally I think thrown in the
trash barrel yeah going forward it is
really important for people who want to
be president to think hard about how
they would transition to governing
because a lot of the roots of problems
can be found in that failure you know
I've done three transitions some of us
men some of them better than others but
that's a real hope it's the place isn't
staffed another way it should be
third is that you know process would
help this administration frankly it
would and I've heard the same kinds of
reports right the year that you're
talking about that there aren't as many
kind of interagency sessions where
policies are fully ventilated right
within all the thinking of the
government brought to the table and the
president gets the best options if
that's not taking place it's a mistake
and he won't get as keen and it's good
at kind of national interest outcomes as
you want now we've seen examples of this
where the president for example as
announced that he wants to pull all the
US troops out of Syria now that's a
perfectly legitimate conversation to
have a perfectly legitimate policy issue
to be discussed but we also now know
that it wasn't discussed for example
with the head of CENTCOM
it's close you know it had a military
leadership right and he's just not going
to get there kind of quality decisions
that the American people deserve if you
don't do this so I would if I were
advising I would advise to kind of get
back to kind of some regular order here
it's essentially a system that was put
in place by general Scowcroft and Bob
Gates during the bush the Bush 41
administration and it's it does it's not
perfect but it's been it's been
exercised a lot yeah and so this kind of
you know not have not seeking out views
and may disagree with yours making
decisions without process having the
president nounce things and having the
government catch up you'll confuse
allies you confuse the government you're
not going to get best case outcome
you're not my final question for you
which is annoyingly a two-parter when
you think about you know let's let's say
the next president will not be Donald
Trump and it will be in 2020 what issues
do you think he or she is gonna face and
in preparation for that presidency like
what would you like to see Democratic
candidates talking about on foreign
policy when they hit the trail because I
think unfortunately it look fortunately
made
the elections tend to be domestic really
they tend to be about dumb like
emails but that's a side point but I
would love to see foreign policy more
front center and I wonder if they're
ideas you think should be talked about
yeah of course a couple of things one is
that I do think that the key to a strong
and effective US national foreign policy
is a strong domestic economic
circumstance the relationship between
our ability to kind of project abroad to
lead abroad it is absolutely and
inextricably related to it the strength
of our economy and so I do think this
conversation about the future orc
investment in the kinds of things that
we need in the future I think I think
people will look back on this period and
ask this question how possibly could it
be that the United States didn't invest
heavily in infrastructure when they can
borrow money to almost zero yeah and do
things they're gonna get a certain
return so I think that kind of domestic
renewal conversation Tommi particularly
taking into account technology you know
we have these conversations about trade
and trade has had impacts negative
impacts and communities in the United
States didn't no doubt about that
but it's not at the same scale frankly
as these technological impacts are going
to be and so that I'd like to see a lot
of discussion about that I consider that
to be a national security discussion if
we're gonna that that's the kind of
thing that that keeps the society
together you know and give us the kind
of strong economy going forward second a
lot more discussion about democracy and
values you know the United States is a
special country and we have our flaws
and we have made mistakes but the style
of leadership the values based
leadership that the United States has
undertaken since World War two has
worked spectacularly to our benefit
right and it's been been to the benefit
of the world and we've lost that
discussion you know for example you look
around the world looking at Asia for
example not to talk about values and
democracy really pulls pulls back and
Enterprise this is one of our strongest
tools frankly in the world so I think
that that conversation about the
pressure that democracy is on
and it is under pressure it's under
pressure from technology it's under
pressure from Russian interference
Thunder you know it's just it's it's
under it's under pressure from populism
is an important conversation to have and
I would like to see our candidates talk
more directly about that because I don't
believe the United States has undertaken
the kind of leadership we need to
undertake in this in this area third is
that we need to really kind of
reacquaint ourselves with the value of
allies at the unique it really is a
unique American asset and we have had a
really kinda munition and aren't the
quality of our allied relationships I
think it last couple years now be really
kind of front center forward and I also
think last Penta foreign policy it is
also and this will happen I hope during
the course of the campaign and the most
surprising when you hear me say this
given to my spouses but it really is
important to keep a focus on the
importance of women's empowerment around
the world it is really key to economic
performance it's key to the overall
positive performance of societies and I
hope we have a lot of discussion about
that I think in the context of our
foreign policy I think as you know I
should you know my wife is Cathy Russell
US ambassador for women's issues and
it's it is absolutely essentially right
to have that to have the conversation
and I laughed I do hope we have this
nuclear discussion yeah and where were
and where we're going under credit to
Senator Warren for coming out early and
talking about something big and weighty
and pushing this forward yeah greer
disagree i think you're exactly all
right I think having the conversation
come front and center it's important
because it's been happening you know you
had the the Trump national Nuclear
Posture review which had a lot of
continuity but it had changes right
essentially the key changes around this
are you pursuing a policy which which
reduces as much as possible a nuclear
weapons are you or are we going in a
different direction
yeah some of this is amnesic by the way
you know I was gonna say I feel like I'm
back in your that beautiful office you
had right there were you'd walk in there
were the couches on the left there was
that nice table on the right so the
class clerk did we do a lot of meetings
there so you said about eight people
when your desk was just past it and
there were probably 35 binders
thick is your fist full of you know the
most classified material on the planet
that you're reading through I mean this
is like old times and every time that
Tommy Vietor came in I knew this was not
gonna be a good day you say hide that
 now I have you at a plywood mock-up
of a resolute desk and you know were
yelling it's microphones it's fun thank
you so much it's great to see you and
congratulation all the success here
thanks operation here it's a great team
this was I literally could do this all
day
I know you have a flow and and
congratulations and on the work that
you're doing to get people interested in
politics and turning on participating it
really is over the phone because I said
during the course this discussion we
cannot take the democracy for granted
agree it is under pressure and we can do
something about it including by the way
something we should do a whole
conversation on which is civic education
on the United States yeah we can do a
lot about it that we're not then we now
I hope it is part of the discussion
thanks Tom a green thank you
you
