I'm Evy tor I'm John Lovett jon favreau
is either in Florida or an route to
Florida you will know by the tenor of
his tweets poor John had a long travel
day nine and a half hours in LAX yeah he
was at LAX all day you just we had a
whole day at work over cold day we're
just sitting there and then he responded
to something like 9:30 p.m. still about
to get on a red-eye yeah brutal um today
is Wednesday October 10th as you may
have noticed we've shifted the podcast
schedule to Mondays and Wednesdays this
month because starting this Friday we
were doing the first of four one-hour
election specials on HBO so please tune
in HBO this Friday at 11 p.m. right
after Bill Maher watch it on your HBO go
Bo now yeah tell your friends we're
we're heading to Miami later today to
record that show there are lots of
critically important voter registration
deadlines to fast approaching and fewer
and fewer opportunities to get out in
canvas to go to vote save America com
get registered hit some doors get three
friends to join you maybe you'll even
see love it at your canvas location
hell yeah if I'll be the one I'm making
sure it's documented so I can put it on
social media it looked beautiful love it
love it or leave it is still going this
month but there's some changes right yes
so we have four election specials they
will be hosted by guy Branum and Aaron
Ryan - funniest guess you've the these
are guests Tournament of Champions I
today are gonna they're gonna host the
shows in studio with a bunch of really
awesome guests we have lined up so tune
in for that
back in those are gonna be great I can't
wait today on the pod we're gonna talk
about Nikki Haley's decision to resign
from her role as the US ambassador the
United Nations a terrifying new UN
report about climate change and a quick
snapshot of the current political
climate maybe a little fun op-ed that
President Trump wrote you know just for
kicks
good job USA Today yeah thanks for
running that then we're gonna slip some
lies under hotel room doors from the but
you'll hear our conversation with
Cherise David's a congressional
candidate and MMA fighter in Kansas the
Kansas third so we did that interview a
little differently this week he's gonna
put the Republican majority in a
headlock all right lovely yesterday even
truck yesterday even top Trump aids-like
national security visor John Bolton and
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo were
surprised when Axio says Jonathan Swan
broke the news
that nikki Haley had offered her
resignation will be leaving at the end
of the year she's one of the most
high-profile women in Trump's cabinet
and she you know made that standard
transition from anti-trump to Mogga dead
ender and is not quitting two-part
question for you
does anything from Haley's tenure at the
UN stand out to you and were you
surprised by the timing of her departure
it's a little weird to have a cabinet
official leave right before an election
right especially yeah it's it is strange
I think you know there's a little bit of
you know paint it being the foreman of
being a what they call it being a
there's a little bit of being the
foreman out of paint job because you
know show ups it's a little bit like let
me get the analogy right yeah it's it's
like um it's like a little bit like
being you know the old joke you know
show up sober they make you Foreman um
like nikki Haley you know she is not as
bad as who could have been in that job
totally she has had some moments where
she is said the right things she had
said had moments where she has looked
the other way for horrible Trump
behavior I mean fundamentally the
problem with being a trump cabinet
official is you cannot do the job
without a seating to some of the worst
behavior and worst policy instincts and
especially when you're at the UN look
right now we are dealing with the fact
that Saudi Arabia may have brazenly
killed a journalist while Donald Trump
and Jared Kushner have been sucking up
to Saudi Arabia maybe for their own
personal interest probably for their own
personal interest for years so how can
you be in this administration and be
respected and seen as a good actor when
you have to represent Donald Trump's
views in that way so you know I agree
with every Democratic senator who is
praised nikki Haley by saying she's not
as bad as what could have been there
otherwise but that's not a really good
standard terms of leaving it's
weird
maybe it's nothing but we don't know the
facts yet yeah maybe think about 2006
when Don Rumsfeld was the defense
secretary he was super unpopular at
extremely controversial the Iraq war was
a disaster but Bush still waited after
the midterms to cut him loose which I
remember that a great decision I
remember
right after that election we're in the
Senate yeah I remember we were just
sitting there and we had won the house
and we had won the Senate and it was
this incredible victory and then like
the very next morning we saw all of
these cats all this Exodus and was like
is this happening this is cool this is
amazing yeah so it's really weird I
don't like super weird and I have not
seen anything other than just sort of
idle speculation about the region's well
yeah it so it is notable that it did
seem like a happy conscious uncoupling
right there's a rare scene of them like
doing a press pay together announcing
her departure and it wasn't just you
know Reince Priebus quitting hugging it
out with his bro Donald Trump on Air
Force One that he can blast it via tweet
and like sent home in a van so
interesting um apparently she said she
wanted to leave that Hurst departure
didn't look like it was tied to
potentially bad election results she's
burnout it's also notable that some
Ethics watchdog groups have been raising
the fact that she accepted multiple
flights on private jets owned by South
Carolina businessman right which has
never stopped Trump cabinet official
from resigning and from serving in the
past the they all love it they love
private jets over there but and who
doesn't the UH no but but um you know I
think something that really captures the
the problem of nikki Haley and the
unfair credit she gets is what she said
about Donald Trump and his various
allegations of sexual misconduct against
women which is she was given you know
pundit plaudits for just for simply
saying that those women deserve to be
heard yeah as opposed to with the Trump
official position which is it never
happened it's false but as with Susan
Collins as with nikki Haley okay you've
heard them but no action no behavioral
change but if you hear these people like
it's again this problem of doing more
than the reprehensible behavior of the
worst actors in American politics gets
you points but it shouldn't yeah in in
her resignation letter Haley pointed to
successes some of them were getting
sanctions against North Korea standing
up for Israel some nebulous UN reforms
this one I thought was kind of funny
speaking out quote resolutely against
dictatorships in Iran Syria man escuela
Cuba and yes Russia I mean my take I
think this is a pretty mixed bag I do
think they deserve credit for getting
tough sanctions
it's North Korea and if that turns into
a nuclear-free Peninsula I will praise
them to the rooftops I think every
administration spends a bunch of time
defending Israel against efforts to
attack it and criticize them at the UN
so that's sort of par for the course
you mentioned Saudi Arabia I mean the
notion that Trump is stood up to
dictatorship certainly they've gone
after Iran but they've never criticized
Russia Venezuela is still a disaster I
mean as you noted this journalist Jamal
khashoggi was murdered reportedly in a
Saudi diplomatic facility in Istanbul so
you know maybe a little maybe a mixed
bag here yeah yeah and you know she's
good she's given sorted into the maddest
category of people who are lucky to have
in this administration and I guess it's
just it's it's we have to keep two
things in our mind at once on the one
hand yeah that's there is some truth to
that and I am NOT you know I am I think
in this debate about whether or not we
should give people a little generosity
for serving the Trump administration for
stopping bad things I am very very
skeptical of that argument but probably
a little less skeptical than a lot of
people like I think less skeptical than
like you and Jon a little less skeptical
than Brian Blair I give them a little
bit more latitude because I do think
that there is some truth to it but again
you look at what's happening with Saudi
Arabia look at what's happening with
Russia there's just there's no way to
serve this administration and not be
giving up the most basic American values
yeah I know you know what I've I agree
with you you're right about this one I
mean a fun note here The Washington Post
the other thing they talked about is how
we're more respected in the world the
Washington Post noted that in only four
countries it doesn't include the US
Trump's approach is viewed positively
only four countries so that great and
the truth is I think nikki Haley gets a
lot of credit simply because she is
incredibly charismatic she is very smart
she is a very good speaker yeah she does
a very good job of representing herself
and very good points and you know we may
may turn out that there's some secret
reason that she left or as she has done
throughout this she is just carefully
managing her position and the thing
about working for Donald Trump is when
there's an opening to leave where it
doesn't look like you're doing it
because of corruption a scandal a sex
assault a Muller probe some
other awful story that would look like
you had a reason to go
maybe sometimes you just take it
because like that's three or four days a
year that's good
this was fun as she left Hayley said a
couple things that caught my eye first
that Jared Kushner is quote such a
hidden genius that no one understands
yeah that's funny it's like yeah even
even Harvard couldn't find it
I guess Jared joins Kanye is just
another misunderstood Trump loving
genius um the second is that she felt
the need to explicitly say that she will
not be a candidate for any office in
2020 did you think that was weird I
think she was dealing with the
speculation but again like this is this
is another another way in which we see
the joke of I'm here to stop bad things
that we hear from people like nikki
Haley at Madison others if you believe
that that your role was to prevent
Donald Trump from his worst instincts
and actually do some good despite the
awfulness of this person and you don't
have to take my word for it take Nikki
Haley's word for it take what nikki
Haley said about Donald Trump before she
worked for administration at face value
and then they leave and they immediately
say I'll be campaigning like crazy for
him because nikki Haley will someday run
as a Republican again and when she does
she will run in a party that has it
gives Donald Trump at eighty or ninety
percent approval rating yeah regarding
Jared being a genius like I love I love
to slap this guy around but I mean it's
worth noting that we are still waiting
for his long-promised Middle East peace
plan and also that entire plan is
predicated on support from Saudi Arabia
doing whatever the Saudis want he's the
guy who pushed us all in on this
Mohammed bin Salman strategy who is the
one who would be responsible for the
murder of this journalist yeah and also
it's again like there's this sort of
clique right there's this Ivanka Jared
Nikki hailey Dena Powell kind of where
the responsible ones we're trying to
stop bad and then we're trying to stop
Steven Miller then we're trying to stop
whoever and it's like okay well you know
what do you got you know it's not we're
now hitting this for two years where the
results here what's what are you talking
about would you've done how think you
know when you're the President had
States you're not like you don't it's
not like you're painting a beautiful
portrait that you reveal after four
years it's not gonna be some unveiling
of Donald Trump's accomplishments if
Jared's a hidden genius it means he's
not getting results right where where's
the outcomes here we are they like the
notion that anyone stupid so stupid you
know than anyone good primary trump
is just ridiculous I don't even know why
we get done like reporters speculated
about this um but now it is time to play
everyone's favorite game wild
speculation about who comes next this is
the closest thing to a job Trump is
actually qualified for which is reality
show producer he told reporters on Air
Force One that their five names on the
short list one is your friend and your
mentor former deputy national security
adviser Dinah Powell you know Val yeah
Deena sorry uh just one look like
another names and floated is is unhinged
Twitter troll and current US ambassador
to Germany Rick Cornell yeah Rick
Grinnell man there's somebody who has
failed up looked up I mean somebody who
talked to reporters about him and they
say this is a guy that is so
undiplomatic so hard to deal with and
now of course because so few Republicans
at first were willing to go and now him
and now because the the sorting inside
the Republican Party led a lot of people
who were more qualified to avoid it he's
somebody on a short list which it would
never have been on another
administration's list although you know
what so but yeah Ezra Klein pointed this
out there are ways in which the Donald
Trump administration is looking at hell
of a lot like the George W Bush
administration you've got john bolton at
at national security adviser you have
dina powell potentially at un you have
crazy high deficits you have a giant
corporate tax cut I mean in a lot of
ways what we're seeing is george w bush
administration with donald trump's
personality yeah hilariously Trump also
said that there's no one more competent
in the world than Ivanka but he can't
choose her beauty beacuse of nepotism
apparently forgetting that she currently
works in the White House is like he's
like I should pick Ivanka she'd be the
best why she's not the most qualified
that's so stupid but then I'd be accused
of nepotism I don't know I don't know
it's sort the risk of sounding glib like
do you think it's important who comes
next so what's your take him on this I
don't know I like as I just don't know
like obviously I would prefer it to be
someone who is not a flame-throwing nut
ball like John Bolton like but again
like what we have seen over the last two
years is the little the the the the the
names change but the outcomes are the
same that's exactly right I mean I
think I struggled with this question too
because I do think Trump blots out the
stun but there's still a bunch of stuff
that matters and happens that Trump
never even learns about it was probably
especially true at the UN cuz out of
sight out of mind so right if he names
someone that's gonna like work with
other countries and build relationships
like that is a good thing if he puts a
John Bolton type as you said that person
just lives to piss the world off that's
not great yeah and again one other
points that a lot of stories have made
about nikki Haley is she was somebody
people could go to to find out what the
 is going on with Donald Trump's
indictment crazy which is again a
reminder of the fact that we are in this
crazy universe where there are two
parallel administration's the one that
emanates from Donald Trump's face and
the real day to day work that's actually
going on and that's incredibly unhealthy
and dangerous but in that in that in
that circumstance which we find
ourselves it is important to have
someone up there who is not one of the
worst Republicans in the world I don't
know what there is the sales one last
sort interesting note on this when Haley
goes there will only be five women left
in cabinet level positions we have Linda
McMahon at small business administration
Gina Haskell at CIA Betsy DeVos at
education Elaine Chao transportation
Kirsten Nielsen at DHS that is shocking
out of twenty three I believe cabinet
level roles yeah but as though in the
same way where you know you have the
White House intern photo release and
it's basically all white like I'm glad
Donald Trump doesn't have the cover of
diversity to hide the fact that he's
anti woman in the same way I'm glad he
doesn't have the cover diversity to hide
the fact that he's racist yeah last
point on this where we move on like will
you forget the turnover rate in this
White House administration generally is
absurdly high in his first year is
thirty four percent which Brookings said
was the highest in 40 years more
recently you know we've Haley leaving we
have Trump announcing with us counsel
Don McGann will be leaving via tweet
which surprised Don began scott pruett
was the most corrupt human being
Washington not named Trump Rex Tillerson
was fired on the toilet bolt enforced at
all the senior annecy staff said Gorka
was fired because no one realized he
worked there he had nothing to do there
was that mooch guy like we're dulled by
this constant barrage of news but isn't
it a big deal that huge bureaucracies
yeah we turning over all the time you
know we don't have a president we have a
weird semi president you know fantasy
nightmare on to something a little
different we may not know the name of
the next US ambassador of the UN but we
do know which
horrifying UN report they will soon be
ignoring the UN scientific panel on
climate change released a truly
frightening report that says if we stay
on our current course world temperatures
could rise by as much as 1.5 degrees
Celsius by 2040 we could see food
shortages wild files and wildfires and
mass die-offs of coral reefs avoiding
the worst damages requires transforming
the world economy very quickly at
massive cost it would require highly
unlikely political choices Trump is
repeatedly called climate change' hoax
invented by the Chinese and pulled us
out of the Paris climate Accords love it
holy like how do you process
something this dire so here's how I
first of all the truth is you don't
actually have to do much processing of
it in a lot of ways it's like you know
you go to the doctor or the doc yeah
here's I'll be honest like here's how I
was thinking about this this morning so
first of all everybody should read David
Roberts on this issue because he's one
of the smartest reporters and one of the
great writers on climate and he wrote a
really great explanation of what it
would take
given these new findings which are
powering and terrible but at the end of
that piece he said something which is
basically like the political will to
actually do what we need to do is not
there the odds that we overshoot are
basically nil and therefore what has
been true about climate policy before is
true now we just have to keep doing as
much as we can and that is absolutely
true
but I actually think reveals something
central about the problem of this issue
we know this in our own lives when you
don't believe you can solve a problem in
your life you ignore it yes when you
don't believe you can get off of a drug
when you don't believe you can get
healthy when you don't believe you can
get out of a bad relationship you just
ignore the problem and you just live
with it you know what I wrote it's fine
that's the I wrote 10 years of speeches
about energy and climate I really I do
think that I was in in over the last 10
years or really from like 2006 to for a
decade working on the speeches where
Democrats were trying to grapple with
how to make the best case of this issue
and something I always go back to is and
Hillary Clinton in 2007 went to Cedar
Rapids and gave a speech about energy
and climate as one of the speeches I'm
most proud to have worked on and we
talked about climate change when there's
a line in that about how there's no
climate change skeptics inside the
Arctic Circle but what happened was
Hillary was expert in tissue but Bill
Clinton had gone so deep on energy he
really cared about it it was something
that he believed that you know he had
this notion that every generation has to
come up with this way of generating
millions of new jobs he thought energy
was the way that we would do that and
and he just was personally excited and
passionate about it and so at 2:00 in
the morning
I got a bunch of edits from Bill Clinton
out of an event ok it was it was a fax
because everything was fabulously so I
had I got on I got at a computer program
so that somebody could fax something so
I could get it on my laptop and he wrote
in a trick in chicken scratch so I
couldn't understand it and so one of his
guys I think John Davidson called me to
walk me through Bill Clinton's line
edits and something he did at the end of
that speech I always think about which
is he headed this language that said
this is gonna be an adventure
that's solving this problem addressing
this problem is gonna be one of the
great American adventure something like
that you go find the speech and see it
and I always think about that because
this is such a tough issue and it always
feels unsolvable but we have to get back
to talking about it in a way that makes
people feel like it's addressable that
makes people feel like they that that
that is not hopeless that it's not an
amorphous and impossible monster coming
their us and yeah that's such a good
point because Democrats like we've
flailed around about how to message this
like oh it's a it's a green job panacea
that will save the economy it's a
national security issue it's the moral
issue of our time and like I guess the
reality is it's all of it but you know
this report that we're talking about was
commissioned as part of the Paris
climate agreement that agreement agreed
to limit global warming to two degrees
Celsius increase over certain time frame
the UN as part of that agreement they
asked the IPCC which is a bunch of
scientists who did this to figure out
what it would take to decrease that
warming by 0.5 degrees Celsius so to
limit the damage even more and they did
this massive study and they found that
we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions
45% below 2010 levels by 2030 and reach
Net Zero by 2050 which is
a massive industrial change its cutting
coal consumption by a third and this has
to happen they said in 12 years yeah and
the truth is that's not gonna happen and
so it's just not and everybody knows
that so so I guess like you know there's
climate change denial ISM which is oddly
which is there's climate change denial
ISM which is becoming a more and more
fringe idea even as there's a propaganda
apparatus to support it in part because
some of the companies that originally
were behind trying to stir up
controversy about whether or not climate
change was real have kind of abandoned
that like ExxonMobil out of
self-interest came out in favor of a
carbon tax now they want some regulatory
certainty they also want to get rid of
some regulations but they acknowledge
the problem some of the some of the best
models about the kind of changes we need
to see come from oil company like she'll
put one of the things in the in David
Roberts writes about one of the ways in
which you could possibly hit a 1.5
threshold involves carbon sequestration
right removing carbon from the air which
comes from a model built by shell so I
would say I would like to see the next
Democratic presidential candidate
finally be honest about the issue and I
think a lot of Democrats have talked
about like you know we talked about
moonshots for all kinds of issues and
one of the ideas was around you know
around renewal energy around efficiency
and I think that's important I think we
need to start talking more about
mitigation I think we need to start
talking more about removing carbon from
the atmosphere and investments in the
kinds of technologies that will make
that possible and the other piece of
this makes that's cool and hopeful and
exciting sounding yeah you know there's
people talking about whether earth is a
simulation you know with you you know
like oh it's a simulation if it is if we
are in a simulation I think it's
designed to test us on this issue I
don't think even as we see this report
we admit to the scale of the challenge
all of human history all of the
ingenuity all of the greed all of the
genius all of it led to this problem our
entire economy runs on something that
will kill us all and it will take not
just ingenuity but also greed yeah and
genius and zeal and
and overcoming human flaws to address it
it is a huge test and so far we
have failed it completely and I think we
should be honest about that and then I
think it's about I don't know that's it
no it's good I mean nobody it's like
it's hard not to hear about this and
feel like the politics might be even
harder than the the science and you know
despite the recent hurricanes and
flooding and fires that there very few
Democrats actually running on climate
change I mean presumably because it
doesn't pull as a top priority according
to civis analytics really smart data
science folks they did a survey and they
found that 45% of Democrats say health
care is the issue they want the party to
tackle most of they get power 7% said
climate do you think this is like a
chicken or the egg problem where
candidates need to talk about climate to
get voters to care more like what's the
sequence I just I don't know I know that
we have it a little bit backwards
that you don't convince people that
there's a problem and then show them how
to solve it you show them that there are
changes and patterns they're already
seeing for instance show people you know
somebody somebody rides a bike all the
time they'll start to see that bikes are
pretty great right that people and that
that they want to be part of a solution
you know show people that that renewable
energy creates jobs let them see that
and they'll start to believe that
renewable energy is an important thing
that they believe in so I think it's
less about talking about the problem and
then offering the solution it's about
starting at the solution and then
letting people come to realize that
they're part of solving the problem the
other piece of this is we need to stop
even all of us do we none of us behave
as if this problem is real I mean I
Drive a Jeep I read me I fly constantly
right I don't live my life like climate
change is the biggest crisis we face I
don't
and I'd also don't clearly don't believe
in a politics that's gonna die you know
if I wanted to do live by change I would
change and I don't want to I am part of
the problem I think that I I would like
to see Democrats say here's how we get
to zero not here's how we can slowly
begin to solve the problem here's how we
get to it's all so confusing I think we
just in to embrace we will need we need
to get to zero carbon carbon in our
electricity we need to get to anyway
yeah you're right I mean I also think
that we need to do
better job I think of helping people
understand how much dirty corporate
money is backing climate change
skepticism it is astroturf it is
 and I think hopefully that
would actually make people mad and and
because they're predisposed to a
corporations um we also have some lonely
people out there like Al Gore and Tom
Steyer who are like sounding the alarm
and trying to raise elevate the issue I
hope we can double down on that work a
little bit get some more rich liberals
in the game try to educate people
because like Trump is proof that if you
repeat something enough people believe
it yeah that's true but look you know we
may still hit our climate targets even
though the Trump administration has
abandoned us because some of the changes
were already seeing but hitting the
Pyrus climatic or hitting the Pyrus
paris targets isn't enough right and the
whole world as a grew as a planet we are
not on target to hit the Paris climate
goals so you know we've been struggling
about how to talk about this issue for
such a long time I think it's gonna take
it's we're we're waiting we're waiting
for somebody who's go-to talking about
this we're waiting for presidential
candidate who can make people care about
this it's just not on people's minds it
is a problem designed to be hard to
solve it is it comes on slowly no one in
can do it individually we have to solve
it as a planet I mean we need a global
carbon tax to address this issue we need
to change the kind of food we eat I mean
what like I guess part of it too is I
would like to see us talk more about the
low-hanging fruit you know one of the
things that would help reduce our
climate footprint in the long term would
be to make sure that women around the
world have access to family planning and
control over their own bodies and that
would actually help women but also help
reduce unplanned pregnancies and give
women more power in societies I think I
like impossible burgers I like beyond
burgers I think they're
delicious and we are not we are not
going to solve the greatest threat to
the environment in human history caused
by 200 years of industrialization by
scolding people into giving up meat but
I see an impossible burger or Beyond
burger on the menu I get it because I
like it and I know it's better for the
planet I know I'm reducing red meat
consumption and meat consumption so
that's gonna be important I think a a
incredible investment and focus and goal
to find
to remove carbon from the air but even
even the best ideas right now for
getting carbon out of the air are so
 unsatisfying
you're telling me where you're gonna do
is you're gonna bury it in the ground do
you know how many times we've tried to
solve a problem by burying in the ground
holy that will throw the trash in
the ocean will bury the garbage will
bury it that's our answer that's the
best humanity can do I will burn all the
coal and then we'll take it out of the I
will bury it yeah great great
yeah you mentioned President Trump I
think he's been silent so far on this
report but buying the scenes of this
administration is making things worse on
August 2nd they announced plans to
freeze Obama air regulations to make
cars more efficient they're also
screwing with California's ability to
set its own emission standards they're
letting States and not the federal
government now regulate coal they also
are spelling out a Paris like it's
possible to do this it is not and
Republicans are also by the way have
been against allowing the EPA to
regulate carbon as a pollutant right
which is you know there's this loophole
be the idea that basically carbon isn't
pollution I think is is wrong and so we
need to make sure we can oh we need the
regulation to treat carbon as a
pollutant you know it's a hard safe it's
a hard thing it's it's a it's the
thorniest problem in the world even if
America didn't have a climate change
denier in the White House even if a
massive propaganda apparatus hadn't
succeeded in turning a big part of one
of our two political parties into a kind
of you know anti environmental movement
it would be hard to solve even without
that I know there's plenty of
Republicans that care about the land and
environmentalism I mean I do think
states can work around Trump to some
extent you're seeing cities say like
we're standing Paris we think this is
important we're gonna innovate and
figure it out it is again like this is a
key issue where it's it's almost hard to
calculate the cost of a total lack of US
leadership on the issue because this is
a global problem we need a global
solution you see this in other areas
like we're not standing up for press
freedom we're not standing up for human
rights you know we're not other
countries see that and you know they
take advantage of the vacuum of
yeah I would say just one reason one one
one sort of place for hope is each of
the pieces of this that feel really
really hard have ancillary benefits that
are unrelated to the climate shifting to
more renewable energy does create
millions of new jobs making our economy
more efficient does mean that people
save money reducing red meat and other
meat consumption does make people
healthier and by the way taking out
carbon from our economy does save lives
reduce asthma make you know reduces
pollution that causes incredible harm so
I think probably we need to get big and
we need to get small we need to get big
and be honest about the problem in a way
I don't think we have in the past and I
think we need to get small and relate
this to people's or everyday lives and
as part of that it is not a seating at
all to any kind of debate as to whether
climate change is real that debate
doesn't exist on planet Earth it exists
in one place only and it's Washington DC
and we just don't have to have it don't
have it someone denies climate change
you don't you don't have to acknowledge
it you don't have to address it what are
we going to do to solve the threat to
our environment caused by carbon
pollution what are you going to do to
reduce the harm that pollution is going
to do to our children's lives you're
moving me on this one
Inconvenient Truth three John
loved it get out there yeah yeah sure
it's emotional it is so it's a tough one
okay so how would you advise a
Democratic candidate to talk about
climate change to sell voters on how
important this is yeah so I think you
know I know that I've been kind of
negative as you be talking about this
because oh that's my headspace but
here's what I would say I would like to
see Democratic Senate a key Senate
Democratic I would like to see
Democratic candidates say basically we
can do it I know that the predictions
seem dire but we can do it that we face
problems like this in the past and we've
done it before that there have been
problems in American history that seemed
that seemed so far beyond our reach that
we would never do it but we did it
anyway and you know what maybe that's
not totally true right now maybe that's
uh maybe that's a bit too optimistic but
you know what sometimes leadership is
being too optimistic and then making it
true whether it's but like people
thought the ozone
was an impossible thing people rain acid
rain people thought that you know the
car the Grand Canyon was filled with
smog the Cuyahoga River caught on
 fire so there been environmental
problems in the past that seemed like
something that would be with us forever
and then we figured out a way to solve
them not completely not perfectly but we
figured out a way to solve them so I
would like to see people not to dive
into the direness of the prediction as a
reason to act but the solvability of the
problem because simply by talking about
the problem as being solvable you
actually ironically make it more
solvable we can do it we can get to zero
emissions we can create millions of jobs
doing that and we can save this planet
for our children it can be one of the
greatest accomplishments in human
history
damn right the only way to avoid a
global catastrophe is to destroy the
climate change denying party in these
upcoming elections so let's take a look
some of these polls that's by the way
one last point about that that's
actually really true the most the single
most important thing you can do in the
next thirty days if you care about the
environment at all is to get Republicans
out of office because because even if we
cannot pass things with Donald Trump in
the White House we can hold them
accountable you got the the
administrator of the EPA or the Acting
Administrator of EPA posting
racist memes they'll never be a
hearing on it right Scott Pruett before
he had to leave the the real corruption
the big corruption is what they think
they're supposed to do in that job which
is hand over the parks hand over our air
hand over our water to the interests
that put them there so the single most
important thing anyone can do is do not
lose do not you don't need to read every
detail you don't need to know what's
gonna happen to the coral reefs it's not
 good they're
vote vote okay so some good news on that
front the Washington Post did he survey
of likely voters who lived in 69
battleground House districts across the
country that survey found that those
likely voters favored Democrats by a
margin of fifty to forty six by
comparison in 2016 these same districts
favorite Republicans by 15 points not
surprisingly women are driving the
Democratic advantage favoring Democrats
by fifty four to forty so love it done
deal right blue wave is coming this
thing is over here's what I'm going to
do Tommy I'm not gonna read one more
 poll between now and Election
Day this poll that you're commenting
I'm hearing about it from you great I
skipped it cool because
does it matter none of the
matter um get out there I do think I
with you we don't like it on the polar
coaster it's it's the worst but like it
does I think speak to have stack the
decks are against us because of these
sixty nine districts in the survey
sixty-three or hell by Republicans sixty
six are held by Democrats Trump carried
forty eight of those districts Hillary
Kerry twenty one so we need to pick up a
net of twenty three to gain control of
the house so the fact that we're doing
so well is hopeful but we literally need
every single available vote and we have
twenty seven days until the election
which is a political life then yes I
think you know the only thing I will
take away from polls right now is we
will learn after election day whether or
not this Cavanaugh nightmare
fight and Confirmation led to increase
Democratic enthusiasm increase
Republican enthusiasm or both drew that
doesn't so much matter the one way I
would care about what the polls say is
just to know just how much the
anti-women hearings that we saw are
gonna drive out female are gonna drive
out Women Voters I would be and ideally
male voters but for some reason II never
talked about it that way but uh I would
like to know that
yeah and whether or not it's something
we should hear a little bit more on the
trail from Democratic candidates trying
to get out Democratic voters but beyond
that I think it's all just sort of it's
all noise it's almost well so H but
interesting on that line because like I
do think we can try to learn from these
polls there's a CNN poll recently they
found this huge gender advantage for
Democrats sixty three percent of
registered women voters said they'd be
more likely to vote for a Democrat verse
thirty-three said they'd be more likely
to vote for Republican so like you were
saying that coming off the Cavanaugh
hearings Republicans were trying to sell
this backlash narrative that suggested
women were just as worried about their
sons being falsely accused as their
daughters I mean that spin was certainly
taken hook line and sinker by a lot in
the media but it felt to me like that
could actually be damaging in and of
itself when people pick up the paper and
read that kind of argument yeah
absolutely you know absolutely I think
that's right
um so that was the house I mean the
outlook in the Senate is is is much more
lyrical 5:38 has the chances Republicans
keeping the Senate at seventy nine
percent
we have to win it
one of the 4 tough races that's that's
currently modeled as lean Republican
those are North Dakota Tennessee Texas
the Mississippi special election so I
guess my question is like love it you're
a pod save America listener who is
listening in your thigh no I don't know
Thursday actions now I'm on Monday um
you're listening you're thinking I got a
hundred bucks I want to give it to a
candidate this cycle but I don't know
where to give like would you give to a
Senate candidate would you get a house
candidate like is that the wrong way to
think about it you know I don't know I I
think that you people should give to the
people they're passionate about and
reward the candidates that they think
they care about I think the one thing I
would caution is there are exciting
races and there are races that aren't as
exciting but they both are one vote in
the Senate yep bill Nelson winning and
better or work winning are worth the
same amount in the vote for Majority
Leader so keep that in mind like
obviously you might feel a little more
stirred by better work than say some
other candidates you may feel that way
about say a bredesen in Tennessee who
decided to put out a statement saying
that he would have voted for
Cavanaugh that sucks
I get it but we need every single one of
them you know interestingly one way you
could help Bill Nelson is to help out
Andrew Gilliam who's running for
governor in Florida yep because he can
have turn people out I mean I'm with you
like I think I'm not I was thinking
about this last night where I guess
where I would land is I just think
winning the house is so much more likely
and it's so important to control one of
these bodies that I think I would
probably put my money in my time there
yeah I would say also like your money
obviously can only one candidate or
another but wherever you are there is a
swing House race near you go and help
that House candidate win you will help
other Democrats up and down the ballot
when you're there too if you're in Texas
and you're going to knock on doors
you're gonna knock on doors for House
candidates or beto but either way you're
gonna help turnout the Democratic vote
the same if you're in Florida same if
you're anywhere that has a close Senate
race so with your dollars obviously you
could have to choose but in terms of
what you're gonna do in the next 30 days
and canvassing and phone banking and
knocking on doors and getting out the
vote is actually gonna be the much more
everything you do helps up and down the
ballot yep so go to vote save America
calm you can find out if you're
registered you can find volunteer
opportunities next to you and I think
that's it for the show love it we're
about to go to LAX we get a plane to
Miami was very smart of us to have a
show in hurricane season Miami we first
before most hope that everyone is ok
this thing is scary but we will
be there and to the point about climate
change I've done now Rick Scott I've
seen other Republicans talk about how
the storm seems to be unprecedented yeah
it is unprecedented reason every we're
gonna see more and more unprecedented
weather maybe you guys could wake up to
the problem alright so after the break
you'll hear our interview with Kansas
congressional candidate Cherise David's
outro great that's it for this Wednesday
edition of POD save America and I just
want to say Bill Nelson went to
space and that's cool
you did go to space no bet O'Rourke
didn't go to space no no he's
been on the earth the whole time you
know many times he's been in Earth's
orbit
I wanna see well you know many times
zero times yeah many times he's floated
floated near any times he's looked down
on a blue orb none zero times
what's that famous picture the pale blue
dot pale blue dot that's the one photo
called Earthrise that's cool taken on
apollo six thanks for listening please
watch the HBO show it'll be great we're
excited about it see you guys next week
you
