time for the rant wheel yeah work he's
been in the wheel wherever it lands who
rant about the topic let's spin the
wheel it has landed on the new Grinch
which was suggested by Mitra yeah so I
just I hate so I hate we like old Grinch
and we like we have a cartoon and we got
a different one so we don't need a third
one I don't like I bet they don't even
have the baby Grinch I want baby Grinch
in there if baby wrench not in there
it's not grant chunni and I don't like
that I hate the marketing it's like they
reek fun of off-broadway and it's called
new Grinch is coastal elite fringe is
the people's princess you got Jim Carrey
playing Grinch that is that is Grinch
and then you've now you've got Benedict
Cumberbatch in Grinch boring I think it
looks ugly I think I think what they did
like the design is ugly I've I hate new
Grinch don't like you're campaigning to
be the great actually and it's about
time we got a woman of color Grinch its
2018 women can be grinches and I think
that if if they need a grand job either
Grinch my that wasn't my point but now I
believe it I mean I've been so kind
about their movie I'm sure they're gonna
be
because I believe in the franchise and I
hate what they they're doing let's spin
again it is megan has with a very heavy
hand landed it on falling asleep on the
couch kind of stop falling asleep on the
couch and and I I think there's a lot of
people out there in this hectic world of
ours quite secretly falling asleep at
night on the couch for reasons that are
kind of confusing like like you know
that it's time there's one you know you
know it's time to get ready for bed
you know this you know you know also
that you've not been following the last
10 minutes of homecoming or the last 10
minutes of the baking show you know that
you're losing at your eyes are closing
you're a falling asleep and yet you do
this thing where you're like it's good
you know like it's fine like I know it's
bad I know that I ate the last bit of
chocolate covered cashews and it is
gross but it's also fun I'm gonna fall
asleep here because and here's where I
think it gets a little dark because if I
get up and get ready for bed and go to
sleep I'm admitting that there are four
things I was gonna do today that I
didn't do because I got to do them
tomorrow and that land plus there's just
the the friction of getting ready for
bed and then combination has millions of
us every night sitting on that couch
that last thing of just I'm gonna sleep
here for like 45 minutes and it is the
worst sleep and we do it again
and again I'm looking at a lot of people
who do it it's one of the darkest
secrets in America right now because
we're so like there's too many people to
respond to there's too many texts to
miss there's too many things you had to
get done today and every single day you
fail and that last step of going to bail
is going to bed is the admission it is
the admission of
guilt that once again you did not
forward the mail from the old person who
lived at your house and they're never
gonna get that etsy package and what is
in there what's in there you were
supposed to send that today is too
specific I'd just think I just think if
I could take this step of talking about
it we can all start talking about the
fact on the couch and it has to stop who
are we mad at we met at the couch I do
want more I want more of a picture are
you lying down are you before we recline
are you like my dad like City College
pathetical thing about something people
are dealing with and I wanted to talk
about it and what happens is honestly
some people what they do is they take
the cushion and they make John is
actually make you are shells no I know
it Horizonte all I'm saying is we have
to admit to ourselves that it's okay and
we should get ready for bed you and I
don't care how weird this sounds cuz I
believe in my bones that this is one of
the most common experiences no one is
talking about we got to stop falling
asleep on the couch and get better sleep
and we'll deal with the things we didn't
do today tomorrow
[Music]
