do and listen to if you haven't already
it's all about how health care in
America has been up by the media
and politics and it is smart and funny
and I will be talking to him all about
it
before that we got a lot of sorry before
that we got to talk about all the latest
developments on impeachment including
Trump's epic meltdown on Wednesday more
self-incrimination today Thursday and
we'll also share the results of our
brand-new polar coaster survey with
change research in the battleground
state of Arizona finally if you haven't
check out the newest episode of positive
the world where Ben and Tommy look at
Trump's impeachable phone call from a
foreign policy angle including how it
could destabilize the Ukrainian
government how Russia uses corruption to
control Ukrainian politics and how the
policies advanced by Biden were
initially shaped they also talked with
former British Prime Minister David
Cameron about brexit Boris Johnson and
the time that Ben Rhodes offended the
Queen of England
so check passing the world teases are
getting quite good really put some time
into those tell me and Michael ok let's
get to the news public support for
impeachment has been rising and we now
have our own polling to confirm that
we'll talk more about all the results
from our latest polar coaster series
with change research in a bit but we did
ask about impeachment and found that 49%
of Arizona voters support impeachment
including nearly 94 percent of Democrats
and about half of independents more than
90 percent of voters say they've heard
about the Ukraine scandal and what they
learned has made independence and swing
voters and swing voters we're defining
as people who have a voted for at least
one Republican and Democrat in the last
three years independence and swing
voters are 20 to 30 percent less likely
to support Trump who've heard about the
Ukraine scandal we also tested a few
different Democratic messages on
impeachment against Trump's message that
Democrats are engaged in a witch hunt
because they're mad about 2016 and the
most effective demmick
patek message is that Congress needs to
hold Trump accountable for his abuse of
power to ensure a free and fair election
in 2020 even if it means impeachment
after hearing this voter said they were
more likely to support the Democratic
candidate over the Republican candidates
message by 51 to 43%
dan how should this kind of data and
some of the other polling we've seen
informed Democratic strategy on
impeachment well I think it it is
important to see polling in a
battleground state which Arizona clearly
is as our poll makes clear the you know
in our in this very polarized nation we
have national polls are where Trump is
incredibly popular in some states and
credibly unpopular in other bluer states
don't really give us as much as much of
a signal what's happening in the states
that are gonna decide the presidential
election and for the fact and the fact
that impeachment is a winnable exercise
here in Arizona a state that will help
decide the presidency and who controls
the Senate should put steel on the spine
of the Democrats who are doing this if
you can if you can litigate this Kate
this political case in Arizona you can
do it anywhere in the country and that
is I think that should give comfort to
some of the members who are more nervous
about the politics tough politics of
this and they should be yeah and look I
mean one thing we've seen from the
polling throughout the last week is that
this is not the at least so far this is
not some scary political loser that a
lot of you know Democratic strategists
and DC thought it was at first
Democrats like almost unanimously now
supportive Pietschmann across polls it's
like you know between 85 and 95 percent
are supportive of this there was a few
stories today too that I saw some of the
representatives from more conservative
districts like max Rose some other
people you know it's stories about them
going back to their districts and you
know they've been holding town halls and
actually a lot of their voters were
pretty supportive of what they're doing
there was even one I thought there's one
story about ELISA slackin who is rep
in Michigan also a district that she
flipped from a Republican so it's a
pretty moderate pretty conservative
district and you know they interviewed a
couple basically Trump supporters who
got their news from like Oh a and maybe
you know and Fox's everything and who
loved Trump and think that impeachments
a waste of time and then the reporter is
like well what about ELISA slack and
your representative who is now
supportive of impeachment they're like
oh we love her we love her that's okay
that she supports impeachment we don't
agree but we still love her so so far
it's shown that there is not as much
risk as people thought for Democrats I
do think the other thing that was
interesting is you know we tested two
messages on impeachment and the first
one was more straightforward Donald
Trump deserves to be impeached for and
then we sort of listed out some of the
impeachable offenses and then we did a
second one that was like look here's
what official White House documents show
and we talked about the call summary and
then we say in order to defend our
democracy and you know hold the
president accountable and make sure
there's free and fair elections you know
Congress has to investigate that even if
it means impeachment you know so it was
a little more couched a little more
cautious a little more sort of like
framing it as this more sad bipartisan
thing that we have to do and it was much
more popular much more persuasive among
voters not very surprising but it does
tell you why sort of Pelosi and a lot of
the other Democrats are framing
impeachment as they are like and and and
not making it's quite so partisan so
celebratory right yeah it's not a
celebratory time it's more mourn sadness
than anger dan yes what other thing in
the poll and I thought was very notable
for Democrats in this which is we ask
people if they how much they had heard
about Trump's phone call with Ukraine
and the numbers were stunning sixty six
percent of respondents said they had
heard a lot and another twenty five
percent said they'd heard a decent
amount about this so in this distracted
disaggregated media environment where
it's hard to break through this story is
breaking through you have nine in ten
voters hearing a lot or a decent amount
about this story in the last week and as
you mentioned the polling the
information in that story is very
politically damaging to Trump and so
like that is in our
it both for standing strong here and
continuing to push for games also an
argument against short-circuiting this
process early because you want to get it
over with it's also an argument for
Democrats you know making sure that they
drive this message every single day that
they you know you know that they're
speaking to the public that they're
holding press conferences that they're
holding hearings because so far the news
has done the Democrats work for them
right by breaking the story and there's
new things for people to hear all the
time at some point when all the facts
are known you know there's gonna have to
be an effort on behalf of Democratic
leaders to keep this in the news
impeachment hearings would obviously do
that but there is a danger here where if
they just everyone just goes about their
business and forget this ever happened
it will fade from the news and it will
fade from people's memories um so one
person who's not acting like impeachment
will be a political winner for Donald
Trump is Donald Trump all of his you
know his his couple weeks of angry
tweeting came to life on Wednesday
during a rolling day-long meltdown
alongside the president of Finland
yesterday first in the Oval Office then
at a press conference you know it was
all more the same accused the media of
being corrupt accused Congress of
staging a coup call for congressman
Schiff to be tried for treason
you know it's just typical typical
Wednesday Trump talked about how
impeachment and the Ukraine scandal is
all a hoax that he did nothing wrong
that his phone call was perfect and then
this morning Thursday morning he
confessed to everything he's being
accused of public sorry he confessed to
everything he's being accused of by
publicly calling on Ukraine and now
China to investigate Joe Biden and his
family let's listen to some highlights
dropping it later
okay so we're heel the highlights blah
blah blah Dan what are we doing here
what are we doing here he did it he's
tells us he did it what else do we need
well look I see this angry red Faceman
and screaming into the void and I say
that is a man who looks like he just
lured Democrats into his impeachment
trap it is amazing that he basically the
equivalent of what he did today is Nixon
going to the South wand admitting that
he directed the break-in to the
Watergate and then suggesting he's gonna
do another break-in to another
Democratic Party headquarters later it
is I mean it is truly mind-boggling in
its audacity stupidity the audacity of
dumb I don't know what how to describe
it he's spent the last seven days trying
to argue that he did not pressure
Ukraine to do this and then he you know
this is a very I will say the question
that was asked today is the same
question that Jeff Mason from Reuters
asked Trump yesterday which was a very
smart question yes which is they asked
what specifically did you want the
Solinsky to do with regard to Biden and
I think most questions that reporters
asked of Trump too often are treating
Trump as a cable news pundit and not
president this is a very specific one
where the answer is if he tells the
truth he is admitting to the crime right
and he got so mad about it yesterday
that he screamed at Jeff Mason as I
don't even it's hard to imagine
outside it at the context of an angry
football coach one adult screaming and
another adult like that in public
yeah we actually have a we actually have
a clip of that too let's just play that
really quick okay go for it
yeah so that was that was Donald Trump
screaming at a reporter asked the
president of Finland to question my
favorite line and that is hey hey we got
the president of fill in here ask him
okay
I mean Donald Trump's deep in abiding
respect for the protocol of the to into
foreign leader press conference is
admirable I guess I also just think like
look we we have now spent the last
couple days with Donald Trump
and the entire like Republicans in
Congress Magga pundits Fox News the
whole conservative swamp
ecosystem coming up with all of these
 defenses about you know who is
the whistleblower and this is
second-hand information and we you know
we worked with Adam Schiff and Adam
Schiff should resign I'm shift made up
the phone call the whistleblower made up
the phone call none of this is real
and then all of us hear Donald Trump
call on foreign powers to investigate
his political opponents like in public
this morning it's like I guess are we
all the whistleblowers now hello hello
inspector general I have some secondhand
information I haven't heard from very
good sources Donald Trump's voice asking
for his for asking foreign governments
to investigate his political opponents
should I write up the complaint should I
go to Adam Schiff what should I do with
this information dan I think there's a
broader if you hear about the Trump
presidency this sort of manifests itself
in the last week which is you know
whether it's in his Twitter Tantrums
which we talked about on tour last week
or you know what he said in the very his
various press temper tantrums yesterday
yeah but here you have the president
noted states calling for the arrest
sentencing and execution of democratic
members of Congress and whistleblowers
you have the president bullying whistle
blow a whistle blow when we're comparing
a whistle blower to a spy accusing them
of treason you have the president
calling a constitutional impeachment
process a coup to take away people's
Second Amendment rights which seems not
dangerous at all yeah and we have
reached this point we're sort of the
majority of the political community you
know the reporters politicians blue
checkmark nation we now no longer take
the president seriously or literally
yeah he's the he's basically the person
you know screaming on the subway and
you're where you're more focused on the
fact that they're screaming than what
they're screaming
but he's president States and these
things still matter and they really
matter like we shouldn't take it lightly
when the president
calls for the investigation of political
opponents or members of Congress when
the chief law enforcement officer in the
entire country is a named member of the
alleged criminal conspiracy at the root
of this whole thing and so like we laugh
about it he is insane it is ridiculous
it is a national and global
embarrassment that he is president itíd
States but we have to we can't default
to he's a crazy person therefore the
things he say don't matter because as we
know from all the the violent threats
that happened where the violence are all
the violence that happened in El Paso or
the pipelines that the things he say do
matter and there are people in this
world who act on them even if they're
not members of Congress there's that and
there's also the fact that he is because
these this scandal needs to pinchable
offenses have to do with national
security and foreign policy like it's it
opens up a whole new element to why this
is dangerous like he is the president is
jeopardizing our national security
because he is basing our foreign policy
on his own narrow political interests
right like Ukraine is a country that was
invaded by Russia that the global
community and the United States of
America had decided that it is in our
interest to help defend them from
Russian aggression and now that is at
risk because Donald Trump wanted them to
investigate his political opponent China
an authoritarian government with whom
we're in a trade war because of Donald
Trump with the entire global economy and
are in the United States economy at
stake now he's sending them a message
that this authoritarian government
should investigate an American citizen
in their family who happens to be a
potential political opponent of Donald
Trump that's what he's doing right now
it's not just like I mean it can you
know I've laughed at times during this
whole thing it is absurd watching this
unfold but we are you know the fact that
our foreign policy is at stake and our
foreign policy is being based on
whatever Donald Trump thinks will get
him through the election is incredibly
dangerous incredibly dangerous yeah
these are not great times I would say no
no they're not it's not great in
political reports that say those
tumblers
by those tumblers ya know by this that's
it until now but political reports set
some Republican lawmakers and
strategists are concerned about Trump's
strategy with one with one Republican
operative saying quote nobody wants to
look like Kevin McCarthy did on 60
minutes and right now there is deep
skepticism that the late-night Fox
lineup will have any credibility with
rank-and-file Republicans that are
necessary to prosecute this argument
against House Democrats what do you
think about that I mean it is certainly
true that I mean I reject the premise of
the question that says that there was
obviously no White House strategy right
right they don't
there isn't one there is just a man
ranting into a microphone and then
various sinka fans with two to three
million people audiences parodying those
you know I was struck by this tweet from
is it I think was a tweet from Laura
Ingraham that said basically she was
trying to give Trump advice where if he
essentially ignored this and treated it
and stopped acting like a crazy person
that he would get through it better and
it is it's interesting to watch because
he there it there is a strategy here
it's pretty obvious that any normal
human being could take and there's also
a for Trump right like you could say I
did nothing wrong
you could blame Rudy Giuliani and fire
him you could say you're gonna cooperate
right right I mean that's sort of what
they did with Muller is they kept saying
they were gonna cooperate and they
cooperated on the things that didn't
matter that much and on the things that
really mattered they obstructed and they
got away with it obviously there is a
strategy for Republicans to which is to
say we don't agree with what Trump did
we think it was wrong but we don't think
it rises to a level of lewd impeachable
offense and we think it is a shame that
House Democrats are so busy trying to
undo the results of the 2016 election
that they are refusing to help raise
wages for families or improve health
care like they're like there's an
obvious strategy but they can't do it
because
with Trump you have to take a loyalty
oath with for political death right like
you have to ride within the whole way or
you live in fear of being one tweet away
from a primary yeah that's right or die
I mean there is there is a strategy if
you sort of like step really far back
and squint see the strategy which is you
know the call was perfect the
whistleblower is a partisan liar atom
shift is a partisan sorry Adam Schiff is
a partisan liar they're all in cahoots
with a deep state and CNN and you know
whoever forged Obama's birth certificate
so they have this sort of this
conspiracy brewing and you know you saw
you saw it yesterday a little bit when
the New York Times has the story about
how the whistleblower who originally
filed a complaint within the
intelligence community before going to
the IG just with the whistleblowers
bosses wasn't getting anywhere didn't
know what to do because they were
obviously trying to cover-up the
complaint so then the whistleblower goes
to Adam shifts committee to one of the
staff members and says hey I have this
complaint what do I do and and sort of
doesn't doesn't explain exactly what the
complaint is but just gives the outline
and then the committee says okay well
you should get a lawyer and you should
go to your inspector general at the
intelligence community that's the
official channel but because the New
York Times writes it you know as like
Schiff might have known early about the
whistleblower suddenly now every single
right-wing media figure is on high alert
Donald Trump's waving the article around
during the press conference
I'm exonerated adds up see what I told
you Adam chips a liar
he's in on this and I do think what the
what the right is doing is they're just
sort of waiting for these little
developments to then cling to to point
to and say actually this whole thing was
a deep state plot after all and
Donald Trump's innocent but what's what
is the problem with that here boy hit
the big dirt I mean there was a
fundamental problem in this entire
strategy speaks to the weakness which is
it nothing that whistle blower did or
said who they spoke to who they voted
for they could have a feel the Bern
license plate
their car it wouldn't matter
because we don't need the whistleblower
is inconsequential now because the core
piece of evidence prior to Donald Trump
admitting to the crime national
television earlier today was a call
transcript released by Donald Trump's
White House you're right all I mean the
whistleblower basically drew a crime map
and then we've discovered all the crime
since then so it doesn't matter and so
like that strategy doesn't hold up to
literally one millisecond of scrutiny it
may be enough to get through primetime
on Fox and to keep 40% you know Trump's
40% base in his corner but it's not a
long-term strategy to deal with the
political fallout of this yeah I mean no
person who just sort of even even if
you're a headline scanner even if you're
one of the even if you're just walking
through the airport and sikhae runs on
CNN you're gonna figure out that this is
all that the that like you said
the whistleblower
does not matter anymore because the call
transcript is the impeachable offense as
you said it was the impeachable offense
the main impeachable offense until then
the president went on TV and called on
Ukraine and another nation to
investigate his political opponents look
it is Cle and this is this is why we
need to impeach him and this is why
 Republican and should join in to
like it is clear now that we cannot have
a free and fair election in 2020 because
the president the United States is using
the vast powers of his office including
his ability to make foreign policy and
make national security decisions to
pressure foreign governments to solicit
foreign assistance to interfere in our
election on his behalf
literally what the founders were worried
about foreign sinter foreign
interference in the United States
affairs in our elections Donald Trump's
is committed to doing that
even now even as he has been caught and
in the middle of an impeachment trial
for this he impeachment inquiry of about
this he is asking foreign nations to
investigate his political opponents and
if people think that he's going to stop
at Joe Biden you have a you should
think again because he will do this he
will find a foreign nation to
investigate Elizabeth Warren Bernie
Sanders people
Harris and on and on and on and it won't
just before nations it will be you know
right-wing billionaires and no matter he
will do anything he will use all of the
powers of his office including the
investigative powers of the United
States Attorney General and the Justice
Department whatever he can get his hands
on he will use it to dirty up his
political opponent in 2020 and that is
why enforcement so forth let me ask you
this question though um do you think
impeachment will stop him from doing it
again
perhaps not perhaps not basically all it
is you know it will sort of be a
flashing red light for everyone because
it'll be in the news so that it's like
everyone be aware that the next time you
hear something shady about one of trumps
opponents now you know that he probably
you know he probably called on someone
to find that smear find that dirt right
like it at least all it does is it
exposes Trump's motives methods and sort
of shines a light on what he's doing to
try to dirty up his political opponents
so in some way in look and it might not
stop Trump but there's probably enough
people and enough foreign governments
you know who will if he's being
impeached for this well maybe think
twice about it I don't know that's the
hope it's it's basically the only option
we have because the other option is
everyone go about their business and
Trump just solicits foreign interference
in quiet and we don't talk about it yeah
look obviously in forward Peter I think
it's the right thing to do full-stop
it's also the right the best political
move in the situation for currently and
I think it probably it's I think it
almost certainly doesn't decrease the
odds that Trump commits more crimes and
potentially increases the odds the
commits more crimes because he nothing
happened to him other than being a
historical political embarrassment now
and have to wear that wearing the
Scarlet eye for the rest of time yeah
and but he still as an office so I think
but I do think it's it will prove it
will encourage other people to come
forward who are witnesses to these
crimes that's right and I do think it
will make the people around Trump not
like the the most Maggie II of his
people but the people who run the
government right
to be more cautious about getting sucked
into his vortex of crime I think so
right so when you get the order from
Mick Mulvaney or someone else to put the
call transcript on the classified server
you're gonna be less willing to do that
or more willing to tell someone you got
asked to do that so I think that is
we're looking of like actual substantive
benefits of going through this process I
think that is one of them because for
the people who were either willing or
were witting or unwitting accomplices to
Trump's crimes here they're all gonna
spend time from Congress they're gonna
have to deal with legal bills and people
are not gonna want that and again if the
ultimate substantive goal is to get him
out of office at least in 2020 because
of the election this will keep him mired
in scandal and on the defensive and
melting down as he did yesterday and
that's not good for him politically
right like his poll numbers are down the
you know support for impeachment is up
like this is not every day that he's
having a complete meltdown is another
day that he and his campaign don't get
to prosecute the case against the
Democrats right and.i right and we'll
talk about this a little more when we
get to the Arizona poll but we tested a
number of message frames on Trump to try
to figure out what the best story to
tell about this man is and one of them
was about his constant tweeting and the
petty fights and the chaos that comes
from a trump presidency and that message
was very effective with core sets of
voters and so Trump is doing himself you
know we talked earlier about how the
country is dialed in to this story so
you have a story that everyone's focused
on people are paying attention and Trump
is exhibiting at a record level the
exact behavior that turns a lot of
voters off and so by make turning like
keeping Trump in an eleven is what is
good for the Democrats over the long
term so let's talk about the latest
substantive developments from this week
first the latest on the scandal and then
what Congress is doing about it we've
learned on Monday that Donald Trump has
effectively sent William Bar on an
international mission to solicit foreign
assistance in discrediting Robert
Muller's investigation and confirming
the right-wing conspiracy
theory that it was actually Ukraine in
the Democrats who colluded and
interfered on the 2016 election
seriously this is a it's a real thing as
part of that effort
Trump has reportedly called the
Australian Prime Minister he called
Boris Johnson Bars met with the Italians
dan how are these calls for foreign
assistance different than the Ukraine
call well that Ukraine call is an
off-the-books effort to use law
enforcement to politicize a an election
and to interfere in collection and the
calls with Australia involving bill Barr
is an on the books effort to use foreign
interference interfere with an American
election right this is a sanctioned
investigation that is happening but it
has the same goal right which is to
strengthen Trump politically by creating
some sort of fig leaf to say that he is
not actually guilty of obstruction of
justice or wanting to collude with the
Russians and so I mean and we should be
all very clear all of us are paying for
this every taxpayer in America is paying
for Bill Barr to fly around the country
to try to make the things that come out
of shot at Sean Hannity's mouth true
that is an official mission of the chief
law enforcement officer in the country
yeah and it's not just it's not just
like looking into the past here either
right like I think what they're going
for here is and you hear this from all
the biggest Magath pundits out there
like Hugh Hewitt and all the
right wing lunatics they are all very
excited they keep talking about the bar
report like it's the Muller report and
you know it's it's yet again it's
another Devin Nunez memo it's another
bar summary of the Muller report like
what they're hoping is for Bill Barr to
come out with this explosive new report
that says yes the American intelligence
community did go after Donald Trump in
2016 FBI did go after Donald Trump in
2016 the origins of the investigation
were funded by the Democrats like all of
our crazy conspiracy theories have said
for a while and by the way we don't know
that bar and the Justice Department
won't bring more indictments against
people that are political
motivated like we just we can't trust
that anymore because of what bars done I
mean how what is the significance of
bars involvement here personal
involvement like isn't isn't it a little
unusual for the Attorney General of the
United States to be personally
investigating American intelligence
agencies at the President's request yes
 unusual it is like there was
this view among the sort of
establishment legal community in
Washington who've you know we're on Bill
Maher's Moot Court team or went to
Choate or you know with like these sort
of elite law school community in DC
which cares more about each other than
their party affiliations they're sort of
this view that O'Gill bars just doing
this to shut Trump up right like it's
sort of a fake thing we're just gonna do
it you know I decide this Attorney
General to do it or this sorry I said
this US Attorney to do it and it's just
to be happening and we're just gonna
just kind of calm the president down but
that's not what's happening Babar is
himself flying around the country let's
just put it this way it is so unusual
that like if bill Barr himself was
flying around the United States to
investigate a major you know crime here
the United States that would be an odd
use of his time so this is like for like
a massive ongoing criminal investigation
in a sense that would be like that would
be odd in the fact that he's traveling
all over the world they're taking all
the time like when is he doing his job
right you know he's not doing his job he
is he is a well this this is what he
seizes his job right he is serving Trump
not the country no he's a full time full
time henchmen and co-conspirator but the
Attorney General is just is just one of
trumps co-conspirators in the cabinet
the other turns out is Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo who confirmed on
Wednesday that he was on Donald Trump's
call with President Solinsky after
basically lying about it on the sunday
shows Dan if the call was so perfect why
did why did Pompeo lie about it
great question John really great why did
he lie so poorly be Bennett Tommy have
made this point
it is highly unusual for the Secretary
of State to be on the phone when the
president is having a foreign foreign
leader call this is just a conversation
with the new president of Ukraine this
is not the first call ever with the head
of Iran or this is not a conversation
with Kim Jung Lou and this is a normal
you know theoretically in the course of
business call so it's very strange we
won't pay her to be on it
it is very notable that he lied about it
I mean there is an irony to this which
is Pompeo made it his life mission over
several years to make Susan Rice saying
an incorrect thing on a Sunday show to
be one of the greatest crimes in human
history and he goes on a Sunday show and
doesn't say an incorrect thing he lies
to the American people about it which
says to me at least that Pompeo knew
what he heard was bad yeah cuz if he
said he was on the call they'd have to
say what he heard on the call and so
it's not that it's not a it's not a good
piece of evidence for the Trump case
yeah I think what's important to know
about Pompeo is just how political he is
and you know there was a was a good Vox
piece about how all have all these State
Department officials are on record or
went on background saying like he has
politicized this department to such an
incredible degree there was that the the
profile of him a couple of weeks ago
where one diplomat called him a
heat-seeking missile for Trump's ass
look like he's the big you know Trump
himself said I think I fought with
everyone on my staff and in the cabinet
except Pompeo he's the only one I
haven't fought with so Pompeo was really
sort of in competition with bar here to
see who can curry favor with Trump the
most but it makes you look if the whole
this whole idea where Rudy Giuliani is
basically saying you know oh I just
didn't do this myself I did this with
the help of the State Department right
like Rudy's trying to implicate the
State Department and you know you think
knowing how Pompey's relationship with
Trump that Rudy might be right right and
as they contend this is why Pompeo is
trying to prevent officials from the
State Department from testifying to
Congress he doesn't want anyone to
testify about this probably because he
knows the State Department is implicated
in Trump trying to pressure Ukraine to
investigate the Biden's right I mean
like Trump also from Trump and Pompeyo
allowed our ambassador to Ukraine a
career civil servant longtime official
to be Rico to be fired for no reason no
cause only because she wouldn't
participate in this scandal to
pressure the Ukrainian government to dig
up dirt on Biden and Pompeyo did nothing
about that nothing about that and all of
this is gonna come out when these people
eventually testify right and in the
documents right like that you can tell
this in you know how kurt volker who was
assistant secretary and others have
reacted this which is what was happening
was highly unusual and made people very
uncomfortable so to what extent is their
email traffic about this among State
Department employees I would not be
surprised to find some of these people
who got roped into this crime caper
writing a note to you know sending an
email to file essentially to sort of
detail what happened in real time much
like Jim Comey did in some of his
conversations with Trump like there and
this is one of the reasons in Pompeius
ability to prevent those documents from
coming out is much more limited than the
White House is because State Department
documents are subject to FOIA and so the
legal case for getting them even outside
of the context of impeachment inquiry is
much stronger and so their goal is
clearly delay delay delay delay and try
to keep this information out because
there are people people there is a story
to tell here because Giuliani with
assume it with we assume the OK of Mike
Pompeo turned elements of the State
Department into a taxpayer-funded part
of the Trump for re-election campaign
and that is multiple crimes yes not that
it's not legal so let's say what the
House Democrats are doing about all this
they've now subpoenaed Rudy multiple
State Department officials and the White
House itself for documents and
depositions Pompeo responded with the
letter that basically told Democrats to
 off though he didn't explicitly say
he wouldn't be cooperating he just it
was a lot of words about oh I don't want
to subject my employees to the bullying
and intimidation of Congress and blah
blah blah
Rudy sounds like he might
tell him to off his excuse was well
no it's it was only it was signed by
Democrats so I don't have to comply with
a subpoena signed by Democrats that's
not a thing that's not a thing now who
knows what the White House will do ken
Trump and his goons just ignore these
subpoenas and what can Democrats do
about that I mean there will be a court
case about this if they ignore it and we
will put once again on our hands the
judiciary now the legal argue the
ability of a judge to side with their
with Trump and the Trump administration
is much harder in the context of
impeachment inquiry there is an urgency
to this request that is very both in
terms of time and value of the question
as much that is much bigger and so it
seems unlikely that they are going to be
able to stop everything there will be
conversations about executive privilege
as relates see certainly these calls the
other calls that are on the class the
highly classified server things like
that maybe there you know there will be
a debate about but in general it seems
like Congress the Trump administration
is gonna have to cooperate at some level
or they will be forced to cooperate I do
think that the Pompeo letter is
essentially performative obstruction
Yeah right he's he he said he's writing
the letter so that he can show Trump and
Trump's goons that he is goon like even
though there isn't there's a lot of bark
Earl asar there's a lot of bite to the
bark in the letter I do think the that
ship in Pelosi and the Democrats have
been smart in that in these letters that
they send in these subpoenas they say by
the way if you do not comply it will be
used as evidence against you in the
impeachment trial and that we will
consider obstruction of kameena remember
one of the articles of impeachment for
Nixon was obstruction of Congress and a
you know Schiff and Pelosi you're
basically saying anyone who doesn't
comply this will be part this will be
part of an article of impeachment that
is obstruction of Congress now I wonder
if the Trump administration isn't
looking at that and saying well you know
what if we're either going to be if the
president's going to be impeached for
either a bunch of crimes and abuses of
power that the whole public knows about
or be impeached for
us obstructing Congress because we don't
want to provide any information or have
anything else be revealed they don't
just take the path of being impeached
for obstruction of Congress because they
just they know that essentially this is
all you know this is a political
exercise as impeachment always is
impeachment is a political exercise and
there you know they just think it will
be less damaging to them in the election
if they're impeached over obstruction of
Congress versus if a whole bunch of new
information comes out yeah I I really
much worry about that because it's
essentially like adding a fourth life
sentence to someone's term like why do
they care right right and and I think so
I hope that Democrats don't default to
that in the interest of handling this
expeditiously yes
because we do I I think we do want to
get to the bottom of this we want to
know what the polls we want the truth
wonder the full scope of what happened
and we also just think of all the things
we've learned within a week and this is
without and this is only from things
that Trump is either admitted publicly
or the White House is released imagine
what we can find out when we actually
get the things that they think we
shouldn't have right and so there will
be a balance and I understand there's a
balance there like we can't live in a
world where the house has to wait for
this to wind itself through a bunch of
courts the Supreme Court sits on it and
we're into like the fall of next year
like that that is not a viable option
but I hope we push it I hope they push
as hard as they can to get as much truth
as they possibly can and don't allow
some sort of November deadline or
December deadline to allow Trump to be
deny the American people the the fullest
picture possible of what Trump did yeah
I agree
okay let's talk about 2020 and start
with the results of our latest polar
coaster 2020 series with our wonderful
partners at change research just a note
about change changes weekly polling was
one of the very first spot Elizabeth
Warren's rise in the primary they can do
polling very quickly with dynamic online
sampling and so if you're a Democratic
candidate committee nonprofit think
about using them go to change research
calm
check out all of their data they did a
great impeachment poll within like 48
hours last week so you can check out all
the results there all right so we polled
Arizona dan why did we pull Arizona and
what were we looking to achieve in this
bowl well two things we pulled Arizona
because Arizona has been talked about
for years as a battleground state bright
you know this is hard hard to sorry
Arizona talk about four years is a
battleground state even 2008 Obama even
considered investing in there at the end
in 2016 the Clinton campaign the
campaigned in Arizona in the last week
and spent money there the decision that
hasn't worn well over time but there's
been this lot that Arizona is on the
cusp of becoming a true battleground
state like Wisconsin Michigan
Pennsylvania Colorado Virginia etc and
our poll indicates that it is so we
wanted to see we wanted to test that we
wanted to see how real about a rail said
it was you know is it sort of more like
Wisconsin than in Georgia right is it is
it close enough that it deserves early
and serious investment the other
question is are we've done one other
battleground say that is Wisconsin and
there has been this debate raging for a
while now within the Democratic Party of
do we want to focus on the quote-unquote
Rust Belt and the industrial Midwest or
the Sun Belt you know say it's like
Arizona and our poll indicates that
that's a false choice that much of
there's very little difference in the
efficacy of the messaging between those
two states you don't have to have a
message for Arizona message for
Wisconsin a the same message could be
very effective in both places who just
have to have the right message yeah I
think that's a super important point
all right to the findings Trump's
approval in Arizona is the same as it
was in Wisconsin 48 percent which is
higher than his national average of
around 41 percent he's got a 50 48
approval on the economy which was also
the same as Wisconsin and he trails a
generic Democratic candidate 47 percent
to 46 percent with 2 percent voting
third party and 5 percent undecided
that's also you know was a one-point
margin in Wisconsin as well this is a
state where new voters are key for
Democrats
none 2016 voters people who did not vote
in 2016 but say they're gonna vote in
2020 lean Democrat by 69 to 16% and this
is why in this poll Arizona is much
closer than it was in 2016 where Trump
beat Hillary by three and a half points
and also 68 percent of those new voters
are under 35 so this is there is you
know there's the one difference between
some of these Sun Belt states and some
of these Rust Belt states is in
Wisconsin it is a bit more of a
persuasion game and it does seem like in
Arizona it's much and we've seen this in
Texas in Georgia as well it's much more
about trying Democrats trying to expand
the electorate to bring in new voters
and especially young voters
swing voters people who say they voted
for at least one Republican and one
Democrat in the last three years support
the Democratic candidate by 54 to 26%
independents lean Democrat by 43 to 40%
also we pulled the Senate race and found
that Mark Kelly has a fifty to forty
seven percent lead over senator martha
mcsalley whose approval rating is a
pretty awful 30% with 50 percent
disapproval dan I'll stop there before
we get into the messaging stuff your
initial reactions to the top lines and
and how do you see the state being
different than Wisconsin for Democrats
if at all
the initial reaction on top lines is
Arizona is gonna be one of the states at
the sides the white house this is not a
stretch state like we generally divide
like in the context of a presidential
campaign usually divide the state's into
battleground states and quote expansion
states which are states that you don't
need to necessarily need to get to 270
they are harder to win but if all things
are going your way and you have
resources you all invested them right
North Carolina is an expansion state
Georgia is theoretically an expansion
state but Wisconsin is now deserves to
be on the battleground state list with
the states that are essentially coin
flips right now at this stage at least
and so I think that is a very positive
sign for Democrats because Trump's
ability to move Ohio in Iowa into his
column have dramatically narrower the
number of paths
the Democrat has to 270 yeah and so
getting one more state that we have a
chance to win is very helpful right you
could lose Wisconsin win Arizona you're
still president and also forces Trump to
compete in another state so I think
that's very important I think it is very
similar Wisconsin in a lot of ways with
the way in which is different you point
out it is the path to winning is
different and and I think somewhat
harder or more resource intensive than
Wisconsin because Democrats have not
been running well-funded well-organized
presidential campaigns in the state for
decades now you're starting off with a
less you know your volunteer list your
voter list your data is less
sophisticated and well organized and it
is in some of these other states and
it's it just simply is harder and more
expensive to get new voters that it is
to persuade people who vote all the time
it's there's greater upside to it which
is why you want to do it so to compete
in Wisconsin - I'm sorry to compete in
Arizona reasons gonna require the
Democratic Party and eventual Democratic
nominee to start investing as soon as
possible because you there's a big
registration task and the turnout task
is going to be harder but it is very
winnable and the upside is actually
because of this new voter universe
higher than in Wisconsin yeah you know
we also pulled the Democratic horse race
which we don't put a ton of stock into
because Arizona is not an early state
and we tell everyone to tell you guys to
make sure to only really care about
polling in the early states so you can
look at our democratic or straights
polling but the one and you know Warren
leads it's 35 with 35 Bernie's at 19
binds of 15 etc etc but I do think the
one thing paying that it's worth paying
attention to is the favorability ratings
among all of the candidates so Trump's
we talk about Trump's approval Trump's
personal favorability rating among all
voters is 42 56 so negative 14 approval
which is pretty bad but the only
Democratic candidates currently more
popular than him are people to judge
39:35 he's at +3 but that's of course
39:35 that's a lot of people who have no
opinion to Pete at all Elizabeth Warren
who's 45 45 so she's at that that's her
approval
Bernie Sanders is 4150 at negative nine
Komal Harris is 35 48 negative 13 and
then Jill I was mostly surprised by Joe
Biden's favorability in this poll is one
of the lowest 33:56
that's net negative 23 that's worse than
Trump's approval what do you make of
that I think that it's this is one data
point so I think we'd be very cautious
about drawing yes to many conclusions
from it much like this poll was
conducted which was I think a caveat we
probably man this poll was conducted
basically in the worst week of Trump's
political life to date yeah I was last
week and and it's notable that he still
at 48 in that in this poll in terms of
his approval this has also not been a
great week for Joe Biden because the
every conversation about Trump's
impeachment involves a conversation
about you abide now that conversation is
based on nothing of substance because
there was no evidence Joe Biden did
anything wrong there's but it still heat
like he's in the noise right of the
story that you know 9 9 and 10 Americans
are being called said to do that's part
of it at all so I think probably speaks
to some polarization within the
Democratic Party because Biden can't be
at 33 without a decent amount of
Democrats having an unfavorable opinion
of him and so the question is is that a
thing that corrects itself what a
nomination fight is over so I think it's
something worth worth watching totally
to say but it would be a point of
concern for me if I was in the Biden
campaign for sure so the important part
of the poll was for us was our message
testing we first wanted to answer the
question what's the most effective
overall argument about Trump we've said
this a lot of times there's a million
accurately negative things you can say
about Trump but a campaign is about
choosing a message being disciplined
repeating it over and over again you
have to eventually make a choice about
what you say about your your opponent
you can't say everything you know
Hillary Clinton ran into this problem in
2016
John Kerry ran into this problem about
George Bush in 2004 we called him a
million different things so we tried to
test you know is it Trump's lying his
racism his corruption his policies
what's the most effective argument to
clear winners emerge
of all of the frames that we tested
here's the first one here was the most
popular frame Donald Trump's constant
tweeting nasty insults and petty
squabbles with everyone from politicians
of both parties to America's allies are
preventing us from making any progress
instead of uniting us to solve big
challenges
he's divided us for his own political
gain that was effective among
independence among swing voters even
among some Republicans but a close
runner-up almost tied was this message
Donald Trump ran for office as a
champion of working people but as
president he's given tax breaks to big
corporations supported trade agreements
that helped big businesses and proposed
cuts to health care and retirement
benefits that was also very very popular
with independents and swing voters that
one was a little less popular with
Democrats and I'm guessing it's because
Democrats probably didn't agree with
that first line that he ran for office
is a champion of working people I think
both of these for context the first one
moved the race 12 points and sorry I'm
saying again
the first one may overall made 12
percent I scratch that I'm the math
instructor per head
both of these did very well overall and
with independence the one about Trump is
a faux populist did a few points better
with independents yes it did it did and
and Republicans which is interesting too
yeah so the next series of messages we
tested were more specific statements
about Trump's record and policies on
immigration abortion health care judges
and can I say what I'm sorry I say one
thing about the yeah the message frames
yeah yeah I think just to give people
context about why we did this the most
fundamentally basic exercise that any
campaign goes through when they get into
a race is something called the message
box in the message boxes for squares on
a white board generally where you put
your positive argument for yourself and
you put your negative argument for your
opponent and you want to know what your
opponent positive argument of themself
is and their and their partisan negative
argument for you the bottom left the the
Democrats best negative argument
Trump is one that we have never been
able to figure out right to your point
racist liar conman uncouth unfit you say
all the things all of which are true but
if you say all the things and know one
thing breaks through and so you need a
clear and consistent story so this point
this was the beginning of the exercise
to figure out what is the best way to
describe Trump that is the most
impactful with the voters we need
because if we run through the same
exercise where we say all the things
again then we're gonna have the same
problem I can 2016 which is no one know
like you can't ask voters the voters
won't be able to tell we read back to
you like I remember doing post-election
panels in 2016 and I would ask voters
ask the attendees what what was Donald
Trump's message for himself right in the
context of this message box and they
would say make America great again
mm-hmm I'd ask the question of I'd say
what was Hillary codes message herself
and you get lots of answers people would
shout out lots of things but it was but
they were nothing consistent I would ask
what Hillary Clinton egative message
about Trump was in the room would
erupted right like racist unfit all
right wire etc you know except
misogynists you know all true and you
ask them what Trump's negative message
about Hillary was and they would all
yell crooked Hillary yeah and so like
that is not necessarily why Trump won
but it's it is it certainly contributed
to that fact and we need to be able to
have at the end of the twenty twenty
election when you ask people what is you
know Democratic nominees X argument
against Trump you want to be able to
read back something specific to you yes
and so after we did that the next series
of messages we tested were more specific
statements about Trump's record and
policies on immigration abortion health
care judges national security and the
economy to see which statements would
make voters more or less likely to
support him once again as in Wisconsin
we found that statements describing
Trump's economic policies were
significantly more effective against him
than any other statement about his
policies or record and so you know you
listed the top four and the memo that
you wrote about this which by the way
everyone should go to cricket comm read
Dan's memo about Wisconsin it's
brilliant just like the Wisconsin
was so go check that out but top four
messages the most effective against
Trump Trump promised to reduce the
deficit but you know he dramatically
increased government spending and cut
taxes for corporations in the wealthy
and the deficits expected to grow to a
trillion dollars this year so what about
how his tax cut increased the deficit
another one about how his tax cut gave a
tax break to companies that ship jobs
overseas and GM and some other companies
are already closing plans and moving
stuff overseas another one this is the
this was the most popular one in
Wisconsin message in Wisconsin Donald
Trump broke a campaign promise by
proposing more than 1 trillion dollars
and cuts to Medicare Medicaid and Social
Security
even as he passed a tax cut for the rich
and then Donald Trump promised to repeal
NAFTA but now he's working with Wall
Street major corporations and the big
drug companies to pass a new NAFTA that
hurts workers and helps corporations all
messages about Trump favoring the rich
over working people with his policies
dan what did you think about these
results and you know tell us a little
bit about what you said in the in your
Arizona memo so in the memo I offer
three recommendations for how the
emma-crats can begin the process of
winning to Arizona the first one is to
mention earlier which is invest now and
early because this is gonna be about
registering and turning out new voters
that is gonna be in the path to win you
got to start that process right now the
second was you know about the narratives
which is that the best argument against
about Trump is that he is a chaotic
corporatist right that he is causing
chaos and I think what was most
important about those narratives was
that there was a cost to his actions
right it is not just that he is a that
he has a crazy tweeter who doesn't who
fights with people it's then because he
is doing that he's not doing he's not
helping her family he's not fighting for
things and so you in any message about
Trump you gotta draw it to a specific
outcome for American families it's like
this is not a quiet we're not trying to
kiss people not to perform cause he's
unpresidential or uncouth it is his
behavior is not bad on its own it's his
bad behavior has an impact on your life
yeah and it should be better this and we
should say that even in that first one
about his tweeting I think one of the
reasons it works
instead of uniting us to make progress
he has divided us for his own political
gain by doing all this crazy tweeting
and yelling and insulting and stuff like
that there's a specific mention that it
is in that he has impeded our progress
as a nation and then the third part
which I think is the most important
point and I think it's it's true in
Arizona it was true most kinda think
it's true nationally is whoever wins the
economic debate is gonna win this race
so Trump's economic approval rating in
this poll is fifty forty eight and that
comes despite a summer of really bad
economic news for trouble yeah his trade
war recession fears you know huge market
gyrations you know some below
expectations growth numbers despite all
of that Trump's economic approval rating
is still positive and he gets positive
ratings on nothing and so that's
significant and we also tested Trump's
positive economic message for himself
and so we tested since Trump became
president we've created millions of jobs
and unemployment rates are the lowest
they've been in decades that message was
very effective yes
Trump messages that we have tested
either in Wisconsin Arizona don't do
anything to move the race just they
they're either slightly more and they're
like slightly less offensive to
independence and swing voters this one
was made twenty percent of Independence
made independence twenty percent more
likely to support Trump and even cut the
Democratic number down into the 60s and
so that it that is very significant and
but as you point out we have the
ammunition to or let me see let me go
this way
Trump's economic support is a mile wide
and an inch deep and so if we
communicate the messages outlined in
this poll the ones we tested we can take
him down and if he loses his economic
support I think the bottom does fall out
with everyone other than the mag abase
and so for all the discussion of all the
other important issues we can and should
talk about guns civil rights Trump's
races that the Democratic candidate has
a moral obligation to talk about those
things and campaign on those things but
the effort to take Trump's economic
approval rating down should begin right
now and there is so much
for me like the problem is people know
the unemployment numbers and they know
that Trump says he has been good they
don't know what its actual economic
policies are and they don't know who his
economic policies are for when you find
out that he has done these bad things in
order to help his friends and big
business and enrich himself then it can
be devastating but that information is
that is not breaking through in the
organic press and so it needs to be part
of I know I'm a broken record on
this but a aggressive targeted sustained
advertising campaign and that campaign
should have started yesterday well when
you yes it should have when you read
this mouth with this memo you read this
poll and read our Wisconsin poll you
know I you realize why during
yesterday's press conference Nancy
Pelosi opened with instead of
impeachment I'd like to talk about
prescription drug prices and our
legislation to lower our prescription
drug prices and we have been you know
very critical we had been very critical
of Pelosi before this impeachment
inquiry for not pursuing an impeachment
inquiry but I would say that Pelosi is
reluctance to pursue impeachment makes a
little more sense when you read polls
like this now at least you know what
polls she's been looking at because
these polls all say like the best way to
be Trump the most effective way to be
Trump is to talk about these economic
issues to talk about his faux populism
his plutocracy his helping his rich
friends over working people his budget
cuts as health care cuts to Social
Security cuts as Medicare cuts like this
is what Democrats need to be talking
about in this election in order to beat
him and you know now my argument would
be that I think that we can do both that
like there is at both a moral obligation
and a political benefit to impeaching
him and we should do it and we've argued
that we're in it now but I think if all
we talked about from now until the
election is Trump's crimes and his
criminality and everything he deserves
to be impeached for and his racist
outbursts and his tirades and all that
kind of stuff and we didn't talk about
all of the policies that he's passed
that are making life harder for most
people in this country
of all races of all genders of all
backgrounds then we would you know we're
not putting our best argument forward
and so I understand you know and
everyone should understand like this
this is like you said this is our
ultimate goal we do need to communicate
to voters exactly what Trump's policies
are and what they have done to the
country especially on their time and the
last point I'd make on that is I think
it's great than suppose you started a
press conference that way but Trump is
spending millions of dollars you know on
digital ads to take this message
directly to the voters and we are not
going to communicate the economic
narrative that we need through the press
we have to communicate directly to
people yeah the old theory that we can
communicate it through the press and we
know this because all of this
information that we show to voters has
all been covered by the press is nothing
they ignore the stories they wrote
stories about the trillion dog types
that they wrote stories about the tax
plan but it doesn't break through the
noise people's information
the mistake we make in democratic
politics is we worry about the coverage
and not the conversation like we like if
you can it's not that you can't just add
up the number of headlines you got and
new since you got and think that that
equals communication right it is is it
showing up in people's social media feed
are they seeing it are they seeing it
relentlessly and there just is no
strategy there are no possibility to use
the organic earned media to do that so
you're going to have to spend money to
do it and it can happen at the exact
same time that we're in teaching Trump
can have the exact same time we're
talking about health Trump's policies on
guns have contributed to all these other
things but it has to be happening yep
all right when we come back we will have
Dan's interview with congressman Jamie
Raskin and then we will have my
interview with Abdul el se
