let's talk about the Oscars so first of
all Kevin Hart was announced as the host
of the Oscars and just days after he
dropped out because of a slew of old
homophobic tweets that were unearthed
examples yo if my son comes home and
tries to play with my daughter's
dollhouse
I'm gonna break it over his head and say
in my voice stop that's gay sounds like
premeditated fire okay that sounds like
a traumatic memory that a lot of people
have you sound like lucious puttin Jamal
in the trash can on Empire lmao at all
of the woman asking me where the pic is
I'm not passing along a pic of a naked
man that would make me gay by
association the many women begging him
for dick pics is out we're supposed to
believe that there are a bunch of women
begging for Kevin Hart nudes
why does Wayne to15 have so many
pictures of me in his phone what are you
some type of fat that takes pic of
small black men all day here is my thing
I know that we have been and we're gonna
get into this but a lot of people
have responded particularly comedians
being like we don't want to you know
they're all trying to sort of hedge a
bit you know they don't want to be the
person who comes out and is in favor of
censorship of comedy because that ends
up being a slippery slope we've seen it
happen this year but also can you
acknowledge the fact that most of Kevin
Hart's tweet weren't jokes right he was
responding to like people who tweeted
annoying things at him on Twitter with
shut up like most of his tweets that
someone found was just him being like
 you or you were fat fat or you're
ugly this I'm like that's not a joke
that's just yelling it right so then
Kevin Hart so they
found the tweets and then he like
weirdly refused to apologize so he was
posting these weird-ass videos on
Instagram where he was like don't listen
to the negativity and and I stay off
social media and then he so the
incredible thing is the incredible thing
is had that video just been an apology
right how did actually just been a I
have gram 40 years old I have changed
you know there's language because I the
other thing that's interesting is like
people when you talk about using that
word like there was a time where that
was not like it's always homophobic
obviously but like people used it
liberally for it to be you know it's
about a femine things will just
threw that out like instead of saying
you're dumb they'd be like don't be a
fast exactly and so people I think have
a little bit more understanding of wow
there are a lot of things we used to say
that we're not okay and recognizing that
people change if you've just a bucket
apologize in that video and instead he
did not and then he he did a sleepy ass
video yeah in his bed in black and white
with no clothes on just like rubbing his
pecs if you want to talk about gay by
association but so then he didn't even
he didn't even the Academy did not fire
him Kevin Hart then stepped down his
house right
apologize the bar was so low all he had
to do they were literally like just
apologize for these tweets which which
everybody acknowledges are a few years
old not that many years old
it was like 2010 after he had already
made 20 movies and was definitely an
adult so this is all definitely still
very much out of line but he took it as
some insult to his like ego or integrity
as you just heard in that clip there
he's like the world is mad at you I mean
just the actual megalomania you were
hearing when actually people are just
saying as you said IRA these are just
slurs that have no context other than
you are
calling somebody gay so all he had to do
was say look the Oscars are a new huge
platform Kevin Hart arguably huger than
the Oscars at this point but when the
Oscars come into play and you're asked
to host that basically the room you're
in just got bigger
apologize louder for the people in the
back there's new people paying attention
now you know the the Oscars are
something that gay people love
Here I am my entire job at crooked media
is telling you I love the Oscars etc so
it is very it's also people's jobs on
Twitter today reminding me that Louis
Vuitton should host the Oscars precisely
I get it but what's crazy also
is how this conversation is shifted to
well there are other comedians who have
said like the word in like a way
they probably wouldn't have now all
right so Nick Cannon I love that Mariah
Carey's ex-husband enters the fray to be
like but wait a second Amy Schumer and
Sarah Silverman and other people have
tweeted before well first of all
it's not okay for them to have done it
either - I'm glad you found the one or
twice we stood there yes where Kevin
Hart was sending them out like he was in
the imitation game trying to
break Nazi codes and there's also this
problem this was the problem with Bill
Cosby this was the problem with Nate
Parker when people always try to bring
up what a white person did that was bad
to defend something bad that a black
mail read you are not doing the world
any kind of good we're basically saying
white people get to be bad so why can't
I be bad too and it's actually at the
expense of LGBTQ people who are also
black right
it also I'm sorry the bar is not Sarah
Silverman give me a break like no one's
that like it just is it fully is and
it's always men and it is so much about
like three black men this is great where
a bad behavior that they want to be able
to emulate also like why don't I get to
also oppress women and not get in
trouble why don't I get to be homophobic
and not get in trouble first of all it's
like you do well to learn that you do
well to learn the double
standards and you should wise up to the
fact that like you know it shouldn't be
happening anyway but like you don't get
to do the same things that a white
person gets dude you are not Chelsea
Handler yeah if Eddie Murphy has
apologized in the name what he said in
his raw standup Kevin Hart can issue a
 apology because let me tell you
your comedy is nowhere near Eddie Murphy
yeah raw level also by the way there's
something so disingenuous about
comparing him to he converted to Sarah
Silverman Chelsea Handler and Amy
Schumer whom all three of those women in
particular on the shows they had Sarah
Silverman program inside Amy Schumer and
let's the other one in Chelsea Lately
prominently featured queer comedians
like these are people who are a longtime
allies of the LGBT community loudly
apparently on purpose Kevin Hart has
done for gaming well that's sort of
like what Karen said you know at the
point where you sort of maybe you got
lulled into this sense where you thought
that like okay I can use because I
have gay friends you know um who maybe
I've used the word jokingly around them
like I've had straight female friends
say that right at some point depending
on the context and you don't get mad if
the context works this was Kevin Hart
using as an insult
and it's also I don't see you
walking gay children in nature right
like there are no gay people prominently
involved in your movies involved in
behind the scenes
so it's like you are not an ally to the
gay community and it's this problem too
because it's always like when Michael
che defending him on Weekend Update I
mean what want Michael che
defended sir at this point but it's like
you doing this it always tries to
position this as like oh these white gay
people are getting so mad about Kevin
and trying to stop his bag ignoring the
fact that our black community is full of
people on the LGBTQ spectrum and none of
you ever do anything yeah to support
that community can I also say that I I
found some humor in some of this in Nick
Cannon's like quote-unquote outing of
what they did because Nick and I'm like
who are you talking to
what audience you're talking to because
I was like first of all black people
don't give a about any three of
those women anyway who is like oh
they've said bad things they're like no
one was checking for the Amy Schumer
whatever it is she's doing anyway which
I just it was so it was so to help them
out on racist things before and it's
been people who've defended them right
it just it was it was just so dumb like
I remember when Lena and Amy did
something like races and we Xavier that
got online like reached out did this
hold yeah like oh let me teach you a
lesson it's like no one wants to do that
anyone else was just it was so dumb
because the there's a large chunk of
people who didn't give a anyway and
then you again you're proving nothing by
saying the save like okay so they said
things they shouldn't have said either
what is your like yeah right what are
you trying to say also by the way Sarah
Silverman in particular has more than
any other comedian I can think of
addressed specific jokes she has said
walk them back said here's exactly why I
would not say this again here's
exactly why it was wrong and not been
above criticism which is the whole
 thing with Kevin Hart he can't
believe the audience can talk back at
all you know what I mean like the way
he's like my team told me that people
are upset it's like how dismissive can
you be of people just being like why the
 did you say that right and his
phony
sweet about his son asking him why
people get so mad on the internet sir
your son did not so when he finally
apologized Oh what was his tweet he said
I sincerely apologize to the LGBTQ
community for my insensitive words from
my past
I am evolving and want to continue to do
so and that nothing he quoted Martin
Luther King James and said the ultimate
measure of a man is not where he stands
in the moments of comfort and
convenience but where he stands at times
of challenge and controversy and let me
say that I immediately responded to that
dumb sweet
because I let him know on Twitter the
rest of the quote the true neighbor will
risk his position his prestige and even
his life for the welfare of others in
dangerous valleys and hazardous pathways
he will lift some bruised and beaten
brother to a higher and more noble life
but that's the thing listen we have been
over this the Harriet Tubman rule also
quiet sir Martin Luther King it applies
to Rosa Parks it applies to Malcolm X it
applies to Huey Newton it applies to if
there's a community center named after a
black person you shouldn't be out here
comparing yourself to them it shouldn't
need to be said I have already told you
this goddamnit Martin Luther King does
not want to be he does not want his name
involved in Kevin Hart's he
just Martin Luther King does not want
his name on a tweet where Kevin Hart
gave an apology days too late about some
 he should've done in the first
place
he doesn't want anything to do with it
he doesn't want anything to do with
Kevin Hart also days before that the
original thing Kevin posted were he's
like the important thing is I'm in love
with the man I'm becoming it's like what
you're 40 years old can you be that man
already Jesus Christ oh just the bar for
men in general of like
yeah it's so low and just like the way
that they'll treat you know they'll he
was he was 25 years old okay so he's not
a goddamn child he's in grad school yeah
what
why do men become adults please I would
love a number what is the age where men
get to be held accountable for
where we can say this is an adult man
because if you're 40 years old and
you were still fully figuring it out
listen I'm happy for growth people
should grow but if you were still if you
haven't figured out the whole being a
man thing right and being like a
complete individual and you're 40 years
old if you're still that lost we have a
lot of problems and by the way in his
continued growth I hope he continues to
reconcile with the movie get hard which
came out three years ago in which he
conflated preparing for rape in prison
with regular gay culture and routinely
did mocking effeminate gay voices I
interviewed him at the time and said did
you think any of this would actually
ever sound dated or you know like humor
that maybe shouldn't be said or is old
or retrograde and he told me that funny
is funny who was in that movie with Will
Ferrell yeah no man not a good move it
is shocking there is no comparison to
how crappy that movie is so Will Ferrell
is very tall and doesn't and Kevin Hart
is not right did that look weird I do
believe that was part of the dynamic
that was a joke yes why do you think the
rock keeps starring opposite him central
intelligence and so here's my thing
people keep talking about who they want
to replace him and my thing is I would
have been perfectly fine with him doing
it if he'd apologized I have to listen
he is arguably one of the biggest box
office stars right now certainly the
biggest in comedy right now it would
have gotten people watching the show
which others do for ratings he wasn't a
bad choice but also my thing like
everyone's tweeting like well Tiffany
Haddish host blah blah blah I'm like
first of all do you think they didn't
ask Tiffany Haddish before Kevin Hart
must be real people lose their minds I'm
here what did you ask this president of
like Kevin Hart was literally
one of the last people that they went
there was a really interesting article
in The Hollywood Reporter I believe
about basically why no one wants to host
the Oscars and they were going on about
you know it's so easy to get steeped in
controversy how it's not that much money
and for the amount of time that you have
to prepare if you're an actual celebrity
it's not financially worth you're just
you know worth your time necessarily is
that promo really gonna be useful for
you so you had their they've been having
trouble and it's you have to find
someone sort of middle-of-the-road you
have to find someone who is funny but
not you know is not gonna offend anyone
and someone you want someone who can be
topical but not too partisan and that
kind of thing so it's this weird it's a
small group of people who you know who
could really do the job and then it's
also the fact that their ratings are
dwindling so they want to get someone
who's gonna help with that but also
someone who could help with that that's
how you get into some fan art alright
right also it's interesting though
because when I think of past Oscar host
I can't really think of anybody whose
star fell after hosting the Oscars even
like the worst example would be James
it's like still a movie star afterwards
and by the way and the reason is even me
too couldn't take him there that's what
I'm saying
also I mean because I think people are
aware on some level if the Oscars is a
very specific challenge and even if you
fail at it you don't suck you know what
I mean it's just like all right didn't
work out that's it I hope actually we
take the lesson from the Golden Globes I
know people are excited for Sandra oh
and Andy Samberg because co-host is a
good idea it takes the burden off liking
a single individual and makes it feel
more like a show like oh I wonder what
these two will put out you know it's
more it's it's more kind of a jocular
rad energy so I'm excited for a duo and
by the way seems weird that Wanda Sykes
his name hasn't come up in this
conversation how was she not hosted the
Oscars book lean away suggested Wanda
Sykes oh she actually suggested like
Donald Glover what site she says she
just said make sure it's someone black
and funny yeah I don't think that's that
hard I mean well okay fine I'll do it
Lena I'll do it oh is that oh I see what
was happening now all leading to this
that was why we discussed all of this
I'm a point of everything moms Mabley
get up here NFL for once again
you
