so this vote took place well nearly
every single Republican candidates
running ads promising to protect
pre-existing conditions even though
they've all voted against them some of
the Republicans running are actually
part of a federal lawsuit trying to
strike down the Affordable Care Act and
pre-existing conditions and yet are
running ads about how they're in favor
of pre-existing conditions Tommy what is
that what do you think that says about
how far the politics of health care have
shifted yeah I mean I think the majority
of house candidates in swing districts
are the vast majority are in favor of
Medicare for all or some version of
Medicare for all at this point it shows
you how far the politics have swung on
health care towards the Democratic
position but these guys dug themselves
an enormous hole because they have
trained their base to hate everything
that is associated with Obama and they
voted dozens of times to repeal
Obamacare but funny thing happened
between the passage of the Affordable
Care Act and today which is that
Obamacare got really popular it's like
you long enough
it's like 54 percent approval yeah you
know and it's like it's the issue most
voters want to hear candidates talking
about so it's not just these votes in
Congress
it's these lawsuits that are coming out
of secretaries of state we're running
for office and states across the country
and it's putting them in a very bad
place so I think like the vast majority
of Democratic ads are about health care
like outside of Washington these
campaigns are very very substantive it's
it's about health care first and
foremost yeah the other reason these
Republicans are doing this is they are
liars
it is interesting right because you know
Donald Trump from Donald Trump down to
Republicans it's in order for
Republicans to win on the issue of
health care they make themselves sound
like Democrats Yeah right that they'll
protect previous and conditions that
they'll protect Medicare and they'll
protect you against Democrats trying to
undermine your health care and take your
health care which I think speaks to how
much the positive signal right I also
think that that like what you were
saying it's like an implicit
acknowledgment of the fact that what
they want for the country is contrary to
what the majority of the country wants
which is something that should be really
disturbing to us like that is that tells
you everything you need to know about
the people who are in power we're
advertising themselves as being Pro
protecting
and conditions but then in practice
quietly advocating against protecting
those positions they know that what
they're advocating for is not what the
people want and they're doing it anyway
and they have a sincere belief right
they have a sincere belief that the
government should be less involved in
health care and that the system will
work better if insurance companies have
more leeway to offer different kinds of
plans even if those plans don't cover
very much and leave people exposed to
the worst predations of the interest but
they never campaign on that sincere
belief if you believe that let us know
that depending on is saying that
democrats are gonna gut Medicare but
there's one party that has a plan to cut
Medicare in the way you do that is you
pass a 1.5 trillion dollar tax cut for
the wealthy and for corporations you
know what happens at the back end of
that you've got entitlements like
Medicare Medicaid and Social Security
it's just math that's know so the White
House has also noticed that health care
is the top issues for voters this fall
on Wednesday Trump wrote an op-ed in USA
Today or no no no Donald Trump paces in
the Oval and he just starts speaking and
they take it down it comes out like a
like a Leonard Cohen song pick on the
first draft so here's his best
effort at the USA Today op-ed contained
so many lies at the Washington Post fact
checkers noted that nearly every
sentence of the piece contains some kind
of misleading statement or falsehood in
the piece Trump accuses Democrats of
pushing a medicare-for-all plan that
will end Medicare as we know it and
destroy the benefits that seniors have
already paid for love it what why has
this op-ed made the fact checkers so
angry and why did USA Today published an
op-ed with so many lies I don't know
John
maybe they're still smarting from the
fact that people got weather on their
phones
USA Today exists to give business
travelers something to read on the
 toilet your job is to do no harm
do not spread lies all right these are
people who have meetings to get you
they're far from home they miss their
kids they miss their dog it's an
insurance convention
maybe they'll cheat on their spouse they
got a lot on their mind the last thing
you need to do is start over them with
false information about health care
these are people trying to network my
new business partners find places to new
suppliers I think it is important
because they've decided that as
Democrats have moved in mass to support
Medicare for all yeah they've decided
that this is gonna be the leading edge
of their attack against Democrats not
just in this election but they know that
every Democrat running in 2020 it's
gonna be a supporter Medicare for all so
first it's important to say this
argument that met it gimmie Medicare to
everyone is bad for Medicare is
you have to call it out for that the
second thing is important do is call it
out for what they're really saying the
subtext of this is hey old white people
Democrats are gonna take your Medicare
that you love they're gonna give it to
young black and brown people vote for us
like that's what this is undocumented
immigrants that's what you're not
getting the Medicare that you deserve
Colin Kapernick he's gonna get the
protesters there to get Colin Kaepernick
medicine
this Medicare
