anyway so it's not on the pod welcome to
pod save America I'm Jon Favreau I'm Jon
Lovitz or later in the pod our
conversation with congressman Hakeem
Jeffries who was just elected to be the
house Democratic caucus chair we're also
gonna talk about the legacy of George HW
Bush the latest in the Trump
investigation and how Republicans are
responding to their midterm losses
especially in states like Wisconsin and
Michigan before we do that love it I
hear your beloved variety show is
returning love it early finally
something to do on Saturday love it or
leave it
we'll be back on Thursday to those of
you complaining to me in my Twitter feed
I'm sorry that we only did 47 in a row
unbelievable but we're back we have some
great guest lines up which you can
discover by downloading it and you won't
be disappointed we're gonna do a bunch
of shows for the rest of December then
we'll be back in January we're also
gonna have some touring this week and
we're doing shows all across the United
States of America amazing amazing also
reminder the deadline to purchase health
insurance is the Affordable Care Act as
December 15th
check out plans on healthcare.gov
because signups are a little down
because Trump has been sabotaging the
law the last couple years and it
starting to have an effect and that site
works now it does work it does work get
some health care come to love it or
leave it
don't worry about falling klieg lights
there you go I'm just saying the danger
it's a real danger
okay let's get to the news George HW
Bush the 41st president of the United
States died over the weekend he was 94
years old before he was president Bush
served as vice president director of the
CIA ambassador to the United Nations
chairman of the Republican National
Committee envoy to China and a
congressman from Texas he was the last
combat veteran to serve in the White
House and Navy pilot who flew missions
in World War two and survived multiple
crashes his body will lie in state in
the US Capitol Rotunda this week and a
state funeral is scheduled for Wednesday
morning now just like when John McCain
died there's a bit of a debate about
41's legacy most every Republican and
Democratic politician along with older
establishment political types have
praised Bush's commitment to service to
decency to governing in a way that
sometimes pissed off his own party but
there are plenty of reporters and and
folks on the Left who have pointed out
the darker aspects of his legacy and his
failure to stand up to the right-wingers
guys where do you come down on this
debate I think you should be beatified
and taking his rightful place amongst
the American greats that or we should
drag his body through the streets of
Rome like Mussolini it's one option
choice there's no complexity in our
public debate anymore
you get a thumbs up or you get a thumbs
down and you are judged accordingly to
which side you were on forever
yeah you know there was a lot of talk
about the bush legacy and I'm sure a lot
of people listening have read and seen a
lot to me what I was thinking about when
I saw that he died was that what I was
always struck me about the way bush is
governed is they can't seem to
understand the connection between their
brass knuckles often race-baiting often
deceptive campaign style and then their
failure to be seen as either moderate or
convivial once they govern and that's
true of George HW Bush who ran the
Willie Horton ad that's true of his son
who ran one of the most despicable
presidential campaigns including a
famous ad with wolves in it about
terrorism and so although I would say
that the difference there is while both
of the campaign's were pretty race
Beatty George HW Bush probably governed
more as a moderate than George W Bush
well that's it that's the thing it's
like George HW Bush kept the right wing
at arm's length
it was a game he had to play and slowly
but surely it became with each passing
election less and less of a game more
and more of what Republican policy
politicians were doing while they were
governing was a seeding to the base that
they were riling up and poking with a
with a cattle prod through each campaign
yeah what do you think Tommy there is no
right way to feel about this and we will
be attacked by both sides which will be
fun but I mean I can't help but be
impressed when I look at that record of
service you talked about earlier
ambassador to China
CIA director vice president and member
of Congress I mean that's a lot of time
in your life to give you your country I
also think it takes considerable courage
to decide it
17 when you hear the news about pearl
harbor being bombed that you're gonna
sign up to go to the military service
and be one of the youngest pilots ever I
mean it's pretty extraordinary I think
on foreign policy he showed restraint
and deafness at some key times like he
didn't stomp on everyone's grave when
the Berlin Wall came down he didn't take
a victory lap because he knew that would
make it harder to piece things back
together afterwards in man's the
aftermath I think the coalition to get
Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait was put
together well and I think it speaks well
of him that he didn't feel the need to
go to take out Saddam and March all the
way to Baghdad those were tough
political decisions back home so like
it's complicated but you know he
criticized the Civil Rights Act when he
ran for Congress he he out sourced a lot
of his dirty work to creeps like Roger
Ailes and Lee Atwater in like this
what Lovett was saying sir means justify
the ends take on politics that I don't
think you get a pass for he like you
were talking about his his dealing with
the far-right I mean he tried to run as
a moderate and then when Reagan was a
force of nature in right-wing politics
he flip-flopped on abortion and he went
from denouncing supply-side economics to
embracing it so you know there are a lot
of things he didn't do well he didn't
embrace medical solutions of the AIDS
crisis early on and I think a lot of
people are justifiably really mad at him
about that he he gave people pardons for
iran-contra that if Donald Trump did
those things today we would say it was
rightly a constitutional crisis and an
attempt to absolve himself from any
blame and whitewash history so you know
I think there's a bunch of good profiles
like Adam to Gurney's piece in new york
times is is long and thorough and
thoughtful if you want to read a tougher
piece Charlie Pierce wrote a piece for
Esquire and that took a much harder line
at Bush and then there's Maureen Dowd
wrote a piece that's really sort of
about Bush being nice to her when she
was really mean to his son and I think
that piece actually explains a lot of
what you're seeing in the media because
he was an unfailingly nice and polite
person to those he knew he wrote
thank-you notes he was gracious and kind
and I think that you know
let's everyone remember a period of time
in politics where civility did feel like
it existed and everyone sort of pines
for that but civility doesn't mean much
to you if you were harmed by his
policies yeah I met I first should say I
met him at the White House really and he
was incredibly nice and Frankel and I
added Frankel and I he was there for
maybe was the medal of I'm not sure why
Cameron Bure the event but we went up
and introduced ourselves he was
incredibly nice he wanted a talk he was
just a nice person in person look I
think everyone's life is complicated and
and so are presidential legacies and
like you say you know you listed a lot
of the good parts and the bad parts of
the bush legacy and I very much
appreciated the pieces that were tough
on him but like sort of laid it out in a
real logical smart way and the pieces
that were more sympathetic you know that
all of those were much better than the
inane Twitter conversation which is
mostly garbage but look I think like
it's important to avoid hey geography
right is important too even when they
die to be able to criticize our leaders
our political figures for their mistakes
their failures so we can learn from
those mistakes we should not turn people
into Saints who aren't Saints but I also
think that you know we're more than the
worst things we've ever done and when we
die when people in public life die it's
okay to praise their service and their
humanity that is a natural human
reaction I feel like sometimes we've
lost that now so my thing is like if you
want to be tough on George HW Bush's
legacy great like I learned a lot I
learned about somebody has you know
position on the war on drugs which was
bad terrible learn more about it a
terrible learn about sort of the
iran-contra pardoning I hadn't even
known about the pardons before then so I
learned a lot of things that made me
question his legacy which is great I'm
grateful for that but the thing that I
get annoyed about is like when there and
there's politicians from like Barack
Obama like Bernie Sanders pretty Sanders
tweeted something that was like very
just praising George because the bare
minimum a bare minimum people are like
why don't do this bad it's like just let
people let people handle someone dying
like they want to it's just a form of
it's another form of like rapid fire
Twitter time punditry because the legacy
of its it is genuinely important that we
not
gloss over the flaws and mistakes of
people after they die but in the day
after we're not you know we're not
finalizing the Encyclopedia Brittanica
entry today you know we're not
finalizing the chapter in the textbook
today just one more just one more thing
we should also add as that you know as
part of his a seating to the right he
replaces Thurgood Marshall with Clarence
Thomas right after having a pointed
David Souter
so probably the worst substantive legacy
that lives on from his presidency yes
and and you know it's hard not to
connect to the fact that Clarence Thomas
makes it onto the court despite credible
allegations of despicable sexual
harassment with the fact that there are
multiple allegations against George JW
Bush for groping which at the very very
least speaks to a casualness and an
objectification of women and how he
treated people and and perhaps suggests
even worse to the the other the other
thing is this thing about what are we
like the reason people argue about the
death of someone like a president is not
because of what it meant in the past but
because what it means for us now and I
couldn't help but connect the way George
HW Bush thought of himself right with
kindness and a spirit of service
complicated by incredible political
calculation that was damning of him that
was that that just that damages his
legacy that is you know probably one of
the great threats we face as a country
is the way Republicans campaign write it
on the list of things hurting us as a
country that is one of the worst and he
is a practitioner of it but I'm thinking
about Paul Ryan you know this guy that
is also considered to be interpersonally
incredibly nice who is also
mild-mannered who's considered too
thoughtful and sort of has that kind of
interpersonal kindness and yet is able
to gloss over the ways in which he's
capitulated to Trump the destruction of
the the damage of his own policies and
to me it's like how do we how do we
agree I do think most Republicans at
least the ones who are still saying
would talk would talk more speak more
highly of George HW Bush's character
outside of policy than they would have
Paul Ryan but of course of course I know
what your larger point is like it it
we're gonna gloss over this now we're
gonna we don't wanna be glossing over
Paul Ryan
deeds and 20 years for me exactly but to
me this is this is one of the the key
challenges right because the polite
serious Republicans have been playing
this game for a very long time and the
only difference between the way Donald
Trump governs and speaks and the way
Paul Ryan governs and speaks is Donald
Trump doesn't care how it looks
to the to the Brahmin waspy you know
kind Country Club Republicans that they
hang out with on the weekends yeah
politically I'm more thankful that there
are rience around because they continue
to propose things that are horribly
unpopular sure supply-side
tax cuts and the like so they are easier
to defeat as we saw with Mitt Romney -
all right it's good to debate it could
you debate it to debate it just you know
as individuals we don't have to put out
public statements about the death of us
major former presidents you know it's
like you don't have to be dick that's
another thing that's on Twitter that's
exactly right
welcome to you welcome to and people
will continue to be alright let's turn
to our current president who's been
implicated as an unindicted
co-conspirator and multiple felonies is
under investigation obstruction of
justice campaign finance violations and
potentially conspiring with a hostile
foreign power to undermine our elections
with the purpose of helping him win the
presidency the person who was already
implicated Trump in some of these crimes
is his former lawyer and fixer Michael
Cohen who last week pleaded guilty to
lying to Congress about how Trump's
organization was pursuing a business
deal in Russia with Russian government
officials while Trump was running for
president in summer of 2016 with Trump's
knowledge a few days ago BuzzFeed
published a piece reporting the Trump's
company at one point discuss giving
Russian President Vladimir Putin a 50
million dollar penthouse in the new
Trump Tower Moscow as they negotiated a
deal during the 2016 campaign on another
price per square foot which ultimately
fell through what we looking at here and
it's not West Hollywood so you know how
much does this matter guys how much does
this soin these revelations well let's
start with the third the BuzzFeed piece
about the 50 million dollar condo that
never was it's potentially a very big
deal I mean you can't say to a foreign
official who has power over
green-lighting a project that you'll
throw in a 50 million dollar
cherry on top if you'll okay everything
I'm doing I mean there's a lot of people
discussing whether this would trigger
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
make this action actually illegal now
clearly didn't act it didn't happen
because the tower doesn't exist but it's
a big deal I mean I think stepping back
I think the simplest explanation for a
lot of the stuff makes the most sense
which is that Trump ran for president to
get attention and to get PR and to
market himself he never thought he was
gonna win nor did the people around him
so they figured let's milk this for
everything we've got this is like the
rod Blagojevich theory of politics like
I got something valuable here what can
we do within access to Russian banks
visit cities properly so they pursued
this Russia project which we know from
Trump's books he wrote about it in the
art of the deal he's been trying to get
into Russia for literally decades so of
course bozo Michael Cohen yeah it's like
of course Michael Cohen pursued this of
course he briefed Trump all the time
about it it was like the most important
thing to him and as we know Donald Trump
doesn't have a lot to do he watches a
lot of TV any tweets a lot so of course
he's getting updated his kids were a big
part of it so I think you know Michael
excuse me Michael Cohen has just exposed
Donald Trump and Donald Trump jr. and to
a whole bunch of people an organization
to a whole bunch of crimes starting with
perjury and we don't know what else yeah
I mean for the corrent Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act it seems as if like you
know one of their defenses is well the
project never happened and they never
really took it well the president if it
happened for it to be a crime if you
offered it the question is it's not it's
still a crime to rob a bank even if it
turns out the vault was empty right the
question is did did Trump know
specifically about the 50 million dollar
penthouse that would that we don't know
no doubt in my mind
I mean Rudy Giuliani is trying to say
this quote was this is Cohen's deal
Trump didn't talk to directly about the
Russians about the project bull
 Michael Cohen was talking to
Dmitry Peskov who was a top top aide to
Putin he's described as a press
secretary I don't know what that means
in the Russian context like you you run
the state's news outlets or something
yeah it's actually a pretty easy to be
the press secretary to Russia because
uh-oh you want ask me tough questions
yeah think about that again but so I
mean if Cohen is getting connected with
with people at the very top
of course he's briefing Trump about this
of course yeah sorry just but also it's
I think this like we're all still living
in part in the kind of morass of trumps
dumb fake brand like the Trump
Organization is not some giant company
it's fake its fake right there is times
when he's applying many people to build
something but in terms of what the
company is it is a very very small
family operation run out of his own
building there was just zero chance he
wouldn't know about this and we should
also just say exactly
we should also just say what the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act is which is a law
that says the United States that that
that the that if you were an American
you cannot go abroad and bribe people
and commit crimes in a foreign country
to try to get good business
opportunities the reason I'm saying that
is because Donald Trump has often said
that he thinks that goes too far because
he wants the ability to bribe people in
foreign countries to get business
because he's trying to do things in
developing countries and in Asia where
he says you need to grease the wheels he
used to say that now that he's president
it's a lot easier a year two ago it
lived out that he had pitched his staff
on getting rid of the fcpa he wanted to
do away with it we've been reported Wow
so penthouse aside legality aside how
big of a deal is that the Trump was
pursuing a real estate deal that involve
direct interaction with Putin's office
while he was wrapping up the Republican
nomination I think it's a big deal that
he lied about it yeah you know it's a
big deal that in the context of that
negotiation they were talking about
getting rid of sanctions which would
have allowed the deal to be financed by
a sanctioned bank it's a big deal that
Michael Flynn and katie mcfarland later
went on to lie about their conversations
about sanctions with russian ambassador
Rachel Maddow on Friday did a really
great a block where she tied together a
whole bunch of this that I highly
recommend people check out cuz we have
time to do it all here but I mean I I
think the the conspiracy is starting to
come together the quid the pro the quo
of the major real estate deal the
sanctions relief and then the support in
the election to damage Hillary yeah I
mean let's go back to Mike Flynn Mike
Flynn was ultimately fired and the
reason that Sally Yates said he should
be fired is she knew he was lying and
she knew that the Russians knew he was
lying
and therefore the Russians had leverage
our National Security Adviser because
they knew he wasn't telling the truth
right and now we know that for the last
couple years the Russians and the
Russian government has known that Donald
Trump and Michael Cohen have been lying
about this real estate deal so they have
had leverage over our president for the
last couple years like we know that now
so so let's just it's a buddy you took
it so um it really is a Russian nesting
doll so even if Donald Trump had not won
right the fact that this ongoing
negotiation over a over a tower was
taking place while Donald Trump was
becoming the Republican nominee and by
the way one thing that's very strange if
you listen to all the different
reporters talking about this is between
the lines you see that there's more to
come and they can't say what it is but
there's more information about how that
relationship continued to develop this
if what we're seeing is all true when it
we have no reason to believe it's not
the fact that Donald Trump was having
this sort of negotiation while he's
becoming a Republican nomination and get
Republic while he was seeking the
Republican nomination he he moved the
Republican Party on the issue of Russia
even if he had lost the fact that that
we have a Republican Party that has now
so much softer on Russia that was so
much softer on Russia at the convention
it is a huge huge victory it is an
incredibly successful bribe yeah and
also you know the context of the Trump
Tower meeting I remember Marcy talked
about this with you Indiana Thursday was
this email that talked about the broader
set of Russian support for president
Nam's campaign if Donald Trump jr.
well when you start over we know that
Donald Trump jr. knew about this project
because Michael judge Cohen just said he
briefed him on it which makes that
meeting in Trump Tower much much more
interesting well and the people who
wrote the BuzzFeed story the reporters
who wrote it Anthony Cormier and Jason
Leopold's you talk about reading between
the lines there's this this line in the
story about the the penthouse two FBI
agents with direct knowledge of the
Trump Tower Moscow negotiations told
BuzzFeed news earlier this year that
Cohen was in frequent contact with
foreign individuals about the real
estate venture and that some of these
individuals had knowledge of or played a
role in twenty sixteen election meddling
yeah so the big question we talked to
Marci a little bit about this on
Thursday is how does the whole hacking
election interference conspiracy sort of
meet up with the business negotiation
Russia you know Cohen stuff conspiracy
and this is the potential link that the
real estate deal that the people
involved in the real estate deal in the
Russian government were some of the same
people who interfered in the election
yeah it's the other really interesting
thing that in that appointed this out on
Friday is that Felix aider and Michael
Cohen at some point very early
administration went and they took a
secret Ukrainian peace deal plan and
dropped it off in Michael Flynn's office
now what are those bozos doing cooking
up a secret Ukrainian peace deal which
by the way the peace deal was like you
keep Crimea we get rid of sanctions
we're good right like wash your hands of
it right so there's a there's a whole
bunch of weird going on it feels
like way too big of a coincidence got
Michael Cohen playing Henry Kissinger
over here well that's yes yeah Henry
Kissinger the head injury the but there
was a I think it was um Ben Willis who
noted this that there is this pathetic
quality to what we're seeing which is at
one point Michael Cohen
is emailing just publicly available
email addresses to try to get a hold of
some press said Russia calm it's a
little bit like you know all of a sudden
you know these guys it's like the Trump
administration was like playing you know
playing coffee shops and you know
playing little bananas doing open mics
and then all of a sudden they found
themselves in an arena you know these
guys were so outgunned
so unprepared for the level of scrutiny
they were about to get he was just
trying to get a you know a hotel deal of
a building deal done and all of a sudden
all this power and attention and
possibility accrues to Trump because he
joined the campaign to goose the
apprentice rating and then it being the
 nominee you don't do this if you
think you're gonna win and you're
suddenly gonna have to release financial
records and you know be subject to the
kinds of transparency or transparency
rules that he's supposed to be right so
to John's point it's like there's these
three things that enter inter intersect
one there is the the damage of actually
doing this quid pro quo during the
campaign which will be favorable to you
now and let you hurt our democracy if we
get to build this hotel the second is
the aligned and the obstruction of
ourselves
and give us up to win which is right and
the second would yes interfering
campaign and the second is lying and
obstructing justice and trying to
terminate witnesses which continues
literally to this morning with Donald
Trump's tweets and then the third piece
of it is they think the part that John's
were talking about you know we've joked
about the P tape for a year and a half
the P tape may just be the friends you
make along the way the P tape may just
be the fact that Vladimir Putin knows
that the president is a criminal and
those three things seem to be all coming
to a head right now yeah so coming
attractions I mean over the weekend
Michael Cohen's lawyers submitted a
sentencing memo to the judge that asked
for leniency the memo states the Cohen
told Trump about his contacts with the
Russian government that he consulted
Trump's team on his false testimony to
Congress that he's been cooperating with
New York State on the lawsuit against
the Trump Organization CNN also reported
that Cohen was originally assured by
people close to Trump that he'd get a
pardon if he refused to cooperate with
Muller so now the the Trump defense of
all this through Super Lawyer really
Rudy Giuliani is Cowen's a liar who's
always been a liar but we should say
this there Muller knows that Michael
Cohen is not the most trustworthy human
being
I'm just admitted to it he just admitted
to it Bob Muller is not you know facing
any conclusions or making any
indictments just on based on Michael
Cohen's word alone there are documents
there are emails there are phone records
like Muller is smarter he has the goods
here it's not just like Michael Cohen
word against Donald Trump's word we
wouldn't have a case otherwise we have
no idea what general Flynn has been
saying for months and we'll find out
this week I think some or not yeah oh
yes I was gonna say so coming
attractions Muller owes the court a
brief on December 7th that is this week
on his contention that man afford lied
and committed additional crimes we're
hoping that tells a good story and then
Cohen is sentenced on the 12th so we
might know some more about the Cohen
stuff on the 12th and then Michael Flynn
as you just mentioned is sentenced on
the 18th and he's been cooperating - to
say the least
so my question is like you know there's
a lot of people that said like would
would Trump have won if voters knew he
was paying off women to conceal affairs
and pursuing a real estate deal with
Putin while running for president we
will never know this but the question
now is are we in impeachment territory
already you know like
a lot of you ask a Democrat should we
impeach Donald Trump who's elected and
they're gonna say oh I gotta wait for
the molar to report to be over you know
cuz they don't they wanted to get too
far ahead of things and I understand
that position but Muller is basically
writing this report in real time through
each of these sentencing submissions and
these indictments like aren't we at a
point right now where Democrats whether
it's politically popular or not has some
sort of an obligation even if it stopped
right now if there's nothing else isn't
there enough to say that he is severely
abused the powers of his office probably
probably yeah the dangling the pardons
the obstruction the witnessed hit ya
know like yes I mean Donald like Donald
Trump has done witness tampering and
obstruction of justice on Twitter
Tuesday and it's not even that big of a
deal because I've done it all the time
yeah so you know there's been this
question like will Democrats overreach
and it's like well how about we do one
investigation
how will we have one hearing where we're
in charge where people start worrying
about overreach I think I think there's
two things that are very clear one it is
obvious that Donald Trump has committed
impeachable offenses I think that is
like trivial okay even if you're denying
that you're I think the second
is have Democrats done the job of
setting the stage for impeachment I
think the question is no I think they
have not and so I think that I think we
need to have less sort of academic
debates as to whether or not Donald
Trump has competed committed impeachable
offenses and think more about if we want
to be what is it what is it gonna what
does the world look like when we're one
month away from Democrats passing an
impeachment resolution through the
Judiciary Committee what does the world
look like you know when we first started
seeing I think the Flynn indictment was
I think one of the big hinges in the
past two years and I remember we were we
were talking about this at the time
because there was all this drip drive
this drip drip drip of information it
never felt like enough and we said well
it's gonna feel different when the thing
that comes that tells us something is
shifted it's kind of feel different and
when Flynn pled guilty that felt
different I think we're now at the place
where we need another one of those
feelings it's not right it's not fair
but it's still kind of the world we live
in that we need something to shift and I
don't think this time it's gonna take
new information I think it's going to
take a new kind of attention and and
strategy from Democrats once they take
Congress to say here is the process by
which we are going to see if what Robert
Muller has produced and what what
chairmanship and that committee has
produced has given us enough information
to declare that Donald Trump should be
impeached on June 6 Donald Trump jr.
after the Trump Tower meeting took a
call from a blocked number for three or
four minutes I would bet almost anything
I own that that call was from his father
Don the Trump Lucca which no I would
never bet her which I think up ends the
whole story the whole cover sword that
he didn't know about this means I saw
like there's little pieces of
information that I think we'll soon be
able to get our hands on that will
fundamentally change we view this
discussion I also think though if
Michael Cohen is cooperating on this
stuff he is probably talking a whole lot
about the Trump organization's business
dealings generally speaking and I think
if you read the Washington Post during
the 2016 campaign there was some pretty
good evidence of widespread fraud misuse
of the charitable organization all kinds
of things that I think are gonna create
real legal jeopardy for and
fundamentally change the way people view
it I still think that the path to Donald
Trump leaving the White House is through
his electoral defeat in 2020 that's
right
I still think no matter what kind of
information comes out it's going to be a
very uphill climb in the Senate but the
Democrats have the house now and I think
that even even if they're worried it may
not be the most popular thing to do we
we all know I mean we're saying like
obviously you said obviously he's
committed impeachable offenses that's
true but it's actually it's it's not
trivial it's a it's a big deal and I
think that there may be sort of a
constitutional obligation on behalf of
the Democrats to sort of go through this
and go through these hearings even if
they are worried about how it looks
because I do not think we can set the
precedent that we have a president
United States who obstructs just let
justice freely who engages in these kind
of business deals who has who a foreign
power has leverage over like we just we
can't have that we have to say that
that's wrong yeah so I think that's I
think that's right but but yeah and
obviously you know Congress has a
constitutional obligation you know if
the president is criminal to investigate
it he's committed high crimes and
misdemeanors and when I say it's trivial
I don't mean that the crimes are trivial
I mean it's obvious that he's done it
it's less obvious how you make a
demonstration to the public especially a
public that's getting their news and
 fucked-up way now to figure out
how to make that case I mean I guess I
think the question for us like just like
I would wonder what you guys think how
do we go from where we're at now to kind
of shaking people from this kind of
torpor around all this stuff that where
there is this insane connection between
surprise and seriousness like how do we
like we have note we know enough we know
a lot we're gonna know more but it's
it's always gonna be incremental now
because molar has been slowly revealing
this information not through one big
report but through sentencing document
art of it is just repeating and
reminding everyone of how we've gotten
to this point in what's happened so far
you know when Democrats are on tea and
still you talk about this like how many
people forgot until Michael Cohen came
back into the picture that he a couple
months ago implicated the president in
multiple felonies as an unindicted
co-conspirator like people think just
need to bring this up you know sort of
lay the groundwork remind people as
we're talking about this of the actual
abuses that have been committed you know
like you don't have to start guessing
about what Muller might do or might not
do just talk about what's already
happened you know I mean I just we're
gonna know a lot more than we do today
before Democrats take power in the house
that's right and I also think we are
seeing an increasingly desperate
flailing tweeting president who knows
that his son is in real legal jeopardy
yeah and that could lead to pardons or
at least a very public discussion of
pardons and I think that kind of news
might change people's opinions you know
if you're if you're letting your kid get
off of something like this so I look up
I don't know the answer to your question
I want to make the best political case
I'm less interested in like the moral or
constitutional obligations and that
takács of me but it's just where I am
well I also think that by the way you
can both can and coincide together okay
especially because I think we've talked
about this before a very effective
message against Donald Trump in 2020 is
going to be how he is a corrupt rich
buffoon who only cares about himself and
no one else and just about everything
we've seen about the Russian
investigation plays right into that
caricature of Donald Trump he cares more
about himself his own bottom line than
he does about the American people in the
United States of America that is how
he's acted in domestic affairs and
foreign affairs and that is how he acted
in all the things that are coming out in
this investigation okay let's talk about
how the Republican Party is react
to their midterm defeat very water is me
it's not well and which do not go
quietly into that good night in
Wisconsin where Democrats won every
statewide office last month the
Republican held legislature will
consider a bill today Monday that would
strip power from the incoming Democratic
Attorney General Josh call and the new
Democratic governor Tony Evers in
Michigan the Republican legislature is
trying to gut ballot measures on minimum
wage and paid sick leave Republicans
have tried things like this recently in
North Carolina where they try to take
out Roy Cooper's legs from underneath
them before he even became governor in
2017 tell me what exactly are their
Wisconsin Republicans up to here and why
is it so bad so a couple things they're
going to specifically do they want to
make it hard for the incoming governor
and the incoming Attorney General to
withdraw from the Republican lawsuit
that's challenging Obamacare they want
to make it so I let me just find my next
thing they want to move the state's 2020
presidential primary from April to March
which will cost the state like seven or
eight million dollars more but it could
reduce turnout for a state Supreme Court
contest that's set for April so that's a
pretty diabolical why do they want to
reduce turn out to win an election yeah
exactly they want to change
early voting rules to make it hard for
early voting to occur so they're
basically trying to take their ball and
go home and set up a bunch of ways where
they can suppress the vote for the next
election and you know there is clearly
like a Mercer Koch brothers like big
industry playbook that they're handing
legislators because this happened in
North Carolina very similar things are
happening in Michigan and now Wisconsin
a lot of it has to do with like the
state board of elections and
redistricting like it is devious
diabolical and I think Ben wiggler
who works at moveon.org who's a friend
of the pod and a badass activist has
been like sounding the alarm about this
for a couple of days but he's right that
like there's not a page-one New York
Times story about what's happening in
Wisconsin even though it's like
literally subverting democracy I mean
when the stuff went down in North
Carolina international organizations are
like I don't know that the state is a
democracy and no more in fact it
probably isn't
it's overturning the will of the voters
plan for short people people rendered a
verdict on Scott Walker and the
Republican administration in Wisconsin
they did it in Michigan they
north carolina and republicans who do
not have matured majoritarian support
and didn't in the election are now
saying it we're gonna do what we
want in michigan they're they're just
the state voted to raise the minimum
wage and the the republicans in the in
the government are just like no yeah no
paid sick leave yet so and for it did
cap tipped worker pay at four dollars
per hour that's not like inside baseball
nonsense that happens in a state capital
that is harming real people yeah what
what happened is there was a ballot
measure to raise the minimum wage to $12
it passed now the republicans are saying
the $12 doesn't go into effect until
2030 20th ER or and for sorry you just
said this for Kasai and for tip workers
they don't ever get the $12 it's at 4.4
and they also pay it they also passed a
ballot initiative on paid sick leave and
it was so that employers could give you
nine days off and now Republicans are
saying nope you only get four I mean
this is cific and hurtful dur it's very
specific and also the the tip the tip
wage thing that is a huge fight and
there's a ton of lobbying money a ton of
corporate interest in keeping that
tipped wage below because that is a boon
to the restaurant chains and the
restaurant industry and you're seeing
that fight play out by the way DC
refused to go along with raising a tip
minimum wage so like you see this fight
playing out across the country this is
this is a pinpoint acute lobbying money
coming in to undo the will of the people
and it's in Michigan one other thing
like they're shifting campaign finance
oversight from the Secretary of State's
office to some new Commission they will
create so again they're gonna make
they're gonna make it harder in the
future to police money in politics
they're setting themselves up to use the
Koch brothers cash to win back the other
quick things in Wisconsin they're
they're trying to strip power from
eavers himself they want to prevent him
from changing Wisconsin's voter ID law
it's very harsh and they want to force
him to implicate I'm sorry they want to
force him to implement the Medicaid work
requirements the ownerís Medicaid work
requirements that have already in
Arkansas led to you know 12,000 people
losing their Medicaid that Scott Walker
had put into Wells graceful one more
right you know there's been this battle
over this lawsuit about Obamacare right
something that was politically toxic for
a lot of Republicans probably helped us
win across the country they're trying to
make it so that eight
so that the Republicans in the
legislature can hire a lawyer their own
lawyer their own lawyers to privately
consistent with draw from this lawsuit
or from any basically it's the ideas
they are taking the power away from the
Attorney General to choose to defend or
not to defend any suit that comes by the
state purely purely to just take the
basic the basic powers of the Attorney
General and just devolve them to the
legislature because they just don't like
it when the same move in Michigan so
this is definitely a play that they're
doing across the country the Republicans
for democratic attorney generals they're
saying you don't have the right to
decide which cases that you want to
defend or not and we're gonna have the
legislature be able to hire there our
own lawyers so what can people do about
it if you're in Wisconsin you can go to
a rally on the State Street steps at
5:30 p.m. Central time this evening
Monday evening or if it's past that you
can call your legislators at six oh
eight to six six nine nine six oh one
more thing that's up speaking North
Carolina this this story has been
percolating here nuts last week the
North Carolina State Board of Elections
refused to certify a congressional
election marred by very serious and
sketchy allegations of fraud the
Republican candidate in the state's
ninth congressional race mark Harris
appeared to win that election by it's
like about around 900 votes 1.5 but
there were significant ballot
irregularities and the State Board of
Elections is looking into sworn
statements that a person was basically
going around the district tricking
voters into handing over absentee
ballots some of which were even
incomplete of course the Republicans are
the only ones committing voter of course
they are of course they are it is so out
this is so brazen this is these people
should go to jail for a very long time
for manipulating old people in
african-american communities and
literally stealing their ballots
stealing them fear I'm here to collect
your absentee ballot I'm a nice bum a
nice poll worker here okay I'm just
gonna throw it away unbelievable the
number they also just also just like man
just leave in quite a trail just you
know you need two witnesses for your
ballots and there are these people just
going around just approving a ballot
after ballot after ballot after ballot
what one little thing I want to say of
North Carolina Democrats should look to
the examples set by Reverend barber who
was leading the moral Mondays campaign
for four years and organizing and
organizing which because of that work
they were able to fight a lot
this stuff it was because he was working
on grassroots organizing for four years
in advance of this power grab that we
were able to fight back it's so
important because movements like that
that's what you need and it was constant
in Michigan like as everyone sort of
turns their attention and we're talking
about the media hasn't done a great job
covering this or at least some of the
media hasn't done a good job covering
this you know people turn their
attention to Congress they turn their
attention to the presidential race and
stuff like that this goes on in
States and it's incredibly important for
like grassroots activists to be there on
the ground and stop this one happened
one other thing too is that you know you
see this critique from conservatives and
which is maybe if the federal government
weren't so large the stakes in these
elections wouldn't feel so high then why
the are they playing the exact same
game at the state level Democrat it's
one of the most important things in our
democracy is that when you lose it's
okay it's okay you just leave you just
say we lost and we'll fight another day
but it but then not accepting democracy
not accepting democratic results
rejecting votes refusing to try to let
people votes believing fundamentally
that the deck is so tilted against you
by the media by whatever forces in the
culture that you don't need to respect
the will of the voters is a toxic idea
and it simply doesn't have the same
purchase in democratic politics as it
has in public of politics and it's a
huge problem this goes back to
why there's a lot of fondness for George
HW Bush because he classically
transitioned the office to to Bill
Clinton he wrote a letter that's been
all over the news that people should
check out that's gracious but I mean it
goes back to the tradition step by
washington-new step to walked away yeah
and and that peaceful transition of
power is what separates a democracy from
not well I I was thinking about Michigan
and Wisconsin and North Carolina when I
read Jonathan Martin's New York Times
piece over the weekend where he talks
about how there are no signs that
Republicans are doing any kind of
soul-searching or planning any kind of
course correction after their midterm
defeat full steam ahead John well I
gotta have a soul you know and and a
Democratic Attorney who was the lead
attorney in the Florida recount mark
Elias
he sort of tweeted this story out and
wrote instead of changing courses the
GOP is doubling down on voter
suppression and limiting voter rights
their only electoral strategy at this
point is to prevent people from voting
it does seem like the answer to the
question
why aren't they soul searching why
aren't they chorus correcting is because
they don't want to because they can't
because they know their agenda isn't
that popular in the country and so their
only hope right now is to just try to do
all these anti-democratic things to just
cling to power yeah I also think that
Donald Trump is still president and they
are all still worried about the dynamic
where they are far more concerned about
a primary opponent than a general
election laws because they know that if
you're mark Sanford was a member of
Congress in South Carolina who famously
went for a weird hike googly and you
speak out against Donald Trump he can
come whoop your ass in a primary
so the energy and their bases on the far
right I would also say though that this
is another area we're like massive money
astroturf from huge special interests
the Koch brothers and all these
organizations are all geared towards
pushing the party to the right in
hardening and fully implementing these
voter suppression tactics we should not
look past how dangerous and disgusting
those groups are this this really does
it's funny how much of this hinges
George HW Bush just you know Paul Ryan
gave this interview it's interesting you
see you see you see the the the this
sort of trend line Paul Ryan's interview
he says he laments what's happened to
our politics and he wants to know why an
inspirational kind of Republican
politics can't take hold
then his super PAC runs some of the most
racist ads in the country and as he's
leaving he decried the national debt
even though he's the one who balloon the
deficit and he says oh by the way these
California election results I don't buy
them something's up and it's and
you see this problem that Republicans
don't know how to answer honestly which
is they built a coalition that requires
racial animus deception and voter
suppression in order to successfully
implement a right-wing agenda they have
now they're not George HW Bush anymore
they're no longer just holding their
nose and saying therefore supply-side
economics they're no longer holding
their nose and saying they don't believe
in the right to choose they are they are
now the the the party that has been
grown up in the 30 years since who now
believed those things they are supply
siders they are these ideologues George
HW Bush was appealing to an electorate
that was 85% white and the country has
drastically changed and they are trying
to lock people out of voting
well that up with that chat is the heart
of it right that the Republican the
Republican Party does not represent a
majority of voters in this
country anymore and they haven't for
some time Donald Trump lost the popular
vote Barack Obama wanted twice right
George Bush
well I judged it George W Bush in his
first election was a popular vote loser
right and you know we've seen when
Democrats have done poorly in the
midterms in 2010 in 2014 it's when
turnout was very low and so there's
there's two ways you can go when you
don't command majority support in the
country as a party you can choose to
change your party's position change
course reform some of your policy
stances or you can try to cling to power
through voter suppression voter ID some
of these power grabs that we're seeing
in Wisconsin in Michigan right and
that's what they're choosing and putting
that you're putting nitro in the tank to
get the the last bits of what whiteness
to come to the polls for them and look
it could it could work and I mean we've
seen it worked in in 2016 clearly that's
why Donald Trump is president but it's
not a great long-term strategy yeah I
mean Paul Ryan is on this like little
legacy tour and the guy lives on a
different planet and it is truly
pathetic to watch there is some pushback
happening on Trump in the Senate side
Jeff Flake is blocking judicial nominees
in an effort to force a vote to protect
Muller okay glad he's doing it what she
done it sooner the vote to cut off arms
sales to Saudi Arabia is a major rebuke
to Trump it's the right thing to do but
it's also a matrix so that that's a good
thing but he right now is still trying
to jam through five billion dollars for
the wall a position that 60% of the
country thinks is stupid and doesn't
want and yet there's no calls on him
from the media to moderate because of
the election results but that always
always always happens to Democrats and I
think that's some of the frustration
here well and that's why Democrats
should just stand strong yeah yeah we we
have the popular support we have the
leverage here no you don't get your
 wall you don't get a penny
you've done it's interesting you know
before Donald Trump came along there was
the beginning of an of a little bit of
recognition that that there was this
reimagining of republicanism that was
needed you have Reince Priebus doing
that uh autopsy that said they needed to
moderate an immigration to appeal to a
cosmopolitan and multicultural America
who had Marco Rubio with his finger and
the wind realizing that immigration was
a way for him to move forward and Donald
demonstrating that there was still this
base that could you know come alive with
rate you know that Donald Trump coming
along and showing that there was still
this path left within the Republican
Party for this you know racially
aggrieved economically aggrieved
populism really shut the door on a lot
of that and we're just seeing right now
this sort of Republican Party in limbo
that apps that that you had this
alternative vision of what Republican
politics could be but there is no one
with the political courage and the
political skill to demonstrate it
successfully and so all these guys from
Rubio all the way down just capitulated
100% they lost the primary you know that
was their chance yeah okay after this
we're gonna talk to we're gonna see what
the Democratic strategy is and talk to a
Democratic congressman and new chair of
the House Democratic caucus Hakeem
Jeffries
you
