welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod you'll
hear a conversation I had with senator
sherrod Brown but first we got to talk
about the news from Nancy Pelosi's
recent comments about impeachment depaul
mana for it's very very bad wednesday to
better O'Rourke's announcement and all
the latest from the 20/20 campaign trail
lots to talk about today check out a new
pod save the world Ben and Tommy talk
about the ongoing disaster that is
brexit the UK's UK's Trump there brexit
on keep it whole areas keep it they talk
about the sa t--'s scandal it's unfolded
here in Los Angeles and Hollywood and
all across the country really and their
guest is Mandy Moore whose fantastic
also there's still some tickets left to
our shows in Boston and New Hampshire we
will be there in April
check it out crooked comm slash events
we'd love to see you there should have
some some great guests Heather McGee is
co-hosting with us in Boston we're lucky
to have her interviewed her in the
wilderness she's brilliant and our good
pal Alyssa Mastromonaco joins us in New
Hampshire go by Alyssa's book so here's
the thing doing really well and we'll be
talking to her tonight about it we got a
little event in LA I just did an event
with Alyssa in Cisco we were in Seattle
on Monday night it's like the crowds
have been great she's her stories are
hilarious yours gonna have a blast I
can't wait I can't wait and and I'll be
doing it with Tommy and Aaron right so
good crew all right let's get to the
news Nancy Pelosi made some big news
this week when she told The Washington
Post that she's quote not for
impeachment of Donald Trump saying quote
impeachment is so divisive to the
country that unless there's something so
compelling and overwhelming and
bipartisan I don't think we should go
down that path because it divides the
country and he's just not worth it the
president responded on Twitter I'm sorry
the president responded Wednesday on
Twitter writing quote I greatly
appreciate Nancy Pelosi statement
against impeachment but everyone must
remember the
minor fact that I never did anything
wrong I think drugs actually getting
better at Twitter genuinely funny line
so Dan I guess my first question is why
did Pelosi say that especially now
before Muller's finished before Congress
has had a chance to fully investigate
all of trumps potential crimes and
abuses of power well Nancy Pelosi unlike
most people in politics never says
anything by accident right like this is
a well thought out thing she didn't just
like walk into an interview and then get
asked the question shouldn't expect it
and say that she thought that she
obviously thought this through and I
don't know like we don't have any
sourcing that tells us why she did it
but my guess having crossed Nancy Pelosi
work very closely for many years is that
she wants to be the one who takes the
slings and arrows for her caucus and by
that I mean this is a very big question
of impeachment for a whole host of
reasons that we'll get into is very
divisive among the caucus there are some
people who wanted to happen right now
there are others who are who think that
the standard is not yet been met there
are others who think even if the
standard has been met the problem we
have is that no matter what we do in the
House Mitch McConnell will give Trump a
get-out-of-jail-free card so what is the
point and so and there's activist
pressure whether it's C ads and stuff
that Tom Steyer this group is doing
whether it's just people who genuinely
think that we should not have a criminal
in the White House so now this gives
every Democrat the ability to blame
Nancy Pelosi not themselves for why
impeach was unhappy she takes the agency
away from them and gives it to herself
because she's she's in a safe seat she
doesn't have to worry about that and so
I think she is doing what good leaders
do Mitch McConnell does the bizarro evil
version of this where he does things
like destroy the Constitution and then
take all the blame for it and let you
know swing Republican senators gonna
wait for Nancy Pelosi is doing sort of
the opposite here in sort of protecting
her members politically I guess my
question is on on timing right like you
know Elizabeth Warren was asked this
question the other day and I thought she
had a pretty great answer Warren said
here's my rule on this one let's wait
until we get them all a report combine
it with everything else we've
then we'll know what to do seems like it
was pretty easy to just continue to say
that even if you're a Democrat who is on
the fence about impeachment might be
worried about impeachment or might be
very in favor of impeachment yes that's
that is one over sent right and that is
the answer I would have given where I do
have been asked if I were in Nancy
Pelosi issues but what we don't have oh
you know I'm trying to like project what
house you see notice what we don't have
a window into it this is always
something to think about when you
understand why congressional leaders do
certain things is we don't know the
conversations that are happening inside
her caucus when they get together for
lunch every Tuesday where every day that
is we just we don't know what pressure
people feel we don't know if there are
people who are about to break like it
could be that you could have some of the
some Democrats are gonna you know
freshmen Democrats maybe were gonna push
for it right away she's trying to head
that off in the pass or a bunch of
moderate Democrats who are about to come
out and or you know matters nothing
right word but maybe sort of Democrat in
swing districts maybe to come out
themselves to take it off the table
she's doing them up here we I just yeah
I think Nancy Pelosi has earned the
benefit of the doubt from us and
everyone else in the country that there
is a message of this madness and it's
probably smarter than we said we are so
one person who I think disagrees is our
own Brian boiler editor-in-chief here
crooked media he wrote a piece arguing
that by saying that impeachment has to
be bipartisan and he focused and on on
the word bipartisan that Pelosi used
quote what Pelosi really did was affirm
that Democrats long ago gave the
Republican Party a silent veto over
whether Trump should be held accountable
for anything
Brian's argument is basically like you
know she said unless there's something
compelling and overwhelming and so that
gives her plenty of room to change her
mind because Muller could you know
announce something that's very
compelling but having the standard of
impeachment being bipartisan they're
sort of allows allows Republicans to
basically decide and what is impeachable
or not
you know it seems pretty unlikely that
Republicans will decide anything is
impeachable I don't know what do you
think of Brian's I know I disagree
definitely with Brian on a couple of
levels but let me get to the table first
which is I think Donald Trump is
dangerously unfit for office he should
be whoa braving there any host of
reasons right
he even if you like Muller if Muller
submitted a ream of blank paper multiple
evidence that there's certainly
sufficient evidence that Trump's you
remove from office just you can do it on
lying about lying about in peeing a
party to a conspiracy to defraud the
electorate on the stormy Daniels
payments yeah you can do it on the mere
fact that he was involved in a financial
deal with Russia and then lied about it
on multiple occasions
there are multiple examples of abuse of
power related to and unrelated to the
Russia investigation there is the mere
fact that he is too stupid to attention
to pride too narcissistic to run the
country he is he is so uninterested in
just what the job of president is that
he that he is a danger to the country to
the American democracy to the planet
like for all reasons he should be gone
yeah I mean look at Adam Adam Schiff
said as much the other day and he's
basically on the same page as Posey with
impeachment Schiff said there's evidence
available already that shows that Trump
should be indicted or the Trump would be
indicted if he weren't president and
there was some DOJ guidelines against
indicted a sitting president because if
Michael Cohen pled guilty to this scheme
to pay hush money to defraud the
electorate and we know from the
indictment that Donald Trump directed
that scheme then in most cases where the
person directing the scheme and the
conspiracy isn't presidented states that
person would be indicted yes that's
exactly right and let's not pretend that
the standard that we should hold our
presidents to isn't guilty of a felony
beyond a reasonable doubt if that was
the Thresher
if that was the standard then we would
be impeaching presidents I'm sorry which
I guess if that was a standard then
presidents would be up for indictment
and we would treat them like normal
criminals we would have to go before a
jury of their peers and with the guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt so and that is
we set up a different approach for
different reasons which suggests that
things that may not be criminal can may
also be in Peacham right right you could
have a an array of actions together that
each individual one may not be something
you can prove beyond a shadow of a doubt
as criminal but presents a pattern of
behavior that represents an abuse of
power or danger to the country a high
crime misdemeanor as nebulously defined
by the founders and so like we already
put ourselves in a box if the idea is we
haven't proven a crime therefore he gets
to stay the problem we have is so that
here the way here's the reasons which I
agree I disagree with Brian one is that
Nancy Pelosi did not she said this an
interview she did not H it into stone
and put it on the side of the Capitol if
she gave herself an out to five to
revisit this question now there was also
the point that as long as we live in a
world where you are going to require
Republican senators to convict a
president and remove them from office
impeachment is by it is by nature
bipartisan right Nancy Pelosi has not
given that away the founders gave that
away that is a fact
and so the question like I think we as
Democrats have to ask ourselves is is it
the right thing to do is it like what is
the value in starting an impeachment
inquiry heading to a vote in the house
would probably a very close though
because I think that there's gonna be a
lot of Democrats who on their face
absent something incredibly new and
compelling that Nancy Pelosi leftist are
out absent that order of like we're
gonna have Democrats do this vote
knowing knowing the chump is not only
he's going to get a verdict of not
guilty from the Senate that he will then
use to proclaim his innocence innocence
of all crimes going forward
there's like what is the value of that
I'm not saying it's not valuable but I
think that is a question esos merely
putting a scarlet eye on his ill-fitting
suit going forward is that something
that is worthy of this effort is that
something that has value in the long run
historically visited value in the short
run politically and we should this is
not like we are swapping off our moral
obligation in terms of politics is that
we have to get this man out of office
right like that has to happen and the
only way that is going to happen is at
the ballot box in the next two years and
so that is like asking how this effort
affects that is not a white question
that is a very serious question it's one
we should look at but we should not take
lightly
in this met in this case and then the
last thing I said there our way is that
the anthem policy is also not saying
we're going to stop looking into Trump
we're going to and all the
investigations in just pass health care
bills and tax cuts for the rest of the
next two years there is still going to
be a massive apparatus that is digging
into every element of the try of it
sorry dig into every element of the
Trump corruption and criminality agenda
and looking for that compelling piece of
evidence that Nancy Pelosi references so
I don't really know what has changed
here other Nancy Pelosi has volunteered
to be the one to take the blame for
something that was gonna happen anyway
so a few things on that so I think
that's you know that that's a great
point like that is I struggle with this
one myself right because I think
everything you outline there is correct
I will make the other side of the
argument the u.s. like what does it get
us to do this if we know that
Republicans aren't going to convict them
in the Senate which I think we all know
is highly highly unlikely I guess
they're I mean look the one thing I do
that always goes through my mind is when
the BuzzFeed story came out saying the
Trump directed Michael Cohen to lie the
Trump suborn perjury right and of course
they had to like walk that back a little
bit but in the end it sort of was mostly
true but not totally true when that
happened on that Jay they were like even
people on Fox News saying oh well if he
suborn perjury this really the president
really could be in trouble this could be
it you know and so like there there may
be something we're not imagining that is
so big and so obvious the crime that he
may have committed that you know maybe
you get the 13 Republicans you need in
the Senate to get this done I don't know
or 17 I think it is actually I don't
know I think that's very that's highly
highly unlikely so let's put that aside
so why would you go through a trial
knowing that he gets off in the end it
doesn't get convicted in the end well
hit the house votes for impeachment and
now keep in mind if they don't if they
vote for impeachment with very good
evidence of everything that we just
talked about plus more if there is
evidence of abuse of power and
obstruction of justice of participation
in multiple criminal conspiracies if
they have all that they have them dead
to rights on all that and they impeach
him it goes to the Senate there is a
trial in the Senate presiding over the
trial as the Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court and Trump is running for
re-election and every day there is a
trial in the Senate wall-to-wall
coverage John Roberts is presiding over
it people are presenting evidence of
Donald Trump's crimes and abuses of
power there are potentially witnesses
that come before the Senate it is a
 spectacle and the other thing we
know is that we are sort of in a race
between now and 2020 to see who can be
in the news more Donald Trump or the
Democrats running for president and
Donald Trump in the news for an extended
period of time with a highlight on all
of the crimes he committed that may give
some of these up for grabs voters some
pause you could argue that now you could
also argue that it becomes such a
spectacle that people most voters recoil
from it and say oh what is Washington
doing they're just going after Trump
it doesn't seem compelling these
Democrats should actually be doing
something that affects my lives you
could also make that argument too which
is why which is why it's a tough one but
that's that to me is all though that's
the politics around it and I've said
this before there's also a question of
sort of constitutional you know
obligation like if you are Congress and
there is evidence that the president has
committed
crimes and misdemeanors and you do not
move forward with impeachment on that
evidence because you were worried about
that about one party not fully agreeing
with you then you are essentially saying
nothing the president does is
impeachable because we're worried about
the politics or like we can't impeach
the president because we're worried
about the politics or we don't think the
politics will work out in our favor or
we don't think he'll be convicted and so
you are then not giving not sort of
having any kind of accountability for
the president's crimes so that that can
be another problem too
I think so a couple points on that one
the I think that you raised a really
good question about let's just talk
about the politics for a sec yeah and I
want to get you laid a couple things
before just people destroy my already
destroyed mentions but it is well as I
said before I think Trump should be
impeached he should be removed from
office I just wish we lived in a world
where Mitch McConnell was not giving
get-out-of-jail-free cards to
authoritarian races to I don't know what
the politics are yeah I honestly don't
you mean could be good politics it could
be bad politics
we just don't know it's it's it is I
think it is fair point if you if you
know that you are not going if you know
what the end result is going to be which
that could change barring some other
piece of evidence but it let's say we're
doesn't let's say the Muller report is
what we think it is going to be right
well there's not a smoking gun beyond
the I guess there's a large smoking gun
on the smaller smoking guns we already
have a whole bunch of things and there's
not something that could dramatically
shift the politics of this even I don't
even I don't even skeptical if there's
any piece of evidence that anyone could
conceive that would cause the
Republicans to remove Trump from office
like guilty of murder it would be as
close as you can possibly get and I mean
it skeptical about that because you they
would just argue self-defense
the I I think you're thinking about the
politics and you think about how this
plays in the context of the 2020
election then the I think you have to
think not just about how the day-to-day
like dominate
the news of this evidence being
presented would be I think you have to
really think about what happens on the
day the Senate votes and Trump is free
not guilty man would talk that would
have a little X no collusion I win dad
think about the tweets think about like
there's this event we proven it I am
innocent
like that and the way it he be less than
responsible way in which I think the
media will probably cover said
determination and so that is something
to think about
I have no idea with this so much because
we do have this constitutional
obligation we also have this moral
imperative to make sure that Trump loses
in 2020 and teaching a class in long
term historical constitutional mall
while distracting us from the immediate
task at hand is something that gives me
great pause yeah and look this is
another example of the limits of polling
and research and focus groups and all
the rest because I guarantee you there
are democratic strategists who have you
know conducted focus groups and polled
people and they've said yeah of course
you know Congress should hold Trump
accountable we're all for that should
you know should he be impeached
impeachment I don't know about that you
know and I'm I kind of wanted Congress
to focus on you know things that will
improve my life and those democratic
strategist take those results back and
they talked to Democratic politicians
about it and you know they're all
worried about impeachment but we don't
know you said we cannot predict how the
country would react we can predict how
Trump's base would react we can protect
how our base will react we cannot
predict how the broader country will
react when presented on live TV for
multiple weeks with evidence of
criminality and abuse of power on behalf
of the President we just we cannot
predict it and so the question is that's
correct
it's questions if you're democrat is do
you believe that the evidence is
compelling enough to move in shape
public opinion or are you going to look
at where public opinion is now and let
that guide your decisions and I think
politically there's no great answer to
that I mean I think it's a very tough
but I guess I come down where Elizabeth
Warren is which is
let's wait to see where the Mahler
report what let's see wait let's wait to
see what the remoter report reveals
let's combine it with everything else we
know and then let's make the decision
there I think that's probably the best
best bet for right now yeah that is
right that's where I am I think you know
Nancy Pelosi statement like there's a
question of why she did in politics that
we discuss and but it also raises as you
know you know Brian's column uses it as
a hook to raise this larger question and
the last thing I'd say on this is Brian
is right that is that Democrats have a
cut leg have to have a constitutional
obligation to do their duty regardless
of the politics I think that that that
like that is a fact
it is it is hampered by the fact that
you you don't know for sure but you have
a very good reason to believe that how
the process will end because as you said
we can't predict how the other country
where large will react to you know new
new doors a trial you know new
revelations that are but we can predict
how the Trump base will react yeah then
you can predict how the Trump base will
react you can predict how the Republican
senators will react and so they're there
for yeah you know this edited like
political algebra there but therefore
you know
adds and I do think it's hard to be like
Democrats say well you know we know this
isn't going to end well and we have a
constitutional obligation to do it while
so we're gonna we're going to take we're
going to we're going to go down this
path because of the Constitution well
hold the other side of the Capitol Mitch
McConnell is wiping his mouth with the
Constitution as he drinks the blood of
American democracy like it it just is
there is a ASUS asymmetry to hackle to
how we view our roles responsibilities
and government I hope I hope Jesse can
make that art for today's all right
Mitch McConnell jokes are really one my
favorite I will know that Paul Ryan's
not here anymore it's what you got yeah
all right speaking of high crimes former
Trump campaign chairman Paul manna Ford
had a pretty bad Wednesday pretty pretty
pretty bad first judge Amy Berman
Jackson sentence him to an additional
set
three months in prison for a combination
of financial crimes and obstruction of
justice and when you combine that with
his first sentence he's now facing a
maximum of seven and a half years in
prison to make things worse for Paul
right after the sentence was handed down
manna fort was charged by Manhattan's
District Attorney with committing more
than a dozen state crimes in New York
crimes that Donald Trump cannot pardon
him for Dan what's your reaction to the
sentence is it right is it fair to
lenient to stringent I have a lot of
complicated thoughts about this mm-hmm
which is the main takeaway from
everything that has involved Paul
Manafort is the yet another reminder of
just how up our criminal justice
system is which is someone like Paul
manna Fork who isn't just the tax cheat
he is someone who acted on behalf of a
foreign government and lied about it and
so he's committed multiple crimes and he
is going to go to jail for less time
than many low-level drug offenders go to
jail and he will probably go to a nicer
jail than any low-level drug offenders
going to jail and so like that like
that's a reminder that it our criminal
justice system is up and should
be fixed and at the same time like you
want like a lot of people are like
metaphors you know if you if you if you
agree with that statement that man
affords not getting enough time in
prison because based on how people for
how much time people who are not white
less wealthy less connected how much
time they get in jail like you can
there's one way to look at it - a little
bit of course you get more time in jail
and I don't like that I sort of am
resistant to as well it's like I don't
really give a how long mental
metaphor it spends in jail like that's
not gonna make the court the best way to
balance out the scale to the criminal
justice system is not to put more put
people like Paul Manafort in jail longer
it's to put people on the other end
spectrum in jail for less long totally
totally like it just like so like I like
I saw I kind of recoiled at this like
give him life and it's like who like I
don't know
I don't get any joy from home Anna for
being in jail and it didn't make me feel
any better about how terrible our
criminal justice system is we have far
too many people incarcerated in this
country and you know it we've talked
about a lot the candidates are talking
about it and it is it is awful but like
I agree I don't want to see Paul
Manafort
Wellman reports almost 70 years old he's
gonna serve six you know six and a half
years in prison maybe the full seven and
a half and you know that's that's a
pretty old to be spending that long in
prison like that's a good amount of time
in prison I do all these cases that
people are tweeting about you know there
was one lawyer Scott head ginger who
said tweeted my client was offered 36 to
72 months for stealing a hundred dollars
worth of quarters from a residential
laundry room
that's that's the stuff that we
need to work on whether they're minor
drug offenses are just minor offenses in
general the idea that people could get
less than Paul Manafort for what he did
for you know you know minor drug offense
or minor theft or something like that
is absurd and the disparities in our
criminal justice system are absurd I
think the other thing is and Matt
iglesias pointed this out he said it
shouldn't take a special counsel to
catch a tax cheat and noting that Paul
Mann affords lawyers in the courtroom
argued one of their big arguments for a
leaner sentence a more lenient sentence
was manna fort wouldn't have been
charged if he hadn't been Trump's
campaign manager if he hadn't been
caught up in the special counsel so it's
like yeah well that's a problem because
he committed a bunch of crimes you know
like we don't invest enough in
prosecuting and discovering white-collar
crimes in this country and you know the
FBI doesn't have as much of a budget for
it we don't pay attention to it and I do
think you know that one policy
consideration to come out of this and I
hope some of the Democratic candidates
talk about it is what kind of attorney
general they're going to appoint how
they're gonna how they're gonna staff
the political appointees at the Justice
Justice Department what kind of budget
they're gonna give to the part of the
Justice Department and the part of the
FBI that goes after white-collar crimes
because I do think that people are very
tired very sick and tired of this
country of people who are wealthy and
well-off and connected just getting away
with all kinds of crimes
and so while I don't think Paul made her
fortunes been longer in jail then he got
sentenced for I do think that more paul
manor forts who commit the crimes he's
committed should be prosecuted and you
know i think that's fair
yeah sorry that that is right and
there's no question on it i think there
is this question i've this has made me
this something we were thinking about
talking about for a while thing about
for a while is it just raises the
question of like is prison the right
concept at all for nonviolent offenders
whether it's tax cheats or people on the
other end of spectrum or whether it you
know low-level drug offender for
instance right is that like the fact
that we just throw people in cages for
years at a time like it's so
medieval and there is like i would like
to see a candidate's talk in bold ways
about how you change that like wheatley
pushing them have incarceration policy
in this country is its medieval it's
insane and we should do something about
it and not just costing us a lot of
money on its progress with it is that
the example for it but it like we should
try to find opportunities to talk about
it where we can and it's easier and so
yes we should prosecute more texting's
it's throwing them in jail the right is
that any better off than throwing
low-level drug offenders in jail is
there other ways that they can pay a
debt to society beyond just paying back
the wages you know whether it's service
or something like i didn't think that we
need to widen the thinking on criminal
justice in this country
whether it's for paul manna port or more
importantly million other Americans who
are stuck in jail for crimes they're in
many cases for doing something that's
now legal in most state in many states
yeah anything you know i'd love to talk
to more prosecutors and defense
attorneys and activists about those but
yeah i do think you need some sort of a
deterrent for people so that they know
that if they commit a crime there's
gonna be some kind of a punishment right
yeah like I think deterrence work and in
many cases in some cases they don't work
but so you're right you do need to
figure out
without a doubt we have to solve mass
incarceration in this country and I
think you know it's good that a lot of
candidates are talking about it let me
ask you from a political standpoint
should the Democratic candidates in some
way be talking about the fact that
Donald Trump's campaign manager deputy
campaign manager a national security
adviser and personal lawyer have all
been convicted of crimes and sentenced
to prison
I guess gates is still almost getting
sentence he's still cooperating or is
there just no chance that any you know
up for grabs voters care about this like
how much should this sort of rampant
criminality that is at least been proven
definitively around Trump and then the
people he hires in his orbit both in the
campaign and in the White House how much
should that matter in this election or
is this something that we just yell
about on this pod all yell about on
Twitter the media covers and actual
voters who may decide this election or
just like it just it doesn't matter to
them as much yeah I think this there's
probably a complicated answer to this
question it's going to that matters both
how you talk about it which voters
you're referring to et cetera
I do think it's indicative of at least
my own personal or our personal views
that we've talked about Paul
Manafort for so long that instead of
talking about him we decided to try to
have a long discursive discussion about
criminal justice reform just because I
can't talk about called anaphor
describes anymore without running to
banged my head against the wall I don't
think that's indicative of anything
other than how you know a certain small
segment of podcasters feel about this
but I think the I think the criminality
and corruption of the Trump
administration is an important story in
2020 like a Democrat has to run to put
that error behind us to heal the wounds
of the division then Trump is sowed in
this country to try to return us to a
world to it a world where we're not
talking about the president every single
day right the Trump era seems and in see
terrible and can we get to him back to a
more normal life in the country like I
was actually struck by the other day
which was the day that the college
tuition the college admissions scandal
broke and there was a lot of news about
the Boeing plane that was or wasn't
being grounded and like if you looked at
Twitter that day your turn on cable news
it felt like 2014 it felt like what what
cable and Twitter were like before Trump
came down the escalator yeah we're
talking about celebrity crimes and
airplanes as opposed to a
minute-by-minute breaking down of every
Trump tweet everything he says what are
the criminal wall implications of this
tweet or this action all of which are
very legitimate important stories but it
is all-consuming I want a little catch
it there but I think we should talk
about the criminality and corruption I
actually think the corruption part of
what Trump has done is gonna be more
persuasive to voters than a debate about
collusion right and so there is this
part where you're gonna like should we
talk about the campaign manager being in
jail yes should we also talking about
the cabinet secretary has been forced to
leave because they're doing business
with special interests who are
advocating against the interests of the
public should we be talking about the
fact that the person who's currently in
charge of the EPA is the is a lobbyist
from the fossil fuel industry like there
are a lot of developments of pure
corruption where you can make a case
that Trump is putting himself first
right you know attendance report to
Trump you know the message against Trump
I think is that Trump's agenda is the
first not America first and the
corruption is because part of that the
part where I think the criminality gets
is relevant is if you can make the case
that it is a distraction from the things
that matter to voters what can all the
things we can't do because our president
isn't meshed in these criminal inquiries
right it's sort of the flip side it's
the president of the presidential
harassment mesh if the Trump is doing
look I think that it doesn't necessarily
even have to be all about Trump as well
I mean for some time people have felt
that there are wealthy and powerful
people in this country throughout the
world a wealthy and powerful elite who
game the system in order to enrich
themselves enrich their friends
more power and to do that they will you
know sell out voters they'll sell out
their country they'll bend the rules
they'll break the laws and this is why
people are fed up with politics and fed
up with you know how the economy works
for them and Trump and his
administration are a perfect symbol of
that we have those people running the
government and as they're running the
government they have made every effort
over the last couple years to divide us
against each other
- and so they can so while we're all
distracted and we're all fighting we're
all yelling each other they're cleaning
up they're getting richer and they're
getting richer by breaking the rules and
so I think that's an incredibly
important storyline for Democrats to
talk about in in the 2020 election and I
as long as it is just it's broader than
Trump because the problem is broader the
Trump and the problem preceded Trump it
just happened to be that all that
white-collar crime all that criminality
all that corruption that we've been you
know talking about that's been you know
our politics has been rife with for so
long now it's at the highest levels of
our government in a way that it hasn't
been before but you know and as folks
have pointed out - it also exposes sort
of this like rampant corruption that
happens all around the globe people
taking advantage of the global economy
to get rich whether it's offshore bank
accounts or money laundering or whatever
it might be and meanwhile there's a lot
of people hurting a lot of people who
can't who can barely you know pay the
rent or go see a doctor and I think that
message and look you see Bernie Sanders
talking about that's that's his original
message Elizabeth Warren probably has an
even sharper message on this in terms of
just rigging the system and rigging the
rules themselves she's been talking
about that for quite some time and I
think you know I think it's a potent
message in 2020 yeah that message has
always been effective it's a updated
version of the message Obama ran on in
2008 yeah and you and Trump is a perfect
is a perfect candidate to make that
message against is his a walking
conflict of interest right here his I
mean leave it
important to note that he has a hotel
that special interests who have policy
questions before the government go book
as many rooms as they possibly can as a
way to try to influence those decisions
in their chamber because that money that
is basically a way to put moral law go
is the same thing these are ways in
which we have Trump let's put himself in
position by not divesting from his
businesses
I'm not adhering to either government
ethics rules or basic standards of moral
decency where he makes it possible for
people who want to influence policy to
put money in his pocket indirectly and
what did let him know very easily that
they are doing that in trying to to try
to gain his favor and that is a so Trump
is a perfect person to make that message
again you just have to be a candidate
who is disciplined enough to wade
through all the ephemeral that
comes with Trump yeah right are you
going to like get distracted by the fact
that he called better won't work crazy
this morning are you gonna get
distracted by his tweets about airplane
computers being too complicated
distracted by why sweetie Fox News at
11:00 a.m. are you going to be able to
be disciplined enough to make the Trump
is rigging the system against you to
help people like him are you if this
enough to make that message of that I
think is gonna be a real question that
as Democrats are trying to figure out
who can win like who can do that without
chasing Trump down every stupid rabbit
hole yeah if you're a farmer who's been
hurt by Trump's tariffs do you get to do
you have enough money to stay in his
hotel so you can influence him do you
have enough money from Mario Lago
membership if you or someone you know
whose factory closed down who's Trump
promised he'd bring back jobs to the
Midwest and factories closed down anyway
do you get can you afford the Mara Lago
membership so you can influence his
policy because the rich people can to
run his administration they get to
influence his policy all the time but
you can't because you don't have the
money I mean it seems like a pretty
simple message to me okay on to 2020
after months of speculation former
three-term congressman in one-time Texas
Senate candidate Beto or Roarke
announced that he's running for
president via email and announcement
video this morning Thursday morning
quote this is a defining moment of truth
for this country the challenges that we
face right now the interconnected crises
in our economy our democracy and our
climate have never been greater no one
candidate or president no matter how
tough or talented or experienced can
meet these challenges on their own only
this country can do that and only if we
build a movement that includes all of us
he also told the El Paso Times an
interview one of the reasons he's
running is that he has a first-hand
perspective and experience from the
border that's currently missing from the
conversation dan what is betos rationale
what are his strengths and what will be
his challenges I think we should let's
start with the strengths and weaknesses
and I think we should stipulate that
based on 26 2016 no one knows anything
so like I believe these are strengthened
leave this are his weaknesses how much
those strengths will help and how much
those weaknesses will hurt is an open
question that it will be determined by
voters in Iowa New Hampshire other
states be determined by how that's
changed between now and then because
what voters are looking for when they go
caucus in February can be very different
and within what they're working for in
March of this year but like I think his
strengths are pretty obvious right he
has a he was able to in a Senate race
build a national movement and that is
more than just being able to raise a ton
of money which is incredibly impressive
incredibly important and you have to put
his very large and grassroots donor base
in the strengths column but he was able
to become a national figure of sorts
while running for Senate which is
something that has actually never
happened in my time that Hawks ever seen
anything like that so we're to the point
where there are you know beto for Texas
signs all across the country right I
mean obviously in liberal hotbeds a lot
of places but just right be able to
gather the Nate gain the nation's
attention while running in a Senate race
is is something right it means he starts
off with a shocking amount of name ID
and in for someone who has never
actually served in the Senate so that
like that is that isn't strength he ran
a Texas campaign that was innovative
interesting and successful in the sense
he obviously didn't win but he was able
to do things that no Democrat has done
in Texas and generations and were he
able to replicate the his replicates are
were he able to replicate his
performance with new voters getting new
voters to the polls and persuading
independents we're gonna replicate that
folks in Texas in a general election
across the country he would flip a whole
host of states then all the states and
Hillary lost to trump that were swing
states and some more like I'm not
thinking can do that but that is an
argument that he can make then in that
if he could that he has proven ability
to win in red parts of the country which
actually very few of the Democrats who
are running have that ability to say I
think it's face of like that oh and pìkô
did you try now Klobuchar
Clovis I mean Minnesota is I would've
benefited in the swing in a swing state
you're right it's been a very long time
since reporters want it yeah
but if it like she has a better argument
than if you were from California or New
York right you can do hiccup lubricant
so I'd say there are people who have run
in red states there are people in swing
states and there are a lot of people who
are in deep blue states right that's
right um you know California and
Delaware etc but so that is an argument
what the deficit is or that sort of the
weakness is untested on the national
stage he is going to have to explain
he's gonna have a higher burden to
explain why him why now than other
candidates who have been running for
longer who have been in the Senate who's
been in the national fight for a long
time there is a burden to congressmen
with a brief tenure who lost a Senate
race there's a higher burden to say
why'd me this is the exact question that
I tried to ask for Pete good a judge
when he was here high burden for a 37
year old mayor of South Bend Indiana
that's on people who did you gave a very
good answers that Brooke on positive
America and in the CNN Town Hall the
other night can Beto have an answer like
that where people say oh I get it
I ain't it like on paper it seems crazy
but now that I've heard you
explain why I get it and I am willing to
consider you right so I think that that
is a that is a that it's a challenge I
don't know what the weakness it's a
challenge and just being he's doing that
he is doing this from a standing start
and that's a hard thing right he doesn't
have a national staff he had not been
planning this for a long time
he doesn't have I think I think if I'm
to say today might be the first day he's
ever been in Iowa which is an unusual
thing for a presidential candidate it
usually has been there to campaign for
people in the past because it's a
differential president it's implanted in
your mind once you get sworn into the
Senate so he's got he's got a lot of
work to do to catch up with where the
candidates who have been planning for
this longer already are yeah look I
think like many candidates many of his
strengths are also his weaknesses or
challenges like I think he as you noted
can command media attention in a way
that few of the candidates running can
command media attention with that
attention it's not all just positive
it's also negative as well I think
reporters ever notice reporters seem
more skeptical of better or work than
some of the other candidates some of
them just openly criticize him and so
there's a lot you know he's inspired a
lot of like Twitter love and Twitter
hate right and so I think there's there
they're gonna be you know he's going to
like you said the bar is higher for him
to make sure he answers questions in the
right way
he gives details about his policies and
his ideas in the right way which he
hasn't really done yet you know there's
no policy section on his website just
yet of course he just announced today
but it's like what is you know where
does he stand on all the big issues you
know in in the 2017 Texas Senate
campaign gave an interview with Jeff
Stein where he said yeah I'm on I'm for
Bernie's medicare-for-all plan I like it
I like the plan he just it was when
Bernie just came out with it but you
know he's also said he's talked about
sort of a Medicare public option to so
it's like where does he stand on that he
say he likes the Green Deal green New
Deal the idea but what are the details
so he's gonna have to do all that like
other candidates are and like look I
think the candidates that are really
leading in the ideas primary right now
our Elizabeth Warren by far and I guess
you can make a case for Bernie Sanders
because a lot of the idea is that these
Democrats have embraced Bernie proposed
in 2016
Bernie's refereeing the ideas primary
right now for sure for sure and so it's
not like every candidate has put forward
big policy ideas but there will be a you
know a greater burden on beto to really
talk about what he's for
and like you said in to talk about the
rationale for his candidacy and I think
that's the challenge but look he I think
the national media and especially that
the Twitter pundits have always sort of
underestimated the ability to inspire
people and to get people excited you
know they did they did for a time when
Obama was running as well
and so I do think that is a strength he
has but I think I think it's tough I
think it's in a in a crowded field with
some of the most talented diverse
candidates we've had in a long time
having just lost the Senate race and
starting you know you have a lot you
have a lot of answers to give and and
you have probably less margin for error
than some of the other candidates who've
been at this for a while
especially since like you said you're
you're going from a standing start so
you know so that's tricky too but I
don't know we'll see he it was good that
he went right to Iowa today right after
right after he announced I was good to
be in Iowa he seemed to get a good
reception there and you know I think
we'll learn a lot more about him in the
in the coming days and and whether he
can whether he can handle this race yeah
I just I would add one thing that I
should have mentioned in the weaknesses
section is even though he wasn't in
Congress for a long time he does have a
voting record in some of that voting
record has come under scrutiny that some
of it has been you know sort of viewed
as more centrist when he was part of the
New Deal coalition he opposed Pelosi at
one point not this most recent iteration
but in the past and so those are things
he's going to have to explain every hand
it's gonna have to explain their record
and he he is so and I do think like is
in very important context here which is
we have this incredibly talented diverse
feel
we have these leading women candidates
with african-american candidates we have
a LGBT candidate there's a huge diverse
field and then in it comes a white guy
with a relatively earliest comparatively
short resume and he like he is going to
have to be that is that becomes part of
the burden of his rationale right like
what does he specifically offer like why
him why not then I think that that isn't
it a context for this that he is going
to have to navigate and it is very
important it's one that I think a lot of
voters are gonna are gonna want to
explore as they think about he answered
this a little bit in the Vanity Fair
piece that came out last night I guess
but it's gonna I think it's gonna be a
topic that's gonna show up on the show
it's also a topic that Joe Biden and
Bernie Sanders and others will have to
address I think it's particularly unique
to better who's making this decision
after the field has been mostly set and
with a different or a shorter resume
than others yeah and I'll say the other
question he has to answer that sort of
all the candidates to me it's one of the
most important questions for all of them
that we've been asking a lot of them is
how are you gonna get done how are
you going to get your agenda passed at a
time when the country is more polarized
and Washington is more gridlock than
ever before and the Republican Party
refuses to compromise right and you know
we've gone through this many different
times we have people like Elizabeth
Warren Pete Buddha jej and jay Inslee
who have all said you know we could kill
off the filibuster in the Senate or at
least Elizabeth Warren said it's on the
table
you know Buddha judge was talking about
packing the court or reforming the court
so there's some people who have
procedural ideas on how to change rules
to get their agenda passed because
Republicans won't cooperate then you
have the betos and Cory Booker's and Joe
Biden's
and can't exactly tell where comma
Harris is on this yet but who say you
know we're gonna bring people together
in this country and look if you're
talking about bringing people to if
you're talking about healing the
division and the polarization in the
country
I think that's a I think that's a strong
message that could potentially have
appeal for a lot of people in this
country if you're talking about how
you're going to heal the division in
Washington and work with Republicans to
get things done I have a lot more
skepticism as I know you do because
we've been in the White House for eight
years when it didn't happen and some of
these can't it's like you know betos
talked about working with Republicans in
Congress to get things done and he's
gotten some stuff done
so his cory booker so his sherrod Brown
so some of these people in the Senate so
it was Elizabeth Warren right but
they're all sort of like small
legislative things that they've gotten
done with Republicans and that's great
you should talk about those things but
on the big stuff the stuff that we're
talking about could help solve the
crises of our time climate change health
care economic inequality those are big
ticket items and I think you have to
have a theory of the case on how you
were going to get that agenda passed
that does not involve as John
Hickenlooper or Howard Schultz think
sitting down with Mitch McConnell and
and chatting with him and and and making
everything better because that that
doesn't seem like it's it's gonna fly
yeah like there was a I think there was
a time even when we were right 2008
where there was a belief that if you
could move beyond the politics of
division that particularly divisive
figures like you know Bill Clinton who
was impeached george w bush who did many
horrible things and was the worst
president in modern American history
Donald Trump included if you could lose
beyond that that we could have a you
know in different politics in Washington
and that is not true like we have to be
 clear-eyed yeah about who
Republicans in Washington are what their
agenda is
how very specifically and strategically
and assiduously they have an agenda to
undermine democracy in this country for
the purpose of keeping power for their
billionaire friends that is what they
know Mitch McConnell knows that there
are more Democrats in the hallways in
this country and if demographic trends
hold they're going to be a lot more
Democrats Republicans in this country so
he is working to dilute your power to in
expand the power of the koch brothers to
people like them and if you were naive
about that that you were going to get
done in Washington and so I think the
country outside of Washington and
outside of the worst parts of the
political fringes one to be more United
and that that message of the message of
unity can work the try lake Trump has we
are a divided country been divided for a
lot of reasons for a long time and Trump
is towards salt in that wound for
personal and political gain for his
party and can you be someone who can
heal heal those wounds and try to move
us past that so that we're not at each
other's throats out in the country even
if we were gonna have to you know put on
the armor and go to battle in Washington
that's a question and I think those
candidates who come in I think voters
particularly the very savvy voters in
the early primary states who take their
role very seriously we're gonna be very
skeptical of can of the kumbaya
candidates yeah look I mean part of the
way that you heal the division in this
country is to defeat the purveyors of
division and those happen to be the
Republican leadership in Washington
right now that to me that's the way to
square that circle all right so last
2020 thing I want to talk about is a
story from our friend Peter Hamby and
Vanity Fair who writes that the
Democratic primary is going to test
quote whether burgeoning public support
for daring economic policies coincides
with support for more hot burning
cultural issues that seem to dominate
Twitter and the Trump era he then says
quote having a set of organized
principles and a clear message as a
candidate can be enough to inoculate a
politician against the minute-by-minute
demands of professional activists and
angry tweeters candidates who make
policy by Twitter the ones who chase
every micro news cycle risk losing sight
of not just what voters care about but
also why they're running for president
in the first place we have obviously had
this discussion here many times before
which is why I wanted to bring up
Peter's piece but what do you think of
the stand is this is this good advice
how much does you know what happens on
Twitter actually matter and you know
should we I guess should we start by
defining what we're talking about when
we say Twitter right like Twitter is we
talk about the Twitter conversation
we're talking about the conversation
among activists among DC journalists and
other journalists I guess and look
there's a lot of just ordinary people on
Twitter who were voters who are like
well I'm not part of a Twitter
conversation I just see myself as a
normal person in the country and that
there's plenty of that too
but I think when we're talking about
Twitter we're talking about sort of like
the the media political bubble an
activist bubble of people who are
constantly in conversation with each
other and the fact that that
conversation and Peter makes this
argument that that conversation on
Twitter is different than the
conversation that's happening throughout
the country across the way across the
ideological spectrum right it's not just
an ideological thing it is just people
aren't quite as angry as they are on
Twitter real life and you know and I
think that candidates chasing the latest
Twitter dust-up you know Peter argues
can be hazardous
what do you think I think I could talk
about this for days I mean probably over
the course of the next two years we will
but so a couple of points if you really
boil down Peters piece which is
excellent it comes down to two things
one is if you want to run for president
you have to come into it with a very
clear organizing principle of why you're
running and what you want to do if you
win and absent that you can make all
kinds of terrible political mistakes
related to that is that the presence of
Twitter exactly increases your chance of
making those mistakes and men makes
those mistakes cost more than they would
for Twitter not to exist and so you're
obviously I don't care what you do if
you don't really if you're reaching for
you don't have a reason for president
other than I'm sorry if you don't have a
reason for running for president other
than why not you're you're
wasting your time and ours you're with
your donors money you're wasting your
staffs
blood sweat and tears get the out
the race because then you can't
articulate why you're running you can't
win
they just bat it like that is the one
truism that holds even in the Trump era
yeah to Twitter is terrible we feed a
lot I'm always on Twitter I wrote a
check about in my book but it is
terrible it is a symptom of a larger
problem
America in the social-media arish which
is basically there's this algorithmic
perversion of American politics and the
problem we have is only a fraction of
Americans are on Twitter it's like ten
percent or something but a hundred
percent of political activists are on
Twitter and a hundred and reporters
right yeah so the discussion is is and
the fact that the how those like the
fact that engagement drives what people
see and reinforces filter bubbles makes
that the the cost of that so much worse
and so the it is poisonous for campaigns
like when we work with rock Obama 2008
it would have been a lot easier for you
and I and everyone else if Barack Obama
had put his headquarters in Washington
DC why Hillary Clinton did we've lived
in Washington almost everyone who worked
in our campaign headquarters had was
working in Washington we all moved to
Chicago and there were two reasons for
that one was Barack Obama wanted to be
closer to his family when he came to the
headquarters that ended up being foolish
because when he was home he went to see
his family instead of come to campaign
headquarters kidding of course the
 Mars and it wouldn't matter
check it the goal was to be out of the
Washington bubble so that we weren't
being hammered all day long with
Washington conventional wisdom with
reporters who were telling us like why
we sucked why we were losing why we were
foolhardy and we were totally insulated
from that because Twitter didn't really
exist as it does down Eirene I always
remember there's a point in that
campaign it might affect those people in
the pot but I went home it was the fall
2007 Barack Obama had the Polo just came
out that had us dropping in Iowa we were
down 30 points in the polls in the
national polls and I went I went back
home to DC for the weekend and I went to
a birthday party and it was all DC
people and I showed up at that party and
in my head I just gotten off a
conference call with Plouffe in the Iowa
team and Tommy's on there and they're
giving me their latest Iowa numbers and
how we're exceeding our goals we got all
these volunteers and I'm like oh like
things are working right like our plan
is in place like I I'm like operating
off of data and I show up with this
cocktail party and it's like a birthday
party I guess and people are like treat
me like
cancer-like ah you doing okay sorry for
you all right you guys are in a great
race I'm like we ran a great race
you it is it's September what is
happening and now no matter where you
put and I say that story because no
matter where you put your campaign
headquarters that conversation happens
in your phone 24 7 yep right and
it can really pervert how you see the
world because Twitter is not realized
it's not a poll I was running a campaign
I think I would probably try to instruct
as many of my staffers as possible to
not be on Twitter yeah well look at
because it is distraction from what
matters and it perverts the political
coverage as well because since reporters
spend so much time on Twitter and not
enough time actually talking to voters
and this is not all reporters you know
we talked to Dave Weigel on this plot a
couple times he's out there on the trail
actually interviewing voters and there's
plenty of other reporters who do that as
well but the reporters who spend a lot
of time on Twitter because they're the
loudest voices exist on Twitter the most
strident voices they think that those
voices represent you know the political
dynamic of the moment and while that is
the political dynamic on Twitter it's
not necessarily the political dynamic
across the country and I think that's an
issue and look though here's my view on
Twitter there are plenty of people with
politics to the right of me there are
some people to the politics with
politics to the left of me right the
people that I know who are actual
organizers activists who work in
politics who work in social movements
even if I disagree with them in their
politics they tend to be more reasonable
you have good conversations with them
you can have debates with them you can
argue like because they've been in the
arena or their work in the arena and
they know what it takes to sort of build
coalitions and get things done
I know plenty of Bernie staffers you
know who I get along with I know some
never Trump people who worked on
campaigns that I get along with like
these people understand what it takes to
sort of coalition build twitter is has
an abundance of professional opinion
have errs right where they're these
people who are just like for a living
they have they write opinions they come
up with things and they have not
participated in public life in any way
they have not participated in politics
so their thought isn't necessarily that
they ever need to build coalitions or to
even persuade people any
more and so does a lot of yelling and I
think that is that has caused some of
the poison that's on Twitter because
tonight because I don't want to make
this seem like it's an ideological thing
because I know plenty of people on both
sides who are out there working who you
know may disagree heatedly and we may
get in huge fights but like you know
they're somewhat reasonable the
professional opinion have errs or even
the amateur opinion have errs because
basically Twitter is the comments
section they're really sort of making
the place not so great but I will just
end with a great piece of advice from
Hamby how he ends the piece he says
politics on Twitter is about making you
feel bad people are shamed for going to
certain schools for practicing a certain
faith for their gender their race or for
using the wrong words regardless of
intent politics at the presidential
level the successful kind could not be
more different
winning campaigns find a way to build
coalitions to unite people with shared
values under an umbrella of charisma and
a succinct message that rises above the
din of Washington this is how Democrats
have won the presidency in the past
maybe in the Trump moment politics calls
for sharper edge but the Democrats were
confident their reasons for running and
who aren't afraid of what very smart
people on Twitter say about them are the
ones likely to be rewarded every
Democratic candidate and campaign should
print that out post it in their campaign
headquarters and read it every day it's
a great piece and I and I think every
bike everyone who's running for
president who is more key person was
running for president appease everyone
who's covering so I'm gonna try
refreshing read the piece I want to add
one more thing about Twitter in
reporters which is like we have many
times it's just been like reporters get
off Twitter it ruins you and I've had
I've seen a lot of younger reporters who
have argued that if you were you know it
is a way in which a lot of writers and
other creators and journalists find ways
to get jobs right is by showing their
work on Twitter yeah because they may
not have gotten you know the New York
Times internship because they worked at
the Harvard Princeton or whatever you
know the other sort of gaming
institutions are to take getting a
professional journalists job and I think
there's a lot to be said for that and I
think it's important to recognize so the
thing I would say about that is reporter
should share their writing their views
their journalism on Twitter but I think
you sharing your reporting on Twitter I
think
people should just be cautious about
doing their reporting on Twitter because
that's your mess right you know we said
this where you're doing you're
essentially doing man on the street
interviews on the worst meanest street
in America and there that is
automatically going to it is very great
funhouse mirror what's actually
happening
yeah that's good okay when we come back
my interview with sherrod Brown
you
senator sherrod Brown from Ohio senator
welcome back good to be back Thanks
so I have to say there's a lot of
disappointment in our household when you
announced it you wouldn't be running but
I do remember that when I was first
dating Emily and she was working for you
I would sometimes ask her if she thought
you'd ever run for president because I
always thought you'd make a fantastic
candidate and Emily would say she was
she wasn't really sure that you wanted
to be president because of how much you
loved being a senator and how much you
loved the Senate is that what you
ultimately decided this time yeah it was
bad it was also I didn't I mean I've
known you for a while I've known Emily a
little longer I've known others Emily's
family longer and I I've never had this
great desire to be president United
States and starting in November we
started thinking more about it and in
the end I we start our dignity of work
tour with our goal was to inform the
narrative and influence a debate among
with other candidates to and I I think
we I know we were successful at doing
that and in the end to run for president
you've got to really really really want
to be President more than anything else
and I love the Senate and love what we
were able to do here and my my work in
the next year and a half is to fight for
Ohio and to fight for workers nationally
and to help Democrats win the Senate and
win the White House I mean there's a few
things more important than those in my
mind yeah so you'll be in the Senate you
know after 2020 which is the year where
Democrats are hoping to flip enough
seats to control the chamber you know it
seems like at most we can end up with 50
51 maybe 52 seats you know we're
probably not going to get anywhere near
60 if we have a Democratic president a
Democratic House how do we get anything
out of the Senate like can you identify
seven or eight Republicans who would
join Democrats on sort of the major
legislative initiatives that folks are
talking about on the campaign trail you
know it depends on depends on how you
win the White House and how you win
these elections and if Democrats start
talking you know for sure we talk to our
progressive base that's who we are it's
our values that civil rights it's voting
rights it's women's rights it's LGBT
rights LGBTQ rights but it's it's
also talking to workers with a
progressive agenda on everything from
pay to benefits to workplace safety to
childcare to as local 226 the culinary
workers in Las Vegas preach one job
should be enough and I think if you win
an election with our progressive base
coupled with a real message to workers
so that workers in in Zanesville Ohio
who might not like my F from the NRA and
might night like tonight pro-choice but
they might vote for me because and they
might vote for Democrats because we have
a strong message about sand in their kid
to Zayn State Community College or
fighting for child care so so one of
them so both spouses can work at least
part-time and do a little better
economically and advance their career so
we do that right we build a movement
even if we don't have 60 votes where and
we won't like it's hard to argue it
would but you would have a number of I
think you'd have Republicans realizing
this really matters and that we've got
to go in this direction
yeah you know on that note I heard you
say to Chris Hayes the other day said I
don't think our candidates are thinking
of the general election I think there's
a bit of one bird flies off the
telephone wire and five more birds fly
off the wire now you have impeccable
progressive credentials not just on
economic issues on all issues cultural
social everything so when someone like
you says that candidates aren't thinking
about the general enough it does worry
me a little bit what did you mean by
that
well I'm not worried because it's really
early I just I just think it's important
as you're a candidate and you know most
of the candidates that are most of the
Democratic senators running for
president have not faced a general
election in a state like Pennsylvania or
Ohio or Florida or Virginia or states
that are competitive and difficult with
Republican candidates and I won I just
want our candidates I'm talking to them
about this or one by one over time to be
thinking as they're running that that
they're going to be up against a
Republican in the fall not to change
their views not I don't by this move to
the middle stuff I don't think you'd do
that but I think you talk you think
about your message in the sense of what
works to a broad electorate the reason
dignity of work works as a as a slogan
is it's not a slow
for me it may have been in some ways a
slogan but it was a it's it's Who I am
its whom I fight for and it's how you
govern and so I think when you run a
campaign you you think about the
people you're talking to and you think
about governing with those same kinds of
words and rhetoric when the time comes
to raise your right hand and I just I'm
going to ask each individual senator and
then others running they don't want to
talk about it I don't force myself on
anybody on this but I just think there's
a real opportunity and that's a message
as you know the dignity of work doesn't
just work in in your wife's hometown of
Cincinnati yet it works in Pittsburgh it
works to a a healthcare where a hospital
worker in Baltimore it works to a hotel
worker in Las Vegas it works to a a tech
worker in Seattle I mean it really the
dignity of work is important regardless
of race and gender that we respect work
that we honor work that it pays decent
wages at the workplace is safe that
people have flagged it that people have
scheduled it thinking that they have
some power over their schedule the more
I travel and dignity of work the more I
saw people who have no power over their
work schedule and it makes childcare
more complicated or impossible it makes
their lives just under there it's so
much harder to navigate their lives when
their employer has such power over their
work schedules those are things we ought
to be talking about because people hear
that in somebody that book somebody that
is a man or a member and it first amend
the second amendments really important
and they may vote for somebody like me
because I talked to them about their
work schedules and how we can how we can
make their lives a little easier did
anything that you heard from people on
your tour surprised you were there
conversations that you were part of that
you were hearing that aren't
conversations that are happening in
Washington or on Twitter yeah I always
learn things I mean I my tour was really
I wasn't trying to get the largest
crowds I really did sit with small
groups of people and listened I in Iowa
I listened to farmers talking about is
15 below zero and they were talking
about what the tariffs mean to them and
their soybean potential soybean markets
in the future I
one of the most informing and
illuminating conversations went was with
a woman who for 50 years has been
involved in child care and ran a
childcare center for some time and she
said we need to think about childcare as
a public good I mean we invest in
transportation we invest in city parks
we invest in all kinds of things as a
society but when you think about
childcare many people have I hear this
over and over people wait they they put
off having children because they can't
afford childcare because it's so
expensive or or they can't find it you
know on the other end childcare workers
don't make a living wage so something's
wrong with the society that that has
been able to accomplish both making it
too expensive and then not even paying a
living wage and it really does come down
to um to one you know in it four people
one job should be enough and it should
pay a living wage the culinary Workers
Union in Las Vegas these are a hotel
workers 60 hotel and in affiliated
entertainment you know rent restaurant
industry hospitality industry workers
60,000 members of that local virtually
everybody carries a union card makes at
least 16 or 17 dollars an hour in jobs
that don't pay anything close to that in
other communities around the country and
that that really is the whole construct
of every every every one job should be
enough and that's something every
candidate should be able to get behind
obviously we're heading into an election
what are you hoping to get done in the
Senate over the next few years and and
and if there is a Democratic president
2020 what do you think her his first
priority first legislature priority
should be if there is the trade it's a
again so if there is if there is a
Democratic president in in 2020 2021
what do you think her his first priority
legislative priority should be the first
thing I think they should do is to go
and I don't know the answer to precisely
that but in the first week I would say
the president should go figuratively or
literally to Brussels and reassure the
world that we are not the police or the
world that we are engaged in the world
is a leader and go to Paris and
we enter the Paris the Paris climate
change Accords and go to Iran these are
foreign policy answers and I'll get the
domestic in a second and figuratively or
literally go to Iran and say we want
we're going to work with our allies and
making sure in Iran doesn't get nuclear
weapons that's that's sort of the first
things internationally I do I think the
first thing the president does is the
symbolism but the important symbolism
because it affects five million workers
is to reinstitute the overtime rule that
President Obama did one of the best
things President Obama did with
secretary Perez is to say to somebody
making $30,000 a year that runs a night
shift at a fast-food restaurant that
that even though ended that the
management has declared them the company
has declared their management that
company can work that worker 5060 hours
a week and pay no overtime not even
tonight I'm not talking time and a half
just even straight time overtime so I
just want I want to see the new
president immediately show yes we care a
whole lot about workers and this is what
we could do the matter with you the
other thing I do is come and immediately
do Medicare at 50 Medicare at 50 with
the public option with fixing the concer
the consumer protections are in place
for people that have a pre-existing
condition I think you do those you do
the one-bite by role and the other go to
the Congress and say this is so
important to get our health care system
in place do you think you could pick off
some Republican senators for that that
Medicare proposal
I can't imagine in the end that when the
pressures on that that many Republicans
vote against Medicare at 50 I mean I
know that the history of the Republican
Party they didn't they didn't vote for
the creation of Medicare they say they
did but history shows they didn't they
mostly didn't vote for the creation of
Medicare the first time that they had a
chance with a Republican House and with
Newt Gingrich with a Republican House
and Senate they tried to privatize
Medicare then we know what Bush did with
Social Security when he had a Republican
House and Senate and Medicare was all
part of that in some ways they just
fundamentally don't much like social
insurance and don't much like Medicare
but we do Medicare at 50 it puts them in
a place where I think we'd get enough
votes to move on it well
we are all very grateful that you will
be there in the Senate fighting the good
fight sorry that you're not running but
I'm very very happy that you and encanta
are in public life and will be so for
for a long time so thank you very much
we will both be engaged thanks so much
all right take care centered around de
body thighs
you
