welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer and this is our
holiday mailbag episode you're listening
to this on December 24th I'm sorry
you're listening to this on December
24th so happy birthday Dan I know it's
your birthday
does it really suck having a birthday
that is Christmas Eve you know I get
this question all the time up until the
day I went to work for Barack Obama in
2007 I had never worked or gone to
school my birthday and then thanks to
Barack Obama
I worked on my birthday for like five
consecutive years so that's but
generally it's good because you don't
you always have a day off but two I
don't know whether my parents did a very
good job of equaling the presents out or
my brother also got screwed but within
the confines of my house president
distribution was fair so I can't
complain it was fair for you so your
brother to get screwed I don't know
maybe my parents just did a good job of
making sure we I got the perfect matter
president I don't know whether I got the
proper amount or he did not get the
proper amount but you think that's good
all right later on the pod you will hear
my interview with congresswoman elect
Katey Porter from California's 45th
district we'll talk about her heading to
Congress and what her priorities are
when she gets there but first we have a
whole bunch of mailbag questions thank
you for all your questions you sent them
in on Instagram on Facebook on Twitter I
have a couple other places I don't know
some of some of you just shouted the
middle I sure so we'll take some of your
questions and yeah well we'll go from
there okay so first question is from Amy
crouch how do you get the left to care
about the courts as much as the right
it's a good question to think about in
light of you know the recent Texas
ruling trying to rule the Affordable
Care Act unconstitutional of course we
went through cavanaugh this year so Dan
how do we get our folks to care as much
about the courts as the right has for
many many years
billboards of Brett Cavanaugh's
shit-eating grin
all across America all right I do I do
like that serious answer that question
because that was pretty serious I think
that I think the thing here is I think
one I will be interested to see when we
get to the 2020 election cycle
how much whether Democrats seem to care
more than they have in the past yeah
so that's because I think we have seen
through what has happened with Gorsuch
and Merrick garland in Brett Kavanaugh
like in very real terms what not caring
and how not caring enough kid may have
lasting decades-long damage on this
country so that's one - I think it's
also progressive activists who care
about this have not only just motors to
convince what I think we also have to
convince our elected officials that we
care yeah because you know we're gonna
have to keep an eye on Senate Democrats
for two years to make sure that they are
not doing anything to make it easier to
put Trump judges on the court now they
have limited levers they can pull here
because of they don't have the majority
but you know I think we got to look with
great suspicion in any of these sort of
deals that let senators go home early
and make it easier for Meccano to
confirm Trump's judges yeah and already
I was happy to see that there were some
rumors that Schumer was gonna do another
one of these deals before the holidays
to make sure that a bunch of judges went
through in order to get the funding past
and everyone go home and that did not
happen at least of this recording it did
not happen but so that's good and you
know and it's happened before so maybe
our elected officials are starting to
get the message but no I think you're
right and I think all these candidates
in 2020 need to talk about like the
court and judges should be part of your
stump speech and I think you know one
way to get people to care about it is to
talk about the issues at stake here and
not just the Supreme Court either but a
lot of these lower courts and I think
that's also going to make a huge
difference not just in the presidential
race in 2020 in case there are
additional Supreme Court openings but
look it is gonna matter for retaking the
Senate in 2020 which is something that I
don't want people to just forget about
here as we focus on the presidential
because it is going to be I think it's
almost as important not quite as
important but this is important too
for Democrats to take the Senate in 2020
as to taking the the presidency because
if we have a Senate the way it is right
now I don't think we're getting anything
done with the Democratic president and
Democratic House do you think Mitch
McConnell is confirming President Kamala
Harris or Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden's
Supreme Court nominee even if that okay
if Ruth Bader Ginsburg resigned at 12:01
on January 21st the thought well least
crossed Mitch McConnell's mind that he
should not confirm that person he should
wait for years to confirm that person
absolutely and that will be the position
of the right for sure and so the Senate
is very important yes I'm saying one
other thing about this this is of all
the questions we'll take this is maybe
the most important but is I think that
one messaging point is to connect
people's frustration with the money and
politics to changing the balance of the
court because I think that's what people
don't really understand it the only way
you're gonna be able to get corporations
and billionaires out of politics is to
get a different ruling on citizens
united this united is to change the
court yeah and again look thinking about
the Supreme Court the the next chance we
have for a vacancy from a conservative
is Clarence Thomas who is you know early
70s right now so we could be waiting a
long time but should that vacancy occur
we're gonna need a Democratic president
it's the president in there because if
there are other vacancies whether it's
Ginsburg whether it's other justices
well you know if we get that vacancy
from Thomas and there's a Democratic
president in there suddenly we have a
5-4 court again and we have the majority
in the court so that's how fast it can
change and so that's why it's so
important important to both have a
Democratic Senate in place at the time
and have a Democratic president okay
Sarah FG Smith asks why isn't anyone
talking about the six week abortion ban
that Ohio is on the verge of adopting it
is a horrifying violation of women's
constitutional right to access an
abortion since most don't even know
they're pregnant until eight weeks can
we discuss please yes we can
and I think this sort of goes to the
first question about the courts and just
so people know this band
would be a ban on all abortions after
six weeks and there would be exceptions
for the life and health of the mother
but no other exceptions no exceptions
for rape no exceptions for incest and it
has passed the Ohio House it has passed
the Ohio Senate John Kasich who is still
the governor now has said he would veto
it but the incoming Republican governor
of Ohio
Mike DeWine has said that he would sign
the bill so that's that's where we are
right now dan what do you think about
this I think I think this for this is
such an important question in such an
important issue because when going back
in the Supreme Court again when the
Supreme Court refused to take out these
cases about Planned Parenthood a few
weeks ago some people breathe the sigh
of relief and said well maybe these they
were telling the truth and they don't
really want to take on abortion but if
you believe sort of what legal with the
right-wing legal scholars and activists
say is they are waiting for this case
this is the case that will come before
the Supreme Court that could be the
opportunity for them to overturn roe v
wade and this we need to scream from the
rooftops about this and I feel negligent
that we haven't done it yet but as we
come as we round the bend from the New
Year and Mike DeWine takes over we have
to do everything we can to put to raise
awareness of this and because it's not
this about Ohio this has become a Mott
this is not some you know far-right
Southern say this is a purple state that
has taken this path and it's become a
model for Republicans across the country
so this is has to be a centerpiece of
activists I'm heading into 2019 into
2020 yeah and I will say and I did some
research on this and it looks like
there's a lot of legal scholars as well
as women's reproductive groups who
believe that there is a small chance
that the Supreme Court takes this
particular case up they think that it is
such a direct hit to row and so
contradicts the ruling in roe v wade
that you know that lower courts will
likely find it unconstitutional and then
maybe the Supreme Court would take it
not because the Supreme Court has you
know the the Cavanaugh Roberts
majority on the court has suddenly had a
change of heart on this but because
there are other cases that are even
closer to the Supreme Court already that
have to do with restricting a woman's
right to choose that might be easier for
them to take and then rule and is a way
to chip away at woman's right to choose
and access to abortion that they might
take those instead but of course you
know we can't be sure of anything
anymore and this is all in the courts
and like you said this is just something
that we have to be aware of and and and
fight you know it sorry and and fight
like hell over because this is these are
the very real threats now that Brett
Kavanaugh is on the court it's a
reminder to the states who have
Democratic Governors Democratic
legislators many of whom newly elected
in office starting next year that they
need if they don't already have a book a
law on the books which preserves the
right to reproductive freedom in that
state they need to pass that law so that
yeah you could pretend you have the
potential depending on a Supreme Court
ruling to protect the right to choose
within your state if the Supreme Court
essentially makes it a states rights
issue and so getting it on the book is
incredibly important so it should be a
priority for along with a lot of other
things which should be at the top of the
list for these new Democratic governors
another question from name I can't
pronounce TQ soul I don't know will
there be a Jeff Flake of 2019 2020 I
don't know if that's the most obvious
answer in the entire world
I think I know can I take a shot at it
absolutely yes it is his name is Willard
Mitt Romney that is correct
you are correct sir I've been calling it
a new Jeff Flake look I don't want to
prejudge maybe maybe Mitt Romney is
suddenly gonna have a change of heart
and everything we saw from him in the
presidential campaign and you know it
may be a hole he'll turn out to be a
real hero but nope but I'm not gonna I
will not place any money on that this is
this evening prediction this is like me
predicting the Sun is coming up tomorrow
it is 100% guaranteed to happen Mitt
Romney is someone who
to his great credit went all in on being
against the Trump unlike some of the
most of the spineless weasels in the
Republican Party all-in gave the
centerpiece never Trump speech in the
campaign when Trump won I think he even
continued in a lot of ways to be strong
putting out statements when it was
appropriate speaking out more
aggressively on things like when the
president I don't know sided with Nazis
and things like that they started
running for Senate in Utah and then I
saw one bad poll and then tried to tell
reporters he was never actually never
Trump so I didn't take that to be an
encouraging sign that he would be a
vessel for the courageous never Trump
movement all across this country
I actually thought when I first heard
that question they were wondering if
there's gonna be like if Jeff Flake or
someone like that's gonna challenge
Trump in the primary which I'd be
interested for your thoughts on - I
think that just reading the tea leaves
of the Twitter accounts of John Kasich
and John Weaver who is John Kasich
longtime political strategist and then
sort of helped was the engineer McCain's
challenge to george w bush in 2000 i get
the sense that john kasich is very much
thinking about running against i'm sorry
john kasich is very much thinking about
running against trump in 2020 the
problem is there is basically zero room
to the right of trump and no room limit
that's confusing basically running
against Trump in the Republican
primaries - trumps left seems like an
impossible task yeah but it is notable
that the Republicans are not super
confident because they have proposed
canceling the South Carolina primary as
a way to protect trough upcoming
election which is something that
apparently has happened many times in
the past so this is not totally unique
but it is at least a sign that they have
some fears of a primary challenge ya
know my view on this is if for some
reason there was someone to challenge
from sorry if for some reason a
candidate came along and decided to
challenge Trump from the right said that
Trump has you know
ignored his Megabass and you know didn't
build the wall and look he's signed into
law this bipartisan criminal justice
reform and he's a cook now okay
like I guess that would just be like you
know human version of Infowars or
something challenged by Alex Jones yeah
that's the only to me that's the only
potential threat to Trump because most
of the Republican Party what's left of
it the constituency the Republican Party
I'd say at least I don't know seventy
eighty percent of it there there Trump
fans there there there behind him all
the way and so yeah there's a small
constituency for John Kasich I'm sure
out there Republicans who are
disappointed with Trump Republicans who
may have voted Democrat in this 2018
election I'm sure they're out there but
I don't think they represent anywhere
near a majority of the party Taylor
Nelson Haney asks how to engage voters
in district suffering from voter
suppression living in Georgia the morale
feels low even though Democrats won
overall what's the message for Democrats
in these tough places this is a really
hard one and I harken back to Latasha
Brown of black voters matter who is an
activist who works
press the south particularly in
african-american communities who was our
guest on the final of the four HBO
specials who really talked both in our
interview and then in a New York Times
op-ed piece she wrote this fall very
powerfully about how you engage these
communities and it's really about
talking to them about their power the
power they have despite these laws and
they try to take that power away and
talking to them about it's like an
education process right about what their
power is and then how you can put
yourself in a position where you can
overcome the laws being put in place by
people like Brian Kemp in Georgia and I
think like following the latasha's model
is very interesting and compelling and I
think we could all learn a lot from the
work that she did in
during the Doug Jones race and all
across the South in 2018 yeah I mean
voter suppression is real it's insidious
it's probably the worst it's been since
the Jim Crow era like we know that but
at the same time we should remember
stacey abrams received more votes than
any democrat in Georgia's history and I
think the only way to stop voter
suppression is to keep fighting it keep
organizing it remains true that there
are still more voters who don't turn out
because they don't think it's important
than voters who don't turn out because
we're mobile Republicans have made it
hard for them which i think is sometimes
lost in the conversation around voter
suppression which again is very real and
a real threat and I think that the only
way that we're going I mean it's it's
it's tough because it's a you know it's
a catch-22 here like the only way we're
gonna change the laws is to win and
winning is made that much tougher
because voter suppression is in place
but it's not impossible there's ways to
organize and there's you know there's
there's work on the ground to be done so
I would tell those people you know don't
lose heart and I know it's disappointing
and you have every right to be angry
about the result in Georgia I sure AM
but you got to keep fight B and there
are there are plenty of voters out there
who are willing to vote who were willing
to jump through the hoops and jump o in
and you know overcome the obstacles
they've put in your way to go out there
and vote it's really about organizing
organizing now and not and this is two
other points Latasha made in our
conversation without really important
one is the work has to continue long
after the election right it can't be
this traditional two-year cycle where
you show up you know three months before
the election and you know do some
organizing and then pack up the first
Wednesday in November if this has to be
sustained organizing that goes on for
years and that's how you do it and the
other thing she said to your that I
thought was fascinating which is
slightly apart from the question about
voter suppression but it goes right at
your point that there were more voters
who just choose not to turnout and
Latasha said to me during that HBO show
that most non voters are
apathetic you're actually quite
passionate about their decision not to
vote and I think that's a very important
thing for Democratic politicians to to
Democrat politicians to learn which is
people are making a choice not to vote
they are choosing not to do it in many
cases because they don't feel like that
vote matters that you have not you as a
politician have not made a case about
why it matters and that we have to move
some of the Asians instead of just
yelling at voters a stopping way so we
have to put some of the burden on
politicians to make it make that vote
matter not just make a compelling case
in the run-up to election day but once
you get into office your job is to make
it so that the person who waited in line
three hours who took time off work or
carried their kids and stood in the rain
where they could vote that they feel
like that was worth it because if you
just go there and once you have that you
pocket that vote and go on and sort of
do what you would normally do in
Washington then you have failed that
person yeah and in those of us who pay
close attention to politics people who
are listening to this podcast we get why
it's important to vote we get you know
Trump is president of course you got to
vote like this is you know the most
important election of our lifetime like
we get all that but you have to
understand that there are people out
there who do not pay close attention to
politics and they feel like no one is
listening to them and they feel like the
system is broken and they feel like the
game is rigged and yes everyone has a
responsibility to educate themselves
about the news and politics of course
but if we want to build a winning
coalition if we want to build a majority
in this country to pass progressive
policies it's also incumbent upon all of
us who want that to go out and talk to
the people who don't necessarily think
that politics is for them or the
politics actually responds to their
lives that's on us so I do think you're
right that we have to we have to
continue to have those conversations
with people who don't vote and find out
what they are passionate about and and
and tell them you know here's how to
here's how to fix that problem that
you're having okay it may hit me oh it
may ask one word here where should our
priorities be as a party right now focus
on 2020 stop the border wall green New
Deal income in a
quality health care something else what
do you think dan yes I think our primary
responsibility has to be put a check on
Trump put a check on the corruption put
a check on the criminality put a check
on the incompetence
there is mountains of undo work digging
into what this government's been doing
for the last few years and that has to
be our first priority more so than
cutting some infrastructure deal
with Trump or passing some message bill
we should pass all the bills we can I
really like the idea the Democrats have
had about electoral reform and voting
reform as as one of the first bills are
gonna do that's great I think having a
committee to dig into the green New Deal
is great we should do all those things
but your job for the next two years is
to stop Trump that is why people elected
you that's what we want you to do
anything that compromises that I think
needs to be looked at very hard before
we go down the road I agree with that I
think that like on a parallel track we
also need to start offering our
alternative vision for the country based
on what people care about right their
jobs their wages the cost of living what
kind of country we want to live in and I
think you know the presidential
candidates are probably gonna handle
that and you know as you pointed out the
Democrats in the house as they pass some
of these it was people call the
messaging bills and they say that
because obviously they're not going to
pass the Senate but at least it lets the
American people know what the Democrats
priorities are and what the priorities
would be if Democrats had full control
over Washington so I do think that's
important to start laying out what our
vision is what a world what a post Trump
world might look like if if Democrats
had control because I think you know
obviously this I think first and
foremost this election is going to be a
referendum on Trump but there's gonna be
a lot of people wondering okay well I
know I don't like Trump and I don't want
him in there but what do you know what
are Democrats gonna do what would the
country look like under Democratic
control Democratic control and so I
think that's it's useful to at least
start telling that story walk and chew
gum people yeah you do both
Theodore T asks do you believe that
Democrats run the
risk of going into the 2020 election too
complacent for example do you think
there's a possibility that they may
think there there's no way Trump could
win and so they end up making a mistake
similar to 2016 I mean that's gonna
obviously keep me up at night every
night from now until 2020 but I don't
think that will happen but who knows I
don't know what do you think I think
yeah I'm worried about that I'm worried
about everything in 2016 worry about
everything panic about nothing I I think
we have to be very honest with ourselves
and sometimes when we like you know we
we talked to groups or we see people
people are shocked by this point that I
often make which is right now Trump is
the favorite to be reelected if you were
just gonna put money on what is the most
sure case it would be the Trump would
get reelected and I say that before
everyone drives a car off for
road there's a phone in the sewer
because incumbent presidents usually get
reelected there are two factors that
have stopped incumbents from getting
reelected in the last couple decades and
both of these factors have had to be in
place for it to happen because there's
only been two presidents who were not
reelected in recent history Jimmy Carter
and George - HW Bush both these two
factors were a primary challenge from
their ideological flank Ted Kennedy in
80 and Pat Buchanan in 88 and then and a
third party candidate John Anderson and
80 Ross Perot in 88 neither of those one
of those factors is almost certainly not
happening and the other one may or may
not happen so given that you would say
Trump has a very good chance to be
reelected but there are a couple there
are some mitigating factors he's
incredibly unpopular he's incredibly
stupid
he is under every aspect of his life
from grade school til hit so he got to
the White House is under criminal
investigation and there are more
Democratic voters and Republican voters
in this country and so it is we should
not become we should not sort of anyone
who's complacent is been napping
for two years and should not be around
but this is gonna be a very tough race
to win and we have to be very smart and
have a very good candidate who has a
very good campaign to take advantage of
every opportunity to win yeah and you
know the Trump voters they showed up in
2016 they showed up again in 2018 we won
in 2018 because we had astronomical
turnout among Democratic voters and we
pulled over some Republicans as well but
a lot of those Trump voters that voted
in 2016 they didn't stay home in 2018
and there's a good chance they're not
staying home in 2020 so we are gonna
have to do everything right this brings
me to the next question from Elle
Vanderbilt as we gear up for 2020 how
can we avoid the Democratic infighting
that dragged on beyond the primaries
like we saw in 2016
great question I wish I hope does anyone
have an answer tweeted us because I
don't have a clue this this is
the thing that keeps me up the most
right now because you know we're already
seeing this and it's like I don't know
how we can avoid it I know how every
person out there can contribute to
avoiding it which is you know talk about
why you like your chosen candidate right
if you prefer one Kay talk about the
positive parts of that candidates policy
agenda or their record or whatever you
may like about them like don't go around
talking especially this early about why
you can't stand the other candidates
I've already seen on Twitter some people
hashtag never Bernie hashtag never bet
Oh hashtag never Biden hashtag never
count like never nothing stop don't do
that stop it
don't another thing don't get in dumb
Twitter fights with the people who love
getting into dumb Twitter fights on both
sides I don't pay attention to them
anymore maybe I'll see it when I scroll
by I'm not responding anymore I'm not
dealing with it because you know what
happens those fights start on Twitter
now and then journalists who spend their
time on Twitter as well they start
writing about those fights so they're
not reflective of what's actually
happening out in the country because if
you will start looking at some of these
polls these early polls right now the
approval rating for almost all of these
candidates is quite good most Democrats
like all of these candidates in the real
world they like all of these candidates
in
world it's a mess but in the
real world most people in this party
would be very happy and have warm
feelings to just about all of these
candidates that have been mentioned to
be running so you know I would just tell
everyone keep an open mind yourself
about all the candidates tell your
friends to keep in mind open mind about
all the candidates and when you're
talking about them talk about what you
like about certain candidates and don't
start attacking all the rest of the
field well when you said a few minutes
ago that you had made a decision to not
pay attention to the primary related
Twitter battles on the Internet
where you you made that why don't you
make that pledge your text messages from
today suggest that allow me to rephrase
I'm not I'm not engaging in them is what
I'm gonna do okay I'm gonna I can't
ignore them unless I get up to I mean
there'll be another resolution that
you'll hear in our resolutions episode
Thursday about one of my big resolutions
which is how to use Twitter better so
that's that's a resolution that's
starting now but um yeah it's just it's
bad already it's bad well I'd say just
two points about this we should not be
so pessimistic just yet because when
Twitter is not real life that's right
it's just isn't that's my new mantra for
the new year by the way Twitter's not
real yeah it is a funhouse mirror
version of politics in a particularly
unfund funhouse that sadly becomes
reflected in across broader press
coverage because it's reporters
basically like the new man on the street
interview is to just read tweets and
have that affect your worldview which is
pretty stupid and really damning
for the current state of journalism and
- this is a going to be at least for a
long time it appears a many many many
candidate field the problem we had in 16
and for par for some of oh ed was it was
two candidates and so it was either
you're for Burt if you're for Bernie
you're against Hillary yeah if you are
for Hillary you're against Bernie or you
could you know in you know find a
replace Barney with Brock if you
do away you know you saw this and you
worked the 2004 presidential campaign
when there are many candidates you can
be for John Kerry and you're not
necessarily again via melee against John
Edwards or against Dick Gephardt or so
you know I mean like there's like it
your hatred can be diluted around a
number of people and hopefully that
happens here the other thing is
hopefully people recognize like if there
was a question about whether it mattered
whether Hillary or Trump was the winner
well I think we know the answer
that question and it matters a hell of a
lot yeah and look again like even the
2016 divisions were are overblown you
know most the vast vast majority
something like 70 80 80 percent I think
of Bernie supporters ended up voting for
Hillary most Hillary voters have a you
know Bernie has a good approval rating
among most Hillary voters as well so
like again it's overblown in the end I
do think in 2004 the dynamic was it was
Howard Dean versus the rest of the field
because Dean was the insurgent and so
there was this like anger between Dean
supporters and everyone else but again
this was back in 2004 and there wasn't
Twitter or other social media to sort of
amplify the divisions as we have now but
I do you you are right than in a big
field it becomes less likely that you
get the sort of battle royale between
two candidates yeah Twitter has
basically become a world where all
reporters are forced to do made on the
street interviews but they have to go to
the dumbest angriest street and all of
America to do them that is very apt all
right some fun questions anchor kario
what are your favorite holiday
traditions what do you got then I don't
play games you get you also play games
after Christmas dinner please do play
games yeah we do play some games as well
okay you're gonna see me have a very you
and I'm wasting a very fun families this
will be this is gonna be like cheesy new
dad tradition thing but when I was a kid
like young kid we would all wait my
family always get together and we would
read
the night before Christmas on Christmas
Eve which was the day you're reading
listen his podcast and also my birthday
and that was sort of our like last thing
we did before we went to bed and waited
for Santa so now like absolutely haven't
done that for many many years in my
family but now that my daughter is here
we're gonna do we're gonna go visit my
parents so we're gonna do we're gonna
restart that tradition this year that's
great we used to do that too there's
somewhat somewhere there is an audio
tape of me as a two-year-old reciting
twas the night before Christmas with my
mom helping me a lot
yeah we used to do it all the time we we
just did Christmas with my parents since
we're going to Cincinnati this week and
we always do like I'll play Christmas
carols on the piano and my mom will sing
and there everyone else will have a
little sing-along and then now with
Emily's family we have a tradition that
they've had for a long time which is
they play an audio version of the
Christmas Carol Dickens the Christmas
Carol and everyone sits around and has
like hot chocolate or whatever and no
one everyone has to put their phones
away no one can speak it's just all
silence listening to the Christmas Carol
through the whole thing which is I've
done it for a few years now it's really
nice not to bow nervous
it's very great yeah see the black
family is a they're a good time okay
don't boo vote asks what types of media
do you consume when not obsessively
refreshing Twitter reading the news is
there a specific book movie episode of
television that was favorite in 2018 I
have so many I have like a whole list of
them
go so television uh the good place one
of my favorites my favorite show on
network television Home Coming Great
British Bake Off wild wild country
Bojack horseman succession Nanette
trying to think of any others that's
that's my initial list movies favorite
movies of the year black panther amazing
blockers my favorite comedy won't you be
my neighbor my favorite documentary
about mr. Rogers took me back
and then as you know I don't really read
but I read the last campaign by thirst
and Clark about Bobby Kennedy's campaign
in 68 is fantastic Michelle Obama's book
becoming excellent just read that and
the novel less I think at one that
Pulitzer Prize last year is very well
worth a read those are my those are my
recommendations ok my TV would be not
counting the pot save America HBO
special but would be I'm not gonna redo
the below deck thing but I really do
enjoy below deck succession and Lana and
Top Chef are three shows that I greatly
enjoyed my family my wife and I have
also very gotten very into Outlander
which is like it's very unique
like niche of the Internet show but I
thoroughly enjoy books the best non
Obama related books I read this year yes
Ben Rhodes yes Alyssa Mastromonaco yes
yes we can yes we can on my list I read
I was I wasn't offended in parentheses
it so because I'm almost exclusively
read books either written by my friends
or fiction because why after if you're
gonna basically for a living
consume politics all day long it's nice
to do something totally different so the
three best books I read this year maybe
like best is not the rubber three most
favorite books ever and this year were
the Mars room by Rachel Kushner they're
there by tommy orange in the immortal
list by Chloe Benjamin coincidentally
all three of them take place in the Bay
Area in the past but they were just all
three phenomenal books and then one
other book is the funeral detective by
Jonathan Lethem who was probably my
favorite author of the last decade or so
he had a new book that just came out
great I'm gonna do it since we had a
baby I've seen almost no movies no what
I came from her the last time I went to
the movie theater but obviously Black
Panther which I saw on an airplane but
was great and then like the movie that i
weirdly enjoyed the
most cuz I had super low expectations
but it just blew me away was the quiet
place with John Krasinski and Emily
Blunt it was just I don't even really
watch our movies but it was phenomenal
it's also a good metaphor for our life
once we put our daughter down for a nap
because the premise of the movie is if
you make noise monsters come and so it's
like you were very quiet in our house
and so I think about that movie a lot
there's no chance I'm watching that
movie it was but the others like two
albums that I really enjoyed this year
which were I was almost exclusively
hip-hop so take that for what it will no
name who is this rapper who's female
rapper from Chicago that is amazing
and Cimino has it I'm called Noir that
just came out that is I just randomly
stumbled onto his Spotify and it's
phenomenal alright no that's good
alright um Emily primo asks how did John
John Tommy and Dan all meet do they
remember their first interactions
alright let's see um I met Tommy first
in 2004 I was on the Kerry campaign it
was the beginning of the general
election Tommy had been on the Edwards
campaign in the primary they just lost
and Tommy's cousin
Wendy button was a speech writer with me
on Kerry and Tommy was looking for a job
and so he stopped by our office and he
was interviewing at the Kerry campaign
for a job which he smartly decided not
to take so he could then go work on
these campaign of State Senator Barack
Obama and that worked out pretty well
for him and then I met Tommy again in
the Senate office during our first week
on the job I met you I believe this was
in 2006 when I was in the Obama's Senate
office and you came in right after or
while you were about to take the job for
the campaign is that right that's
basically right yeah and then we went
and then you and me and Tommy and Bill
Burton who'd just taken the job as press
secretary all went out for dinner that
night at Fogo de Chao
just gonna save hood to Fogo de Chao so
classy yeah we were very classy that was
2006 and then love it I met because he
applied for a job and I'm in the Obama
administration and he had been a Hillary
Clinton speechwriter and it was between
him and someone else and I interviewed
him at a Starbucks near the transition
office in DC and he was hilarious as he
always is and and I said oh this guy's
funny I mean I think he writes pretty
well but he's really funny so he should
definitely be on the team since we need
some humor and and that was love it what
about you today how did you meet oh I
guess Tommy and love it
so Tommy I first met when he for to DC
after working on the Obama Senate
elections this was 2005 and I had and
I'm we had a friend of mine who had been
a who's from Chicago who had been a
supporter of Obama's sort of had a
dinner to welcome Tommy to DC and he
described Tommy as this young this young
hotshot who had worked for a friend of
mine on the Edwards campaign when Tommy
work for every 2004 before Obama so Tom
and I went to dinner together when he
first moved to DC I don't even think he
had an apartment yet I was trying to
remember the first time I met love it
and it was either in the transition
office after you hired him I can
remember what order these things
happened in but I I think I met him
briefly in the transition office and
then during the transition I was
shopping at the mall because I had to
buy like suits and things cuz we had
real jobs now and I ran into loved it in
the department store who reintroduce
himself to me at like Bloomingdale's or
something I can't believe he introduced
himself to you and didn't just sort of
like walk away because it's like that's
that's a very forward social interaction
for six months I thought you guys first
met on the first episode of positive
America that was gonna be my joke but
people read way too much into that we
still haven't met yet okay so that's us
that's first that's first meetings all
right Melissa Thompson from Instagram
this is a great question
you are kidnapped by a mischievous but
meaning elf who transports you to an
enchanted room where visitors are
compelled to speak only the truth
the elf says you can have one hour in
the truth-telling room with anyone other
than Donald Trump who do you pick and
why I have my answer
okay I have a question sure is like what
are the Miranda rights about what
happens in this room the Miranda rights
like I mean it can it be used against
you in a court of law immunity against
me Oh like if someone tells you
something yeah like so here's my point
like if if I can use this magic elf room
to get Donald Trump jr. in jail I'm
certainly do oh wow that is happening
that is some devious then good a
good thing yeah I like where you're
headed
yes you can absolutely this is our okay
so now our magical epic yeah so if I
could do that I would use Donald Trump
jr. probably if you really wanted to get
the AMA the Russia thing maybe Putin
would be your first choice I mean my dad
about the P tape all these other things
Muller man Robert Muller is my choice I
would sit there with mother and I had so
many questions I would just find it all
out and then I would be able to I'd
probably be more productive with my life
because then I would know what was going
on I wouldn't be reading all these
stories and trying to follow all these
leads and connecting all this red string
on the board like that I just get get
Bobby three sticks in there and and I'll
just I'll just start firing away that's
that's my that's my choice if it could
be someone who was dead I would pick
Jack Ruby Ruby like if you could find
out about the Kennedy assassination that
seems like a interesting use of that
room or the other thing I'm very curious
about which is like a deeply esoteric
window into my crazy sports brain is
back when Michael Jordan mysteriously
retired from basketball in the 90s for a
year and a half there were many rumors
that it was part of a gambling
investigation from the NBA and so I
would have em be a commissioner David
Stern in that rooms I will know the
truth about what made Michael Jordan
retire mysteriously for eighteen months
if you ask if you asked a million people
this question I don't know if any would
pick David Stern I bet you
I bet you are former boss Pilsen you
think bit on his list because he is my
obsession with this is partially fueled
by him bringing it up on his podcast
about once every six months I would love
to hear bill's answers to this because I
bet he'd have some good ones especially
in the world of sports okay final
question from Heather live dance
thoughts on Paul Ryan's legacy now
before you answer here at cricket media
we have a little something for you to
listen to Dan that we'd like you to just
this is for you I don't like Paul Ryan
Paul Ryan is the funniest person
in America
Paul Ryan is as responsible for Donald
Trump being president as any person
walking the planet today with the
possible exceptions of Vladimir Putin
and Jim Comey Trump could murder someone
and Paul Ryan would be fine with it
dan definitely wins the Paul Ryan Oh God
all right he hates him he was born in a
College Republicans test-tube hatched by
Karl Rove I know he'd like to think the
first line of his Wikipedia page will be
the tax cut but it won't be it will be
the shame that comes from his conduct
with Trump in office and that is just a
fact and it is unchangeable this point
no matter how many times he puts out
lukewarm statements so he can sleep at
least five minutes a night we have a
statement from noted Ryan hater Dan
Pfeiffer dan sent in the statement he
couldn't be here today Paul Ryan may
leave Congress but the stain of his
cowardice and complicity will remain
Paul Ryan will do nothing to save us
yeah I think we've all really I don't
button
I don't like Paul Ryan no I if that
wasn't clear
I have to say I'm mildly embarrassed by
that are you we were so proud Elijah and
Michael put that together and they're
very proud of it and we have been as
they should be it's really great but
it's like I like there is a certain I
find myself I generally believe myself
to at least be a pretty even-keeled
person ya know you are there is
something about Paul Ryan that sends me
into a fit of rage and like I don't even
remember the things I say like they're
not planned I don't write them down in
advance I have no there are no rant
notes they just come it is an organic
anger and I think there's also like a
hormone that makes me forget the things
I said immediately afterwards so this is
just me being reminded of them which I'm
Ivan I am both in proud and slightly
embarrassed I guess would be the way of
my reaction to that well I'm proud of
you for hearing them I mean I think it
was a fantastic send-off you know look
we figured Paul Ryan has a six-part
video series sending himself off by his
own legacy that he's been but he gave a
speech everything the least we could do
is put together a little Dan Pfeiffer on
Paul Ryan compilation which you know I
think I think people will enjoy it very
much
do you have any other thoughts you'd
like to add yes please do please do so I
have spent some time in anticipation of
this moment trying to understand what it
is
about Paul Ryan's and makes me so bad
because I like to trust me
Marco Rubio I find upsetting Mitch
McConnell one of the worst things that
has ever happened to American politics
also makes me mad
Jeff Lakes impotence makes me mad Donald
Trump I obviously do not like jr.
terrible there are people like lots of
people bother maybe but Paul Ryan in
particular bothers me because it's not
because of who Paul Ryan is because he's
basically he's not uh he's no one he is
like a he is a empty vessel for people
to pour their hopes and dreams into and
the thing that I think makes me that
like focuses my anger on Ryan is that he
represents
both the worst in Republican politicians
the worst in what everyone hates about
politicians generally and the
glorification of Paul Ryan represents
the worst of American journalism and
pundit Rhee hmm all of those things
together in one human being who made a
choice a actual he actually chose this
path is he was in like if you listen to
his I didn't I did not watch his speech
today but I want to thank the 10,000
people on Twitter who said it to me yeah
but like everything in these final
interviews has been like and even from
all of the Ryan apologists in
conservative media or right-wing think
tanks is boy you know what a tough deal
for this wonky Jack Kemp Ian Republican
to be forced to be Speaker by Donald
Trump as president and it's like he
didn't have to just fold and supplicate
himself to Donald Trump that was a
choice he made it was a political choice
he's born of political expediency and
cowardice that has proven to be the
disastrous politically disastrous
morally and in the his one point of
pride based on the six part
taxpayer-funded video his office sent
out about passing this tax bill has also
proven to be a policy disaster the
economy has gotten worse you know since
that bill passed significantly worse the
stock market is way down you have to be
a special kind of stupid to pass a
corporate tax cut and have the stock
market tanked so that's my take I mean
the good news for you and for all of us
really is at least from what I've seen
and I'm sure you follow this even more
closely than I do I have not seen many
glowing pieces about Paul Ryan or his
legacy as he leaves like I feel like the
journalism punditry aspect of what is
always concerned you about Paul Ryan
which has been true for a very very long
time has finally come to terms with
who Paul Ryan really is and who he isn't
and I thought like emblematic of this
was that Washington Post piece from
yesterday that started quoting Paul
Ryan's close friends on background
saying like Paul doesn't really
understand how bad everything is and how
bad he this out
and I thought to me I was like you know
what when you've got a close friend on
background saying that I don't need to
put any more spin on the ball I'm just
gonna leave it as it is take it easy
buddy have a nice retirement enjoy your
lobbying here's an important point Paul
Ryan's not going away like we're gonna
those of us on the Paul Ryan beat or
gonna have to stay vigilant okay six
months from now he's gonna go to the
Heritage Foundation he's gonna be
welcomed with open arms by even some of
our never Trumper allies in the battle
against Trump there he's gonna give a
speech about pushing back against the
alt-right and returning the party to the
roots of Reagan the press will cheer
centrist pundants will swoon and then
six months 18 12 months 18 months I
don't know Paul Ryan will run for Senate
from Wisconsin oh boy I was thinking I
was actually he's maybe he runs for
governor of Wisconsin he could do that I
think I mean he wants to be as close to
tortilla coast as possible at all times
but he's not done he is taking a break
to try to cleanse the stench of Trumpy
and failure off of his body and he's
gonna return to politics he 100% like
the idea that he's just gonna drift off
and never be heard from again is
impossible for me imagine so yeah I'll
probably direct some rage at Rubio or I
don't know I'm gonna have a lot to say
about Mitt Romney I think and he's gonna
be a great disappointment to me but Paul
Ryan we're gonna keep an eye on you at
all times on that note we will now go to
our interview with someone in Congress
who makes us inspired and happy and
hopeful congresswoman elect Katey Porter
from the 45th district of California my
interview with her right after this
you
