[Music]
canvassing may scare you but so did
finding that raccoon in your crawlspace
and look at you now your best friends so
while you may be reluctant to turn off
the Dolphins game in the sunday
canvassing in this election may be the
best decision you ever make first just
find a campaign you like or go to vote
save America calm which will help you
find canvassing events near you or go to
a campaign office where they'll give you
a list of doors you can knock on look at
all these great doors
research shows the canvassing only works
if lots of people are doing it so grab a
friend or two hi Tommy
I love it hey it's cool you consider
it's your friend it's really hard to
make adult friends not only does
canvassing with friends make the whole
thing more effective but you'll never
feel unsafe along the way then you'll
knock on a door with your fist if it's a
doorbell use a finger
you know how doors work hey Tommy
studies show that open and discussions
work best so be open to wherever the
conversation goes and make sure you
listen also be sure to listen I'm a
pastor from a primarily Latino
congregation and so this election means
a whole lot of personal stuff how many
times you plan to vote this election
once explain why you personally were
passionate about the candidate maybe
even tell a story what are the issues
that are important to you top of mine is
gun violence you love it and you want
more of it yeah no no this BOC
registered BOC is registered yeah she's
very independent voting for you voting
for belly rubs would rather win the
house or find the P tape in an envelope
on your door whoa oh my lord I think I
would rather win the house canvassing
doesn't just turn out the people you
talk to the other people in that home
are also 60% more likely to vote it's a
lot of percent so maybe put down your
phone stop tweeting for two
seconds and actually hit the pavement
because it's the single best thing you
can do
I don't want to be a dick but I
hated those people
