there has been an argument playing out
this week in Washington in California
over high-speed rail well our Neil is
Teletubby of a president makes sense
while he declares an emergency over the
wall I want to take a moment to talk
about this high speed rail issue for a
long time here in California we were led
by a marble headed highly competent
immortal named Jerry Brown during his
four centuries of leadership California
led on climate change we created a
government surplus we fought to improve
public transportation and Jerry Brown
even imprisoned the genie who granted
his one wish to look 64 for all of
eternity see you pick 64 cuz no one
questions in no one thinks a 64 year old
guy is gonna live forever right if he
had picked Dorian Gray 27 or something
you'd be like something's fishy there's
a painting somewhere with some you know
I mean there's a painting that shows his
age and his sins but not Jerry Brown he
said make it 64 they'll never suspect
that I'm gonna be here for a thousand
 years one of the projects Jerry
Brown championed was a high-speed rail
line from San Francisco to Los Angeles
it was always going to be daunting but
the timeline kept getting longer and the
budget kept getting bigger like Avatar
movies um then we left Gavin Newsom who
in his first state of the state did not
do his signature move of marrying gay
people his Thunder road constantly
marrying gay people that guy against
their will at times
no he said the LHS F project would cost
you much and respectfully take too long
I don't know who that is respectful of
but he was respectful about it and we
like that did he offer a plan to get the
cost down he did not to fulfill the
proposition that voters passed in 2008
to get this done he did not know
governor handsome and sleek in a way you
think will annoy you but then who you
begrudgingly like because he is
genuinely smart informed despite the
sleekness Newsom said the state will
instead focus on the Central Valley part
of the route from Merced to Bakersfield
which according to him could bring about
economic transformation in the region
the goal was to connect the Central
Valley to the coast not to itself
a train from SF to LA is a train that
 a train from Merced to Bakersfield
is a train that masturbates but here's
why this matters to the whole country
governor Newsom said something that
really bothered me he said we need to be
real about why the project won't work
and being real means accepting less and
it means doing less why is it real for a
high-speed rail line to run from Madrid
to Barcelona when San Francisco and LA
are the same distance apart and have ten
times as many people why is why is it
real in the UK and France and Germany
and and Japan and South Korea and China
why is it real everywhere else but here
drop them off the goal of high-speed
rail on the green new deal as well and
as Democrats who believe in public works
who believe in public transit as a way
to fight climate change and lift people
out of poverty we're in this trap
between Republicans who don't believe
government can do anything and the
so-called realists who tell us that
government can do less and less and it
sucks
chris Christie cancelled the arc project
which is something I always come back to
along with Joe Lieberman killing the
Medicare buy-in for 50 plus because it
was one of the most despicable and
cynical acts I've seen in politics and
it was one person making a terrible
decision that hurt an entire state it
was a tunnel that supposed to go under
the Hudson to connect Manhattan in this
place it says here is called New Jersey
Jersey
des jahres oh I don't know what it is
but it's it was supposed to connect
Manhattan to this other place this new
place Jersey Jersey New Jersey and he
blamed costs Newsome is a progressive
governor in a progressive state it's the
fifth largest economy in the world he
has a full head of hair we can do
this and I don't think I don't think
Newsome should be lecturing us on what's
real I think it's up to us in California
to show people what is real that it is
still possible for America to
build something because this isn't this
isn't new jorts key New Jersey Co it
doesn't doesn't sound right I know it's
close Jersey Jersey Co Jerry this is
California and we want to train that
 hope you like that
it's my slogan when I primary Gavin
Newsom
I don't even know when he's up when he's
have 20/20 for love at 20/20 for a train
that shut up shut up shut up put
it on red hats people are like I know
what he's for not like these other
Democrats it's all pablum but not love
it what's he want a train
[Music]
