I am here with the wonderful Holland
Taylor hmm I have from your mouth to
God's I have been a fan for years
I loved the practice it was the greatest
parts I ever was lucky enough to get a
skill set you know that developed over
years he it was just a small part of a
very telling scene with Regina King and
I think yes I've been watching some of
it now that they added it to who and
well David Kelly has had seen his his
wife's picture whatever that one fine
day that I played her mother in and I
had a very flirtatious scene I mean it
did seem flirtatious I wasn't flirting
with it with George Clooney give the
daughter run for the money for sure he
got this idea of doing making the judge
really is sort of a sexual an active you
know 50-ish woman who was out there I
know one of your first few episodes it's
just when you tell Dylan McDermott that
you have that erotic dream about him was
hilarious yes particularly loved the one
where I got I can tell you I would get
scripts late at night when I'd come home
one night really late and I got the
script in which it she has the line I
gave him the greatest and I read
that at like 2:00 in the morning and I
had nobody I could call to hell this was
in 1999 yeah I said I'm gonna save this
on national television I finally called
up an actress friend in England it was
at least awake to tell her I had this
extraordinary scene to play they ended
up changing it to fellatio but it was
still pretty much mean I was that I
think that was around the time like they
had nudity unlike NYPD Blue - probably
yeah but I think it was the fact that I
was an older woman that you know that
yeah well it was a great role
yes that and this is going to I wasn't
old enough to watch it not the practice
I mean I am a big soap opera fan for one
year yes but I watched I've seen clips
of you on the edge of night oh my god
you know I wish I had I guess they're
still available aren't they you got them
somehow on youtubers I watched part of a
seat on YouTube for one year yeah and I
I just couldn't I mean I needed to make
a living and I took it for one year
mm-hmm and the character was very
popular and they wanted to continue but
I just thought I can't I can only use
the excuse that I needed to make some
dough that year and that was the year
the next year was the year they started
actually are they paying people for
doing the character was so evil she was
both she died of natural causes and was
murdered by her father on the same day
yes yes it was because it was a it was
so edge of night was a crime soap opera
it was mostly like trials and things and
your father it was like a mercy killing
because he wanted to keep your husband
and his lover apart and frame yes we're
like a lot of because you were in
theater then we're a lot of theater
actors taking oh so popper yes yeah I
mean your theater has never really been
a living wage first of all you're never
in it you know 365 days out of the year
unless you happen to be in a very long
run so it's it's not steady work and it
doesn't really pay that well so you have
to do other things too and I also made
no I didn't by the time I did when I did
was somebody's I stopped doing any no no
yeah I stopped I stopped doing
commercials
some point okay I just thought I can't
no matter what so can't some yogurt or
anything anymore no do you remember like
a commercial that you're really like I
can't believe I did that I actually did
one of those match ones with your
fingers in the I have gardeners though I
loved your theatre work particularly I
love that you did and it was a you wrote
it yes and you started and about Ann
Richards and a big fan of her as well
that was that was really a mission that
was not a job okay it was something that
I mean I wrote that play I started that
work when I was 65 mm-hmm and I was
possessed with the idea of doing
something creative about her because I
was so upset by her death very untimely
she was a very young 73 and yeah you
know and she was just gone in the
twinkling of an eye she was one of those
figures that I had always be there in my
life and in America's life because I
thought she was one of the greatest
inspiring figures for America we had and
I just couldn't get over her death and
it seemed very odd to me it was always
personal mm-hmm and I I had that thing
happened when you are obsessed by
something emotional you want to do
something creative about it so that's
how that happened and then the whole
execution of the thing I developed it in
six seven theaters before I got it to
Broadway mm-hmm before we got it to
Broadway and it was very costly in every
way to do that and it it was like
bringing up a child I mean it had as
much meaning for me
it was the most meaningful act of my
life unquestionably yes I think I think
people don't truly realize how expensive
it is just to do theater and you know it
can be you think of it as such a big
booming business but that's because of
like wicked and well when we were on
Broadway
that was a different matter I mean I
wasn't producing that Bob boy out who
was a legendary producer was the
producer there but I had to develop it
in big theaters in Texas and you know
you you can only make money on a theater
run if it runs for a period of time yeah
and I did short runs in Galveston and
Austin in San Antonio in Chicago at the
Shubert theater the I did those things
before we were a Broadway production and
so we would we would only play for 10
days or week the normal kind of tour
time you you cannot make a dime on that
so I mean the first set I had made for
Ann was a hundred and twenty five
thousand dollars yeah you got to pay
that back so so that was it was costly
in that sense to develop it before Bob
Boyett took it on but it's it she's such
a huge character required an enormous
fabulous set mm-hmm
it was a big production it couldn't it
wasn't a little black box thing that I
could develop in tiny theaters yeah I
mean such a big character and woman who
really I feel like we revisited a lot
because of Hillary Clinton and I mean
that entire race of hers were of she was
up against yes jazz really up against
Karl Rove against because that's where
he cut his teeth on the really dirty
tricks of her campaign politics I mean
he really did unbelievably shocking
things behind the scenes I can't stand
Richards in that campaign and and
advised his candidate George to always
be very very polite and gentlemanly yes
and then specifically Clayton Williams -
yes with the rape car yeah but yeah you
know like I remember Cissy all her
daughter was just talking about how
the Hillary debates with Trump remind
her some of the debates we're absolutely
there was there is one debate with
George which I just like it's so
unpleasant it's so it makes me so
unhappy to watch it I can't because she
was so she was such a true character she
was a true public servant mm-hmm she had
a kind of nobility to her and that in
combination with that that wonderful
vivid feisty persona was just
unmatchable in in history they were jour
she's such an attractive character and
she had a hell of a temper and I when I
know her staff and I know her cabin
kitchen cabinet I know her
administration very very well as well as
a lot of her very closest friends were
one in the same
you know her anger was so her temper was
so in the service of working hard mm-hmm
that she was always forgiving I think it
was always understood it was never small
she's not a small person she was a very
big person yeah you know we filmed we
filmed the production and a live
performance yes Broadway HD now which is
it's always available which is really
moving to me because I wanted her voice
to stay I wanted to do what part I could
do in keeping her voice in the American
air well that's fantastic people should
watch that because I saw the and
Richards documentary yes but I would
love to see HD is just like Netflix only
it's four plays okay and it's the same
kind of platform that you subscribe to
for a month or something it's like eight
bucks a month or something and there's a
lot of wonderful plays on it I mean it's
it's the way it's the wave of the future
in the sense that I think from now on
every production that is successful is
going to get filmed well to preserve it
I mean getting the see plays all the
time and I actually went to NYU to get
my masters in playwriting really yes and
do you write yes I do TV now out here
but I do plays from time to time Wiley
that's how I found out about edge of
night actually because I wrote something
that was set in the late 70s and I
needed a soap opera and I found old
clips speaking of you know women in
general I remember when you were on the
practice you just talked about how David
gave you such a great role for an older
woman and now seeing you in this new
film Gloria Belle by Sebastian lai laily
who I love a fantastic woman was one of
my favorite movie an Oscar yes
and now Gloria Belle is a sort of
reimagining of Gloria yes quite
different in tone okay it's really
wonderful he said you know what I loved
about him as a filmmaker is he puts
things in the frame and allows your eye
to find them that clues the important
things that you're supposed to notice
about what has transpired he it's just
in the frame and it's usually led in
such a way so that your eye will go to
it but he doesn't like zoom a camera in
on something he needs you to see he's
not that Bossier an editor do you know
what I'm saying yeah and so the film
really unfolds before you and it was so
effective I saw it with an audience last
night at a screening and it was a I
realized his the tempo of his films
they're slow revelations of behavior you
really become very watchful you're
looking for everything is so so
affecting Julianne Moore so fascinating
that film and your scenes together you
know they're just so I'm wonderful and
nurturing and it's nice to see just two
women sharing the screen like that and
how they're just allowed to exist you
know he did that with the trans activist
and a fantastic woman and it's just I I
heard that this Gloria Belle is a bit
more comic than the original one and so
it is it is in a way I think the script
is sets up of some jokes more but again
I think it's more it's
more really a very quiet and real story
but you've got to know a person without
having who they are shoved at you I mean
it's it's he's a very relaxed
storyteller in that way which I really
enjoyed and I the editing like for
instance the last moment when I I
probably shouldn't define it exactly but
the moment he chose to cut to end the
movie I thought was inspired because it
was just at the moment where she yeah
that's all you have to say yes and
that's how a fantastic woman yeah - it
just feels very yes here it is yeah and
so speaking how you spoke into
interviews how you loved that role on
the practice how do you feel like time
has changed sort of in Hollywood for
older actresses well you know older
actresses are always slighted and I
don't know I I mean the wife knows Glan
just had that awful experience of and
probably everybody in the world telling
her she was very likely to win that
Oscar but suppose she certainly could
have done but that was quite a wonderful
older role and I you know the great
actresses like Judi Dench and Helen
Mirren played these roles in there the
films are always just huge successes so
I hope Hollywood understands that it's
not just older women who are out there
wanting to see older women it's
everybody wants to see the full range of
you know human life and Hollywood is
sometimes the last to know the obvious
truth which is that you know all people
are interesting no I mean it's well
they'll be also coming out soon is Greta
this film with Isabel who pair and it's
funny
I have not someone was Richard Lawson
from Vanity Fair was joking that the
plot of it is like Chloe Moretz is
terrified that uh uh Isabel who pair is
obsessed with her and I'm like who
wouldn't want that love any of those
actresses to be obsessed with me but
yeah you know it's really fun seeing
that you have been able to do just such
a breadth of roles you know where it's
uh even from Two and a Half Men you know
to the l-word you know where it's just
you're playing over women who are fun
and like real character we're gonna
actually have lives I'm doing a
character on mr. Mercedes now which is
on audience TV I do not know what the
viewership is on that platform but it's
with Brendan Gleeson who's one of the
great actors of this world the great
Irish actor and this character too is an
older woman who is a widow and she lives
on her own and society would say well
she's no one you know because what it
what issues you can't quantify her and
the fact is 100 years ago or so I did a
play on Broadway called but Lee with
Alan Bates and it was about this teacher
and an English University who's just
come to a crossroads in his life and he
just feels done he's having a mental
breakdown and there was an article and I
was his wife I just had one scene with
him were obviously the marriage is on
the rocks and that New York Times wrote
this must have been 1980 or something an
article could there be a play about mrs.
Buckley mmm who had no identifiable role
in life and the answer was no that there
there couldn't be a play just about a
woman she had to have some reason for
existing that it had to be connected to
a man or some or some truly real heroic
thing like I don't know either be Madame
Curie or involved with a man that made
her either epic
you couldn't just be a person who had
[Music]
yes you know you are so active on
Twitter I have to ask you are there
favorite people that you follow why what
who do you look forward to seeing come
across your time well I well I like
lawrence O'Donnell and I'm like I like
Clive Barnes I followed them for cousin
I think they're both so screwed in their
their take on affairs of the day is
always fascinating to me but I just
follow I just
a lot of people are show business people
a lot of friends mm-hmm and I you know I
started that when I was actually on the
road with Ann because it was sort of
company when I was traveling mhm and
then I got hooked off I guess on seeing
those favorite opinions but also I
picked up a lot of news from it because
whatever a lot of the people I follow
were yakking about was going to be
interesting to me and I actually think
that I should sort of stop relying on it
for news the way that I did because
there's something happening in Twitter
speak that is getting a little bit it's
it was a lot more fun it was it used to
be more fun than it is now
you know and now most of my friends are
on Instagram which I like because it's
all about pictures
yeah but Instagram for me so far has
been hard to learn how to wrangle yeah
but I'd like to guess which to Instagram
because I love Instagram the favorite
part is the stories because you could
just sort of give people a quick burst
yes of something fun and then it's gone
in 24 hours yes yes some stories you
want to be going on - yeah but you know
interestingly enough I don't I don't
look at people's stories that much but
it's it is where people put up perfectly
gorgeous pictures yes and I think that's
what it's wonderful about what's
wonderful about it mm-hmm do you know
Toni Becker comedy okay
somebody I just discovered on Instagram
I'm addicted to he's a very funny guy
okay he does he post videos animal
videos or people videos where he does he
does the voices okay he does to cut the
conversation as he thinks it should be
and listen I will be remiss of asking
Reese Witherspoon has talked about
Legally Blonde three is baby happening I
ain't heard a word professor stromwell
needs to be back I told them that we
share a hairdresser recently see her
once in a blue moon I see
cowering a statue you know and she way I
said is it happening when I saw her the
last time she said it's happening I've
seen oh man I guess she's read books
quite heavily and but when her
hairdresser Lana V she was cutting my
hair one day I said tell Reece that if I
am NOT a Supreme Court justice by now
wouldn't it be great it would be I mean
especially now right strom occurred I
mean there's certain number of years of
past she could have she could have
retired from her professorship role and
become a full-time judge and be and got
appointed to the that appointed to the
Supreme Court of her state at least if I
think I did States yes I want Elle Woods
going to the Supreme Court and trying a
case in front of you first of all but
how can you not have such a reprise of
that character given that she was so
influential but also that seen her the
first scene in the courtroom in the
classroom is a really I watched it not
long ago it's a really fantastic scene
it was so well directed I still loved so
much about the but I really wanted I do
- it was Mary Robert I can't remember
his name is new decade or something like
that he was a very nice very nice very
sharp guy and there was also a great
director photographer Robert Luketic
Luke attack and there was a director of
photography on that picture who was a
very very star director photographer he
was wonderful we will start a campaign
on keep it here to get you in legally
round three yes I just did that Roger
Ailes picture that dove Jay Roach
directed and that was a lot of money I
sort of played again there was this play
this movie is filled with a lot of
actors who are playing tiny little rolls
just to be part of that whole world he's
such a great devotee of Jay Roach and
Roger Ailes is going to be very
interesting for you to see I can't walk
can't wait to see this movie - okay so
we will get you
Legally Blonde three we will get you
will get you an award for it - I love
your award speeches I
your Emmy speech is one of my favorites
me that was you know as I walked up I
was wondering if I said that if I said I
said I'm literally climbing the stairs
I'm thinking do I dare just say
overnight what if they just don't get it
and I'm just because you walk up and
you're like and you raise the statue and
you're like overnight
just think for a second folks
[Laughter]
thank you so much for thank you looking
great - thank you a holler came in here
with a vintage Chanel scarf serving
fashion
you
