we're talking actually about leaving
Neverland the for our Michael Jackson
documentary that aired on HBO and that
was grueling thing with any of these
instances like it's not it's obviously
the failing of this individual who was
like depraved and all of that but it
really is on every level it is a failing
from everyone like I think Harvey
Weinstein was a failing from all of
Hollywood r.kelly
that was an entire community our city
and industry that failed those girls
Michael Jackson is like kind of the
whole world yeah you know what I
mean it's like the world let these kids
down the world knew that he would talk
in interviews about like the family and
no one disputes the fact that he slept
in rooms with children and I think was
interesting in the Oprah interview she
brings that up you know when she's
talking about child abuse it's every
family member his life he was nice to me
or we all know that he slept with
children or whatever it's like cool you
all know that that happened but you also
know that the door closed and the lights
went out and you were not there right
but it's interesting though because
throughout the documentary obviously it
gets to that point but like the mother
of I think Wade Robson specifically we
talked about how she became friends with
Michael Jackson too and it really wasn't
it wasn't like two encounters in the
door was shut in front of her face it
was maybe like five or six so it's just
there was never seismic shifts into oh
now he's ensnared my kid you know
actually it moved sort of slowly to that
world so you could see it was hard it's
hard though because I mean obviously
this is also layered and complicated and
like it's not the fault I mean it's
Michael Jackson's fault but it is hard
to like Wade telling the story of like
when his family went to the Grand Canyon
and he stayed at Neverland and you're
like that is weird and celebrity is
weird and celebrity is up and
what it does to people and what you know
people who have been confronted with it
like I get that it's hard to to process
that correctly but it's just like if
Michael Jackson were not Michael
Jackson would you have left your kid
with this person and so it does speak to
like the way that celebrity gives things
a pass and it just it was hard to it was
hard to like not look at the parents
with some like a question mark yeah and
it's not there it's not on them but it's
it's just like wow so much of this is so
sticky and like so uncomfortable well
one of the darkest moments of after even
hearing about all the abuse and
everything I think was just the last
line of it where he's like does he blame
his parents and he's like pauses and
then he says I'm working on that
right mmm oh and spare yeah I mean and
you look at photos and you see their
lives were changed you know it's like
it's not like it was some snake oil
salesman like Pirelli or something
walking in the town it was Michael
Jackson the most famous person in the
world
Oprah makes sure to mention to you know
that fame is much different now you know
it's not it's not um Shawn Mendes or
ariana grande staying at the your home
where yeah you might not even know one
of their songs or something like
everyone knows Michael Jackson songs
everyone knows what he looks like
everyone's watching him on TV and when
that man steps into your home like even
the grandmother when she's telling
stories about to you know she's like I
don't know yeah right no there was like
an there's an air of infallibility
people ascribed to him just because he
was not only so famous but also so
seemingly welcoming you know I mean like
you're grateful that he's approaching
you and he's been famous for so long
since he was a kid so it makes you feel
like you know him right it's I mean I
hope of the many things that come from
this because dear God something has to
you you know I think one of the things
that I've been reading about a lot is
people saying like a pedophile or an
abuser doesn't look the way that you
think they look like a monster does not
it's not like the way that every rapist
is not a man in a trench coat grabbing a
woman down an alley and raping her it
often looks like your uncle or your boss
or you know regular people and so sort
of the face of because
was so much of it with him like we
couldn't believe it because it's Michael
Jackson and he's famous and and and and
he's childlike and all of this
but it's just like abusers and monsters
don't necessarily look that way mm-hmm
added use them someone you know because
most childhood abuse happens with you
know Anna Grammatik family member or
someone connected to the family right
also I think it's just there is
something still mind-blowing from like a
like casual pedestrian looking in
vantage point of just how action how in
certain ways Michael Jackson is just
incredibly guileless the fact that he
would have Peter Pan as the emblem for
his entire life is just so gross you
know it's so gross to value a character
who above all aus is just a kid forever
I mean it's just a weird thing to think
as you know spiritual merit I don't know
no and even the idea that there were so
many rooms you know in in that place oh
yeah the amount of places with that is
yeah it's just that's the stuff where
you know people talk about how crazy it
sounds I'm the mom coming in it's like
oh you were in a secret room I'm like
but we see them yeah they're there um
what's interesting is I've also been
reading some reports from people like
Rowan stone and Forbes who covered like
the trial in 2009 and in 94 and there
was still this feeling from the media
that those trials were circuses you know
and it was you can see it with the fans
with I'd forgotten about dove
lady like I was watching second act
uh-huh her is just you know you the
first one it's like do you still believe
all these people do you believe that it
happened to every child and for the
famous people who say no it never
happened to me you're like are they
lying you know and then you start to
think you know if Martin's an abuser you
can't think of him as this childlike
person who stumbled into abuse you have
to think of him this was
methodical and these rooms which makes
it also seem like well then of course he
becomes friends with Macaulay Culkin
because you can have one high-profile
kid who's gonna stay with you and
nothing happens and then for life there
a person who can say in the media did
happen to me something I learned is
there are a lot of people who forgive
this or jump like I I've actually been
shocked at how many people I've seen who
say they don't believe them right like
it's still like watching the documentary
they've watched it and they're like I I
don't believe this they you know they
they said the other trial that he didn't
molest them and it's just I know because
I know how we treat victims and I know
that it's hard for people to understand
like if you're someone who's been abused
why you would lie about what's happened
to you and the idea that like they both
talked about how both men like still
have love for him and how you could
still love your abuser I know that
that's difficult and hard for people to
understand if it's never happened to
them or if they haven't put effort into
understanding what it is like for people
who have been abused people a lot of
people like like he still loves him
there like the number of people just are
like I don't believe this is crazy and
clinging to like as you said there's
like a Forbes article that that just
says you know Michael Jackson is one of
the most investigated potential
criminals ever you know like they could
be clean and it was written before they
saw the documentary by the way there's
that caveat it's like I haven't seen it
I just want to let you know that we went
through these trials and all of us still
like him you know the amount of people I
saw on my timeline saying well because
we allegedly think Wade Robson broke up
Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake
he's untrustworthy it's like oh you
can't get abused and then like have an
affair also that's Brittany's fault too
did you see that tweet from ebony ah
like ebony is out here like they're
trying to bring him down I'm like you
all everybody needs some help every last
one of us we all we need to collectively
as a globe go into some sort of therapy
and counseling because what the is
wrong with well of course
evany things people are out for money
from Michael Jackson because they ain't
paid they freeway
money for them and differences people
just want $230 for separately did and
what's one last thing to wrap this up
you know there's also what is the family
thing and you constantly think about you
know Janet who I'm such a huge shot and
what's interesting is I was reading an
article from Newsweek and it tried to
possess a bunch of articles I think
tried to position the fact that she said
something in 2016 I and it's not
actually from 2016 I looked back at that
clip from Michael Jackson unmasked that
documentary and I couldn't pinpoint the
year I tried to ask someone online but
it's clearly Janet in like the 90s and I
think certainly the trial or right after
it where she says you know of course I
don't believe them people are doing this
for money etc and that's the last time
we've heard Jenna talk about it and I
feel like after the 94 trial
I think everyone America especially his
family you know this man you are ready
to believe yes this was all a scam this
was for money you know and what's weird
is even people who do believe the
victims Wade and James there's also
people who just think that the person
that 94 trial was lying that the dad was
you know yeah I mean I've learned that a
lot of people do not care if you are
abusing children that has been the
lesson here as long as you sing and
dance good yeah people who invoke online
just that I've seen casually up he
brought joy to so many people like are
you brain damaged like his music is
incredible it's not now not incredible
and I think that that's that's part of
probably the disconnect here where when
you have these conversations it's like
Michael Jackson is the greatest
performer of all time the greatest pop
star of all time he is still that he was
also most likely a pedophile and I think
that's saying like now the music is bad
I feel like I've said this like a
hundred nights but like the music is not
now bad the music is harder to listen to
it's all harder to swallow but the
notion that like the legacy of the
art is fully now gone is ridiculous like
it Thriller is still incredible and this
other thing happened and it maybe now
changes the way we talk about thriller
it probably changes the way we listen to
it but the idea of just like it's all
been scrubbed clean because we've now
talked about who this person really is
is asinine and it's definitive music I
mean if you think of that era like it
like 1983 does not exist without thrill
it just the way that not that quite the
same situation but for instance like
Jerry Lee Lewis who had like his own
like married his cousin when she was 14
or whatever the boogie woogie piano of
the 50s that doesn't exist without him
you know what I mean yeah and the direct
line of Wade Robson being abused by him
and emulating him and then taking that
choreography to Britney and Justin and
just sort of forming a base of what we
saw and recreate it in our homes the
whole line is just so messy and it's
hard to watch as I said one in six
dot-org is a great resource if you're a
male who's been sexually abused ether as
an adult or as a child so you should
visit it if this conversation or the
documentary was too hard for you to talk
about with anyone we'll be right back
you
