financial crisis when Barack Obama had
the nerve to say quote you don't blow a
bunch of cash in Vegas when you're
trying to save for college in Nevada
officials had a meltdown like you've
never seen before including Harry Reid
you would have thought that he kicks
their dogs or singled them out
personally
they had this performative over the top
and a NIMBY response which it's frankly
kind of how politics should be played
right you should defend the area you
represent the people you serve the folks
who elected you but like even Larry
Hogan a guy who was talking about
primary Trump is just caving and scared
to respond and it is so sad to watch so
a few weeks ago when Trump told for
Congress women of color to leave America
his White House staffers went on
background to tell reporters that they
thought that the president's racism was
a bit too far or at the very least some
Republicans and Republican senators that
was a politically dumb move now
according to the Washington Post the
president's advisors say his racist
attacks are good for him because they're
galvanizing support with quote the white
working-class vote voters he needs to
win re-election in 2020 so I guess
points to them for just finally
admitting that getting white people to
be angry and afraid of black and brown
people is the president's central
political strategy is that where we are
now they're just open about it yeah it's
interesting it is it is the opposite
side of you know we had this remember we
talked we talked about the difficult
challenge before Democrats have kind of
like having to navigate through the
laser beams like Catherine zeta-jones
you know Donald Trump does have his
version of that which is the opposite of
our task right because he does need to
you know this is this is reductive but
there are people who are inclined to
hate Trump but feel good about the
economy he needs them and there are
people who are inclined to like Trump
but feel terrible about the economy and
he needs them too and so whenever he is
bragging about the economy it's a-you
know in part about look am I in my piece
of sure but how bad are things for
you not so bad but this is the other
side of that something he also needs to
do which is convince people who are not
doing well who wanted a more change in
the system who were sympathetic to Trump
on trade and immigration especially to
say see I'm still fighting for you by
using
these kind of racial tropes and these
battles as a as I stand in for the
battle they're looking for him to wage
the kind of cultural battle they're
looking for him to wage yeah I mean I
think it's very very clear what he's
trying to do here it's been clear for a
long time Republicans have tried to do
this for a long time
the people who live in rural America and
exurban America are have been left
behind in many ways by the global
economy they're not doing that well and
you know what Trump is telling them is
it's not my fault it's the Democrats
fault it's the Democrats fault because
they care they spent all this money on
these cities these cities are getting
all this money for what it's corrupt
that partly why Trump added because this
wasn't in the Fox News sentiment Trump
added we should investigate Elijah come
right we should investigate because
every somehow all of your tax dollars
are going to help all these city people
and they're still trash and you the
hard-working people of rural America are
getting nothing
because what's not gonna be good for
Trump is if the people the hard-working
people in rural America realized that
his only two policies in his economic
agenda to cut taxes for rich people and
have trade wars all over the world that
are them over yeah just quick
update I just googled Larry Hogan and he
has called the comments outrageous and
inappropriate which is better but I
would argue still completely feckless
and there's absolutely no reason that
should take this much time so Larry
common still stands um like the
political whitewashing of this racism is
deeply frustrating to me obviously like
there is historical evidence that racist
political ads and attacks work and
purely native this sentiment can be
effective we remember the Willie Horton
ad there's not a lot of difference
between that and the caravan stuff we
saw in 2018 but I do think right now
Trump is in a situation that's
completely the reverse if he would stop
being racist if you'd stop tweeting this
racist nonsense he could probably do
better with like suburban women which
are the key to Democrats winning in in
2020 and are key to why we took a bunch
of House seats in 2018 so when it gets
spun is some sort of political strategy
or political millions it's deeply
frustrating because we also know that
this nonsense
usually arises because his dander gets
up because of literally a Fox and
Friends segment it's every time
it's the same exact thing yeah and what
I think this is interesting to you know
his Trump's nativism and racism turning
off college-educated voters you know we
saw that in 2018 in a huge way right but
Ron Brownstein had a piece in the
Atlantic a couple days ago where he
notes that polling throughout Trump's
presidency has indicated that his
belligerent and divisive sorry that his
belligerent and divisive nature raises
concerns among white working-class women
who've been drifting away from him since
2016 and a new set of focus groups from
Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg shows
that this gender gap among the white
working-class is hardening in small town
in rural communities so Trump support
again among non college educated white
males as strong as it's ever been if not
stronger but non college educated white
women might be some of those voters who
were cross pressured right who might
think you know the economy overall is
doing ok my life is not doing so great
or I'm not you know financially better
off but Trump is just all he's I mean
part of it is Trump's Trump starting all
of these fights picking all these
battles going on these all these racist
tirades tirades isn't just offensive to
some of these voters and some people
it's also like dude why aren't you
working on fixing everything to the
country you're not governing you know
make anyone's life better all you're
doing is just getting into these
arguments 63% of voters said the tweets
attacking the squad across the line in
57% said they do not think he respects
racial minorities I mean that's a pretty
overwhelming number in the Trump era
that would worry me if I were his
advisor is trying to spill spin some
nonsensical strategy about this being a
pre-planned strategy to win over voters
or get his base excited like we're we
are a little far out from the election
to be having a get my base excited
strategy with pure racist tweets that is
absurd on its face ya know yeah I mean
no I think that's I think that's right
it's also a little bit like you know you
these the the Republicans are you know
they're gonna go into this campaign with
Trump and they know that they need they
have this this vice grip between the
fact that a generic Republican would be
performing much better because of the
basic
economic realities in the country right
now Trump loses a lot of those people so
they have to make it up somewhere how
are they going to make it up well they
think they're gonna make it up by
shoring up his base but of course
shoring up the base costs him amongst
the voters who would otherwise vote for
a generic Republican in an economic
situation like we're in so they have
they have this kind of you know they're
trying to get to lose three get three
lose two and it's you know Democrats
have the opposite challenge I just think
you can sharp the base without this sort
of double edged sword type messaging
right there's no doubt they're much more
prepared they're much more palatable
message like on immigration policy or
health care whatever there's a million
different ways you could go at this and
they just choose not to for some reason
the one thing I want to point out that
really pissed me off this weekend was
the Washington Post had a long profile
Jared Kushner and and that's fine
whatever like he was about how he's now
on top of failing to accomplish anything
policy wise the White House is now
basically running the campaign he was
supposed to be this moderating force
with Ivanka we have we've all mocked
that narrative for years and sort of
long ago abandoned it but he didn't get
pressed on now being in charge of a
White House in a campaign that is openly
spinning that their approach is going to
be over racism and that's frustrating
and I think you remember when Jonathan
Swan pushed him on this during their
Axios interview ten times is the
president racist that was right before
these two very you know that was erect
racist Tiger it was like putting a
cotton candy in a bucket of water yeah
and I'm not I'm not criticizing the
reporters or the piece I thought it was
interesting but like well yeah I guess I
am it should be front and center of what
we're talking about here that was great
reporting by Swan when Chris Wallace
over the weekend pushed Mick Mulvaney
the chief of staff on these racist
tweets he did a great job of trying to
hold him accountable that should be a
piece of every story written on these
goobers don't give them some whitewashed
you know too you know on on their role
well what Republicans want to do with
this is say if you disagree if the
president criticizes anyone or if you
disagree with anything that the
Democrats say you're called racist or
sexist that's what they want this
campaign to be about yeah right so we
talked a lot about the need to condemn
this president's racism call it out as a
strategy and then
sort of talked about Trump's failure on
a whole host of issues well according to
a report released by the Commerce
Department on Friday the economy only
grew by 2.1 percent in the second
quarter this year the weakest increase
since the first quarter of Donald
Trump's presidency the new report also
includes provides data for last year
that found the economy never reached the
administration's 3% growth target for 28
team this was a favor talking point of
theirs so is it is it time or is it
smart for Democrats to start talking
about the Trump economy and not just the
Trump economy but these specifically I
think the Trump economic agenda which so
far has been tax cuts for the rich and
trade wars and nothing else
oh god yes I mean I think I think we
should be calling him a failed President
on basically every front I mean I don't
think that means criticizing his
inability to reach 3% GDP I don't think
those are the terms we want to talk
about it and I think it's like you're a
failed president the country is
succeeding in spite of you Americans are
working harder to overcome your trade
war to overcome your tax cut for
billionaires your corporate giveaways
that have hurt them Jason Furman who
used to work with at the White House
pointed out the business investment
outside of oil and gas oil and mining is
actually slow during the Trump
administer that was really interesting
yeah he Trump any chris wallace again
over the weekend reminded us all the
Trump promised that he was gonna balance
the budget in five years he's utterly
failed on that front so it everything he
said he would do he has failed to do
he's lucky that he inherited and a
strong economy with a lot of tailwind
from Obama now is his only economic
policy is to browbeat the Fed into
cutting rates and and you know we should
call him out yeah I totally agree that
so meanwhile the other potentially big
piece of news from the weekend was
announced by the House Judiciary
Committee with almost no fanfare
whatsoever on a Friday afternoon
chairman Jerry Nadler announced that
they're formally asking for access to
secret grand jury information related to
Robert Muller's investigation a step
that Nadler says is basically quote in
effect the launch of an impeachment
investigation here's what he said to
George Stephanopoulos quote we have
impeachment resolutions before the
committee we are conducting
investigations to determine whether we
should report those impeachment
resolutions to the house or direct our
own and report those to the house pushed
again on whether that qualifies as an
impeachment investigation now
said we're investigating sorry we're
investigating whether to approve
articles of impeachment before the
committee since Muller testified on
Wednesday more than a dozen Democrats
including a member of policies
leadership team have announced their
support for impeachment which now makes
107 of 235 has Democrats only 11 short
of a majority of the caucus not a
majority the house but if the caucus
guys what's going on with this one is
this progress is this semantics what do
we what do we think yes so there is a
there was a bunch of really interesting
arguments made after this or sort of
around this around what it means to say
we are seeking information to see if we
should have an impeachment inquiry
because there is a kind of paradox at
the heart of a lot of this conversation
which is in order to decide whether to
launch an impeachment inquiry in some
sense you have to have an impeachment
inquiry right so when you know there's
all this debate about oh you know what
why should we do impeachment it's not
gonna 68th it's not gonna succeed well
one of the reasons you do an impeachment
inquiry is because it is widely
recognized that through the power of
impeachment Congress has a stronger hand
and its usual regulatory oversight
because it's a and a power vested in
Congress to investigate the executive
and they would have greater access to
materials and and it might be easier to
hold the administration accountable but
then the question becomes well when does
Congress get those powers when does
Congress gain the powers that come with
an impeachment inquiry well there
shouldn't really be a paradox you
shouldn't have to you should if you need
the powers to check whether or not the
president is it should be impeached it's
sort of imply let me say it again if you
can't you can't you shouldn't have to
impeach the President to determine
whether or not the president should be
impeach just to gain the powers of
impeachment so the right no bet that's
right you know I think so no but so so I
think that's why I nod lers doing this
little dance about in effect but I think
the the reason I think it's ultimately a
good thing is that it is signaling to
the country to the Congress itself to
the administration to the courts that
this body is going to begin to use the
inherent powers vested in Congress to
investigate the president with
guard to impeachment whether or not the
word is officially invoked in a
committee vote so so they're there I
want to separate because I think this
might help people understand this sort
of the legal argument for this versus
the political argument for this I think
legally there there could be we'll see
what the courts aside an argument for
doing this because what they're trying
to do basically is get the versions of
the Muller report that are currently
redacted because they have to do with
grand jury proceedings unredacted so how
do you do that well during Watergate the
way that they were able to get grand
jury information is say is argued to the
court that they need it because not for
investigative reasons but because grand
jury information is needed for a
judicial proceeding and in the past
courts have only given out grand jury
information when it's connected to
another judicial proceeding
so during Watergate they were able to
say during Watergate the house judiciary
voted to begin an impeachment inquiry
but basically they argued we're in a
judicial proceeding it's called
impeachment so give us the grand jury
info so Nadler is trying to do this now
so now there wants to argue to the court
we are in a judicial proceeding right
now called impeachment he doesn't want
to just say we're investigating now he
didn't formally vote for it but he's
hoping the court will side with them
anyway on this because you need to it's
a funny question right like how can you
decide to impeach the president without
the information that you need to make
that decision it he needs that access to
the in for me like anyway yeah I mean
look I feel I've read a lot about the
ways that starting an impeachment
proceeding may or may not help our legal
standing and our ability to get
documents I believe those who think we
can but I don't totally understand it
all I did this holdest conversation does
underpin for me how bizarre the
narrative was coming out of the Muller
hearings themselves I mean like a dozen
members of Congress came out in favor of
impeachment after Muller testified and
you were reading stories in Politico
they were like Donald Trump had a great
week what planet do you live it then the
need to like be able to give him a win
every once in a while for some fo
balance is so absurd you know so who
we'll end up here I mean the people I've
talked to some journalists some people
who work in government say Pelosi
sincerely believes that impeachment
would tear the party apart and is just
terrified of it politically I do not
know what they're basing that on I have
not seen any polling or evidence but if
that's where they stand it does feel
like there gonna be a massive roadblock
for a long time but it's the fact that
Jerry Nadler is like pretty publicly
moving in the in the path of impeachment
is interesting well and you touch on the
political reasons for this so you might
ask why not just vote within the
Judiciary Committee to open an
impeachment inquiry so that you've
strengthened your court case even more
to say that it's part of a judicial
proceeding well clearly there's still
some anxiety about holding a vote in the
Judiciary Committee Nadler is clearly
for this but he has apparently worked
out the language and everything he was
gonna say on Friday with Pelosi with
Pelosi is blessing so she's on board
with this whole thing where you get to
start an impeachment inquiry and you get
the legal power that comes with that
hopefully without making anyone take the
vote that could sort of in her mind at
least hurt politically well I actually
think I also think it's there's a
flipside to that too which is I think
part of the reason they want to do it
this way is they understand that once
that once once there's an actual whether
it's articles of impeachment or whatever
a motion to proceed to impede whatever
process they land on very hard to vote
no for a Democrat right now very very
hard they sincerely like Democratic
voters believe that Donald Trump should
be impeached
everyone recognizes even those who
aren't in favor impeachment that Donald
Trump is committed it committed
impeachable offense myth senses from a
moral point of view I believe nobody
wants to go on record being against this
thing so I think a little bit there's an
understanding that there's a big
snowball at the top of a very snowy hill
mm-hm and this is what Schiff said to me
last week and once you push it that's it
it's gonna roll all the way to the
bottom and so they have a few more bites
at the Apple this way before that
process starts because once that vote
happens and it's signals and they signal
to the country that they're pursuing
this every Democrat will have to go on
record it will end up in the House floor
and then every Democrat will have to go
on record again and they may get there
and they may ultimately be okay
with getting there but they're not there
yet there's some polling out of the
hearings that show that it didn't really
change people's minds one with the other
and no surprise there it was one day of
testimony but 54% of people who I guess
watched or had understanding of the
malla hearing said they don't have any
confidence in the us's ability to defend
itself against another electoral attack
if you're looking for pretty firm ground
to stand on when it comes to an
indictment of Donald Trump there's a
path
why don't we demagogue that and
demagogues wrong word why don't we why
don't we lift up this critical issue
well about the ability to have a fair
and free election from foreign
interference and talk about that all day
and that should be part of impeachment
this is I was just gonna bring this up
like I at some point we have to start
talking about the process of impeachment
yes and all the legal processes and all
like I realize I have to go through that
now but the reason that all of us here
are for impeachment is not the mural
case as we not purely the moral case as
we've said and it's not because we
believe he's going to get convicted in
the Senate it's because we believe that
Democrats will have the attention of the
nation on them to tell a story about the
president's corruption and criminality
that will hopefully assist in removing
him from power in the election in 2020
so you gotta start telling the story you
know and like we've got to start talking
about the issues where he has you know
been very corrupt or when he's broken
the law and all that kind of stuff you
got to tell the story and start talking
about process and give it and
given that one that that that out of the
Muller hearing we had several more
Democrats come out in favor of
impeachment a a pundit narrative that
says that lacked drama but a recognition
that a lot of the substance was quite
bad for Trump right we're literally a
hans zimmer score away underneath and
impeachment inquiry ooh
I was like and now this from being able
to tell the story we have to tell we
just need that we just need a kind of
just a solid orchestral hum and I will
say you know we we have wondered aloud
if Pelosi is just trying to drag this
process out so that you know we can get
to the 2020 elections that well now it's
too late to do impeachment she said over
the weekend the decision will be made in
a timely fashion this is not endless so
she could you know I'll we'll take her
at her word right
says that it's that it's not gonna be a
drag depressing Mila so you know maybe
she's uh maybe she's got something just
a tale of two parties right like
Democrats in the house are having a
good-faith discussion or debate about
the process that would lead to
impeachment the 2020 candidates are
talking about like Medicare for all or a
public option yeah Trump's attacking
major American cities and today he said
that again that he was down at Ground
Zero on 9/11 helping out basically
compared himself to a first responder I
mean they are just full crazy and we are
still having you see I was I was driving
into the office today and I had NPR on
and and it was I laugh because it's you
catch you catch yourself forgetting the
the time line and when she live and then
the The News starts and it's and it's
like it's one of the anchors saying
Donald Trump continued his attacks on
the city of Baltimore today it's it's
like living in a bad veep
episode one more thing on the polling
because you mentioned that ABC poll
didn't show that didn't really change
people's minds Fox News had a poll last
week
yes 47% of the country favor either
impeachment or written Pietschmann and
removal and only 45 percent oppose
impeachment that's a Fox News poll so
Nancy Pelosi take a look at that one all
right let's talk about the primary
twenty Democratic presidential
candidates will meet in Detroit on
Tuesday and Wednesday nights this week
for a second round of debates the first
night of the debates which are being
hosted by CNN will include Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren Pete Budaj edge
and better O'Rourke the second night
we'll put Joe Biden back on the stage
with Kamala Harris and also include Cory
Booker and Julian Castro and for all the
other presidential candidates their
performance at this debate may determine
whether we ever see them on this debate
stage again you guys want to talk about
why don't in tune because there's the
next debate has much stricter rules I
believe as as of right now
five to seven have qualified six I'm
sorry six six of qualified six have now
officially qualified to top that top so
Bucher disqualified right
not yet he's close he's gonna qualify
because he's almost at the number of
donors he'd got he got the polling so
that's alright just to let everyone know
it is one hundred and thirty thousand
individual donors to qualify for the
September debates one hundred thirty
thousand individual donors and at least
two percent in four national polls so
qualified our Bernie Biden Kamala Warren
Pete and Beto cory booker's very close
he's got the polls he's almost there on
the donors yeah he might have done it
last night I think I think I think he
called Biden and so then the only other
people who were close are Klobuchar she
has the polling but not the donors yang
and Castro who has the donors been out
the polls and I think King doesn't have
the polls yet either or maybe the donors
either but no one else is close so that
would be even if all of those make it
that would be 10 people on the debate
stage that would get us down to one
stage and one night I think it's a big
deal that people are not focusing on
it's also a big deal for me
because if it goes to two nights the
second night is during Radio City love
it or leave it
which is very frustrating my gosh so a
lot of things are at stake here there's
some these debate rules are interesting
and I'm glad we're about to hit a
winnowing period you are starting to see
reports about the money Democratic
candidates are now spending on acquiring
donors funny it's like a tech spending
money to get people to give you money
it's like your multi-level marketing you
know it's more like you're like looking
Euler or lift and you're entering a new
market and you have these massive
acquisition costs to get a user but it's
it's just so stupid
so in this debate that we're about to
have this week what do you do to get
noticed if you are one of these
candidates who have not qualified for
September yet and you are and you've got
a couple months to do this it's even you
asking that question is making me feel
nervous on their behalf because you know
this isn't you know yeah launch a
broadside against another candidate that
is so sophisticated and sharp it attacks
them and makes you look like a president
with a unique case for why you should be
in that job you know the scene will put
you know the scene in airplane when
there's a pert there's a passenger sort
of having like a mental breakdown and
then like one of them slaps her to try
to like calm her down and there's a
whole line of people including a
professional boxer and there's a woman
with a gun like that's everybody lining
up to go after Joe Biden that is how
this one is going down right now
you're seeing like some amazing sort of
mini opposition research about how
Gillibrand staff
they've been like what was it like
newspapers.com or something like that
they've been like flagging all these
articles about Titans record preparing
to go after it's apparently there's this
hit on Biden the Gillibrand has been
previewing or quietly previewing that he
had voted against the expansion of the
child tax credit on a policy level of
course you should say that that's a
contrast but Gillibrand said publicly it
was some dem Democratic candidates quote
do not believe necessarily that it's a
good idea that women work outside the
home there's a slight difference between
that and opposing the child care tax
credit which I am for you should be for
opposed for expanding the child care tax
credit but I don't know if that I don't
know if that's a that's a fib it on that
one a number of other candidates are
previewed contrast with Biden over the
last week's Booker on criminal justice
reform Castro and immigration which is
an interesting one Castro may try to do
to Biden what he did to Beto it's
interesting cats were saying some of us
have learned the lessons of the Obama
administration immigration Biden hasn't
it's it's Castro is saying that because
he knows that other people are gonna if
he's going to go after people and
immigration other people going to say
well you not only were part of the Obama
administration on immigration you never
had any problems with it while you were
part of the ministration and you
testified on their behalf at times about
their immigration policies so at least
you can tell a story like yeah I did
that and I've come to see that some of
them were bad I mean administration I
think that was sure and Biden would just
sort of figure out some version of that
answer to to pivot away from some of
these policies themselves you'd be in a
much better place like you're allowed to
evolve you're allowed to learn new
things and improve your understanding of
policy from the 80s until now embrace it
that would be a good answer from him I
mean what what do you think Biden should
do at this point like what would what
would you be telling the vice president
knowing that all these hits are coming
oh I would say I'm just take the hits
and then ask for someone else to speak
he's got to be ready on this substance
right to respond substantively and
defend his own record or at least offer
some you know explanation for how he's
maybe evolved or learn more over time
but I think what a lot of voters are
looking for is for him to punch back
really hard and given that half of these
attacks have now been previewed I would
want to tee him up
look like a fighter because I think
everyone wants someone who will get it a
debate with Donald Trump and be ready to
punch him in the mouth rhetorically yeah
and he did say he was too polite yeah
I'm the last in the last debate Oh jokes
aside if I were looking at someone like
Biden what I would be saying is you need
to respond forcefully
but put it in a frame of I've been in
the arena for 40 years I've gotten a lot
right I've gotten some things wrong I've
evolved and I've changed like any person
has but here's what I would do and
here's the experience I bring to do
these things that we need to do to fix
this country and we can spend all day
going over our records you know and then
attack attack attack attack attack but
we need to talk about what we'll do to
fix this country because it's election
so important if that would be the
argument I would be making if I were Joe
Biden so you know I wonder what someone
like Camille Harris does to keep up the
momentum that she gained from the last
debate I was wondering about that and
then today on Monday she released her
own medicare-for-all plan which I was
surprised that she did but she she was
one of the first co-sponsors of Bernie
Sanders Medicare for all bill she stood
with him at the press conference we
announced it she has been sort of you
know trying to let me try this
she has been I would say unclear on
various aspects of Medicare for all and
like a women private insurance over the
so she's been going and at times clearer
than unclear then clear again yeah so
today she decided okay I'm gonna come
over I'm gonna put my own spin on the
plan and her plan would basically say
there's a 10-year transition to
single-payer in addition to the
four-year transition that is envisioned
in Bernie's plan she also would maintain
a role for private insurance companies
who are tightly regulated by the
government
like Medicare Advantage plans under
Medicare so basically at the end of all
this hopefully everyone's on one
Medicare plan but if there were private
insurance companies that want to do a
version of the government's Medicare
plan that are in tightly regulated the
government still sets the pricing the
government still has all these
restrictions then you can play in our
system but only if you play bar by our
rules is basically what it is and the
other key thing she does is on financing
Bernie Sanders basically says that
anyone who makes over twenty-one
thousand dollars a year will face
a tax increase for to pay for his plan
his argument is well you might have a
tax increase but you won't be paying
premiums or co-pays or deductibles
anymore so it'll be a wash at the end
Kamala Harris says the only people who
will pay higher taxes are those who make
over a hundred thousand dollars and then
she makes up the difference by taxing
stock trades
a small amount as well so that's what
she what why do why do we think she why
do you think she did this I think she
could not continue this she could she
could say she was full throated Li
behind Bernie's plan she could say she
was against Bernie's plan but I think
she could no longer do this sort of
tightrope without telling people where
she was walking towards because there
was a lot of is she gonna raise her hand
is she not gonna raise her hand where is
she um private insurance she said she
was for it now she was for getting rid
of it then she said she was and she
raised her hand then she said she'd
understand the question she was getting
attacked for her positions and so she
needed to say here's my view here's
where I had landed so that she could
actually articulate not just a kind of
abstract position but like lay out a
policy yeah I mean also some reason
polling suggests that eliminating
private insurance is a very unpopular
position I've seen other anecdotal
evidence that it's particularly
unpopular with african-american voters
I think CNN reported that so this new
plan seems to account for a lot of the
political deficiencies that people see
in Bernie's plan okay interesting
like um okay I mean maybe that will help
but entire elections have been fought
and lost over being for something before
you were against it for breeding
perceived as flip-flopping on an issue I
mean look at John Kerry look at every
race before John Kerry basically when
when politics went crazy these last few
years I mean so it will be interesting
to see if Democrats or people on stage
go after on these policy changes during
the debates because how she deals with
that will say a lot about how she would
deal with that against Trump yeah I mean
on the substance I find myself more in
line with
Camila's new plan with Medicare for
America which is betos plan some of the
more robust public option
but I still think Medicare for America
and and comma Harris's plan are better
just because not because I'm against
single-payer ultimately but because I
think the transition is so difficult not
just politically difficult but substance
substantively difficult that it should
be handled in a gradual way not gradual
and saying oh we'll pretend to get there
someday but wink wink we won't like
really gradual like let making sure that
if we're having everyone in the entire
country on one government plan that it
is a good plan that people like it that
it works that it's proven to work right
and so that we have some time I mean you
know four years which is what Bernie's
plan and vision it seems like a long
time but you know we had a couple years
to get the Affordable Care Act together
and that wasn't enough time honestly
like we still you know healthcare.gov
launched and there's all these problems
so it takes a long time to transition to
some of these plans now
Bernie's argument and maybe Elizabeth
Warren's because she's on his plan to
their argument would be you know what
it's easier if we just do this at once
all hold hands and jump together and
also the more you have private insurer
you have private insurers involved in
this the more money government's
gonna spend and waste and it's not going
to be as efficient but I think the
biggest point here on the politics is we
are now headed into a phase where
relatively small differences between
these candidates health care plans are
gonna get blown up into these huge
 fights and I do want everyone to
make sure that like you're gonna hear I
mean we're already hearing like Sanders
attacked Carla Harris's plan Biden
attacked calmly Harris display and
calmly Harris attacks both of their
plans I think the attacks are going to
seem like a bigger deal than the actual
details the difference in the details of
the plan right there we are all headed
towards universal coverage with heavy
government regulation of prices and
costs that's what they all want how fast
you get there how generous it is all
these are details worth debating but
let's not lose sight of the fact that
all of these candidates are in a very
good place on health care those are just
they were interested in how the debate
over the common law plan goes because it
is actually a genuinely kind of new
offering in to the public you know the
the Biden cap public option very robust
public option
some with automatic enrollment for say
children into a public plan versus she
has that yeah newborns and an uninsured
are automatically enrolled yes and then
you have the kind of the the the the
Bernie Medicare for all plan and there's
a variety of single-player plans but
that's sort of the alternative it's
interesting how this does seem to sit
between the two in a lot of ways and I'm
curious how it ultimately is perceived
right because you know one of the gaps
you know the public option focused plans
they try to bridge this gap between the
forty percent or so Americans who say
they want Medicare for all versus the
seventy percent of Americans who support
a Medicare for all who want a type plan
and this seems to kind of sit between
both of those ideas while preserving
private insurance but in a much more
restricted way so it's I'm just curious
how it ultimately is perceived by other
Democrats on the stage by Democratic
voters by political journalists covering
it because it is I don't know it's it's
it's an interesting plan that's all yeah
yeah okay when we come back Tommy will
talk to
DeRay McKesson
you
