welcome back to watch what happens live
I'm Andy Cohen
you better not be I'm secretly Andy
Cohen oh okay I have been Andy Cohen for
years now you know no I mean the
ambitions all over your face I'm not
saying you don't want to be Andy Cohen
but I'm just saying we shouldn't be at a
projection place yeah okay true couldn't
be there anyway hello we're here with
Casey hi I'm so happy to be here guys
Casey feels right this is this is our
new welcome yes
Cara and I have been into the Nook when
we were on sass with you and
Danielle Schneider kitchen this is a
proper setup I'm seeing like five tech
people staring at me Danielle and I have
like my cleaning woman like pressing
play on a laptop your husband David
wandering by wandering by like making a
smoothie this is really these are some
inspirational aspirational dreams we do
have a couple of plants - yeah the scene
is set you have a rug oh yeah you know
we are very excited for you to be here
because we have been sneaking in convos
about Bravo and things on the show just
between Cara and I and it's been funny
watching I do have to say my interest in
Bravo took a nosedive like sort of after
Project Runway left that that's
basically what happened but I am a
Bethenny Frankel fan in a deep way so
wow I'm processing everything I'm very
sorry
yes and yet you think - from what I've
heard of you you know everything about
pop culture in that you will not really
dip into Bravo
I do love reality TV I have like a
couple of blind spots and housewives
world is a little bit one of them I'm
sort of ashamed of it by the way
everything is a bit of a stretch maybe
last time Michelle Pfeiffer won an Oscar
she did okay I say I say yeah that's
when you watch reality TV less oh I see
you're saying the Oscars is my reality
TV actually that's brilliantly put I'll
write that piece
Slade well so one of the things we're
talking about is why like quote unquote
smart people like reality TV and the
housewives Thank You Kara
I mean in case I don't want to you know
we're smart it's fine I'm in Mensa oh
yeah but I mean I think it's interesting
so I'm a subway gave me a card what
about the housewives is not drawing you
in because we you know well it's
interesting because I was at one time
like real world Superman I think my
thing with housewives is once you fall
behind my instinct is it's impossible to
catch up but I think that's not true I
bet if you can pick up PC do you
remember cuz when I was on - and I
will forever take the crown of getting
you guys back on Vanderpump rules and
you and Danielle had been off it and
then you returned and you told us what
we needed to hear which is that you're
not supposed to like it yeah or the
people you should also like the show but
you're not supposed to like the people
and not that I like one housewife
because I don't but I really disliked
the vendor people but I was viewing the
framework all wrong yeah and now I
actually love them all those garbage
monsters those 45 year old with no air
conditioning in their home flat blinds
and dirty girl it is it's funny because
I feel like all these shows are like a
comedy of manners and it's just with
people who have no class and so it's
like you're watching I don't know the
the servants try to do downstairs yes
yeah yeah because you know it's like
Lisa Vanderpump is the ringleader and
she's just letting these people who work
it work yeah none of them work there
anymore which is funny why they still
have fights on the show about who gets
to work there or getting people fired
none of you are you always shaking a
martini but none of them seem worked
there anymore except for Lisa's son Max
it was yellow bar back
yeah Peters a manager Peter is a full
manager poor Peter
is there everyday do you well then who
who do you think of the housewives
cities is the closest to like real
because you know Beverly Hills was an
interesting one when it started because
they all had like serious money like it
was the first real housewives we were
like okay all of these women are very
rich yeah that felt nice yeah which is
what we want which is the prominent
premise yeah but like I wonder which
ones are like the most sort of legit
rich ladies if you know what I mean
definitely Beverly Hills I think New
York then Atlanta yeah I think OC seems
very dodgy Tamara lives in a condo she
moved oh she did she and Eddie upgraded
that's right that's right because
they've been decorating their house with
some spawn car I mean except for heather
dubrow of course who is just disgusting
can we talk about Heather have you
watched so Heather Dubrow of the real
husband watch she and her husband spent
what felt like 18 years building this
truly like a museum they run this museum
and she has been doing these YouTube
videos where she gives tours and they're
the saddest tour she's like this is a
corner of my husband's closet the middle
of an office she did one that was just
like a staircase yes and then she'll
just show like a vase and it is truly so
ugly that I cannot believe she's
presenting it was such verb she that's
what I love about it it's sort of like
an update of you know when you had like
a lifestyles of the rich and famous it
always seems like it was being curated
you know like robin Leach is giving you
like an insight into rich people a life
that you can't have once we've gotten
the Real Housewives now these people
will sort of become the curators
themselves but they don't have like the
taste you know it's like it's Cribs to
it even worse than great it's very
careful what you wish for it is you have
a basketball court in your house and you
were in an arranged marriage my favorite
genre of one of my favorite things of
real husbands is when anyone is
remodeling because it happens for
seasons I mean the worst ones are Dallas
remember when they want
to buy that home with a pool in the
living room which they buy I think our
kids might drown in it
this is a real specific throwback when
when Ramona was redoing the Hamptons
house never forget like after the
divorce the reveal of that was so
upsetting
she's like guys I've been working this
for 15 years it was the exact same if
not worse
how can she spend it's got to be nine
years now looking like she was recently
electrocuted just everything about her
good thing no no no no because Ramona is
like 60 years old that Benjamin
Button she looks good but I just like
there's something in her is scary yeah
Mona this is I have said this to people
if I were to ever get plastic surgery on
my body I would let someone in la do it
my face
I'm not letting these la butchers touch
my face because the work done in New
York like those Upper East Side like
whoever Martha Stewart is going to in
like Meryl Streep and honestly Ramona
whatever they took a minute to settle
but it looks good absolutely right I
want to go to different states or
different body parts dr. Miami that's
like taking for breath yeah do you miss
the Real Housewives of Miami no hmm
I miss my milena well of course yes talk
about you went to the wrong state that's
the thing these shows too
there's there's these weird dynamics in
each city when after a certain point
that all the people became famous so
it's not really watching people who
aren't famous anymore it's like oh
you're famous so you really have to
deliver the drama could you watch like
an early season in New York like what
the are these people talking about
like arguing about not being invited to
play tennis so Miami is just sort of
like out to gate they tried to be crazy
and interesting and the most interesting
part of any Bravo show is the reunion
for a first season of a new show because
everyone is competing to still be on the
show and they know this is their final
audition like
yeah and Miami's first season was truly
insane you remember that woman like
brought literally printed out text
message that text messages pulling out
when I'm forget I've kind of forgotten
many of the Miami names unfortunately
but the one that like a boat she like
her her fiance was like we're not gonna
live in our home anymore
I bought a yacht we're gonna live we're
gonna live in this houseboat I remember
her I remember that there was a dentist
named KarenT she after her name I
remember her tagline was if you don't
like my smile then don't look my way dr.
Lea Lea Lea black all over Jeff Lewis
yes and nobody wants it she was like the
Jill Zarin like she wants to be back but
we're good okay we have to talk about
Jill Zarin how are we feeling
New York is coming back New York is
coming back anymore I don't want Joe if
she didn't want it so much I would be
okay with it but she needs it so much it
makes me uncomfortable yeah you know
during her husband's funeral I've heard
tell she's calling publicist saying this
is a great time to get her back in to
ride that roller coaster it's tough she
just she just was so it was interesting
with Jill because I didn't like her in a
fun way at all and like some of these
women I actually do not like but even
the ones you don't like when they Evan
flow like a Tamra or Bethenny who have
their seasons where they're they're fun
to watch and seasons where they're not
like Jill was just it was so desperate
and they're all desperate but they're
the way her desperation manifests itself
is just like I don't want to watch her I
encourage all of you to watch the wife
swap with Jill and Bobby Zarin when they
swapped with blossom no no Jennifer I
know he lives in like the sticks and
it's like I live a simple life and then
there comes Jill Zarin it is wild
I love Jenna just because I felt like
she spent 20 years being the white
friend on black sitcoms yeah that's
where I belong
I'm upset that that's not well you
haven't gotten there yet well you were
on Black Monday on Showtime which by the
way has every actor I've ever heard of
and might run into like Oh Andrew
Rannells I'll probably meet him sometime
you know what I mean that's what I'm
saying I'm not wrong anyway okay moving
car way but no like Regina Hall and Donn
cheeto you know it's sort of almost a
black premium cable Jenna von Oy
yeah well I'm always the same part no
matter what I do if I'm on network I'm
my girl you better get out there and I'm
table I'm like I care about you it's
good to corner market though much like
the Real Housewives you you know you
know what sells you need to know your
place you need to know your place do you
know my favorite thing about looking at
your filmography is you are kind of an
everything you've done you're like an
Amy Sedaris where I associate you with a
couple of main things like oh you host
that awesome podcast you're on one of my
favorite TV shows and then I forget all
these other credits and things you've
done I'm like oh my god you're in my
life constantly immersed in every movie
secretly gone girl what I'm gonna maybes
amazing performance you know so thank
you for being like surprisingly slyly
very varied thank you yeah one of my
actual favorite paint myself was I was
on a plane and I was I was having an
Anne Hathaway day because they had like
six of her movies and I was don't think
I knew that and then I'm watching it in
the credits and I'm like and then you're
in it - yeah that was June a nice first
job and we wanted to be actors so badly
I mean the way Jill Zarin wants back we
got a call that said this agent wanted
to meet with us we were like well this
is it like I'm done with my friends I'm
done like like I'm blowing everything up
was there a funeral for you to invite
them to a hundred I mean
we got a call that said you know this
agent wants to meet with you were so
excited and when we got there he's like
so listen you know I'm a literary agent
and we were so devastated we went to
bathroom it tears in my eyes and I said
writer it's like a step up of real
estate you generally are like kind of
cute and yeah yeah I mean do you can you
imagine a world where things really took
a turn and you were like maybe they're
doing the Real Housewives of Hollywood
no I can't like someone was like why
don't you go in cameo you guys don't
cameo that ya emailed me and asked me to
do it and I said no and then they keep
sending you this person's on it
logan Paul's doing Danielle Staub I
bought a bunch of them I have a text
threat I'm their best customers I just
discovered it I had a texture add like a
Bravo Team text thread and one of them
like Katie Weaver's on it and Kay trees
and like Maddy Davies so like writers
and we and I secretly like got all of
the recordings for all of them and I
just and I just sent it to them
unprompted so I just like texted easier
than this video
I forgot it like I know I got Kelly
Bensimon
was she jogging well she wrote she was
like in a cab or something
but she was a nun Sonya was in the Miami
Airport just strolling and being like
there's a neck pillow um happy birthday
Danielle is the primary use of cameos
still happy birthday mostly like mostly
its birthday greetings the way I use it
is to trick them into the same things
for our podcast but they wouldn't want
to say my co-host Danielle Schneider is
very open about the fact that she's let
some grooming go downstairs okay she's
let things just let him let it go and so
I had all of them like James Daniel
stabbed and cut scheana Marie say just
like we're hope you're trimming things
up but I thought I made it like you're
trimming up your life and shaking things
up again
absence but they all said it like word
for word it was amazing you know what's
funny to me I mean and and I know that
it I know that it taps into like people
are just like desperate and want to be
famous but in particular the cameo stuff
when you have rich people who were doing
like spawn con like when I see Kim
Kardashian still doing spawn con I'm
like what is wrong with you like this is
this makes no sense and the cameo they
can't be making that much money well you
can see how much ya do not make it how
much money and it's not gonna be
broadcast in a way where they're gonna
become more famous no it's like I didn't
know that they were doing transactions
just between one person and them that's
not like yeah and like Ramona is like
Ramona has money and you know did you
need that $150 I guess it's fostering in
the way that you know actors used to
charge for their autograph or something
it's just it's audio now I got one for
Christmas for my best friend Sam and I
got Sonya to do it she was doing it
still in front of her Christmas tree and
you could hear that there was someone in
her kitchen just talking in the
background and enjoy you can make a
quick you know 100 something dollars by
just picking up your phone in your
living room and going hey that is true
what do you think happen to pickles so I
was just talking about this I'm like is
pickles gone the way of like God what's
her name is Gavin shall we move on about
just like God pickles was one of safer
the real the deep fans pickles was one
of Sonja's fan favorite whatever
confused deer-in-the-headlights interns
I'm a populated the house I met an
intern of Sonja's this weekend who said
that he just emailed her website she
wrote him right back and was like come
on over Tuesday any time and he just
wanders in and he said he worked for a
summer just showing up whenever and that
one I was like what's a sample job and
where you paid he's like absolutely not
paid he said a sample job was building a
fence around her koi pond because quote
a lot of dogs and cats had died in there
and I said you mean the fish were dying
and he said no no she said dogs and
Popeyes what the
Upton Sinclair's the jungle over here
what's going on
she's like a modern what was it Joan
Crawford remember it was that she liked
fans of hers she would let them be her
sister other fans would be like oh my
god I love you she's like come live with
me and be my assistant
it's like I know you're all in with me
Sonja's maybe like Sonja's one of the
housewives where Sonja's dark moments
you know they're not they're not Taylor
dark but but they're like that's a dark
moment some of the beauty of the show
actually particularly why Beverly Hills
was always one of my favorites is that
it always felt sort of like a pristine
drama you're watching these people's
lives in Hollywood and you're just
getting like the slow peel behind the
curtain it was very like American Beauty
because it's about like part of the
reason why even if the show got really
boring last season the ratings were
still high because apparently people
were still watching it for the lifestyle
aspect so that seemed more like a
lifestyle show instead of a drama driven
one but it was fun when the drama would
sort of seep out of it you know it's
like you're just watching these like
rich be crazy and then season
one ends with revelations that Kim's an
alcoholic screaming about Kyle's having
their house maybe I mean so I always I
don't know if you can pick one to me the
best Real Housewives episode ever is the
berkshires episode part 1 the original
Blake yeah best real episode of one of
2525 part 1 if they should release the
uncut footage but the limo one is it's
not like fun in the way Berkshires was
Menino iconic yeah because they're
related and they give us a drama that
casual friends cannot ultimately yeah
they're sisters and she's harboring a
secret that her sister is an alcoholic
and screaming it in a limo on national
television it's so revolutionary yeah
yeah could you pick a favorite
- still Beverly Hills the dinner party
from how psychic who Patricia Arquette's
shall medium is they're smoking an
e-cigarette telecall your husband is
going to leave him and the fact that
Faye Resnick is there and she's called
out but Camille for posing and Playboy
after her friend the call was murdered
by OJ I like scary Island that one when
Kelly Bensimon was out on the island and
went on that monologue that was so
unintelligible she's like you're like
what a felcher jelly beans of gold and
it was like watching one pound
I interviewed Kelly Bensimon it was
years ago it was for a random web site
and I was I was familiar with her on the
show and I knew she sort of familiar
with her work her non sequiturs kind of
and I picked up the phone talk to her
truly writing it down it was like a
serial killer sending a message through
code like I just had no idea like zodiac
like none of the words matched up but
then at the end it was a movie website
actually interested on my favorite
movies rear window and I was like oh
that's my favorite movie - are we you
know related or something you know it
was very scary that was my favorite
episode for a long time scary Island
part 1 part 2 is I love I mean it's
still all together iconic but the thing
about we are saying about Jill before it
is so I love how it should be darker
that Kelly is like having some sort of
mental breakdown that's played for
comedy tell Sonja of all people is sort
of like maybe that should be the darkest
but the actual dark is is the third part
of scary Island where Jill shows up
because there's just something so
about you surprising your friends on a
vacation them seeing you and saying
you're like look at what you're doing to
her she's shaking then she does kind of
politely excuse herself right like I've
seen that episode she leaves and then
Ramona goes out and talks to her and
then she's like Bobby we're going Bobby
got a plane for me Bobby
we're leaving I guess they don't want me
a plane guys Bobby got me a plane I also
love when Lou falls in the bushes to me
that's one of the finest comedic moments
we had but I also have an Atlanta that
whole I mean I don't love it but it was
so dark with like the Phaedra Porsha
kandi so that's a reunion that's well
remember when kandi was sitting at the
table with Porsha and kandi said it
seems like you were coming on to me and
of course just says and I quote I don't
like teapot short and stout the
catchphrase Queens yes the problem with
Atlanta trying to pick a favorite
episode is that so me they just are full
of iconic crazy moments genuinely funny
people yes they're all funny but it's
like they never really have a
self-contained episode it's all except
for maybe the South Africa episode where
Marlo and Ray are fighting with one
another and then devolve into just like
saying nod says they're not even
speaking anymore I mean but then you
also have the Whig poll like they're
just so Michael Lohan walks by in the
background inexplicably charade like
fighting children someone's like Michael
Lohan
there's a fashion show and Atlanta is I
think at this point obviously all the
women are like friends but there's their
co-workers it landed to me they're kind
of
the most professional in the in the
sense that they will be friends one
season and really not give a if it
benefits the story to make up the next
like they're really like we're showing
up to work and I feel like they were on
the forefront of let's put some looks
out there let's remember eight and give
the people something to look at and now
then Beverly Hills jumped on that yeah
actually why the Phaedra you know saying
that you know candy allegedly tried to
drug sex judge that I was tried to drug
Porsha and have sex with her
that's why that one was just so dark
because they all seem to be of the
opinion that we are producing a show
yeah and we have work fights and that
one just seemed like Phaedra drunk
out the window this was a fight of
something that could like effect candy
legally and her career but did you guys
notice that stager was that Andy Cohen's
baby shot yes
so Daniel stabbed wasn't allowed due to
a quote misunderstanding uninvited but
she still showed up was that marriage I
think it was like 45 days and apparently
Marty Cafferty I think his name was
haunting her through the nest cam and
she'll be in their house and he's just
like turning down the heat and turning
it up and she's like he's haunting me
but yeah I just finally that feels like
the baby shower is sort of like that's a
thing where Andy Cohen has become this
sort of we're back and they all have to
appeal to him it's like Phaedra did this
horrific thing but he's smiling with her
Nene is like I'm bringing Phaedra to
this event so that you can be friendly
with each other back to play denies that
Nene was sitting next to him like at the
head of the table course yes which was
really like Nene cementing that like
queen I think Nene has always been
I think they fight but that they have
always been like yeah and she Nene was
like the first one where your
we actually can't do this show without
anime tried they tried and it didn't
work but like there wasn't a housewife
before I think maybe like a Ramona or a
Bethenny that's just because Nene for
period thought that she was a serious
actress and was going to be in every
Ryan Murphy vehicle and then she was
brought back to be a coach on Glee and
then she was like hosting Cirque de
Soleil natural progression really
dominant only way it's it's part of my
filmography right I actually have a
question for housewives fans how
heartbreaking is it to have like a
favorite and then I feel like this
happens often they have some sort of
awkward then you have to hate them for a
while and then do you still feel
defensive towards them or do you like
including if you were to say oh I don't
like you know Bethenny but I hate her
too then you're right back there
following it like I don't know a heroine
really it's honestly it makes me
understand a little bit WWE because it
is like it is you can switch allegiances
and you know it's you know it's a and
you know what's faking you know what's
gonna circle back I know what I mean you
know that there are people crafting this
and like if there's a season when you
know Tamra's being particularly terrible
you know she's gonna get a season when
she's kind of cool so it's just like
temporary it's just temporary and your
biding your time well so that's why I
always loved Kenya more in the bows
because she came into the show and
realized that Housewives of Atlanta
needed a heal so she was there she was
the villain and speaking of how they all
understood it was work fight I could
tell that Kenya and Phaedra actually
loved one another but they would they
still even after their huge fights would
have scenes were like they go to lunch
together it's like hey girl let's try
and fix this relationship because
they're producing a show yeah and you
can see when it I appreciate when the
women know their role and know what they
need to do New York they do that as well
too you know like those sometimes have
fight everything like what Bethenny was
calling LuAnn what you're my last
anecdote and I know where I was watching
that episode the berkshires episode I
was home in Seattle with my dad you'll
never fail you never hurry remember as I
was watching it and he could hear it
like I was watching and he just was
listening in the background kind of in
the next morning I was writing a post I
was that Jezebel still about that
episode and my dad's like what are you
writing about I was like I'm writing
about the Real Housewives LuAnn did it
on he goes Oh LuAnn the Wow
Bethenny screaming yes the culture
because you said you didn't know
anything in yet I don't a couple times
today you were like I did see that
episode right no yeah right and also
along with the WWE thing it's like
you're right characters have to come
around again because it would be so
interesting if one stayed bad for
example you know like they know how to
keep it really entertaining so that's
why finally I won't say it is not hard
for you to jump into a Housewives
franchise because much like wrestling
much like even watching a soap opera you
know it's it's a long-running show and
the women the configurations may change
but in season 11 of Real Housewives of
New York they are till still technically
fighting about the same thing that they
were fighting about in season two it's
just in a different situation
well Andy said quote I'm like yeah I'm
like Andy Andrew once said that he
wanted to build the franchise in a way
that you think you couldn't live without
someone but you can mmm so that they
never need someone to much but I think
Nene sitting next to him because they
know they need her that's how I live my
friendships any point am I going now
you
