all right um all right here we go here
we go welcome to the post North Korea
summit bonus pod save the world Ben and
I we didn't want to wait till next week
to talk through the glory the pageantry
historic success of trumps North Korea
summit and then we woke up this morning
and realized it was a total disaster but
you know you guys deserve to know why so
we're recording anyway and frankly
there's a lot of bigger stuff happening
in like India Paxton Canada and Saudi
Arabia so we're gonna forge through one
quick housekeeping note so on Wednesdays
episode I talked with a woman named
Jessica Stern from out read
international which is a great
organization that's doing this amazing
work fighting for LGBT rights around the
world and I heard from her today that a
whole bunch of listeners had reached out
with donations to offer like pro bono
legal work and I just wanted to say
thank you to the listeners you guys are
really good people and it means a lot
that you do that so cool nobody reaches
that tell me yeah well give Ben some pro
bono no I'm fine actually I already have
our our friend Mike Gottlieb oh yes my
pro bono that's very good my Republican
investors very very good pro bono lawyer
okay so as we started sort of North
Korea the the second North Korea summit
was just a dud Trump in Kim Jong gun and
literally abruptly stopped the meeting
in the middle after failing to agree on
any steps towards denuclearization I
guess Kim insisted that all sanctions be
lifted before he would begin dismantling
the young beyond enrichment facility
which is their most well-known
enrichment site but likely not the only
one which basically said at the press
conference um when he at when asked
would happen Trump said sometimes you
have to walk away apparently thinking he
was haggling over a used car yeah and
then he tried to sort of gloss over it
all by saying he and Kim are gonna be
good friends someday so that's a relief
I guess him and Robin yeah but like I
guess I guess everything Trump is does
is graded on this curve some people are
saying well it's better to walk away
than sign a bad deal yes obviously I
don't know Ben were you surprised that
this didn't work yeah I mean I here's
the good news I guess
at least it does sound like they were
trying to negotiate the nuclear issues
yes so what we had been worried about
was that Trump would settle for
something outside of the nuclear space
something symbolic and try to make it a
win you know I think it's actually good
that they were trying to at least
address part of the nuclear program like
important we should stress you're young
beyond is not the entire nuclear program
it'd be like dealing with one Iranian
facility and saying you've solved the
Iranian program which is obviously trap
we didn't want to fall into so that's
the good news the bad news is it's
almost it's baffling that they could
find themselves sitting at the table as
heads of state this far apart I mean one
of the things we talked about is that
they don't prepare it seemed like that
they didn't seem to even know what the
outlines of the deal were before the two
leaders just kind of got in the room
totally and why would trump be surprised
that North Korea is trying to get
sanctions relief you know so the the the
problem that this exposes is that they
should never have had this some in the
first place you know yeah I mean that
that's my key takeaway is yeah sure you
want to walk away instead of getting a
bad deal but why are you even having the
president night sits in the room with
the leader of North Korea it feels to me
like Trump won't like that all the
positive accolades he got for the first
summit which I think were somewhat
premature and wanted this kind of
splashy summit again and probably forced
the summit before the work had been done
and so you have this painfully obvious
difference it's going to merge where
they want sanctions relief and we want
them to do certain things on the nuclear
program and so of course it didn't get a
deal and and why Trump felt like if he
just flattered Kim Yuna and Kim Jungman
would you know give away his nuclear
program of course that's not gonna
happen so the worry here is that where
do we go next
yeah every major defect her anyone who
knows the program they knew he wasn't
gonna do this I mean like to two major
problems as I see a one is Trump has not
gotten a commitment from Kim to freeze
his program Kim is not testing nuclear
weapons he's not launching missiles but
they're still enriching so he's added
Kim is adding to his stockpile as these
negotiations are ongoing
which gives him more leverage the other
thing it's just we forget about this
because like our president you know
tweets on the toilet until 11 a.m. every
day but like time is your most important
resource as president yeah and he just
wasted a couple days going to Hanoi yes
you do nothing yeah and I also think you
know we cannot overstate how how much of
a gift it is to Kim Jungman
that he's been elevated so relentlessly
by Trump over the course of the last
year you know there they are and Vietnam
first of all just an aside in a
socialist country the Trump is praising
meeting with the socialist leader the
Trump is praising so this whole anti
socialism as well is out of the ordinary
but you know every picture of Kim
sitting next to Trump every picture of
the North Korean flag next to the
American flag is legitimizing this
pariah state that is a prized state for
a reason you know because they
brutalized our people because they
pursue nuclear weapons because they
murdered you know Kim younglings brother
you know he's normalizing kin and
elevating Kim among the leaders of the
world to this kind of equal footing with
the President States for nothing in
return you know so Kim is getting
something as you say he's getting time
so as time goes by they're advancing
their nuclear program even if they're
not testing they're able to traditional
research he's getting legitimization and
and what is Trump able to show that he's
gotten for this nothing there's been no
movement in the nuclear program there
are reports before this summit that
we're not even trying to get the
inventory of what their program even is
which you know I think would be
necessary to map out rollback strategy
so you know he's giving away his own
time he's giving away all this
legitimacy to Kim and he hasn't got
anything in return so the other question
I had for you is like I don't really
know at this point what sanctions are
left on North Korea but do you think you
can make an argument to China and other
key countries to keep sanctioning the
north or to not sell them coal or
whatever is we want them to do when when
Trump has been tweeting the problem is
solved when he says on the record he's
in no rush and we'll all be friends
someday I'm using that like a indicator
that we don't care as much about
sanction yeah
I mean they're there they're two aspects
this one is just the the legal regime of
the sanctions being in place which makes
it harder for the north to obviously
operate in the global economy but
because there's such a small economy
because it's such a distorted you know
mismanaged command-and-control
sanctioned economy a lot of what they do
is kind of illicit anyway it's across
the border with China when people hear
about we want the Chinese to enforce
these sanctions it's at there's a kind
of illicit economy that is growing up
over the years of trade across the
Chinese north North Korean border and
there's also a lot of trade that the
North does kind of under the radar
different ports and different places
around the world so it's not just having
the sanctions in place it's having other
countries enforce the sanctions to
prevent those things from happening and
so even though the sanctions are still
there I have to think that all of this
love for Kim and all of this you know
tweeting about solving the problem you
know that sends a message to the Chinese
well why would we break our backs to go
down to our border and try to enforce
right shutting down this cross-border
economic lifeline to the north and so I
think you have to assume that there's
been a fraying of that sanctions regime
that is taking place even though we
haven't formally lifted it yeah it's
honestly okay so the most disgraceful
troubling part of this whole spectacle
in my mind occurred at the post summit
press conference a Trump Trump basically
absolved Kim jong-un of any
responsibility for the death of an
American student in otto warmbier he
said Kim told him that he didn't know
about it meaning wom beers death or
captivity I guess and he will take him
at his word so reminder that otto
warmbier was studying him wrong and a
reminder that otto warmbier was studying
abroad in hong kong he went and he
visited North Korea on a trip I guess in
2016 and you got him thrown in prison
and convicted of stealing a North Korean
propaganda poster so it's fast forward
17 months the kid spends in captivity he
gets returned to the US in a coma and he
subsequently dies and so it's clearly
they did something to him in captivity
to kill him
obviously trouble obviously Kim knew
warmbier was being held even Rick
Santorum
a right-wing lunatic for News Now on CNN
called his comments disgraceful so like
I don't know I wonder what your reaction
was to this moment but also to the
pattern of absolving Mohammed bin Salman
yeah
for killing Rakesh Oggy Kim jong-un
Putin I mean he loves to believe
dictators well the first thing about
otto warmbier first is that Trump knew
all about this
remember Trump had the family at the
State of the Union he when he was you
know going after Kim this was a big part
of his rhetoric you know that that that
we needed to stand up for Otto and his
family kind of used his family as you
know you know guess in say the Union box
so Trump knows the story and anybody
knows that Kim jung-hwan is somebody
who's had people murdered for like I'm
not looking in the right direction in
North Korea the idea that Kim Jungman
wouldn't know how this person is being
treated is insane it's crazy I mean if
you know anything about that system you
would know that the North Korean leader
is certainly aware of an American
intention and would be aware if they're
roughing him up and if he's put in a
coma so it just what Trump said belies
belief like nobody thinks that's
possible the second thing is yes there's
a very clear pattern in Russia you know
standing next to Putin in Helsinki he
says you know well Putin's denials of
interfering in our election were very
strong so he sides with Putin over our
intelligence community with MBs even
after it came out that there was a
report that we thought MBS is
responsible he says well MBS denied it
very strongly you know and so he agrees
with him so this is now the third time
that Trump has taken a murderous
dictator at their word about something
that they did involving an American or
the American people or a US person right
because with Russia was interfering an
election with Jamal Khashoggi that's a
u.s. resident rights for an American
newspaper and now with an American who
was killed and this is chilling and
frankly I think every Democrat running
for president I mean this has to be a
core of your argument against Trump that
he has taken the word of these murderous
dictators over the word of American
intelligence community or common sense
at the same time that he scorns our
allies this is a clear pattern it also
dramatically undercuts him when he goes
after murderers
for being a murderous dictator why are
you taking the word of all these other
murderers dictators and then asking us
to believe you when you're going after
this other one so it's really disturbing
it was disgraceful I mean either he's
just forgotten what was probably in his
PDB for weeks and weeks weeks or he's
just lying to us or forgotten meeting
with the family of this guy I mean
that's part of what's so disgusting to
me about it is that like he wrapped this
family in an embrace and then the flag
and now basically throws them out of the
bus in order to be friendly with Kimmy
alone what you don't need to do by this
you know like it you can negotiate with
somebody and and not take them at their
word right I mean put it this way if
what Trump said is true why would you
take Kim Jungman at his word about
anything would you are you gonna take
him at his word about the nuclear
program - I mean you know there has to
be some you know the art of the deal
here seems to be that if you're sitting
across the table from a murderous
dictator you believe anything they say
if you're sitting across the table from
an ally
you know you trash them trash them
exactly
well great summit yes Congrats to
everybody also there's a diminishing
return to these summits do you like how
many you know the first time you got all
its attention the second time a little
bit less like how many times know with
Kim you know it's crazy yeah he's gonna
give another six months to set the thing
up and let him just keep it reaching the
whole time I mean it is it is time is
not on our side here no and it does show
you that the foreign policy we've talked
about this before it takes time for the
consequences to become apparent
so what we're beginning to see now or
these initiatives that Trump has been
working on for a year or two no progress
on North Korea no progress on whatever
they're trying to do with Iran and Ron's
still the nuclear deal with the
Europeans Maduro is still there you know
all these things that they've done have
not accomplished any of the objectives
that they set out and they've managed to
really hurt us credibility in the in the
process yeah don't hold your breath for
that Nobel Peace Prize buddy so also
since we talked on Monday I mean things
between India and Pakistan have
ratcheted up unfortunately again the
conflict started earlier in the week
when the Indian military bombed what
they said was a terrorist training camp
inside Pakistan then on Wednesday
after we had recorded Pakistan
retaliated and shot down two Indian
planes that were allegedly in Pakistani
airspace one of those pilots is actually
captured by Indian forces I'm sorry one
of those pilots was actually captured by
Pakistani forces but just today luckily
the Pakistani government said they'll
release the captured pilot I think they
put out a video him like drinking tea
being okay so that's good hopefully that
ratchets down tensions a bit but um you
know again we hoped on Tuesday the
attentions would get ratchet it down and
it didn't so I guess what I thought
might be interesting was to try to
imagine what we might have done if this
had happened under Obama's watch like
how would the United States under the
best circumstances mediate between two
allies and prevent nuclear-armed nations
from going to war well a couple first of
all they don't even have an ambassador
place in in Pakistan that's how was that
process astonishing you know it's one of
the most of the most important cases for
us now security but first thing we would
do I think is have like a high-level
envoy you know somebody you know will
probably be the secretary state or you
know a presidential envoy who would just
go there and part of what you want to do
is be shuttling back and forth engaging
in diplomacy to prevent them from
escalating you know because sometimes
it's hard for these countries to do
things when you've got you know like
bomb you know for Indian Pakistan if
you've got a senior American sitting
there the VP's sitting in your office
seriously so like a big part of this is
just to lower the temperature to have
senior diplomats on the ground engaging
in casual diplomacy you know that's a
starting process point that person would
then also probably be trying to identify
some way of setting up a dialogue
between India and Pakistan so that
there's a channel of communication set
up that maybe a third party can help in
initiating that maybe we be trying to
identify for the Indians some
non-military way of responding so for
instance do they want to try to take
action multilaterally to crack down on
this terrorist group that carried out
the initial attack that killed 40 and
Indian troops do we want to be
sanctioning them do you want to be kind
of blacklisting of the UN try to find
ways to channel the Indian desire for a
response to something other than bombing
Pakistan
while then also working with Pakistan to
roll up some of these guys and we may
have intelligence right so you'd be
trying to structure essentially the
off-ramp of the highway to conflict and
you know I'm sure the administration
must be trouble ministration engaged
behind the scenes but again they don't
even have an ambassador there there
hasn't been a really high-profile us
pushed by the way
Pompeyo has been sitting in Vietnam
right the stupid spectacle of a summit
when he probably should be sitting in
you know India and Pakistan trying to
deal with this so you also see the
opportunity cost of writing focus on
this thing and we don't have a real we
don't have a real Secretary of Defense
yeah Mike Pence is sitting in Colombia
you would try to foment a revolution
absolutely and so an important point
here is that the Indian sorry the
Pakistani military calls a lot of these
shots outside the civilian government
you'll recall Tommy when we were in
office we didn't want to have Obama
calling the head of the military you
want him to engage the prime minister
the civilian leader so we would have the
Secretary of Defense calling the head of
the Pakistani military and so yeah we're
hurt by not having people in these
places yeah the people you would think
that should be like deep in these
mediation efforts or the Secretary of
State the head of the CIA yeah is
someone you probably would have a pretty
close relationship with the Pakistanis
or Elise is is as awful as they are the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs I'm just
you're not hearing about any of these
people doing shuttle diplomacy yeah yeah
it's unnerving
well let's like just step back a minute
and go through the history a bit because
India and Pakistan have gone to war four
times since they won their independence
from Britain in 1947 there's you know
all these years later they're still
wrestling over Kashmir which just
disputed region in between can you just
remind us like what's Kashmir why is
this been a flashpoint for so long and
how did the British screw up everything
for everyone
decades ago yeah so it starts at the end
of colonialism right so so the British
governed all this territory as India
right so these were not separate
countries they the the British Raj kind
of governed what is today India Pakistan
Bangladesh and even Burma from one place
and so at the end of the British Empire
when things started to break apart there
was an initial objective to try to hold
all this together in one country not
Burma but India and Pakistan but the the
Muslim leadership decided that they
wanted an independent Pakistan in
pendant country and in fact Bangladesh
was originally part of Pakistan so you
had this come strange arrangement where
India was gonna be here and then you'd
have Pakistan in the east and west and
partition people may remember reading
about this but essentially you had this
partition where essentially a border was
established between what is today India
mortices today Pakistan and you have
this mass migration of Muslims into
Pakistan from India and Hindus into
India from what is now Pakistan hundreds
of thousands of people were killed
because there was all this
inter-communal violence taking place as
there is this massive two population now
Kashmir in the north was claimed by both
so both the Indians and Pakistanis
claimed that this should be a part of
what would become their countries and so
this border dispute was never resolved
it's the one piece of the breakup of
Indian Pakistan that was not resolved at
the time and what ended up happening is
India de facto controls a portion of
Kashmir and Pakistan de facto controls
another portion and they fought some
Wars about this you know right away and
then things kind of settled into what is
now called the line of control so
there's this line essentially that
separates what the Indians control them
with the Pakistanis control now the
Pakistanis like don't recognize that for
instance they believe that the parts of
Kashmir that India controls should be
part of Pakistan part of the reason this
is really interesting and important is
it goes to the National identity of both
countries Pakistan believes it should be
the homeland for all the muslim-majority
provinces there so Kashmir is Muslim
majority so in their view if these
people had self-determination if you had
a referendum they would argue that they
would most likely want to be a part of
Pakistan and we should govern all the
Muslim majority areas the Indians
actually like to think of themselves as
a diverse country and it's actually kind
of important to their national identity
not just that they don't
surrender to Pakistan and give up this
piece of territory but that there be a
part of India that is muslim-majority it
sounds strange but you can kind of
understand it if they want to send a
message if we're not just a Hindu
homeland we have a huge Muslim minority
here they want to kind of show that that
they have a right to govern these
diverse places the problem is ever since
this line of control was established
there have been these border skirmishes
constantly yeah
and usually it's devolved into kind of
asymmetric warfare where the Pakistanis
have these militant groups who go into
Kashmir and might engage in attacks the
union's crackdown with a heavy hand that
radicalized as parts of population and
you have this kind of ongoing low boil
conflict what has been so strange or not
strange but unusual about the recent
clashes is it looks more like a
conventional war so it's not like just a
terrorist attack you know you have
airplanes flying missions into from
India and of hacks and dropping bombs
like it starts to take on the flavor of
a conventional war and again as we
talked about when there are two
nuclear-armed nations you don't want
that desk light yeah that's a hell of a
little brief history lesson to have on
the top of your head my friend well I
think you went you go deep on this I
went deep on this a long time ago the
last there was a the one there one of
the times like right after 9/11 when it
felt like who knew oh yeah
there were some of these border
skirmishes and they're usually up in the
mountains when you're so high up or
12,000 13,000 they're these troops all
the way up in wild elevations shooting
each other and there was at the same
time that was after the AQ Khan thing
the the network that had helped bring
the nuclear weapon to Pakistan and there
was a very interesting peace movement in
both Indian Pakistan that emerged to try
to deal with this because people were
afraid of this and so I got interested
there's actually some great
documentaries about this if people won't
check it out about the anti-nuclear
movement in the Pakistan the peace
movement there unfortunately what you've
had since like everything in the post
9/11 era is an increasing sense of
nationalism and it'll just you know
identity so India has become more Hindu
in its politics
Pakistan's become more Islamist in its
politics and that's made
solving this hardener fascinating in
unnerving alright this next this next
story brings me no joy but it appears
that our friend Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau of Canada is in some trouble
so the the former Canadian justice
minister said that Trudeau and some
members of his team used political
interference and veiled threats to get
her to drop a criminal case against a
major corporation the company is a
montreal-based like construction
engineering company that was accused of
paying bribes to Gaddafi's goons back
when he was still in charge in Libya
good
no go that's not a not a good thing to
do if the company is found guilty these
charges it would mean that they couldn't
do business with the government of
Canada for a decade so it's obviously a
huge impact and it would hurt
potentially fifty two thousand of the
company's employees globally so this
doesn't sound great how much trouble do
you think Trudeau could be in here I'm
going to start by saying I'm not that
objective I love Justin Trudeau yeah and
and I'm sure I've gotten to know him
personally I was up and can a recently
saw him but that said I think this is a
pretty big problem you know what
basically happened is you you had a
relatively new Attorney General in place
who also was the first indigenous woman
to hold that office and so she carried
you know there was a lot of pride in
that appointment this case has been
moving its way through the Canadian
justice system if they are prosecuted
and found guilty
it sounds like they will as you say not
be able to do business Canada because
there's a law that says if you violate
you know certain certain laws you can't
do business here they employ about ten
thousand people in Montreal and so what
it sounds like is that Trudeau and his
aides we're kind of going to the AG and
say they weren't directing her to you
know cease all prosecution they were
kind of saying hey can we figure out a
way to work this out that doesn't
involve
these job losses and you know I think
there's some there's some other legal
arrangements that could be made where
the company's held accountable but
there's some deferred action or there's
some other form of punishment separate
from them being cut off from doing
business canidates
sounded like Trudeau's team was trying
to find a way not to totally scuttle the
prosecution but is there some other way
of resolving this they won't just shut
down a major Canadian company and
unemployed 10,000 people in Montreal
which also happens to be kind of
Trudeau's you know where he's from is
kind of base politically so this AG got
very uncomfortable that and said I'm not
gonna do that there was a cabinet
reshuffle where she was moved out of
that job and then she dis leaked and
then she resigned
right now she's essentially blowing the
whistle write it you know it sounds like
you could see what Trudeau's impulse was
here like I don't want to I don't want
to you know have 10,000 people lose
their jobs because of something that was
really you know stupid and potentially
criminal that was done a while ago is
there some way we can again punish them
without having that be the case you know
I think it's gonna be up you know the
thing is there's an election coming up
and so the conservative has said 2-dose
resign he said he won't resign I think
Trudeau's answer and again recognizing
my own bias here but does make sense
which is look this is all coming out
there hearings this woman just testified
she basically gave the worst version of
events there'll be more testimony and
people will vote and they will choose a
new government and because there was
election in a few months let's just have
it be decided by the voters that makes
sense to me I think you know again we
it's dung Trudeau cuz it undercuts his
image as somebody who cares about
institutions and the rule of law and
democracy but to be clear like the right
wing in Canada is a pretty far-right
party and you know I I I think they're
being a bit cynical and these are people
who've gone out of their way to try to
you know combat efforts to fight climate
change and Western Canada because they
want to save jobs there you know and so
you know I think they're they're being a
little sanctimonious and some of the
criticisms are loving it it does remind
me a lot of Obama I mean when you when
you campaign and hold yourself to a
higher standard you get roughed up
around that standard and then if you're
Trump and you're shameless
lying corrupt hack no one I mean your
friends it'd be fair like yes this is a
huge scandal this woman testified on the
same day Michael cone did right so she
testifies and she said by the way that
she didn't feel like law was broken she
didn't think that Trudeau had crossed
the line and violating the law
she didn't even feel that she was being
directed to kill this prosecution she
felt she was being unduly pressured
right the same day Michael cone is
basically testifying that the president
I'd stayed sat down and wrote him a
 check for $25,000 to break a law
and pay a hush money payment to a porn
star right so the discord ensued
American Canadian politics is kind of on
display because Trudeau's engulfed in
this huge scandal their calls from
resign for doing something that is not
nearly as extreme and illegal as what we
all learn Trump had done and the United
States the same day yeah like I am you
know you can see how this happened
you're in government you start to hear
this major companies like one of the
biggest Canadian companies you start to
hear like oh this whole company can
be put out of business like that's a
huge problem yeah can we call
over and just say like is there some way
that we can not put this country company
out of business like I on the one hand
while I totally see that there's this
air of impropriety of intervening in the
justice system you can also see how
human beings could be like isn't there
just some other way that this doesn't
have to shut down a major Canadian
company and put 10,000 people out of
work I think that's an argument like if
I was advising Trudeau just just own it
you know just say like yeah you know
what like I just I was worried about all
these Canadians being put out of work
and what that would do to their families
if you've got 10,000 jobs that's
probably many tens of thousands of
people would be affected by this and
it's my job as Prime Minister Canada to
try to avoid that thing from happening
you know I think you should just own
what he did and explain why and and not
look like he's being caught at something
but make his case and and let the voters
decide yeah I'm with you
I need to learn more about this but you
know meanwhile Trump's about to catch a
RICO case so yeah it's all about
perspective so I brought us down I'm
gonna bring us back up yeah because I
want to yell about Jared for a second
first Jared I think yesterday was in
Saudi Arabia
pitching his ridiculous never gonna
happen
made-up Middle East plan so I just want
to flag how morally bankrupt it is to go
sit down with Mohammed bin Salman after
he ordered the execution of a juror
and dismembered and this paid no price
for it so it's just guys pay me shipment
yesterday because talk about a snapshot
you got Donald Trump with Kim Jungman
sitting there praising him and you know
it's absolving him for killing an
American
you've got jared sitting there praising
and BS and howling around with him after
he killed Jamaal Khashoggi you got
Michael Cohen like showing up with
receipts of Donald Trump's crimes in
front of Congress
you've got like racist Republican House
members screaming and fulminating and
doing anything they can to defy me if
you were to take one snapshot at the
trump presidency like yesterday might be
the days yeah so when we sat down at
this table
you got a breaking news alert that I
wouldn't let you read I want you to
react in real-time so as we sat down to
this I mean you read the full story yet
the New York Times reported that
President Trump ordered his chief of
staff to grant Jared a top-secret
security clearance last year overruling
concerns flagged by intelligence
official in the White House's top lawyer
I mean that is yeah that is a that
should be an administration ending
scandal yeah yeah so you it's not just
the like sensitive he gets the most
sensitive intelligence in the world yes
and he says had an air of seeming
corrupted from the very beginning
because of the cutter he's buying out of
buildings and his friends in the Saudi
like it is appalling is upon so
appalling and so many levels and I'll
allow myself the one thing if I can
imagine of a bomb in Malia as
parents but okay first of all like the
MBS thing is relevant here because yes
the reason why he probably wasn't
getting clearance is it the the
intelligence when you thought he was
susceptible to blackmail because of
these dirty deals and investors foreign
investors you're seeing the
worry that they had
right which is it this guy this
neophyte New York Observer owning New
Jersey dirty ass real estate
developer prep school hack is sitting
over there talking to a murderous
dictator for Saudi Arabia and he knows
all the intelligence he knows all the
an operation like oh here no tell em BS
he can say to MBS hey here's everything
I know about what we're doing the Middle
East here all the covert operations we
got going on in the Middle East MBS
that's exactly what they are trying to
prevent so like we see yesterday in
these pictures of him howling around
with his murderer exactly the scenario
these guys were worried about that's the
first point the second point is Jared
 Kushner doesn't have to work in
government like like we shouldn't start
from I mean let's go roll back the tape
to Raph the election I think people were
shocked I remember the first story came
out that Jared Navarro were even getting
security clearance yes people like well
that's crazy
yes because why would they work in
government and what qualifications they
had warned the government Ivanka Trump
makes a bunch of shitty handbags
that she can only sell because they're
getting trademarks from China because
they're corrupt okay so these
people come into government right when
they don't even need to be there it's
not like this is some essential guy no
it's not like this is like General
Patton on the on the eve of the
d-day invasion were like okay Patton has
a bad temper here get a security
clearance
but General Eisenhower says we really
need him to storm the beaches so
we'll waive the rules for this we're
waiving the rules for mediocrity in this
administration we're waiving the rules
for like outright nepotism and
corruption and it's just like staring at
you right in the face in the face in the
fact that the prezi United States is
doing this and then they've got a some
 sitting in the executive
office building I know if people follow
this story the whistleblower is by the
reason we know about this is a is it
dwarfed yes in a lovely woman
okay III interacted her like by the way
like not she's not a political person
he put the files about this out of her
reach literally I mean how cool is that
like her job is to read files you are a
horrible person if you do that you say
oh okay
you're only you know three or four feet
tall so I'm gonna put the files
up here and you're disabled and now you
won't be able to do your job yeah like
these are all the worst people the worst
people in the world I mean I think it
was a reminder that he Kushner had this
meeting with Sir Jack is lyac way back
in the day and tried to create a special
secret channel via their embassy like
leave the sirens have been flashing red
remember that first day the security
communications listen man I'm so glad
that I didn't let you read that story
because that was exactly what I want
see so our team here looks a little
freaked out I'm sorry guys we're good we
have a really good team that puts us all
together yeah they I could sense I don't
know if that there was a discomfort
there I was loving so you guys okay okay
okay cool good so a final quick update
out of Israel again so last episode we
talked about how Bibi Netanyahu the
Prime Minister was cutting deals with
these really extreme Israeli right-wing
political parties they've been compared
to Nazism that's how extremely I rabbis
by rabbis is to protect himself
politically well today we know why
Israel's Attorney General announced that
he's gonna file charges against Bibi and
not one not two but three different
charges the charges are bribery fraud in
breach of trust so to give you a little
more specifics he's accused of offering
regulatory help to a media company in
exchange for good press coverage he's
accused of accepting thousands of
dollars actually hundreds of thousands
of dollars with gifts from a billionaire
friends stuff like cigars and champagne
and stuff he's also accused of how
offering help to a major newspaper in
return for good coverage if the case
goes forward he will be the first
sitting prime minister to be indicted
also he's up for re-election in 40 days
I should note that there's like a whole
bunch of other allegations out there
that get even crazier I did an episode
on February 23rd of 2018 with Metta and
get Minh from the foreword where he
walked me through all these things
they're all like case 1000 2000 3000
thousand one of them involves submarines
is wild man wild stuff yeah so like this
sounds pretty bad yeah yeah it does
because it's um its crimes and it's
corruption but also it intersects with
what has gone wrong in Israeli politics
so like the media stuff for instance is
all about him trying to essentially
co-opt the media to leverage you know
certain financial relationships to and
and his ability you know to license
media in order to have like a friendly
media right so it's it's both kind of
garden-variety corruption like BB
wanting just a bunch of cigars and
champagne SATs are but also him wanting
to kind of read their system in a
corrupt way in order to lock in
favorable media coverage so in that way
it's actually you know
it's almost it's not just a personal
corruption scandal it's a political
corruption scandal and some of these
other things bring in like defense
contracts and and and and and look I I
think the the two points here or one
like all these chickens are coming home
to roost for all these guys like BB
Trump you know it's like they they
thought they'd get away with this that
they would never face the consequences I
mean these things have been hanging
around BB for a while and what you see
now is like no these actions catch up to
you and you know yesterday for Trump was
Michael Cohen testimony today for BBC's
indictments and like he's clearly you
know I mean I not well yeah I will
prejudge it means killing guilty of
something I think there's recordings oh
yeah yeah they you know they got a dead
to right for the Attorney General that
he appointed right to take or in his
cabinet to take the step of indict him
like it seems like they have him dead to
rights and the writing is on the wall
and this question of can he somehow get
reelected and and kind of fight this out
in the in the the political space here
again not not like judo is not accused
of a crime here this is a guy who's
accused of of committing multiple crimes
and has been indicted for them I think
the second thing it kind of also shows
that like being in power for a really
long time is corrupted that's it yeah
there's like the ultimate you know the
the old saying like you know absolute
power corrupts like this is a now
advertisement for tournaments like B B's
just been around forever you know he's
been Prime Minister now it's the second
time and he's been there for ten years
he's been making deals the whole time
he's been building financial
relationships and and and I think the
Bibi Netanyahu he was like some great
guy in 2009 but like I think he he
begins to think that the rules don't
apply to him right that he can get away
with everything and usually because
there's delayed consequences it feels
like you're getting away with it and
then you do more and more of it right
and and so I also think there's a
warning here that you know there's a
danger when one man is dominant in a
political system for so long that's what
corruption gravitates towards and you
know BBS has come up and say you know
but we'll see his opposition you know
which we haven't talked about that
they've all coalesced so basically all
the anti Bibi parties have basically
said we're just going to get behind
Bennigan's this one guy who's Congress
centrists you know and just see if we
can dislodge this guy I mean like that's
the main project of the opposition now
and there's an election coming up and my
hope is you in the past before elections
bee bees come to the u.s. to get a boost
so I think he's going to AIPAC yeah so
in 2015 it's when he came to the US gave
that speech exploiting a bomb in front
of Congress went to AIPAC got a giant
wet kiss and that was the weeks before
his election he went back and he barely
eked it out after doing a bunch of
fear-mongering about Arabs now he's got
an election coming few weeks he's gonna
come to the u.s. mm-hmm let's see how
he's received you know I think Americans
have a say in this cuz Bibi part of his
message back home is I know how to deal
with the Americans Americans love me
yeah and I think if people don't like
this then then they shouldn't go along
with that and if AIPAC is really
concerned about this kind of Jewish
power fascist party in his coalition
then you don't - given the platform you
don't have to let him speak you don't
have to give him standing ovations
that's what he wants and if he gets it
you're just helping him so why we should
no longer whether it's Trump or BB
renny's guys be aiding and abetting this
level of corruption I agree we should
all one other can I did you see the the
UN report on Gaza yes so 100 and you
know basically finding potential war
crimes including 35 children I think
were killed to journalists were killed
and the UN found that there were easy
ways for the Israeli snipers to know the
journals were wearing their journalist
vests the children were children and
could be seen through the kind of
technology that the Israelis were using
I'm curious where this goes because we
all watched on the day that Trump moved
the embassy all these people being shot
and in Gaza and and that was one of the
days it was investigated I just don't
know even if you think that Hamas is to
blame for incitement obviously to blame
for rockets even if you can mount an
argument that Israel has to defend its
border and you got a bunch of people
coming and Hamas is joining that up 35
children is a lot of children to kill
and you know I do hope that there's at
least a sincere effort to
to reckon with them yeah and what
unfortunately happens often when these
types of reports come out is the
Israelis rightly point out the UN is UN
and a Human Rights Council a lot of
institutions at the UN unfairly single
out Israel over and over and over again
when which is true which is true
absolutely 100% true but what what the
side effect of that is unfortunately
then we don't end up debating the
substance the report that mind changes
or doing internal fact-finding to
actually suss out wrongdoing in them it
can both be true that the UN has been
one-sided and too often singles at
Israel and doesn't put enough scrutiny
on groups like Hamas and that israel
needs to look at well how did this many
children get killed in what were you
know at a minimum not violent attacking
and these children weren't violently
attacking Israel well that's all I got
for this bonus now skip on what a North
Korea summit and what is some about
let's hope this time on Tuesday when we
record that there isn't like escalation
it feels like foreign policy though is
it's gonna be with us for the next two
years any hard fill in the show every
week there's a lot and it's getting more
and more I mean again like you're seeing
Trump move more and more in this
direction because he's not constrained
here like he's at home so you know we
may think that the elections can be
about Medicare for all agree New Deal it
may very well end up being about
Venezuela North Korea Iran you know and
and these other things yeah stay tuned
stay tuned guys and uh great stuff on
Jessica Stern that was a great interview
by the way I think she's really smart
and like do incredible work with twenty
people so yeah thanks again everybody
that
