who should win the 2020 Democratic
primary you know personally I'm
supporting mayor max of Idlewild
California he happens to be a golden
retriever and he is so cute it's true
look it up after this coming election
we're gonna live in one of two possible
futures one with a Democratic president
or one with four more years of Donald
 Trump we could have a president
that believes that health care is a
human right or we could have Donald
Trump who thinks that 20 million
Americans should lose their health care
coverage we could have a president who
believes in climate change or we could
stick with the guy who thinks that
climate change is a quote unquote
Chinese hoax also as a little sidebar I
think that mayor max yes the good boy
dog mayor would be a great president
what if he gets like a pet human and he
walks him around and he teaches him like
to fetch and stuff I am on topic you
stay on topic okay so at crooked comm
slash 2020 you'll be able to check out
who's running see what their top
priorities are read some of their weird
tweets and learn how to support them
please help us make Donald Trump a
one-term president don't mess it up
