welcome back to pod save-the-world I'm
Tommy Vietor I'm Ben Rhodes been in the
flesh great to see you good to be did
you enjoy America's birthday I did enjoy
America's but you guys a little time off
you look tan rested ready yes I got a
little Sun yeah a little reflection me
too
now I'm ready ready to dive back in here
yeah Hannah and I went back to Boston
and I the summer before my junior year
may be the most fun I've ever had in my
life I worked at this fancy hotel on
Cape Cod so we like spent a couple
nights there so I got to you know throw
in their face yeah that's good that
remind them of the fact that they'd
actually fired me yeah it's always good
use national holidays to settle scores I
went I went to why which was interesting
because we used to go to staff a bomb
yeah and actually stayed at that same
hotel which was never fun would you it's
something terrible it always happened
and cuz you had to live on East Coast
time so you have like 4:00 in the
morning to like be on the new cycle yeah
what a guy tried to blow up a plane in
Detroit when you that was yeah that
would not be a good example of a
vacation no no yeah the look that the
actually being on the East Coast in the
summer like there's a distinct feeling
right it's humid there's bugs yeah but
like a nice day in New England in the
summer is like the greatest gift you can
imagine yeah and it did remind me of the
one trip I staff for Obama on Martha's
Vineyard when he was there and like a
bunch of horrible things happen I think
Ted Kennedy died yeah John Brennan did
this briefing that terrified the press
corps about all these national security
issues it was not relaxing for the team
there with the president yeah I hadn't
hadn't taken a vacation with my wife
that was over a week and like years and
three years in row and again I want to
be very clear like I am NOT that the
tragedy in these stories though just to
get it how weird these jobs are the
first day I went on vacation in 2013 was
the day of the searing chemical weapons
attack oh my god and so we land I
basically turn around on a plane and
come home then the next year I'm going
to Martha's Vineyard to stop that trip
and the flight takes off to go to
Martha's Vineyard and the first Isis bad
thing happened on that flight I had to
go tell Obama
it's a reminder that like the world
followed you anywhere you were in those
jobs now nobody cares what I think about
anything so I can go to Hawaii well here
we are but I have to say I was really
missing not getting to do a quick update
on the news on this show I know I know
so much going on now you and I thought
about trying to figure it out from like
different time zones but well I sort of
killed it we realized we were crazy
people but um so today we are gonna talk
about Trump's ongoing fight with the
United Kingdom on Iran update a North
Korea update Sudan Hong Kong all stories
we've covered before that have
materially changed a bizarre new update
about Russian interference in the 2016
election our new chief diplomat a monk a
trump and some twenty20 news from
Elizabeth Warren and then we are joined
by EJ to Mel Karan who wrote an amazing
book called how to lose a country the
seven steps from democracy to
dictatorship she's Turkish although I
don't believe she's allowed in the
country anymore because air21 yeah just
come on every blacklist that you can be
on in Turkey quick housekeeping thing
make sure to check out our new crooked
and mini-series reclaiming patriotism
what does patriot doesn't mean Ben who
gets to call themselves a patriot
doesn't matter the series is hosted by
Ken Harbaugh he's a former Navy pilot he
ran for Congress in Cincinnati area
I believe Ken's gonna sit down with
people you've heard of like Pete Budaj
Tammy Duckworth barbara Lee it's a cool
series thoughtful guy so check it out ok
let's talk about our special
relationship with you Kingdom us on
Monday and Tuesday President Trump
lashed out at the British prime minister
Theresa May and Britain and Britain's
ambassador to the US Kim Derrick I'm
sure you know pretty well I know very
well yeah Kim very very well thought of
individual yeah um Trump's ego was
bruised effort reports that diplomatic
cables the Ambassador wrote had
described Trump as quote radiating
insecurity and quote diplomatically
clumsy and inept boy did Trump prove him
wrong by lashing out on Twitter right
yeah way to own him I mean well first of
all I knew Kim you know he was David
Cameron's national security buzz right
so this Hawaiian senior guy I mean this
guy is very qualified for this job and
he was an ambassador at the end of the
Obama
administration in the beginning of this
one you know part of what's so stupid
about this controversy is everything he
said is painfully obvious secure that
they're that they're incompetent that
but because this was like a secret you
know leaked memo pretty obvious and
anodyne conclusions about Trump get
blown up into some gigantic kerfuffle
I'm sure that every single ambassador
thinks the same things
Trump right and also the way the UK
works is these are people these are like
Foreign Service officers these aren't
like political politicians and we put
their right
I should add by the way Trump's own
ambassadors have like trolled the people
where their opinion we've talked about
rich Grinnell and Germany essentially
you know undermining Angela Merkel so
it's not as if they're sitting here with
a you know they're sitting in a glass
house here dude Trump is said meaner
things on the record about Theresa May
but amazed about Sadiq Khan the Mayor of
London so I this is just confirmation
that the world thinks but it's what's
useful about this is that your Trump
continues to insist that somehow he's
respected around the world and we see
yet another data point here every public
opinion poll says that's not the case
when we actually hear the unvarnished
views of foreign leaders we learned
that's not the case the fact that the
French put out that video of Ivanka that
we're gonna talk about later shows you
how much the French respects Trump and
his family right so the takeaway that
Americans should have here is our
closest allies think that this guy is
crazy and competent insecure and that we
have collectively made an insane
decision as Americans by putting them in
the presidency and for Trump to just has
some childish meltdown and tacking
Teresa may who's leaving him Derek a
good probably give a and and a
bunch of people who frankly are all in
agreement that Trump is incompetent
those are our closest allies you know
just it confirms your point what Kim
Derek mmm oh yeah it's a trump tweeted
that Derek is wacky and stupid and he
basically PNG the guy which means
declaring an official persona non-grata
and forcing them to leave the country
it's like the harshest thing you can do
to a diplomat he didn't officially do it
here but
dereck can't you won't continue in this
job anyway because there's gonna be
turnover but he couldn't continue but
some said they'll no longer speak with
him and it's a couple things like one is
but we welcome back the the Saudi
ambassador who was apparently involved
in the murder of khashoggi Magan we're
gonna PNG Kim Derrick the ambassador for
the UK I'm gonna qualified guy the
second thing is I was at the British
Embassy in the transition period and I
always thought it's kind of funny
because here we are at the British
Embassy the epicenter of the deep state
I'm there and there is Kellyanne Conway
right they love the parties right they
 on all these ambassadors but jarrod
and kelee and all these people love to
show up at a good European embassy party
you have some fun Politico
reprinted all the Spotted that include
Trump officials with Kim which which
means those are the sources for him in
his tables because he's citing
conversations yes and everybody likes
you know they they throwed like the
biggest parties of the British Embassy
and there's celebrities there and and so
these people love to go to these parties
and then they crap all over Kim they're
the most interesting thing is that these
were leaked to the Daily Mail there's
some speculation that maybe Russian
intelligence intercepted them somehow
maybe it came internally you never know
but I mean Trump I think tweeted what he
tweeted because he's a big baby but also
I suspect it was in part to help Boris
Johnson in his leadership race cuz they
think well we needed someone to smooth
it over with Trump now yeah I mean you
know he's done everything you can to
meddle in this and to help Boris I said
Tommy you remember the British
ambassador actually wrote a shitty memo
about Obama in 2008 just remind people
because why would you remember this the
the sitting ambassador in 2008 wrote the
memo that Obama was kind of like I think
it was aloof and that Itachi was that
that whole vain
we didn't PNG the guy he was still the
ambassador for the first year or two I
think of the Obama administration like I
met with them we dealt with him like so
you know it's not normal to say I don't
like this one leaked memo and I'm gonna
PNG
no we just took flak because Obama dared
to move a bust of Churchill out of the
Oval Office of Martin Luther King yes
sorry guys sorry about that America
first
another big update was the nuclear
internship with Iran continues so on
Monday on Monday Iranian officials
announced they didn't rich uranium above
the three point six seven percent limit
set by the Iran deal so I'm gonna
attempt a brief overview of this
although I don't know what the hell I'm
talking about but basically you can find
trace elements of uranium all over the
place soil and water whatever it's mined
every year like tons and tons of it but
only a tiny percentage of naturally
occurring uranium contains the highly
radioactive isotope called u-235 you can
use for nuclear power or like a super
high concentration over ninety percent
concentration a bomb so you have to
enrich it or concentrate it so that
means you spin it around super fast in a
centrifuge until you separate all that
all that good oh yeah all the dank
uranium so what the Iranians announced
is a tiny step forward in terms of what
it would take to create a nuclear weapon
but it's clearly designed to get the
world's attention and presumably the
Iranians think this will give them some
sort of leverage and a negotiation it
comes after they exceeded a different
limit that where they said it comes
after they exceeded a different limit
that was part of the deal that basically
said a total amount of low enriched
uranium that you could have in the
country so then you know you were an
expert in this you helped negotiate the
Iran deal what did you make of this
latest announcement out of the Iranians
and like what do you think the endgame
is here well I think they're definitely
trying to get attention right because
again the way in which that deal was
structured you you have a series of
inspections to get at the life cycle of
uranium the inspections include uranium
mines where you get the stuff uranium
mills where you process it then taking
out two thirds of the centrifuges that
spins and and as you said tries to
create the weapons-grade potential of
that program it called for shipping 98%
of the stockpile out of the country and
keeping these limitations on the
stockpile it converted the core of a
heavy water reactor that could have
produced blue tone ium so that it
couldn't do that the Iranians are not
taking the most provocative steps here
they're not saying we're reinstalling
all of our advanced centrifuges we're
gonna start to try to make a heavy-water
reactor that can produce plutonium we're
not kicking out the inspectors but they
are taking steps saying
you guys have all violated the deal the
United States and in our media sometimes
seems to forget that in the coverage of
Ryan takes provocative step yes Iran did
take a provocative step in response to
us leading leaving a deal and violating
the deal I think what they're trying to
do is say okay we can we can take a
provocative step as well
we're gonna take this incremental step
to violet yes this would violate the
terms of the agreement begin to react
ummul ate some stockpile of enriched
uranium show the united states hey look
we can start to move towards having
enough material for a nuclear weapon
again unless you're willing to come back
to the negotiating table or daring us to
bomb iran which they've seen trump
doesn't want to do right so the iranians
have seen two things they've seen north
korea getting the sweetheart treatment
because they already have a nuclear
weapon and they've seen that Trump
doesn't really want to go through this
war that John Bolton munson have so I
think they're gonna test this and
they're gonna say what are you going to
give us in response and I will be
interesting to watch as if the Europeans
and maybe even the Trump administration
says okay we'll float a little bit of
relaxation of some of these sanctions to
get back into negotiation ironically to
try to recreate something like the Iran
deal and that's why this is so
frustrating is it Trump now says wants
to negotiate the deal you'd negotiate is
the one that existed or some variation
of it and that's where we are it's
amazing to see all these former
opponents of the Iran deal come out in
support of essentially the concept of
the Iran deal so here's one tweet
actually two tweets from AIPAC quote we
cannot allow the world's leading state
sponsor of terror to enrich the uranium
necessary to build a nuclear weapon when
previously faced with severe economic
pressure the Iranian regime negotiated
limits on its nuclear program for
financial relief the burden is on the
Iranian regime to end its illicit
nuclear program and accept American
offers to negotiate a comprehensive
agreement blah blah blah blah like
they're calling for the deal there's no
illicit program because we have a deal
that puts inspections in there that
allows us to see the program I thought
my next question would trigger you know
these AIPAC people that they were
against the deal before it existed
because that was the line Netanyahu had
taken they spent
of millions of dollars against his deal
right was the pack up emergency
committee yeah oh well then you throw in
the Emergency Committee for the
protection of Israel united against a
nuclear Iran all these Gulf funded
shadowy funded sheldon adelson funded
organizations spend years lying about
what's in the iran deal
trashing the iran deal they get what
they want they get trump to do exactly
what they want we're gonna pull out and
we're gonna sanction these guys and what
happened they pulled out they sanction
these guys their behavior got worse they
 start shooting down drones and
they're restarting their nuclear program
which is the most predictable thing that
could ever happen what did you think was
gonna happen when you pulled out of this
deal that you guys spend you're trashing
right and that's because it was not on
the level it was politics it was about
stirring up their political supporters
whether than in the US or in israel or
obviously the Saudis and Emiratis have
their own agendas and now here we are
and these people want to negotiate the
Iran deal all over again AIPAC is
suddenly for AIPAC said like let's
 get the tape here they said no
if you don't address all these other
aspects of Iranian behavior its support
for terrorism its meddling in other
nations if you don't address all those
things no deal that that would be now
they're saying oh no a formula of
sanctions relief and in exchange for
restrictions on the nuclear program is a
great idea come on guys time is a flat
circle oh man I really missed having you
in studio that was great uh one more
thing that will annoy you so in the
first democratic debate every candidate
except Cory Booker said they would
re-enter the Iran deal as president I
had expressed my great frustration with
that position on pot save America last
week but here's some news we decided to
ask about the Iran deal in our latest
poll that we've been doing with change
research of Democrats and early primary
States so the full results come out
Thursday but we're gonna tease the Iran
deal question here so just so you know
that it was a fair question here's well
here's the language in 2015 the u.s.
entered into a deal with Iran and other
world powers that created restrictions
on Iran's nuclear program but relaxed
financial penalties on Iran when Donald
Trump took office he would through the
u.s. from the nuclear deal and resumed
the financial panel
do you think the next president should
re-enter the Iran deal 85 percent said
yes 4 percent said no 12 percent didn't
know or had no opinion so in conclusion
but Chris position is bad policy and bad
politics and I just cannot understand it
I thank you for pulling that and I look
for the life of me I can't understand
what on earth Cory Booker was thinking
like what's a fair-minded like maybe we
hear well okay here's the fair-minded
thing riches we are now out of this deal
and if we were going to come back into
it
we should leverage the fact that we're
out of the deal to force Iran to make
additional concessions right you
deconstructed this pretty well in parts
of America the only thing I'd add to
this is obviously when we're the ones
who violated the deal like it completely
blows up our credibility to say but when
we're only gonna come back in if and
when you make additional concessions how
we can get the Russians and the Chinese
on board with that the only reason I've
got the Iran deal in place is because we
had a united front among our allies and
Russia and China but beyond that the way
to negotiate those additional
concessions is within the framework of
the Iran deal and build on it why
wouldn't you want to be in the deal that
restricts the Iranian program while you
then seek to address specific missiles
and things like that
the thing I'd add to this though is the
reason this is so frustrating of cory
booker and in the absence of the
leadership that we would warn the next
commander-in-chief in an and it's not
because he took a shot at the Obama
legacy it's because he is embodying
everything that is wrong with the
politics of national security in the
Democratic Party
post 9/11 that's the same reason that
people voted for the Iraq war it's the
same reason people were wishy washy on
the Iran deal it's because they think
that the only way to look tough on
national security is to act like
Republicans and you know what that's a
losing political strategy if people want
the person who's most against the Iran
deal they can vote for Donald Trump like
be for something else be for an
alternative if you're for diplomacy
before the diplomatic agreement if
you're against a war be for the thing
that's gonna prevent the war don't stand
up there
and try to pander to some elite caucus
that says the way to be
commander-in-chief is to be tougher on
on Iran know the way to be
commander-in-chief is to restrict Iran
from having a nuclear weapon to rally
the world behind the approach to get
that done and that prevents us from
having another war and I was glad to see
that the rest of the Democrats didn't
fall into this dumb trap yeah it was
very frustrating I don't get it it's
just let's be for what were for as
Democrats let's let's actually believe
in things and stand for them yeah like
diplomacy
yes yeah okay let's talk North Korea for
a second cuz we need some diplomacy
there as well so Trump basically begged
Kim jong-un via tweet to meet him at the
DMZ so they could like high-five and
call that an accomplishment and then of
course countless reporters took the bait
and breathlessly reported on the
suspense in the stagecraft of a photo
talk of the photo-op so that was just
infuriating but another big story that
happened while we were on vacation was
the New York Times reported that Trump
might settle for a freeze of the North
Korean nuclear program not a full
rollback so that's a big big distinction
so basically that means you accept North
Korea as a nuclear state you say keep
the nukes you got just don't make
anymore John Bolton angrily denied that
report but when Trump and Kim were
hanging out in the DMZ Bolton was in
Mongolia for meetings and I'm not
belittling Mongolia but like I'm sure
that's not where he wanted to be in that
moment so then I'm curious what you
needed the historic DMZ summit in the
idea that we might be way a freeze for
freeze deal as it's been called What's
in North Korea well first of all I just
don't know how many times like our
media's gonna fall for this right
because like we've now had the the
Singapore summit Hanoi summit the dmz
summit and nothing is substantively
different about any of this right
there's no rule nothing is changing
North Korea is still building nuclear
weapons like they're there they've been
testing missiles but every time this is
treated as some momentous event Minh I
think it confirms you know Trump what he
understands he doesn't understand
foreign policy at all no he doesn't
understand nuclear physics at all he
understands the American media and he
understands that if he can create the
impression that he's solving a problem
that's what most people in America are
gonna consume Oh North Korea was a
problem big problem couple years ago but
now he's shaking hands at the DMZ and
the media is breathlessly saying well
how historic it is and it just seems
like the problem is solved and that's
why it's important to at least be
pointing out that it's not and also to
be pointing out there's something
grotesque about this embracing of this
dictator I mean yeah you know we took a
risk in meeting with say around Castro
who is nowhere near in the same league
in terms of barbarity and being a
murderous dictators came inland and we
took all this grief for it this guy
let's not forget the character of the
man that he's embracing and praising
lavishly a man who runs concentration
camps the man who killed his
half-brother another country with VX gas
the freeze for freezing I think is there
is a right place to start I wish that
they had started there back in Singapore
right in other words this is what we did
essentially with the on the way to the
Iran deal we started with an interim
agreement that froze the Iranian program
had some steps to rollback so I actually
think that if you were designing this
process from the beginning you would
start there yeah they're kind of getting
back to where you would begin the
problem is that the North Koreans have
meanwhile banked all this legitimacy all
this international embrace in all the
enrichment in activity we were talking
about what the Iran they've probably
been doing as fast as they possibly can
this whole time yeah they've just thrown
their foot on the gas and what they've
also seen is they've seen Trump tear up
the Iran deal and and I really mean this
I got why would North Korea ever give up
nuclear weapons how could you ever trust
United if the United States won't stay
in a deal with a country that is
complying with the deal and doesn't have
nuclear weapons why would you ever give
them up I mean this is the intangible
thing that Trump lost the credibility
United States to keep agreements so the
most are ever gonna do is say yeah I
will pull freeze some stuff for a while
get rid of those sanctions and nothing
will be material or different so a
freeze works if it's a part of a broader
strategy to work for a rollback of that
program
even if you may never get it all the way
roll back what they're doing I think is
giving all the reward to North Korea
over the last year year and a half and
and maybe now circling back around to
the minimum that you didn't eat the
other intangible thing that we've lost
from investing it's kind of tangible is
you know the trust of all of our allies
you know their North Korea of the the
Japanese the South Koreans I mean
they're all a little freaked out about
what we're doing here and it's it this
is sort of in some ways talking about
Trump North Korea is a very unsatisfying
conversation to have every time because
you feel like you're sounding the alarm
and tearing your hair out and saying hey
guys the problem is still there it's
still getting worse but that is never
the focus of the coverage I want to be
and what I want to stress here is like I
want to be for this I don't want a
diplomatic I mean I did the diplomacy
with Cuba I supported the diplomacy with
Iran like I believe in diplomacy to
solve these problems but the way in
which you conducted diplomacy matters
and and also the motivation matters like
it I don't think Trump really cares
about solving this problem I think he
just saw this as a way to generate this
kind of reality shows I mean one thing
that tells you everything you know here
and obviously being defensive as someone
worked for Obama but the last time he
embraced Kim jung-un he said Obama
wanted to go to war with North Korea and
he Donald Trump prevented the war this
time he said Obama was desperate for a
meeting and like this that get reported
and like you don't have to repeat his
lives yeah neither true we weren't about
to go to war nor did we ask for a
meeting like it's just neither of them
were true but the point is he's not
interested in a problem solving he's
interested in essentially how does he
politicize this relationship yeah so I'm
better than Obama
I had my photo op I can you know I get a
lot of he could have written the
headlines for Chuck Todd or whomever
like the showman on the world stage
right that's what he wants people to
consume because they know they're not
gonna be consuming the analysis piece it
actually says well the whole time he's
been talking to North Korea they've been
building nuclear weapons yeah it's a
nightmare okay
another story we've been talking about a
bunch is in Sudan so Ben and I have
talked about it you've heard from watham
al-amin who's a Sudanese American or
that diaspora in DC and every other
places so there have been these amazing
protest movements and then they turn
violent because the military just
cracked down on on these protesters and
killed hundreds of them so then on July
4th these civilian and military leaders
in Sudan said they'd reached a
power-sharing agreement that will
hopefully hopefully hopefully lead to a
transition to democracy here's how it's
supposed to work
they're gonna form a council made up of
half civilian leaders half military
leaders and then one additional person
that's named they're gonna supposed to
rotate who's in charge so the military's
supposed to be in charge - the first 21
months the civilians are supposed to be
in charge for the next 18 then after
that interim period Sudan is supposed to
hold elections and the country is gonna
allegedly transition to full democratic
civilian rule um I mean first and
foremost been like these brave
protesters deserve yeah a ton of credit
I can't imagine the scarier plans to do
what they did they put their lives in
them on the line that said I'm very
worried about the more detail I read
about this agreement and all the ways it
goes south I mean a lot of these
generals are notorious like war
criminals it sounds like the United
States pushed really really hard for a
deal to come together quickly that seems
to have advantage the military in every
way possible and also gave people on
this council immunity for the murder of
these protesters but I don't know I want
to be hopeful but it's tough I'm not
yeah I this deal feels very fraught to
me it feels a lot to me like the
Sudanese military's been working off of
the Egyptian military's playbook right
in terms of how they acted like they're
on the side of the protest
it's like Egypt happening in a much more
conventional right they acted like
they're inside of the protests they
removed the the front man Bashir then
they get tired of the protests they
crack down they clear the square they
agree to some pretty long lengthy
timeline before they would have to
remove that's plenty of time for them to
to rig everything frankly I'm scheduled
oh they'll ever keep this deal and turn
things over so you know I think they're
trying to make
the protests go away and I think right
now though they have a very strong hand
and I think the people of Sudan are just
gonna have to find ways to continue to
mobilize and I would like for them to
have more support now just in the United
States but potentially from within you
know the African Union some other
African countries although that's not
that likely but cuz right now I this
deal does feel to me a bit like you know
a wolf in sheep's clothing you're saying
yeah we're here for democracy but you
know we get to stay in charge for a
while and maybe will hand it off to you
and we had all the tanks and guns yeah
another big protest movie we've been
watching closely is in Hong Kong so to
catch you guys up the legislature in
Hong Kong was pushing a bill that would
have allowed Hong Kong residents to be
extradited to mainland China for
prosecution that understandably
terrified residents who didn't want to
get thrown away into the Chinese
judicial system on trumped-up charges
and never be seen again so there are
these massive protests like a quarter of
the population massive and Carrie Lam
Hong Kong's chief executive partially
backed down she declared the extradition
bill dead
but protesters under wisely worried that
she's dishonest in parsing words and
they want her to promise essentially not
to initiate the bill ever again during
her term because they worried that
she'll just shelve it for a while then
put it back forward so until that
happens um it looks like these protests
are gonna continue and the Chinese seem
to be increasingly agitated by it for
example there was an activist or a
singer yeah from Hong Kong testifying at
the UN yesterday the Chinese kept
interrupting with points of order etc so
I don't know I I again like incredibly
brave protesters taken to the street
it's good to see that people are still
fighting for democracy but this one is
not over yet either
no I mean clearly they have the upper
hand right now so you saw the chief
executive Hong Kong try to say the bills
you know dead but it's it believes that
I think though what the people of Hong
Kong have showed us is they broken
through kind of the fear factor right
and they've continued this mass
mobilization obviously the Chinese
government strategies me to try to wait
them out and then start squeezing again
I think that part of what we're seeing
in lots of different parts of the world
is control is really in the hands of
autocrats right and control can take the
form of weapons in Sudan it can take the
form of surveillance technologies in
China but the one thing they can't
control for is mass mobilization people
really do have a certain amount of power
right and you know we'll talk to I'd say
here in a moment about Turkey too but
people took back some control in those
elections in Istanbul they they would
you know everyone tried to demoralize
them by involving elections as they
turned out again and I think that the
lesson is mass mobilization is the only
tool that can work when you're
confronted with people who have lots of
tools of control yeah the Chinese
government just can't ignore like a
quarter of the population protesting no
they can't ignore that in a financial
center Hong Kong where banks are might
look at this and think like do we want
to stick around here or do we want to
move our operation you know to Singapore
or something right so I I think the
lesson for activists everywhere is there
is really a strength in numbers here and
and and you're gonna have to keep it up
but you can you can put some points on
the board you can get some wins here
yeah it's good lesson for all of us
let's talk about Russia for a minute
there's a new report out from Yahoo News
that details all the ways the Russian
intelligence was behind this disgusting
conspiracy theory for around the 2016
elections about a murder DNC staffer
named Seth rich so Seth rich was
murdered outside his apartment and what
is believed to be a robbery gone wrong
in DC but the Russians very quickly
circulated a fake intelligence bulletin
claiming that he had been murdered by
Hillary Clinton's team because he was
gonna blow the whistle on her or
campaign in some way truly ludicrous
stuff offensively craven but a useful
cover story for Russia to say hey this
kid leaked all those documents to
Wikileaks not us right were innocent so
Russian intelligence fanned the flames
of this conspiracy for the years they
used their ass that Julian Assange they
used social media and then they used
useful idiots on Team Trump Steve Bannon
like the worst human being in the world
sent a text message to a CBS producer
that said quote huge story he was a
bernie guy
it was a contract kill obviously that is
Craven he said that from the White House
when he had access to the PDP and all
the intelligence in the world
Alex Joe has covered it Roger stone a
lot of morons at Fox News like Sean
Hannity like gleefully ran with it so I
guess I'm not surprised that the
Russians did this but to me the lesson
is that their information would not have
been that useful if not for the giddy
cooperation from Trump groups and the
right-wing media full stop yeah part of
what was so tricky when I always try to
explain to people when they say you know
would you you guys should have done more
to stop this Russian Air France election
is it what the Russians did is they
found narratives that we're already on
right-wing media or that will ripe for
right-wing media right and they just
shot content into that ecosystem knowing
that that the right-wing media in the US
would do their work for them right so
Fox will pick this up and run with it
Alex Jones will pick it up and run with
it that grifter you know Mike Stern of
each the pizza gate guy will pick it up
and run with it and and and all that all
they have to do is is you know amplify
or invent a conspiracy theory knowing
that that all the work will be done
somewhere else and if if Barack Obama
went out and said well this is a
conspiracy theory you know they're not
gonna listen to Brock Obama into what
the Russians found is a weakness in our
own society that they were just able to
exploit the fact that you have people
who would want to believe something so
crazy then you know that that that
Hillary Clinton's people had this poor
young kid killed and I should add put
his family through hell right oh you
know imagine losing a loved one and then
having all these right-wing people
gleefully inventing him being a part of
conspiracies him being complicit in
potential crimes I'm some alliances
character being a 27 year old working
his ass off and not some - even have
access all these emails to leak them
know we used to be that guy I used to be
Seth rich we used to be the twenty son
thing he wanted to make it and politics
it's so to me it should like you hear
about these conspirators we laugh at at
yeah pizza gate or you know Benghazi's
just kind of catch word but what's
happened is that kind of
bearsy theorizing of the right-wing
media became a weapon for Russia where
again they didn't have to do that much
work in order to have whatever narrative
they wanted out there amplified yep by
all these people who will choose to
believe anything if it validates their
worldview yeah speaking of people who
don't have to do any work to get their
message amplified Ivanka Trump yeah she
has become the chief spokesperson /
diplomat for the administration so this
this goes back a little way so obviously
the White House press secretary
Sarah Huckabee Sanders is resign so
Trump team won on this foreign trip and
they started having a vaca record these
readouts of meetings like 30 or 60
second little videos of what happened in
a meeting and like Beck when Ben and I
were at the NSC we do or like some
subject matter expert would go up to the
podium and spend like 90 minutes talking
about all the things were decisive yeah
it was like cool yeah but you get so
like dig deep on policy she's not doing
any of that
so she's jumping into photo ops with
world leaders she has no subject matter
expertise and then there the French
released this painful painful video of
Ivanka trying to jump into a
conversation at the g20 with Theresa May
Emmanuel macron and Christine Lagarde
from the IMF and they're just like get
out of here but you have no idea we're
talking about so it's fun to clown on
her they're a lot of fun was head on
Twitter but it's also an actual problem
because if I'm watching the United
States from afar I'm wondering when the
u.s. transition to a constitutional
monarchy yeah yeah I mean it's I mean
first of all I couple times recorded
those videos Oh like what would happen
in Obama meetings yeah like I did the
quick readout under the digital team
like nobody watch them right minute yeah
so I guess maybe I don't have the star
power that Ivanka has they looked like
hostage videos too but a bit of a state
media vibe to it like a good idea a
little weird Don't Tell Tonya that I
know well but I think it's we can get
the embarrassment here the g20 is the
most important collection of countries
in the world right
the French I'm wondering why they
release it's kind of amazing
it's a brilliant role but essentially
you know you get Christine Lagarde like
responsible for the world economy you
know you've got Theresa May Prime
Minister UK obviously on our way out at
Emmanuel macron and these are serious
world leaders and and then you have this
daughter of the president you know we're
the most powerful nation in the history
of the world at the collection of the
most powerful nations in the world today
and that is what's going on like that we
have like the daughter of the president
like just kind of butting into
conversations with these world leaders
and going into bilateral meetings with
other heads of state in instead of the
Secretary of State this is simple or the
national security yeah this is one of
those times where we have to stress this
has never happened in the history of the
United States of America like we just
celebrated the 4th of July like never
before has someone essentially had their
completely unqualified kids daughter and
son-in-law essentially responsible for
our foreign policy by the way I don't I
used to go to these these sessions right
so you have the area where everybody can
be like staff like me could be and then
you have what's called the leaders
lounge where it's only leaders I don't
even know what she's doing in there no
like like that's supposed to be just
leaders that's a reason why that
conversation so clearly Trump is also
like bending the rules jamming his
daughter and son-in-law who bother we
also have all kinds of business
interests floating around these
different countries just jamming in in
there so what so she can have fantasy
camp as it diplomat like so she can play
it secretary of Madam Secretary or
something like I think it's worse I
think that they're trying to set her up
to get nominated to as ambassador of the
UN that would be my exit strategy if I
were her to get back to New York
I mean just so that they can complete
the house of cards like this cycle here
where you know like where the the sexual
predator who's president nominates the
woman in his life for the boiler I mean
like I I just I I don't I I I don't
think Americans Oh kit it's like the
North Korea thing like it oh it's part
of the reality show there's Ivanka
and Ivanka is like the more pleasant
face and isn't quite as infuriating as
Jared I don't think Americans understand
like everyone else around the world I
mean to quote Donald Trump they're
laughing at us right like this is this
is a joke like that this this person is
butting into conversations with the
global economy the g20 like what is
happening here right there's no and
again it's like other countries have
dealt with the corrupt son-in-law down
the hall or the daughter who's the
favorite you know a child of the Dear
Leader but not the United States of
America like that's something that
happens in countries that we think are
broken and they're hopelessly corrupt
right and and how we recover from this
like how we indicate that we as a nation
have learned our lesson that the affairs
of the world the world entrusted us to
run it for decades like we built all
these institutions we set up the g20 we
set up the g7 we set up the United
Nations and yes we share power and
influence but like now who's ever gonna
trust us again when essentially we all
these institutions that we set up the UN
the g20 to help the world solve problems
become essentially fantasy camp for the
president's kids like that's not a good
look for a superpower in fact that's
like a way to get your ticket punched
out of the business of being a
superpower I don't know man I think
Malia did a hell of a job negotiating
Iran deal imagine like Chelsea or Malia
Sasha Jenna Jenna Bush is like you know
I mean like can you imagine what would
we be saying if Jenna Bush was at the
 United Nations or the g20 it's
not good yeah doesn't mean a lot got
done at those and there's no no no
offense she's doing great job on NBC
right and Malia is doing great job
whatever she's gonna do in life like but
like they had the self-awareness by the
way to not do this as their parents yeah
um little twenty20 news before we get to
our interview uh Elizabeth Warren put
forward an interesting new proposal that
she says will help revitalize diplomacy
the gist is she wants to double the size
of the Foreign Service and open some
more diplomatic posts she wants to
create a diplomatic equivalent of an R
TC program to recruit foreign service
officers who are still in college she
wants double the size of the Peace Corps
she also wants to diversify the
diplomatic corps which is overwhelmingly
white and male and then this is a thing
where we could do a little Mia culpa
here Bennis she pledged not to give
ambassadorial posts to wealthy donors or
bundler so obama actually this is one of
the first press conference we did in
transition i remember being there hans
from bloomberg asked obama like will you
pledge not to name any donors to
ambassador post and he said no that
don't he's actually think that there are
well-qualified people outside of the
Foreign Service who could be great
ambassadors that was proven to be true
right people like Mike McFaul Dan
Shapiro like subject matter experts who
were in the Obama administration or on
the campaign who went on to be
ambassadors but there were also big
donors who got jobs in diplomatic posts
who on paper were a hell of a lot less
qualified except for their fundraising
now there's some notable exceptions
there - who's got a Matthew Barzun ooh
beak was ambassador to the UK who was
like beloved and seen as assuring in a
new era of how diplomats can interact
with the United Kingdom right now it's
like a smashing success but there were
some clunkers you know and like look the
the optics of giving a donor a big
diplomatic post and the Bahamas aren't
great so credit to Warren for an
important program all around I think
yeah yeah I like the first of all the
donor thing will get a lot of attention
and look it's a principled stand that is
entirely consistent with their broader
message so you know she's not just
singling out these kinds of donors she's
not doing high-dollar fundraisers I do
think it will be important for them to
say there are people who might not be
Foreign Service officers who can be
ambassadors yeah you know we're just
experts that said what I love about this
plan and I think it's a great plan and
shows that Elizabeth Warren's plans
extend it's a foreign policy is that the
State Department is completely broken
hollowed out because of what Trump has
done literally it is going to need to be
an all-hands-on-deck effort to restore
it and what I love is we're gonna have
to enlist the American people
particularly young people in this work
of rebuilding the State
and showing the world a new face and the
idea that she had to have like a
diplomatic ROTC to try to get people
invested in diplomacy when they're
younger and get them on a track in the
diplomacy is such a great idea and again
the idea of growing and building out our
foreign service capacity and again
bringing Americans of that great idea it
shows that she's wrestling with the
gravity of the challenge it's not just
gonna be like get a new president and
get a new secretary of state like we
have lost thousands of years of
experience but from the mass exodus of
people who've either resigned because of
Trump or who were like summarily kicked
out the door by Rex Tillerson and I
think you know she's once again shown
that she gets it it's not just the the
policy it's how are you going to
implement the policy and and here
rebuilding the State Department hope
this is one entry and hope the other
cans have similar plans you know we've
given shout-out to our buddy Matt dust
he's done a great job for bernie is a
terrific staffer for Elizabeth Warren
named Sasha Baker
you can follow on Twitter now I thought
she just went live on Twitter but you
know smart people around Warren too and
in a very needed entry to this debate
yeah not only are these good ideas but
they wrote a long medium post where they
framed it well I think there there's
some stat in there that's like there are
more people who work in military
supermarkets or kitchens there are
foreign service obviously more people
military bands yeah like the funding
discrepancy is just insane and when you
think about the importance of investing
in preventing Wars yeah versus fighting
them like you know everyone seems to
benefit here look the challenges in an
American foreign policy as in the
American economy are structural right
and Warren has pointed out and I've
learned a lot from listener about the
structural inequities in the American
economy there is a structural problem in
a foreign policy apparatus where the
Defense Department is sitting on a
trillion dollars and the State
Department is fighting for a few tens of
billions of dollars there is a
structural problem when you have this
massive work force millions of people
working either in the uniformed military
at the Pentagon and you know we're we're
hemorrhaging career ambassadors at State
Department and so she's trying to write
that balance once again and again if we
are concerned about you know the
militarization of American foreign
policy that's not always the fault of
the military just like it's not the
fault of the military that they had to
rule tanks through Washington DC Jets
like the decision that presidents make
and the Congress makes and she's saying
if we really want to address this and we
want to reprioritize diplomacy we need
to hire more diplomats and we need more
bring more people into the process and
we didn't even talk about the tanks in
the street I forgot about that already
I let's I mean like a checker didn't
dark day I mean can I say something is a
former speechwriter one every time Trump
doesn't like vomit on to the podium and
sell people I was like well he actually
gave a unifying speech he gave like a
paint by the number of speech that any
any junior speechwriter in the house no
offense a junior speaker is a house
could write and then everything's goes
wild to it's like well actually it
turned out not to be a device event no
like by the time he got up there once
you've had the Joint Chiefs forced into
a political event where they're giving
out RNC tickets and they're paying moons
of dollars to roll tanks for a photo op
through Washington it's already divisive
guys like it doesn't matter what the
 he says yeah July 4th is so easy to
not make divisive Obama used to have a
party on the South Lawn there were tons
of service members invited they put on a
concert for them we went a staffer or
some supporters went but it wasn't like
we were closing down them all the hawk
tickets for the RNC it was it was about
service and the troops it was like and
probably none of you are aware of it and
that's because we located but the
reality is we went to that big barbecue
on the South Lawn the people invited
were the military so this idea that
Trump is you know I heard some people
say well Trump gets it you were to pay
tribute to the military on July 4th no
the people that got the tickets to that
event we're alike vets and wounded
warriors right we just didn't you know
tattoo it on our forehead and have like
a bunch of general stand next to us
while some tanks rolled through the
Lincoln Memorial yeah God speaking of
days off there weren't I remember being
at that event on the South Lawn
had had a couple drinks and I got an
email from John Brennan who was like so
and so the New York Times is about to
publish a piece of intelligence about
our relationship with some country that
will end our access to something
critical
forever sprinted back yeah you biggest
Twitter's like that's actually how he
talks you know like you look like you
sir
like how dare you sir like like that's
actually like people think it's like
some Twitter persona there's no like
there's also a lot of Jersey in there
yeah yeah you know like sleeps with the
fishes but very articulate Jersey yes
very um alright no offense to the rest
of Jersey I'm just kind of King's
English meets Jersey bar meets CIA
operative that all comes together and
John Brennan
yeah unique package it sounds right yeah
ok scores were settled
I feel like class I mean what if I get
to lose with a pack they love you and
I'll say like I you know cory booker
like there's time to fix this know yeah
like I'd like to find much to myron cory
booker that's what's so disappointing
here right is it exactly he's got no
smart he's so far and he says guy who
calls on democrats to not be afraid he's
been totally unafraid and the positions
he's put forward on criminal justice and
other issues and so why do you have to
take the kind of like path of least
resistance
i'm gonna try to score some points with
elite opinion by you know being the the
hard-ass on the Iran deal fights for
diplomacy my friends okay when we come
back our interview with h a tumble corn
a badass Turkish journalist
you
