welcome to plod save a merry
jon favreau I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy
Vitor later in the pod you'll hear
Tommy's interview with Washington Post
reporter Dave Weigel who was covering
Elizabeth Warren's big trip to Iowa this
weekend we're also gonna talk about all
the latest shutdown news the Democrats
impeachment strategy and the ability of
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes to trigger
conservatives by doing literally
anything welcome back guys is our first
pot of 2019 the three of us happy new
whoa yeah you were seven January seventh
we finally made it still shut down also
we're going back on tour we're heading
to New Orleans Charleston and Durham in
early February buy some tickets come see
us what are you waiting for
cricut.com slash events and while you're
there
grab some tickets for lover leave it
he's going all over the country going
everywhere DC Chicago that's it no
there's a ton of places there's a ton it
with the lover leave a tour all the
tickets are on sale now they starts in
DC ends in Radio City Music Hall oh my
god you think you can fill that take
that big John Allen
oh we're gonna fill it they're going
they're going cool yeah okay we are on
day 17 of what is now the second longest
government shutdown in history the
longest government shutdown was 21 days
in 1995 when Newt Gingrich and the House
Republicans shut down the government
because Bill Clinton refused to cut
Medicare and education a position on
which the vast majority of voters agreed
with Clinton which is why Gingrich
eventually backed down this time Donald
Trump shut down the government because
Democrats refused to force taxpayers to
fund a metaphorical border wall the
Trump promised Mexico would pay for a
position on which the vast majority of
voters agree with the Democrats and yet
Trump in the Republican leadership have
not budged an inch no progress was made
during the two meetings held over the
weekend and as the shutdown drags on
it's starting to inflict real pain on
the millions of people who either work
for the federal government or count on
government services and now we have
heard today that Trump will address the
nation on Tuesday night at 9:00 p.m.
Eastern guys let's start with the
consequences the human consequences of
this shutdown how bad is this for people
and how much worse can it get it's
pretty bad I mean I think that the
it's a partial shutdown which means that
the military is still going Social
Security a lot of major institutions are
still going but the Treasury Department
shut down Department of Agriculture shut
down so people won't get tax returns
pretty soon if this keeps going people
who need food stamps assistance are
gonna get to see cuts so like this is
gonna severely hurt people and if you're
one of the people who are laid off I'm
sorry if you're one of the people who
are not allowed to go to work because of
the shutdown like you're stressed out
and you're wondering if you're gonna get
pack pay and if you're a contractor
that's part of the shutdown you probably
won't get any back pay for the time
you've been shutdown so like there's
gonna be a human cost there's gonna be
an economic cost like this is dragging
it to serious territory yeah I mean this
Friday will be the first Friday where
paychecks don't go out so there are a
lot of people who just can't cannot make
ends meet they just they're not people
are not built to have just one paycheck
disappear on a Friday because Donald
Trump caught wind of a right-wing
backlash to the fact that he was gonna
approve a government spending bill and
so you know every day goes on it gets
worse you know they're the they're the
ways in which it impacts Americans who
want to take advantage of government
services in small ways that's the parks
it's also and uh you know that there TSA
is gonna be affected the airline safety
is gonna be affected that one I saw that
and immediately thought of took a big
note on that one the people inspecting
the planes well so yeah so two things
going on with the airlines TSA agents
are calling in sick because they're not
getting paid and at all and so that's
causing delays at airports and they're
also they're starting to realize that
they can't check now every bag for
security and so they're they're trying
to you know figure out what's the most I
mean that yeah we don't a band-aid TSA
solution no also the TSA is a
band-aid jujin also the airline pilot
union said they're worried about a lack
of working inspectors and regulators so
the FAA has no idea if your plane is
safe so this is like well beyond travel
delays yeah Federal Aviation inspectors
haven't been working and they've been
holding signs saying was your airplane
properly repaired and inspected today
the FAA does not know I gotta
tariff that that is a look I do not like
LAX
all right but I still would rather go to
let me choke of trying to make it look I
don't like going lax but man do I not
want to go to LAX and then when I get
there there's a person holding a sign
that says my plane hasn't been inspected
that's not good
also this whole debate is
supposed to be about security security
at the border and the airlines
now are you know there's there's no
security there or there's reduced
security there as you mentioned Tommy
did you know 19 million households that
receive food stamps they will have less
money if this drags into February they
will have no money for food stamps and
drags into March thirty-eight million
low-income people 38 million believable
no no you were you're the household of
the household number right and so our
national parks are filled with
literally they're also like three people
died in the national parks cuz there's
no by the way do you remember this is
just a small thing I don't know everyone
remembers this when the government was
shut down in 2013 and Obama closed all
the national parks and all the
Republicans said that that was just a
political ploy but he was closing the
national parks just to show you know it
was a stunt to show how bad this was
no you close the parks because
it's dangerous to have parks opens that
aren't staffed that's why you close the
 national parks in a shutdown
Trump has kept them all open and so now
they're like filled with garbage
and they're dangerous to people so
that's that's great and look and the
other thing with all this is you have
people you know as these paychecks don't
come out as you have you know cuts to
food stamps as there's like people can't
get loans they can't get mortgages right
anything that requires like government
forms yeah this is going to have a
ripple effect throughout the entire
economy right like people on food stamps
they can't buy food people aren't
getting their paychecks that's gonna
hurt small businesses that they I mean
this is this is like serious inflicted
damage to the economy and while all this
is happening Trump said on Friday that
the shutdown could last for months even
years and when asked about all the
people who aren't getting paychecks on
Sunday he said quote I'm sure that the
people that are on the receiving end
will make adjustments they always do now
I realize that a lot of people think
that normal political rules don't apply
to Trump but it isn't is it tenable for
him to tell 800,000 people who aren't
getting a paycheck tough no not at
all and in it and it gets even more
untenable if people don't get there
tax refunds because people also count on
that money coming in as well you know
there's a there's two pieces to this and
I know we'll get to the politics the two
pieces this one is the fact that he's
doing it and the fact that he's doing it
over a symbol right which is so
despicable and obviously doesn't care
about the harm that he does he cares
about how it looks on Fox News he cares
about how it looks to the base but it's
also even just the way he went about it
be Senate Republicans passed a spending
bill hundreds of nothing it was a
hundred to nothing it was a fait
accompli it was just a done kind of yeah
it was the usual bad government we were
kind of accustomed to short-term fixes
yeah getting things over the finish line
late last minute nothing fixed nothing
reformed that's the that's the new high
bar under the Trump administration but
he threw a fit we're in this because he
threw a fit without a plan and you know
Ann Coulter and Coulter got us into a
shutdown but the thing about this is at
least when Newt Gingrich shut the
government down there was a fill of
philosophy and an ideology and a plan
behind it there's not even a gambit here
there was no you know he didn't even get
his ransom I will say we've had a
history of this though it wasn't just
Trump the shutdown in 2013 was Ted Cruz
believing that he could shut the entire
government down and that somehow by
doing that Obama would just
single-handedly repeal his greatest
legislative achievement even get rid of
Affordable Care Act set the table for
this no he really did that's a great
example because Ted Cruz is in a lot of
ways behaves like a smarter version of
Trump Ted Cruz did that because it was
good for Ted Cruz's brand or at least he
thought it would be and ultimately he
was right and because he was just one
senator or not the president he could
bring down all the ire and hate hope
people around him but ultimately he
can't personally keep the government
closed indefinitely but Trump can the
most amazing thing about watching this
is now watching all these Republican
senators who just voted a couple weeks
ago to fund the government and keep it
open now say oh I can't be there's no
way I'm gonna vote for anything unless
it's a wall we must have well it's the
most important thing ever
you all just voted to keep the
government open without the wall
now you're acting like it's the most
important thing in the world because Ann
Coulter is running the government
because she led Trump into the shutdown
and now Senate Republicans have to back
Trump so now they're all they all just
follow each other off the cliff yeah
Lindsey
gram is doing his you know 2019 Lindsey
Graham where he just runs out and beats
his chest and says whatever Trump wants
him to do to defend him but back in 2013
he was attacking Obama for being a
pathetic leader he said he wasn't
engaged enough in negotiations he said
he kept moving the goalposts like all
the things Trump is doing now he
complained about it's all on the record
Lindsey you're full of we know it
very full of
so the question now is how does Trump
get out of this he said he's declaring
I'm sorry he said he's considering
declaring a national emergency which he
believes would allow him to use the
defense budget and our military to build
the wall the Democratic chairman of the
Armed Services Committee Adam Smith said
on Sunday that he thinks the president
can do this though other Democrats and
legal scholars disagree it and even
Smith said it would open up Trump to a
major legal challenge guys how alarming
would this be and what could Democrats
do to fight it if anything I think we
need to start like I think we can't even
have that conversation because you know
this is even to me like the most
trumpian way to get out of this though
shi-it I think though it's it's also the
one of the most trumpian ways to change
a conversation yeah right like he's not
in the same way you know he announces
we're gonna withdraw from Syria and then
takes it back he you know announces all
kinds of things and takes them back just
to get the news cycle you know we're
talking about the fact that he's gonna
declare a national emergency maybe he
will maybe he won't this tends to be the
kind of thing he does with bluster and
hopes to get some kind of a deal but you
know ultimately you know we are now in
this conversation about a national
emergency at the border whether Trump
will give a speech to the country
whether or not he'll get his border
security money uh and it's it's the
debate he wants us to be having I guess
I know I I don't even know like should
we now we have to debate whether Trump
can can seize land on the southern
border and use them use the military to
build a wall that's the debate we have
to have now I don't know but but you
also understand what the reality of
what's going on on the ground to
understand how absurd this is to like
it's not this wall right it's
not a wall it's never been a wall
there's fencing along the border along
many miles of the border we've talked
about this before
Trump through Department of Homeland
Security and the money they got last
year they are already you know
in eminent domain cases trying to get
some land there that that process has
been going on
takes years and the Bush administration
the bush it was litigating totally I
mean they've been handing out contracts
to build more of this fencing so it's
like they're just he just wants money
for some more fencing you know there's
no such thing as a big wall anymore he
wants money for more fencing that's
already being right there so this idea
that then he's gonna declare a national
emergency - what then give out more
government contracts do more I mean it
doesn't make sense right I don't
I guess my struggle with things I don't
really know what it means to your point
I mean so they have spent like ten
percent of their border security money
that was appropriated last year yes so
maybe you start there if it's an
emergency
right when I hear the words national
emergency or state of emergency makes me
think of like air Dewan in Turkey or
president Sisi and like in Egypt like
authoritarians who locked down civil
liberties in the name of some security
threat so that scares me but I don't
know if that's the appropriate way to
frame this and think about it but like
you said I mean I just if you declare an
emergency you need to act on it
immediately and there's no mechanism to
do that given the nature of how
construction works right the way the
wall would be created it doesn't make
any sense I think yes where I come down
on this is the precedent is terrifying
right that now Trump is obviously any
president has you know presidents have -
sorry let me try that again
it seems that presidents have too much
power anyway and the fact that you have
declare a national emergency and have
all these powers is terrifying you know
we should talk about that should bother
the libertarians well be a party in the
case of Trump and in this case it seems
like some of the same he was doing
right before the midterms when he tried
to create another border crisis and if
your Trump and you're realizing okay
the Democrats aren't actually going to
compromise at all and the Senate
Republicans aren't gonna hang on forever
and he's not winning this fight you know
he can have this big moment where he
seems authoritarian and éclairs
emergency and a bunch of DoD people are
like okay I guess we'll continue to do
what we're doing and like build some
fencing and then everyone forgets and
then we move on and then the government
goes back right that's so we can see
that that is that to me that is I think
the most because you know Trump shadow
like a shadowboxing authoritarian he's
like wants to play authoritarian but
then just yeah
the disused to get to the next deal and
get the names episode and yeah besides
going on to get the episodes going on
longer than you thought okay for sure
for sure and and it's just yeah I mean I
look I think let me just start him I do
think like to your point this is another
moment where we're sort of required to
kind of go back to first principles a
little bit which we haven't done in a
long time because we have been too
comfortable with presidential power but
when we say that a president should have
some kind of emergency powers it has to
mean that in a moment in which Congress
couldn't have the time to act the
president should do things to defend the
country because the Constitution is not
a suicide pact that is what an emergency
is meant to mean every president for
decades has abused their national
security power they've abused their
emergency power that is true of Obama
that is true of george w bush that is
true of bill clinton etc etc etc yeah
the one thing i'd also just want to say
- it's like it's also important i think
to think about what we'd be talking
about if donald trump hadn't throw shot
the government down and what we'd be
talking about is the probably the
democratic bill to restore you know to
get money out of politics and restore
some democratic norms we'd be talking
about the investigations as a donald
trump and to me like what we've been
seeing in the last week it's you know
the trump presidency is a heist
it is a heist and now we're in the
getaway these next two years are the
getaway and molars on him and we're on
him and the and the voters are on him
and you know democrats are on
everybody's on him and we're chasing him
down the highway and he's reaching
behind him to try to get things to throw
out the window and he grabs siri and he
throws it out the window and he gets
Rasheeda to leave and he throws her out
the window because chunks of a wall
throws her out the windows throws
800,000 federal workers out the window
throws parks out the window throws
whatever he can reach behind him and
grab and throw out the window and our
job and these are big chunks of
coming at us but it is still our job to
swerve around them and keep focused on
the main project and the main project is
preventing this person from putting his
agenda in place and getting him the
out of office or ideally running him off
the Road cuz that's the end of
the French Connection that you see I
will say I I used to be in that camp and
very alarmed distraction this
distraction that he did the distraction
thing and the lead up to 2018 into the
into the midterms
I was terrified I'm like we have to be
talking about our stuff well but he's
good he's taking up the agenda this is
horrible like he's got out the spotlight
and then it didn't work and he
lost 40 seats like I actually I I do
think that these this is the thing that
concerns me most about this shutdown is
the pain that it's inflicting on people
and Trump is always going to control the
media agenda as long as he's president
were never going to be able to prevent
him from doing that we have to play our
game like have our message out there go
out and talk to voters about what we
want to talk to voters introduce those
bills like the House Democrats are doing
keep pushing the message but he's gonna
he's gonna play these games up until the
moment he leaves office absolutely and I
think if our job this side when do we
stop the car to get out and help I
wanted to keep going I agree this is a
moment where you you don't give in you
don't let him have the issue you have to
fight because it's so important to me
it's like there's the shutdown engine
there's the wall issue it's clearly not
an emergency when the number of people
arrested at the border by CBP is below
than at the decade average right not an
emergency if he wants to get his wall
funding we should go back to the deal
where there's a daca fix for a wall
funding we'd like the art you know it it
was well negotiated until you blew it up
so is there but in terms of the shutdown
I don't think we can let them hold us
hostage on all these things and and I
mean the best part of this is they think
that being accommodating and sounding
reasonable is saying well President
Trump says we'll go with a metal wall
not a concrete wall like steel steel
fences that are concrete well yeah how
do you like my five billion dollar
curtains how about my five billion
dollar drapes like that's not the issue
you don't need everyone like
idiots that's right that's treating
Democrats their voters literally
everyone in America like a
saying that the big concession now is
that it's gonna be a steel fence instead
of a concrete wall go yourself
yes also just Republicans didn't plan on
having this fight they they were no it's
but now they're in it it's now it's like
the fight they've always wanted to have
it's like Instagram he's been thinking
about this for two weeks I guess like
it's like Lindsey Graham shows up on set
every day and he's like he's this law
and order SVU is this is this
friends what show am i in I don't give a
 I'll play whatever character you
need me to play I'll be Ross I'll be
Christophe I'll be
I'll be I'll be James Gandolfini I'll be
I don't know one of them well I'll be
young Sheldon what do you need what do
you need me that who do you need me to
be Donald Trump I'll be whoever you want
me to be I'm Lindsey Graham and I will
be whoever you want me to be Theon or
reek yeah let's talk about the
Democratic strategy here speaker Pelosi
said this week House Democrats will
begin passing individual appropriations
bills to reopen all government agencies
starting with a bill that covers the
Department of Treasury in the IRS smart
over the weekend Democratic senator
Chris Van Hollen suggested that Senate
Democrats should block consideration of
any bills unrelated to opening the
government until McConnell and Senate
Republicans allow votes on those
individual appropriations bills that
Pelosi is gonna pass through the house
and then we find out today more and more
senators got on board with Van Hollen's
ideas Mark Warner Tim Kaine of course it
started with the senators who represent
states with the most federal workers
Maryland and Virginia and then Schumer
said that this is going to be his
strategy as well so this is great news
that the Democrats are doing this it
made me think like at some point maybe
it's time to put all the pressure not
necessarily just on Trump but on these
Senate Republicans because Trump can be
immune to political a pressure political
pressure because all he cares about is
the 35 percent of the country that backs
him but a lot of these Senate
Republicans we already saw Susan Collins
Cory Gardner and Tom Tillis who were all
up in 20/20 say that McConnell should
open the government so he's starting to
lose some of the vulnerable Republicans
and the question is if we start making
this about McConnell and pressuring
McConnell and pressuring those Senate
Republicans maybe that's the way to want
there's no piece of this it means he's
literally not speaking in meetings he's
showing up and being silent you also
have Lamar Alexander and Pat Robert
Roberts who have said they want they're
not running for re-election so people
think that they might be get about okay
I mean I agree with you that you need to
put the pressure on McConnell because
structurally this is not set up to
succeed right
Trump's negotiating team is Jared Mike
Pence and Kirsten Nielsen so you have a
you have a dilettante a supplicant and a
liar like you can't negotiate with those
people begin for the fact that they're
idiots but also Trump will just upend
the negotiation no matter what so I do
think like this road goes through
McConnell's a Dilek on the supplicant
and Ally I walk into a
Barn is a Marco Rubio what do you have
it
but yes also I really there was this
great moment like that this is the thing
too like the White House negotiating so
you know it's not it unless Trump is in
the room and Trump is caught in the
right mood none of it matters I love it
they sent Mike Pence in to negotiate not
with members of Congress and Senators
their staffs and it's like it's like
they like I come home me like how was
work today well I was in a
ten-hour meeting with Mike Pence that he
started with a prayer and ended with no
progress whatsoever and the only thing
Mike Pence succeeded in doing is like
somehow he like he's lowering the office
of vice president we're diminishing that
role too I mean I don't give a it's
who cares but it's just like you're
meeting with staff why did you agree to
that it's like they're sending Mike
Pence in like he's a toddler on the
plastic steering wheel next to next to
Trump who's really driving like look at
me look at Mike Pence Mike Pence is
driving did you guys read how jared
apparently said that he was bringing his
business acumen to the negotiations well
you know what he is yes that's actually
true so just so everyone knows how this
could end so it you need 41 Democratic
senators to agree to hold up business
right because you need 60 votes in the
Senate to get anything done so if we get
41 Democratic senators to say nothing
gets done until we open the government
no business in the Senate happens until
then so that's number one
so how could McConnell get out of this
without Trump well he did pass a bill a
couple weeks ago a hundred to zero to
keep the government open
so Trump McConnell's like oh I can't
pass anything the Trump on sign that's
just not true yes you can Trump can't
veto the bill it can go bet this is how
the this is how laws work this is how
the government works Mitch would know
that like Trump vetoes the bill it goes
back to Congress and then McConnell and
all the Republicans and all the
Democrats in the Senate can do what they
did a couple weeks ago and override his
veto by a hundred to zero and then it
goes back to the house and yes Pelosi
would need some Republicans to join her
because you need two-thirds in the house
to override the veto but if a hundred if
a bunch of Republican senators just did
it
you imagine that a lot of the house
are gonna do it too and that's how the
shutdown could end it could end without
Donald Trump you don't need him
override the veto guy he'll be
so angry yeah yeah there's a there's a
really interesting that's happened with
the veto that is the fact the fact that
it's it's just got gone out of use
mm-hmm you know in this it's a it's a
it's it is a reflection of the kind of
sclerotic oddly enough the fact that
there isn't more to divide between the
presidency and the and the and the
Congress that ends in veto threats
vetoes and overridden vetoes is a sign
not of things being healthy but of
things being kind of broken because a
lot of so much of what we see is a kind
of kabuki dance where everyone's playing
games and it's there's cloture votes and
fake filibusters and fake veto threats
and and everything is hashed out behind
closed doors rather than in the open by
passing bills but also happens
it's all jammed into a gigantic omnibus
rather than piece by piece appropriation
so it makes it almost impossible to veto
I mean the one just funny thing like
what's hard for Trump here is that there
is no case for the wall his chief of
staff Mick Mulvaney called the wall
absurd and almost childish he said you
go under you go around you go through it
so the fence doesn't solve the problem
everyone knows that the policy here is
stupid so we're just debating the
politics we need to win on the politics
right and that does by the way make it
different than the shutdown that
happened the brief shutdown that
happened in 2017 when the Senate
Democrats were saying prevent these
young immigrants from being deported
right give provide daca protections or
else if we don't do this this is our
last chance which is why it's worth
shutting the government down over
because if we don't do this which is
Republicans and Democrats agree on have
both voted for daca protections then a
bunch of kids are going to get deported
right that's like a real thing we're not
even shutting the government down over
something real right now it's a
metaphorical wall and we also just can't
give in to a kind of governing where a
were in a fit of pique the president can
decide he wants something new right
something that wasn't discussed that
wasn't part of the negotiation out of
nowhere and then because the Republican
Party is so broken the Republican
senators go along and we're supposed to
pretend it didn't happen yeah I mean so
much of what we see every single day is
a bunch of people
that proves it pretending Trump isn't
Trump and you know you see what happens
when you know what a congressman says
 or somebody wants to talk
about civility that we know Republicans
and pundits are gonna pretend Trump
didn't happen they are pretending Trump
isn't happening in real time look are
what are we all kidding
ourselves Robert like Lindsey Graham is
gonna pretend that this is on Democrats
gonna this is gonna actually have the
audacity to pretend we don't all know
what's going on
he unfollowed and culture on Twitter and
then he shut down the government we're
in we know why that we are in the final
stages of there will be blood there is a
there is a there is a there is glossing
 wandering around a mansion
brooding and shooting his gun off at
furniture and we're all pretending he's
the president spoiler okay let's talk
about the new Democratic House on
Thursday night I saw a tweet from
today's podcast Washington Post's Dave
waggle that said new congresswoman
receded to leave told the Crowder to
move on event in DC we're going to
impeach the and so I see
this tweet and I think to myself okay
this is gonna be a thing mm-hmm
but perhaps perhaps it will just be a
thing on Fox News and the conservative
world or perhaps it'll be a broader
thing but it'll just be you know we're
in this weird Trump world now so news
cycles last two hours and then we move
on and yet here we are guys here we are
on Monday
and people are still writing
 tales about Rasheeda Talib
saying impeach this it's
still happening so I just want
to spend like two minutes on how dumb
the debate is cool and then I want to
actually talk about the substance under
the debate which is how Democrats should
talk about impeachment which is which is
a real issue what's your take guys
what's your take on the so I also get I
also saw Dave waggles tweet at which
point I did I went to used-car
dealership and I bought a car in cash
and then I got into it I threw my phone
away took the battery out threw it away
I got in my car and I just drove until
the road ended and then I got out and I
walked until the trees stops and then I
sat quietly until this very moment and I
prayed before the
both sides like if you don't like the
word as listeners to the show no we
don't mind the word so we say it a
lot if that board bothers you that's
fine I think Nancy Pelosi doesn't swear
a lot I think she's a swear jar in her
office like she doesn't like it that's
cool totally old school but like give me
a break that impeachment is a big deal I
mean Brad Sherman a congressman is
reintroducing articles in peace tree
into Congress Beto O'Rourke has come out
in favor and said impeachment is
appropriate during his campaign and then
like just to step back like this is some
unprecedented big deal Republicans
started talking about impeaching Obama
in 2010 darrell Issa remember joe sestak
when we like I guess offered him a job
to not run in some primary darrell Issa
said that was could be impeachable and
this is my favorite one in 2016 the
Oklahoma Legislature filed a measure
asking their house representatives in
Washington to impeach obama the Attorney
General the Secretary of Education and
anyone else involved in the decision to
allow transgender students to use
whatever bathroom they wanted so that's
how seriously this issue has been taken
in the past yeah and it's like look I'm
with you Tommy if profanity offends you
fine that that's that's a legitimate
opinion it doesn't offend us it offends
our parents sometimes but I get that if
your position is profanity offends me
whichever party uses it right there's of
course the hypocrisy of Republicans
saying that they're offended by this
when Donald Trump is president with of
course but I think what bothers me even
more is the political pundit reaction
this is gonna help this is a gift to
Donald Trump this is gonna help Donald
Trump succumb
here's the thing you have no evidence of
that at all and in fact the evidence we
have to date suggests that you are wrong
Michele Wolf's joke about Sarah Huckabee
Sanders remember that that was gonna tip
dealing to the world dad that did not
tip the election remember that the Great
Red Hen caper of 2017 remember that
refusing service at the redhead that was
gonna help the Donald Trump did that
help no it did not
well it's also Maxine Waters murmur
Maxine Waters telling people to get in
their face remember Mitch McConnell
getting getting interrupted his dinner
at the restaurant member all those
things we're gonna help Donald Trump
look help them to a 40 seat loss on the
house it's it's yeah I mean look we
study you know but nobody knows
anything
here's the like that's actually yours
like no no one knows what helps in what
hurts but we do know is that actually
the only way we now digest politics like
there's the only way someone saying the
word could hurt Democrats
is that they're going to be calling us
to write pieces called this will hurt
Democrats and it's this it's this Boros
of Punda tree and horse race politics
the one thing I would say but this is uh
we are talking about this today because
Rasheeda Talib is a Muslim woman and
they want to target her this would if
this was Joe Crowley writers like I
don't think we just mentioned it the day
before Brad Sherman a member of Congress
introduced articles of impeachment which
I'm sure like you can make a whole bunch
of arguments about that too and say well
Jesus like Nancy Pelosi's first day new
Congress they're trying to introduce a
sweeping anti-corruption bill that's the
message and you know Brad Sherman takes
them all off message with this article
of impeachment but no one really there
was only a couple stories about Brad
Sherman and receded to leave by the way
that day the day that she made the
comments wrote a an op-ed in the Detroit
Free Press laying out a very thorough
and substantive case for Donald Trump's
impeachment which by the way we should
have with this is a case that you should
be able to make everyone hasn't read it
yet David Leonard in The New York Times
it's a very long piece about why Donald
Trump should be impeached over the
weekend and I think we should start
taking that seriously yeah there's also
this um this false comparison that says
uh you know you're gonna you're gonna
defeat Donald Trump by becoming like him
and it's like yeah alright you know what
actually saying impeach the
isn't actually the a lot like Donald
Trump it's not like it just it does use
a bad word in Trump to uh sometimes use
a bad word and if that's your level of
nuance fine but but no but there is
something there's a reason I think we've
seen some Democratic politicians start
using vulgarity and we've seen it a few
times here and there and it actually
does relate back to Trump but it's it's
a deeper problem which is there are
people are so mistrustful and so
frustrated that that one thing that you
one of the hardest things for any
politician to figure out how to do
especially even especially Democratic
politicians is to convince
people that that they're real then they
care that that they're that they're
gonna actually do what they say they're
gonna do that they care about the same
things that you care about because for
so long people have felt like their
leaders don't do that it's why I think
Carla Harris came on our podcast and
said the said it's why we bullied
Eric Garcetti into cursing
there is a feeling that Democratic
politicians don't speak for Democratic
voters it's I think part of why AOC
appeals so much and so you know I like
you know I don't know what the value is
of cursing I don't know what the harm it
does or the good it does but I do think
it speaks to a problem which is
Democrats are right now trying to figure
out a language to say I get it the way
you get it I feel the way you feel and
and because Democratic policies haven't
reflected that for a long time and there
have been a lot of Democratic successes
of late because Republicans have
controlled the government people are
looking for a way to get through to
people that's all I think it's a it's a
bigger issue with some House Democrats
though because a lot of House Democrats
were like privately complaining about
this I think it goes beyond the
profanity right it is they are very
concerned that some Democrats and an
activists will treat impeachment to
flippantly right like it's easy and of
course it should impeachment is
something that should not be treated
lightly right I mean it I do not think
you shouldn't be able to impeach a
president because you disagree with that
president's policy right like that and I
mean well you know Tom stires campaign
at the beginning was like we should
impeach him because he had this policy
you know and it's like I don't agree
with that Republicans made that argument
about Obama - right and you so but like
and you know Leonard in his Pete's and
and receded to leave in her piece as
well lay out real reasons why Donald
Trump deserves to be impeached and
Leonard's case he said you know he's the
use of presidency for personal
enrichment violations of campaign
finance law obstruction of justice and
subversion of democracy lives up for
different areas and there's a almost an
airtight case in all four of those areas
and again we've talked about this before
- I don't quite know why Democrats are
so nervous about this like I get that
they want to build a careful case I get
that they want to wait until Muller's
finished that's totally fine
but I do think it is time to start
laying the groundwork in public opinion
that this man has come
offenses that maybe impeachable and
again starting impeachment proceedings
is not guaranteeing a final verdict it's
just saying an MP you have a hearing in
the house let's lay out all the ways the
Donald Trump has used the presidency to
enrich himself let's talk about the
obstruction case let's talk about the
fact that he's been implicated in
multiple campaign felonies by federal
prosecutors like let's start talking
about that stuff and then if the Senate
you know votes to acquit him they vote
to acquit him but clearly he has reached
the point where he has committed
offenses that maybe impeachable yeah so
there's the constant combining these two
things like yeah Donald Trump should be
impeached and removed from office it's
unit as soon as humanly possible
he is a criminal
unfit racist thief like get them
out of course the question I think for
all of us is how do we make that
politically possible right and I think
you know op eds op eds will help making
the argument will help this is our goal
here is we need to remove Donald Trump
one way or the other we need to get him
out of office impeachment is one of the
ways we can do that resignation is
another building a powerful case for his
removal achieves both ends and so you
know when do we do it how do we do it
get to the point where impeachment is
politically possible every day should be
about making that case yeah and I think
House Democrats believe and and then
probably Senate Democrats too that the
way to do this is to make it politically
palatable for their Republican
colleagues to say okay this is a serious
issue we're taking this seriously and
it's not just partisan I think that
that's a bit of a pipe dream knowing how
Republicans act I think the end the off
chance that Republicans do somehow vote
to impeach Donald Trump I make that a
very very off chance I think it has to
be due to serious revelations from
Muller that we have not heard about yet
you know like I do not know with with
even even with all the evidence out
there right now the guy's been
implicated multiple campaign felonies
they haven't blinked or bogans haven't
blinked so I don't think there's
anything we can't tell the future like
right I could I could make an argument
that her saying impeach
helped because now we're talking about
it you know so like everyone shut up
right also just like we don't you know
Democrats impeachment Democrats can do
it with a majority in the house
then it goes to the Senate we do not
need to get all of the Republican
senators we need a clique of Republican
senators to decide to vote with
Democrats enough to create 67 votes for
impeachment there are many reasons
that's very very difficult there are
many reasons to think that's nearly
impossible but Donald Trump is president
you know things that seem impossible
seems that the thing seemed incredibly
unlikely suddenly can become become
inevitable alright let's talk about
another freshman congresswoman who's
triggered the Khans
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes the youngest
woman ever elected to Congress on the
week she was sworn in there were up
roars over everything from a video of
her dancing in college to the nicknames
she used to what was thankfully a more
substantive controversy over her sixty
minutes interview but before we get to
that why do you guys think she is
driving conservatives so completely
insane the way that we haven't seen a
democratic politician do in quite a
while
it's a really great question uh I think
I think she's a woman I think she's a
woman of color I think she's beautiful
and I think that turns their knobs in a
way that they hates I also think she is
managing to make very liberal policies
simple
palatable sensible and that's also quite
frustrating and she's not asking
permission yeah I mean I think it's like
she the biggest one for me is she talks
like a normal human being and she calls
out the right she's just she
she which she does not talk like she was
born and raised in the Russell Senate
the Senate she's this like political
Rorschach test where you know people can
watch the same thing but people
Republicans watch her dancing and think
somehow that that's bad we watch that
and you're like oh a young cool fun
person dancing to a scene in a movie I
really like that's what it's like it's
like the Laurel yanny of
apologies the dumbest thing ever but
they're they're elevating her they're
helping her and I think they're
attacking her because she is a woman and
is young and is exciting and has seized
the microphone and is is pushing a
progressive message and so they see
a threat like I really think it's that
simple it's the other thing that they
have a blind spot in the conservative
movement clearly they did have this
blind spot which is one of the reasons
that Donald Trump was elected president
to populist economics she is a very
specifically because she she can talk
about progressive ideas very well but
specifically when she talked about
populist economics and progressive
economics she does so in a way that
conservatives somehow think what she's
saying isn't popular because they don't
understand that most of the country is
so fed up with inequality and
rich people just getting away with
murder yeah you know and she and she
talks about it and so they say things
and what you know we'll get to what she
said so in her interview with Anderson
Cooper she answered a question about how
you pay for the green new deal and
floated a top tax rate of 70 percent for
people making over 10 million dollars
which means that every dollar you make
over ten million gets taxed at 70% and
this led conservatives to go crazy
Grover Norquist called it slavery it was
all over Fox stuff like that but it's
like do you really how many people in
this country first of all how many
people in this country do you think make
over 10,000 ten million dollars about
0.05 percent yeah not a lot like if you
asked a bunch of people do you think
once you hit 10 million dollars if every
dollar over that was taxed 30 but do you
really think that's a problem also the
top marginal tax rate peaked in 1944 it
was 94 percent and it never dipped below
70 percent in the 50s 60s and 70s so
this isn't some radical crazy idea it's
sort of returning us to a historically
sensible it's it's returning us to a
historical tax rate and it's not just a
OC that has floated this idea like Peter
diamonds who won the Nobel Prize for
economics thinks the top rate should be
73 percent Christy Romer who we all
worked with at the White House thinks it
should be 80 percent so a lot of people
think that like the best tax rate for
the richest people on the planet is as
high as you can make it as long as
they'll continue to work and put more
revenue into the system like okay yeah I
also think the the dancing video ties
back to the response to that 70% line
you know I actually think there were
plenty of Republicans who are like why
are you like I saw you know I think that
the inside of like the the base sort of
whatever roiling right-wing conversation
they were like you're making her look
good this is a good video yeah
most Republicans got that it was a
stupid attack but but there's a subset
that don't because they're so viscerally
angry about her just existing and having
a platform and speaking and it goes to
what happens whenever she says something
which is you know there's a there's this
in like very sexist attack that often
follows which is oh she thinks the tax
rate should be seventy percent because
she doesn't know what she's talking
about she never can know what she's
talking about it's not that she's wrong
it's not just she's a radical it's not
that she's a leftist it's not that see
socialist or communist she's just a ditz
right that's the only explanation for
why someone would disagree with you and
they look for every weakness every hole
in what she says and meanwhile she's
advocating what are economically
defensible positions that she's helping
to move into the mainstream while people
like Paul Ryan said that the you know if
Paul Ryan was a 28 year old woman saying
that the tax cuts would pay for
themselves yet I shouldn't I do not
believe that Republicans would be saying
that she doesn't know what she's talking
about yeah he was treated as a very
serious policy wonk
in like there's the canoe right there's
two kinds of reactions there's the crazy
right winger reaction which is just nuts
about everything but also I thought the
the CNN I'm sorry I thought the sixty
minutes interview with Anderson Cooper
was borderline condescending right like
he kept asking her these really
skeptical questions about the green new
deal and how impossible it was never
mentioned the fact that the UN climate
report says we have like 12 years to
avoid the whole planet burning to the
ground yeah uh at one point he said to
her do you believe Trump is a racist
she's like yeah he's like how can
you say that what have you not been
watching the last four hours like could
you say that is one of the craziest
things Anderson Cooper has ever said yes
are you better than that point
Anderson where were you during
Charlottesville where you on another
planet were you watching the news door
come on dr. earth man but you're right
love it the whole tone is later than
that
you don't get it you don't get the game
of politics you don't get how politics
is played hey guys the game got upended
two years ago you don't either like she
has grabbed the mic and is like made
this enormous profile for herself get
used to it well that's the dad to me is
one of what I think is I think really
impressive which is you know she had
this longshot campaign because she
surprised everybody or a lot of people
by defeating an incumbent
in a primary by being so unabashed in
advocating for these left positions and
because she is so charismatic and young
and a woman of color she has garnered
attention good and bad and she has
decided to take that platform and do
good with it and that's really
impressive and really hard it is
hard to go from being a bartender to
being on 60 minutes in the span of a
year yeah that would be terrified that
isn't terrifying is it her way of
communicating is so effective because I
don't know if you guys saw this what she
did after the 60 Minutes interview is on
her Instagram stories she talked to
everyone and she's like I just want to
talk to you guys about what that was
like and what it's like to do something
that's for those of you who don't know
and she's like it's very terrifying they
too were like hours and hours of
interview and then you don't know what
they're gonna cut and you know I think I
did really well but then when you do
something like that and you make mistake
you know it unless it's perfect you know
you're gonna have people complain and
she's basically she's like explaining to
many people who follow her who I'm sure
a lot of people who have not paid
attention to politics that closely
before Trump was elected this is how
politics works that's how many works and
she's sort of like taking people through
her journey along with her which isn't
really it she just has a very smart
normal human way of communicating and
it's like and again we've had this a
million times but like that's my advice
to all Democratic politicians now the
advice is not watch exactly what she's
doing and then do exactly that right
it's not make some food just because
she's gonna cook and talk
doesn't mean you all need to
cook and talk to now like just do what
works for you
you know saying like is it different
things will work for each politician
just be you right also one other thing
about this too is you know Republicans
have been so much better at this for so
long you know they're they're more
conservative members introduce an idea
they get the country talking about it
and all of a sudden the moderate
position moves to the left they'll
they've know their talk about the
Overton Window all the time the you know
the acceptable range of debate here's
somebody showing up and doing what very
very few if not zero Democrats have done
for a long time
which has gone out there and say here's
we're maybe we'll do something
incremental but here's the goal here's
the far goal here's here's the the bold
left position and allow the debate to
happen around that because you know what
I've seen conservative
debating a 70 percent tax rate all day
and liberals are debating it and
journalists are talking about it and
republic conservatives are trying to
defend their position on it and that's a
really good thing because I don't think
we gonna get to a 70 percent tax rate
but you know what's on the table now
getting it to be a bit higher as a
compromise like 50 yeah which is what it
wasn't like 81 when Reagan was present
tell you the only problems what she said
is it only raises about 72 billion
dollars a year which is not enough to
pay for Green Deal for Medicare for all
we're gonna have to go high not higher
necessarily breeds probably have to go
broader than 10 million but or you're
gonna have to stop worrying about
deficit spending which is the other talk
to stephanie kelton about that that you
you actually don't have to care so much
about the deficit and that you don't
have to pay for every single
proposal the left is pushing on both of
those ideas both higher marginal tax
rates tax rates and the idea that you
don't have to pay for every single
dollar that was what the whole Pago
debate was about and it's good that
we're having that debate now and you
know what else it's good because we have
to have it because so far there's only
two things you don't have to pay for
wars and tax cuts for the rich and that
is a terrible way to run a sort
of stand agreed cool all right when we
come back we will have Tommy's interview
with The Washington Post Dave Weigel
you
