on the pod today CNN's Van Jones who's
also part of cut 50 and you've been
working really hard on getting the
first-step Act passed and now it is
close to to being passed Vann welcome to
the show a good I'm at the Visitor
Center on the Capitol and it's a really
really big day it feels like you know
the 1959 Civil Rights Act which nobody
remembers now but it broke the logjam on
you know civil rights votes and that
mean when 64 and 65 the big acts came
Congress ready to move and after you
know 40 years of Willie Horton politics
with I think we finally finally are
gonna be able to do something I'm kernel
doesn't reform so van what um what do
you feel are the most important parts of
the legislation just passed by the
Senate by the first step back yeah well
I mean you know I think the thing that
I'm most excited about is you know the
Congressional Budget Office scored this
daggone thing and this one bill if it
passes today out of the house and get
signed by the president will mean a
fifty thousand person reduction in the
federal prison population you know
obviously this affects only the federal
system which is about 10 percent of the
overall system but you're talking about
going from a hundred and eighty thousand
to one hundred and thirty thousand
people locked up a fifty thousand person
reduction over the next ten years with
one bill you're also you know a hundred
percent of the people behind bars are
going to be able to come home sooner if
they stay out of trouble about half of
the people behind bars will be able to
take classes and earn their way home
even sooner 100% of the women behind
bars will no longer be shackled when
they're pregnant and having babies like
we do now a hundred percent of the
juveniles will be kept out of solitary
confinement also we're cleaning up the
whole crack cocaine crack versus powder
cocaine disparity as you remember Obama
was able to get it cleaned up a lot of
that but it wasn't retroactive we
couldn't get it done retro actually
we're gonna retro actually clean up some
of that stuff some of those racial
disparities and a whole bunch of more
stuff but honestly as good as that is
for all the people behind bars it's also
good policy
for Democrats we had a lot of people
saying you're gonna give trumpet victory
how can you work with Trump on this what
we've actually done is we pull Trump
away from his initial lock them up
law-and-order Jeff Sessions position and
have him embracing criminal justice
reform which makes it safer for
Democrats to keep pushing ahead because
now you have both parties more healthy
on the issue you know we could have been
running no matter what the Democrats do
our nominee is gonna be Pro criminal
justice if you left the situation the
way that it was a year ago they would be
running into a buzz saw of Donald
Trump's mouth you know running that
issue down via Willie Horton ads as far
as the eye can see instead there's at
least a chance now that Donald Trump
also runs on criminal justice which
means you know kind of like when McCain
and Obama ran you know climate change
was not an issue they both agreed we may
have actually deal weaponized
this issue for the first time since 1988
if not at least we have a chance that
more Republicans and more Democrats can
be smart on this issue going forward
then I take it in your initial comments
that you're optimistic that this is the
beginning of a series of potential
legislative actions on criminal justice
reform where do you where does this go
next well I mean we've already had like
three governors contact the White House
and contact us from different states
saying it what they want to do first
step acts in their you know States so I
think you're gonna have a lot of
copycatting going on at the state level
which will be great in Congress I think
you're gonna have a lot of Democrats
especially putting forward a lot of
bills I doubt if in the next Congress
we're going to get anything major done
because of you know impeachment talks
and the elections but you're gonna have
a lot of debate a lot of discussion and
some of those bills will probably get
combined into a second step act which if
it doesn't pass you know in the next
Congress will certainly pass in the next
one I looked like I said you know the
first civil rights act looking for a
hundred years
you couldn't vote for civil rights
because you're either gonna be called
the Negro lover or a communist and
people were just scared of the issue 59
you had a modest bill people said it
would didn't go far enough but it broke
the logjam and I think that's what you
just saw saw happen in the Senate we
thought if we got 73 votes we would be
you know jumping up and down that thing
past 87 to 11 and if Lindsey Graham had
been in town have been 88 to 11 it's an
unbelievable breakthrough and we have
essentially you know dr. King's family
and Sean Hannity
on the same page of something really
extraordinary happened you cannot tell
you if you just you know look at the
quotes you can't tell sometimes now if
it's a Republican senator talking or
black lives matter talking about
criminal justice because we've just
moved that issue that much so then
obviously I won't talk about how this
bill got passed obviously this version
of the bill doesn't go nearly as far as
the sentencing reform and Corrections
Act which was introduced in 2015 which
also had strong bipartisan support in
the Senate and you know the Brennan
Center says would have put a much more
significant dent in the federal prison
population by limiting the reach of
other mandatory minimum provisions well
how did you guys decide what to push for
what to include in here and why is it
that you know the the version of the
bill couldn't be quite as strong as the
as the one introduced by Republicans and
Democrats a couple years ago well
because of Donald Trump and because of
you know just the the you know you're
talking about somebody who when Donald
Trump came into office he was the
private prison stocks went through the
roof yeah the assumption was you know he
was talking about law and order and
American carnage and he put Jeff
Sessions in so it's almost like if you
have a guy who gets in a car crash and
the doctors say this guy's probably you
know dead he's certainly never gonna
walk again he's probably be a paraplegic
and then two years later the guys
running the New York City Marathon you
wouldn't say well how come he didn't win
the marathon how come he didn't break
the world record you say you're not even
supposed to be here he's supposed to be
in a hospital bed criminal justice was
was supposed to be dead the day that
Donald Trump was elected the fact that
we're passing anything especially
something that's going to reduce the
federal prison population by 50,000
people over ten year period and help
women and help juveniles and all the
other stuff I think it's pretty
remarkable it shows something about the
power of this idea it shows something
about the power of progressives have
been fighting for this for decades
including myself
it also shows something about what's
happening in the Republican side where
you know they're tired of raising taxes
to pay for
don't work and they've got some
Christian evangelicals who are tired of
having no redemption no second chances
they got some libertarians over there
that are tired of the government eating
up more rights and liberties and so this
is an idea whose time has come
the fact that we could get it built this
significant even under Donald Trump lets
us know that going forward we're gonna
be able to do much much more we had to
get through the house with an even
smaller bill at first and people were
really upset at ACLU attacked the
smaller version of this bill
n-double-a-cp Cory Booker calmly Harris
even John Lewis The Washington Post all
said that the first step act that we got
through the house was a tragedy a
travesty we said you know you can't get
a camel through a keyhole you got to get
something to get the conversation going
we got three hundred sixty votes to 59
in the house in the spring that started
this whole debate in the Senate that
resulted in a much stronger bill in the
Senate and then that bill got you know
again 87 votes now we're back in the
house the house will pass you know the
stronger version Trump may sign it
tonight or tomorrow and you're gonna
have the what the New York Times called
the biggest great breakthrough in
criminal justice in a generation because
frankly formerly incarcerated people
directly impacted families just refused
to give up on this thing and fought and
fought and fought and ironically one of
those impacted family members Jared
Kushner whose dad went to prison and he
was one of the people who refused to let
this thing die along with Jessica
Jackson Lewis Reid and Topeka Sam from
cut 50 and other people who then went to
prison that family members went to
prison and just refused to let this
thing die so no we're not if under Obama
we would have run one the marathon and
gotten a world record that ain't
impossible but at least we ran the race
and we're proud
then you've spent a lot of the last four
years being a very passionate voice
against Donald Trump dividing Americans
along racial lines and that has your
interaction with the Trump
administration and what has happened
here are the first step attacked changed
your opinion of Donald Trump in any way
not significantly in that
you know he's still incredibly tough
horrifically tough unforgivably tough on
the immigrant population and he's
attacking the weakest among the
immigrant population stanchion babies
from their mothers he's still very tough
on Muslims he's still a very tough on
african-americans though with
african-americans increasingly he
attacks like football players he attacks
reporters you know frankly the
wealthiest and most visible of our
community not the weakest he's not going
after the folks at the street level as
much which makes it more possible for us
to move forward criminal justice reform
I think his base demands I think he has
a big part of his base that is his white
nationalist is white nativist is white
supremacist so it's it's it's it's not
his whole base but there's a part of his
Basin that does have that but those
politics and I think that instinctively
or
sometimes deliberately he throws red
meat to that bit that part of the base
and you know that is horrific for a
country that is multiracial
multicultural and democratic we have to
fight that tooth and nail but this
ideology is flexible enough that some of
the other parts of that base that have
other commitments and concerns the
fiscal Hawks the libertarians the
Christian evangelicals can prevail on an
issue like this and I think we've got to
take those wins where we can get them
and also use that win to extend you know
more of a sensibility that we should be
working together and not dividing folks
but you know I think you got an
incurably bad case of white nativism in
his in his coalition and i think the
only real solution to that is for him to
leave and be replaced by the next
version of the Obama coalition obviously
the Justice Department under Trump and
the bureaucracy that deals with
sentencing in prisons has been very
tough under Donald Trump there was a
sessions memo that required you know the
US Attorney's to seek the harshest
possible punishment for many crimes are
you worried at all that the bureaucracy
will sort of drag its feet on some of
these reforms or do you think this sends
a message very very much worried and
we've got some oversight provisions and
some sunshine provisions in there there
is a new oversight Commission that
so-called FERC that has been established
to help with some of this stuff so there
will be I am 100% sure some
foot-dragging and and and other
implementation battles but we're ready
for those battles and we're going to
keep fighting forward and then what do
you see is the next step in this fight
on the state level where obviously you
know most incarceration happens on a
state level look I mean I think there is
a green light now for everybody when
Donald Trump and Nancy Pelosi agree that
we need to do something it's safer for
Republicans and Democrats to run on this
to vote on this and to implement this in
the various different places and so you
know every state is different you know
the cut 50 campaign cut fifty.org by the
way if you want more information first
step act org if you want more
information but the cut 50 campaigns now
in all 50 states our campaign passed 12
bills in eight states this year in
addition to this federal stuff with more
to come you know anybody who wants to
get involved this is gonna be a listen
it took both political parties to get us
into this ditch it's gonna take both
political parties to get us out
if one political party is for and the
other one's against it you get a bunch
of Willie Horton ads we don't want that
so people say how can you work with the
Republicans well how I cannot work
with the Republicans because if you
leave them out if you leave them up in
the sniper tower they kill you so you
got to get the Republicans out of the
sniper tower down on the field with the
rest of us to solve the problem we did
that 87 87 senators voting that we got
to do something so now it's up to us you
know it's back to the grass roots back
to the fight but um you know I think I
think we've got real momentum now van
thanks for all your great work on this
and and keep up the fight let us know if
we can do anything and we are and we'll
talk to you later
please come back hey thank you so much
to be continued
you
