we're gonna run through some of the
biggest stories of the week we're gonna
put a two-minute counter on every single
one a Lisa's on the ones and twos all
right she's gonna start the counter
we're gonna run through the big stories
ELISA start the clock we got two minutes
topic one better or war congressman and
supposedly our best friend Beth
announced his campaign for president and
then jumped on top of a lot of counters
in Iowa John how's he doing there's two
stories about federal work right now
right there's one sort of like this guy
that a lot of people don't know who's
running for president and he goes to
Iowa and all these people are asking
them you know very legitimate questions
like what's your experience
why are you cut out for this job what's
your position on a bunch of issues right
and they're having this conversation
with them and then there's this like the
national media has sort of lost its mind
a little bit like first of all there's
like roadblock coverage so he's getting
a lot more coverage than other people
but then there's like a lot of reporters
who are just like openly hostile for
like reasons that are not like like I
said there's there's legitimate
questions he has to answer right as
someone with as little experience as
hair right like what are your positions
why do you have this job and those are
good and then there's just some of the
stuff on Twitter has just been holy
well it's you know what it's very much
like the the the positive coverage I
think at times has been silly positive
and the negative coverage has been silly
negative meanwhile there's just a person
out there who is answering questions
from people now do I think his health
care answers I could use some
improvement absolutely you can't be for
the Bernie plan when you're running
against Ted Cruz and say you're not sure
about the Bernie plan when you're
running against Bernie like mittigar it
out you I think you can but you have to
explain why you know you explain what
you're thinking yeah like you can't I
think what I think what he's learning is
on something like this someone someone
asks you a question you shout an answer
it's going on Twitter like you've got it
you got to think these things out right
like you can you know all of these all
of these candidates have evolved on a
million different positions but you got
to be careful on how you say it
especially when your candidacy one of
the one of the criticisms and one of the
since one of the legitimate questions is
okay you're appealing there are people
who genuinely want you to prove that
you're worth investing time and
resources and their votes and then you
want to know that the substance is there
those are those questions
[Music]
I guess I can finish my answer yeah you
can it is my well give it to you if the
concern is whether or not there's gonna
be substance you need to be ready for
the substantive questions all right next
topic
hey Lisa let's start us up again after
two separate plane crashes involving the
new line of Boeing Jets the 737 the 737
max eight every country in the world's
beside the United States grounded the
plane after a few days of pressure the
FAA finally admitted there might be a
problem and agreed to halt all flights
of the 737 max eight John no thank you
to this story next I got in trouble for
saying that the FAA before they grounded
it we're creating a kind of new Momo
like challenge for teams the 737 max a
challenge and people thought that that
was in bad taste and you're right it was
in bad taste but honestly people the FAA
was about to put us all on a big
experiment so I'm glad they grounded
this thing especially because it was
like all the the the crashes sounded
similar and then there were reports of
pilots being like yeah you turn on the
autopilot the thing turns into a
rollercoaster like yeah let's let's make
sure we get off them and then a lot of
you were like if I get on a 737 max hey
what am I gonna do get off the plane get
off the plane I'm not getting any more
points you're like I'm ground your mom
you're like Whoopi Goldberg now you're
gonna delete five days before us take a
bus everybody my John Madden bus going
see in Boston turducken
turducken what doesn't he have turducken
doesn't John Madden around a big game
make your diamonds oh here's the point
all right
they gotta gotta check out these 737 max
eights all right they gotta look under
those hoods all right they gotta check
the oil we gotta get in there all right
make sure the wiper the wiper sir
make sure the washer fluid is full of
course was when Trump finally diff I
decided to ground then there's a bunch
of him in the air and they're like all
right land all the planes land all the
planes in the air that won't crash
carefully I would have got that plane if
I was on that plane it would have landed
but I wouldn't have been alive that's it
I would have been your go right on the
plane Jon Favreau egged me off the plane
could have been a Jon Favreau shaped
hole in the fuselage yeah where
you ran out of that thing like a
Tasmanian devil
next topic Paul Manafort a man who
committed I think something approaching
I treason crimes was sentenced again
before his time was nearly doubled to
seven and a half years John why do bad
things happen to good people so yeah
he's going away for a long time and he's
70 so that's that's that's quite a while
and also it's pardon proof now because
as he was charged New York State
unveiled 16 counts against him another
60 everywhere he turns he's getting in
trouble for more crimes that he
committed I think Josh barro said he
would got the II got for crimes you know
doesn't look great is is judge Ellis the
first guy to sentence him who said other
than all the crimes he's committed he's
lived an otherwise blameless life yeah
except it's like every other month of
his life he committed a crime what are
you talking about a blameless life a
blameless except for the except for the
30 crimes I've been charged with a tens
of millions hidden offshore accounts
that the Ukrainian black ledger none of
these crimes he his he was receiving
cash payments in a book called the black
ledger in Ukraine about overthrowing a
democratically elected government and
that's on the good side that's on the
legal part front row after being rebuked
in the house and by a handful of
Republicans in the Senate for his fake
national emergency Donald Trump will be
issuing his first veto donald trump
issued his first veto of his presidency
it is done he has issued the veto john
what did you make of the republicans who
joined the democrats and what does it
say about one senator in particular
senator Ben Sasse constitutional
conservative that he did not he was not
able to muster the same political
courage as Marco Rubio I never had any
kind of belief in Ben Sasse as some sort
of moral figure who rose above
the party at all I was more interested
in Cory Gardner who was almost assuredly
going to lose his seat in 2020 because
he's in a blue state and Thom Tillis who
could have a tough race in North
Carolina they both said that they were
going to vote against the declaration
and then they flipped last minute
it's like Tillis it's just oh yeah it
just goes to show that like the
political dynamic has not changed at all
that these people even as they faced
tough free elections in 2020 are still
worried more about a challenge from the
right
and Donald Trump than they are about
losing their seat which they are
probably going to do at least especially
Gardner I don't understand it I'd the
the Telus thing like why did your
calculation change you wrote if you were
to op-ed about it I don't people know
that op-eds are binding they're binding
they're more visit you break the oath of
the operator you're not gonna get a nose
anymore
Tom telling us to write your
op-ed on medium publish it yourself yeah
you can lie in medium anytime you want
that's also one of the one of the
appeals of medium you can make it up
twelve seconds left
hey 408 was a non-binding vote to
release the Muller probe that was
Republicans joined on that yeah except
then Lindsey Graham's trying to block it
in the Senate what about you dicks
next up Tucker Carlson was caught on
tape my Madeleine pelts by a Media
Matters calling up Bubba the Love Sponge
to say homophobic and racist stuff their
protests outside FoxNews calling on him
to resign he took a supposedly scheduled
vacation John why do bad things happen
to good people
this isn't the Tucker that we know look
I think Democrats are crazy for not
rewarding
Tucker's media outlet with a debate look
I think if we are afraid to answer
questions from a media outlet that
employs a man like that we are surely
not going to win the presidency
I don't lists I don't know Dom Jarrah we
can look ourselves in the mirror and say
we are not able to sit across from
Tucker Carlson when Bubba the Love
Sponge can do it I'm sure Chris Wallace
has had some very stern words with him
because he is an upstanding journalist
Shep Smith Bret Baier you guys must be
there walking by him in the hall at work
we must they are looking the other way
but uh spitting on the floor
that's my spitting on the floor sound
they're not good they're not having
lunch with them and an after they and
their their voices are probably horse
from the the the what's a call when you
raise an issue the hackles they raised
/ Jeanine Pirro basically saying that oh
yeah I'd be trusted Muslims you
put on a hijab you can't love the
country yo Constitution yeah you can't
wear a hijab and love America freedom
I'm gonna say it just like that
I'm Fox News we would like to host a
Democratic presidential debate answer
our questions Democrats yeah we would
like really good faith Elizabeth Warren
answer questions before an ad for my
super pillow or whatever that
thing is we think Muslims are you know
unconstitutional but anyway how do you
think about the issue and these
bigamists have some good ideas last but
not least we woke up this week to a
college admissions scandal that was just
boy fun to find out that Aunt Becky was
running a scam to get her daughter into
USC when that daughter has no interest
in going to USC whatsoever to spend a
lot of money
to get someone into USC is mad enough no
offense to USC no no offense I guess
because we're saying offense hey USC
alright nothing but luck for my friends
at USC you're at USC at you know now
that you're at USC how much money would
you want your parents to spend to bribe
your way into USA
think about it how much how much did
Fran and Robert spend to get you into
Williams listen there were people when
they heard my SAT scores yell fluke at
me in the hallway but what percentage of
your SAT scores are yours and what
percentage were purchased by your
parents 50% yours 60% yours listen that
Proctor said that I could achieve my
dreams and do whatever I wanted to do
and I don't know what you're talking
about here you are in front of a
microphone that Proctor said joking
about politics the pinnacle of anyone's
career listen all right I got my SAT
score the old-fashioned way by not
having enough friends to distract me
from studying and Becky's a criminal and
so what no it's desperate
housewife yeah Oh Felicity Huffman
already happened what are you doing and
and will
mhm Maisie Felicity Huffman William H
may see you are too famous for this
level of scam right right Aunt Becky and
Massimo I'd get it right yeah I get it
Felicity Huffman and William H may see
who's by the way just on the lam he's no
one's Noah the resting no one's
arresting William HMAC yeah felicity
William H Macy flying up in a
hot air balloon trying to try to get to
a non-extradition country saying
Felicity I love you I'm sorry
I've got to do what's right for me just
William each may see a bunch of
beef jerky and a hot air balloon flying
to Morocco that's it that's what we got
anyway that was a wild weekend news
thank you to John Favreau happy to be
here
you
