welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm dan Piper later in the poly
you'll hear hmm
later in the pod you'll hear the
conversation that congresswoman Ilhan
Omar had with Anna Marie Cox during last
Friday's pod save America in Minneapolis
and you'll also hear a game we played
with her about student debt before all
that we've got a lot of news to talk
about from the president saying he'd
accept foreign assistance to win in 2022
his feud with Joe Biden to a couple of
big speeches delivered by Pete Budaj and
Bernie Sanders you should also check out
this week's episode of POD save the
world where Tommy and Ben dig into the
policy of Mayor hmm sorry you should
also check out this week's episode of
POD save the world where Tommy and Ben
dig into mayor Pete's speech all the
foreign policy there and also talked
about the huge protest in Hong Kong and
Russia on Friday will release Tommy's
interview with Andrew yang as a bonus
pod save America yang was here the
crooked headquarters the other day and
big news about our Los Angeles show at
the Greek Theatre on August 17th we'll
be joined by Emmy award-winning
journalist Jamel Hill there will be
special performances by Amanda seals
best Coase and Jim James and proceeds
from the show will be donated to four
organizations that are protecting your
right to vote vote org election
protection the national redistricting
foundation and think social impact so go
get your tickets now at crooked comm
slash the Greek it's gonna be a great
show in August all right let's get to
the news on Wednesday the President of
the United States made it clear that he
will gladly collude with foreign
governments if they're willing to help
him win the 20/20 election when Trump
was asked by George Stephanopoulos
whether his campaign would accept
damaging information on his 2020
opponent from countries like China or
Russia he said the following quote I
think you might want to listen there
isn't anything wrong with listening if
somebody called from Norway and said we
have information on your opponent oh I
think I'd want to hear it and when
Stephanopoulos reminded Trump that FBI
director Chris Rea said that anyone in
possession of such information should
alert the FBI Trump said quote the FBI
director is wrong dan what are the
implications
occasions of what Trump is saying here I
think we open this in perspective first
which is you know the people who commit
crimes take selfies of themselves
committing crimes and then post those
selfies on the internet and then wonder
why there includes Custis it sorry
wonder why they're in police custody I
have seen those videos that's what
that's what this is stupid as criminals
promising to commit a crime saying that
I had given the opportunity to commit a
crime and accepting anything of value
whether it's money or information from a
foreign source is a crime and the
president said that he would commit a
crime and he would not tell the FBI
about it it's also I know this is weird
to say but it's more than a crime I mean
he's he the president is willing to
betray the country he took an oath to
protect and betray the Constitution
betray his oath of office in order to
win an election because everything comes
back to Donald Trump pool do whatever it
takes to win whatever it take to it
whatever it takes to enrich himself
whatever it takes to make it all about
Trump he will do anything he will commit
crimes he'll betray his country he
doesn't give a and look by saying
this publicly by doing this out in the
open
Kendyl Indian at NBC tweeted Trump is
essentially inviting foreign
intelligence services to spy on his
political adversaries and send him
information if you were the Chinese
government if you were the Russian
government if you were any other
government that out there that wishes us
harm why wouldn't you take Trump's
statement as a green light to use your
spy services to hack into more Democrats
emails to spy on us to do whatever it
takes to steal more information and
with our next election why wouldn't you
do that because you know the president
United States that he is willing to
receive that information that's right
Trump is an incredibly transactional
seaman
his very close relationship with the
Saudi Arabia isn't just based on
whatever financial interest he has in
Saudi or myth also based on the fact
that they projected an image of him on a
building when he went there and he was
flattered by it countries are getting
benefit federal benefits and policy
favorable policy decisions because
they are spending money at Trump hotels
because they say nice things about him
and so obviously if you want to curry
favor with Trump what better way to do
it that help him get reelected it is a
tiny investment with a huge payoff for
any country who is who has a real stake
in Trump being president over a Democrat
and coming 2021 I mean the president the
president states is a serious national
security threat to the country that's
where we are right now it's not a
 exaggeration I mean he thinks
he's a master he is a national security
threat and one of the world's dumbest
criminals
I mean question for you if you are
working for a Democratic presidential
candidate right now would you say or do
anything in response to this aside from
what many of them did last night which
is tweet out you know reiterate their
calls for impeachment via tweet or
statement I mean I haven't done it
already I would put two-factor
authentication hold my phones and get
all of my staff to start using signal or
other encrypted apps because the threat
is coming yeah I don't know there's not
much else you can do other than I think
what these candidates did I do think
that there is something more important
in the tweet of the moment or the
statement of the moment about this it is
to use this as an opportunity to tell a
bigger story about just how dangerous a
moment we were in in American democracy
and that is a story that I'm not sure
any candidate has yet hit on this bit
covers that encompasses the gravity of
the moment the stakes for our country
and what could happen going forward if
Tom were to win and I think that this is
as good a reason to tell that story as
there is and I hope candidates do that
yeah I mean I for some reason I started
thinking about this last night like if
this was if this was oh wait and this
was happening and I feel like we all
would have gotten on a call last night
and then today Obama might have gone out
and given a speech or at least you know
a topper on a speech or an insert in a
speech where he sort of laid out you
know it's it's not just about impeaching
Trump at this point it is about the fact
that the president knighted States is a
national security threat that we now
cannot be sure that we will have fair
and free elections in 22
because the president has refused to
defend our electoral system and Mitch
McConnell by the way has blocked every
single piece of bipartisan election
security legislation that has come
through the Senate right now and if I
was one of the candidates running for
president who was a senator who had some
power I would do whatever it took and I
would talk call up Chuck Schumer and say
like let's shut the Senate down until we
pass some election security bills or I
don't know if they can shut it down but
let's let's make a big deal of this
you know I'm it's it sort of it's one of
these moments where you know we can all
flip out on Twitter about it we guys
have got impeachment Peacham which you
know we're gonna get to but there's
something bigger at stake here which is
the sanctity of our elections and I do
think that probably matters to the
American people even more than this
debate over impeachment it and you're
correct that it is the sanctity of this
specific election and that is obviously
incredibly critical we've had one
election interfered with in a very
recent past but there's I think there's
even something bigger than that it is
about more than one specific threat yeah
to an upcoming election it is an idea
that the president can go on national
television invite foreign countries and
other outside players to interfere in
our elections to essentially suggest
that he is open for business for
criminal conduct and that there is no
accountability for that what that if
that is to be rewarded by the voters
either on the level or not on the level
depending on on if we can protect our
elections but if that is he rewarded me
and that is allowed to continue that is
a setback to American democracy that we
may not come back from that what it how
our government operates how our country
thinks of itself as imperfect as it has
been in its history
is something that will forever be
different that is like what is at stake
in this election and I think then that
is all these individual things that you
that we talked about here with us what
Trump said what Mitch McConnell is doing
what we're gonna talk about the sentence
a minute is on proof points for a larger
threat that extends well the
on this election and that is a story
that I'm just like that would be I think
what the text of an Obama speech the day
after election it was a sorry flu shot
that would I think be the message that
will come out of the call that you the
you know hypothetical call that we would
have if this for the airway campaigned
and that is the story that I think the
candidate who can leave all this ins
together into a broader story it's about
more than just Donald Trump but it's
about this moment of danger in American
democracy is I think the candidate who
has the best chance of succeeding
yeah and it's it's about the fact that
democracy is at stake right now that
nothing less than our democracy is at
stake in all the ways it is and you see
a couple different candidates sort of
dancing around this you know I mean
we're going to talk about Bernie's
speech he kind of gets there from the
economic standpoint as does Elizabeth
Warren you heard Joe Biden talked about
it in Iowa when he said the president's
national security threat you hear better
or work talk about it all the time when
he says you know we're gonna lose our
democracy if we don't impeach him but
none of them have really sort of put all
of the puzzle pieces together and into a
one argument about how you know under
Donald Trump our foreign policy our
democracy everything is up for sale and
up for grabs because if you flatter
Donald Trump if it means that Donald
Trump can win something if it means that
Donald Trump can get richer then it
happens if it doesn't then you
right like every it's again he ran on an
America first policy and really it's
Trump first and everyone else last
that's that seems to be the message and
it's you know I think it's could be a
powerful message and also like the
moment we're in is very dangerous and
people should call that out should this
move more democratic House members
towards impeachment it should I look
there there is a mountain of evidence
that says look I'm sorry shot again if
the amount try that a third time if the
evidence is what was moved was going to
be the factor that moved Democrats are
patient down there would be impeachment
in Cory's right now there is more than
enough there are crimes and corruption
and abuses of power their crimes and
misdemeanors high and low all over the
place that are a very obvious
very credible pre-tax burn impeachment
inquiry so that so I don't know that
another piece of evidence is going to
move us there i watch Nia to Chloe's
press conference that she did just a few
minutes ago and she seems no closer to
impeachment than she was last week
working for that and it's and so I don't
you know you would you would think
there'd be some movement but you know
there we had we have an entire four page
report which is essentially an
impeachment inquiry wrapped in a bow and
that hasn't moved House Democrats in the
right direction yet so color me
skeptical yeah I mean look I saw you
know our friend
Neera tanden on Twitter last night
saying you know don't don't yellow plus
Lee about this impeachment is not about
removing Trump for office it's not going
to stop this it's not gonna stop him
from accepting foreign information in
2020 and she's right about that but I
also think that this is a moment when we
have to do everything we can do and use
every tool that we have and sort of
again focus the country's attention on
just what this president not just what
this president did in the past and the
crimes he committed in the past but what
he may do in the future and I think
impeachment is sort of the last best
tool we have to do that right now and I
also think that look the the strategy of
conducting a whole bunch of
investigations and oversight of Donald
Trump I understand that strategy I
understood it when Nancy Pelosi first
started that strategy I disagreed with
it but I understood where she was coming
from that strategy has failed it's been
a couple months now it has failed they
had a house you know sorry they had a
hearing earlier this week they had John
Dean at the hearing you know former
Nixon counsel they had a couple other
federal prosecutors who believed that
you know Donald Trump should be
impeached all people who by the way been
saying this for a long time on cable
news so it was like nothing new there
didn't get that much attention the
Democrats keep thinking when they win
these court victories here and there
that that's somehow moving the process
forward but again this isn't about the
process this is about sort of the
communication strategy and who sort of
who
basically sorry and it's about sort of
who's owning the message here and who's
taking up all the oxygen in the media
oxygen and there's no message getting
through from the Democrats right now
there's no message on either why the
president United States is unfit for
office and should be impeached or a
message on health care and all the other
issues the Democrats say they want to
focus on so right now we're getting the
worst of all worlds like I just don't
see that the strategy is bearing fruit
in any way do you know it is that it
you're right the alternative approach
that Pelosi and the Democratic
leadership offered after Mullen report
came out was on paper a credible
alternative approach you don't have to
agree with it but an idea of a long
series of high-profile hearings and get
a lot of attention as a potential
pretext to impeachment inquiry was
credible yeah but that has not happened
that cannot happen that it's not going
to happen and therefore we are living
their world where the press coverage is
about why Democrats who are afraid to
impeach Trump or Trump in the
Republicans actively impeaching the
Moller investigation or the the
conversation is about Democrats divided
over the question of impeachment and
Bill Maher Lindsey Graham and Donald
Trump running an aggressive active
public investigation to try to discredit
the Moller investigation and so there is
no there is no argument the Democrats
are making it as consistent and that
argument if that canon crew so the only
options here in my view are we have to
either begin impeachment inquiries and
have that argument on a wide array of
issues as we have talked to that they go
above and beyond what was in consular
report or move on because it's having a
debate about impeachment every day is it
is war is the worst of all worlds it is
the exact world the Republicans were in
in 1998 with Bill Clinton when they got
their asses handed in the election yes
that they had voted to launch an
efficient inquiry
held no hearings deliver no message made
no argument and then got destroyed in
the polls in Bill Clinton's approval
rating ended up going to up to like 73
and so now impeach if we had if there
were voters who were upset at the mere
idea of impeachment we put that on the
table but if there were voters who could
be persuaded by the evidence that would
be unveiled an impeachment inquiry that
is not happening those words a lot of
paper sweated so the whole thing is
stupid and frustrating and the pressure
mounts every day only in the sense that
Trump is gives you more ammunition to
the impeach the Pro and teacher inside
this argument every time he opens his
mouth yeah and look in the polls bear
this out too I mean there was a new poll
out yesterday that said 44% of the
American people are now in favor of
impeachment but only 30 percent believes
that impeachment proceedings should
begin so they the 44 percent think he
deserves impeachment and 32 percent
believe that impeachment hearing should
begin among Democrats 85 percent of
Democrats believe the Donald Trump
deserves to be impeach 60 percent sixty
two percent believe that impeachment
proceedings should begin that gap right
there is the Democratic
consultant gap between everything as
everyone is a pundit now right where
people believe the president should be
like it's someone made this point think
Adam generals have made this point on
Twitter yesterday Harry Reid's former W
chief of staff
that you cannot find one Democratic
member of Congress right now who
believes the dumb Donald Trump should
not be impeached every single one of
them are unanimous in believing that
Donald Trump should be impeached and yet
they are all too afraid to actually vote
to begin impeachment proceedings because
they don't want to do the hard work of
going back to their districts and
convincing their voters convincing the
people that they represent that even if
you're not with us on impeachment even
if you think that this proceeding is a
bad idea it's the right thing to do it's
a good idea and I'm willing to make the
case for it they're just not willing to
do that and so but I agree with you like
if they're not willing to do that and
just tell us just you know what get up
at a press conference and say we
all believe that this president deserves
to be impeached but we are too afraid to
do it because we looked at the polls and
we don't think you agree with it so
we're all moving on just say that I'd at
least respect that there is a true a
truism politics that you can never win
argument when you're arguing against the
thing you believe yes so if the
Democratic position is we believe Donald
Trump should be impeached what we're
gonna get try to convince the people
that he shouldn't be impeach you're
going to lose that argument there is no
force there's no moral or rhetorical or
political force behind that argument and
that is Rivera - and it is essentially a
strategic decision to pick - it's
essentially strategic decision to decide
to live in the worst of all walls yeah
it's it's bad let's talk more about
other Democrats strategy of
investigating instead of impeaching is
working on Wednesday the House Judiciary
Committee voted to hold Attorney General
William Bar and commerce secretary
Wilbur Ross in contempt of Congress the
vote came after the president invoked
executive privilege let me try that
again the vote came after the president
invoked executive privilege to block the
disclosure of documents and information
relevant to the Trump administration's
decision to add a question about
citizenship to next year's census one
clue about their reasoning for why they
added this question came from evidence
found on the computer of a recently
deceased Republican strategist who
suggested that rigging the census with
the citizenship question could quote be
advantageous to Republicans and
non-hispanic whites the Supreme Court
will be deciding on the legality of the
question this month dan you talked to
Ari Berman on of Mother Jones about this
on the pot a few weeks ago can you
remind us why a citizenship question
would be advantageous to Republicans and
non-hispanic whites and talk about why
in general this is such a big deal
so the census is used to do many things
but it is it is it is designed to help
us decide where people live so we can
therefore allocate political power
proportional to the population so the
census results which happen every 10
years are used to decide how many
electoral votes every state has how many
congressional seats those states have
how the power how the congressional
seats in the state legislative seats are
allocated within those states and so
therefore it's critically important that
it be accurate and the census itself
estimates that there would be a six
percent undercounts yes this question is
added
and what that and what that means is in
that's because a lot of people who will
decide not to respond to the sense of
particularly in communities of color
where there are when people have very
legitimate fears about how that
information will be used against them
with this president and and so what that
means is the communities of color which
are traditionally democratic will be
will receive will be under counted in
their perceive less political power and
that is a and if that were to happen
that means that our government will be
operating based on a false premise for a
decade there is not there's not any
easier obvious way to fix this if this
is allowed to happen this is very
specifically designed as indicated in
these documents that were found on this
Republicans computer that say that
obviously if communities of color do not
respond at the right rate then they will
have less political power and that will
shift the political power in favor of
more white in traditional Republican
areas yeah I mean let's talk about what
this is really about - this is about
counting undocumented immigrants as part
of the census which the census is
supposed to be a count of all persons in
the United States there's a reason that
undocumented immigrants are part of that
is because they are human beings and
people in this country who pay taxes who
own homes who work right like we need a
count of all the people in this country
it's not saying that you know they
should have voting rights if they're
undocumented but they need to be counted
as people because by the way they live
in communities with other people with
with American citizens - and if those
communities aren't counted correctly
than those communities filled with
immigrants undocumented immigrants
American citizens whoever will have less
political power in this country they
will have less federal resources in this
country and so you know the the
communities that will be on that will be
under counted the states where there
will be under counting are states with
large minority populations like
California Texas New Mexico Nevada
Georgia and New York Florida they think
those are the states that would be most
under counted those states will lose
federal resources they will lose
represent
in Congress they will lose electoral
power the Republicans know this they
know that those are not traditionally
most of them Republican states and so
they are happy to SAP those states of
political power and federal resources if
you live in one of those states or you
live in a community that is diverse you
could be affected here it's a very very
big deal in this very specific point you
said about federal resources I think
it's important which is the overall
population per community is how a lot of
federal funding is allocated allocated
by population so if a population has you
know for community has 1 million people
it will get X federal dollars for
education or health care or homeland
security and if it has too many people
it'll get 2x the funding and so if that
number is wrong then that is going to
affect as you come out will affect
everyone in that community so this is
very specific this is about more than
just who gets the vote it is about how
much how is that the education health
care and welfare of the entire community
not just the not just the non-citizens
in that committee which includes a large
number of people who are here completely
legally with the permission and
understanding of these federal
government that's exactly correct yeah
these are not like all undocumented
immigrants in the shadows these are
people who have green cards these are
people you know but if you if you
provide your information your personal
information to the federal government
especially this federal government
that's deporting people left and right
without much regard to you know their
status sometimes then yeah you would be
afraid to fill out the census so will
this contempt vote have any practical
effects and what else can the Democrats
do here especially if the Supreme Court
rules in favor of Trump what is the
point of this whole exercise we're
 there is not there is not an
obvious or easy solution the contempt
vote is mildly helpful it can sometimes
be a way to force negotiation around
some of these additional documents and
it actually worked with the Judiciary
Committee's contempt citation on moyen
bars related to the mullet report but
like we have to be very clear about what
is happening here is that the rigging of
the
as part of a very specific long-term
plot by conservatives in this country to
ensure that a shrinking plutocratic
conservative minority rules a growing
diverse populist progressive majority
that is what this is about that it says
we are quickly headed to a world where
there are more Democrats and Republicans
living in this country though more
political power if their votes are
allowed to count if their population is
allowed to count and they are trying to
stop that it is what for suppression is
about this what jurymen earrings and
that it's what stealing America old
Supreme Court see if it's about and
that's what this is about
and I really wish there was an easy
solution that was the hardest part about
my conversation with Ari Berman who has
been screaming from the rooftops about
this for a long time is that there is
not yeah easier obvious solution if the
holdings are allowed to break the census
we essential it may be a Democratic
Senate Democratic president could redo
the census but that would be something
it would be entirely unprecedented Rhea
Park and I think what the Democrats are
trying to do here all they can do is you
know use this information to build that
case for impeachment as we've been
talking about that it's not just the
Moller report it's a lot of other things
because if you know the supreme court
can decide how the supreme court decides
the supreme court which is now filled
with you know partisan Republicans as
well but you know if the if the Congress
can at least expose more documents like
the one found on the this deceased
Republican strategist computer it says
they didn't add the citizenship question
to the census in order to enforce the
Voting Rights Act which is their excuse
but they did it because they just wanted
to rig the census so that Republicans
gain more political power then perhaps
they can expose the corruption at the
heart of the Republican Party and this
will add to the argument for why Donald
Trump should is unfit for office and
should be impeached that's sort of the
best-case scenario here which again is
not the greatest case because they could
still get their citizenship question and
we're not and we have an open
impeachment inquiry all right of course
no because the investigations are going
to handle themselves it's just going to
magically
win the election for the Democrats all
right let's talk about let's talk about
2020 now Joe Biden and Donald Trump
sucked up most of the oxygen in this
week's news cycle by going after each
other on the campaign trail in Iowa
Biden tore into Trump on tariffs taxes
health care foreign policy just about
everything else saying that the
president is quote literally an
existential threat to America
Trump's been telling his to have to call
Biden old feeble and stupid and on
Tuesday he said quote he's a different
guy he looks there used to he acts
different than he used to he's even
slower than he used to be then besides
this tit for tat making you want to
blast yourself into outer space what did
this exchange tell us about these
strategies of these two candidates it so
for Trump it says that he wants to rerun
the 2016 campaign and gets Biden he
wants to paint him as a corrupt member
of the establishment he wants to use
unfounded rumors and dogless also
suggests his opponent is unwell or
infirm which is ironic as all get-out
given Trump's age and his infirmities
but that's what we trying to do we he is
rerunning the exact same play and the
only question is whether Democrats and
many in the media who uncritically
echoed Trump's rumor mongering and false
statements we'll learn any lessons from
2016 we are living and Groundhog Day
meets end of tomorrow and it's
annoying provide like this is this is
what he wants behind in one - if he can
just fight with Trump until Super
Tuesday that is great for him he it it
elevates him above the rest of the field
it allows him to communicate continue to
communicate the currently held
perception among a lot of voters that he
is the most electable Democrat and it
avoids him having to respond if he if he
is better than the most hated course but
if he is found the person that Democrats
hate most in Trump that is much easier
than battling a bunch of other people
with the souls of Warren or
Bernie Sanders our comely Harris who
Democrats who they like and so this is
Trump fighting with Biden it's an
in-kind contribution to the Biden for
president campaign so let me ask what
did you think of Biden's message right
so that that's the that's definitely the
strategy that's what the Biden folks are
thinking how how effective do you think
it played out at least this week I mean
as a message to ensure that by maintains
the lead in the Democratic primary it
was effective he just sort of opened the
kitchen sink against Trump and said as
many things about Trump as he possibly
could all right
like all correct in the Trump is an
existential threat and even a security
threat he's bad he's corrupt all of that
is correcting good messaging and not
that different from what most Democrats
say about him whether that is the best
general election message against Trump
there's a different question and I don't
know that he has fully captured what the
best general election messages against
Trump right now he's sparring with a
hologram of Trump for the thrills and
likes of Democratic voters when he have
to actually try to persuade either non
voters becoming voters or independents
or soft Republicans to vote for him
that's a different question and I think
that's a different challenge I think he
has to be much more specific and concise
about I I had a worrying flashback to
any number of Hillary Clinton speeches
in 2016 where she would get up there and
give an entire speech about how Donald
Trump is a racist or how Donald Trump is
a threat to national security and she
would make most of the speech entirely
about Donald Trump and it would just
hammer him on every single issue under
the Sun and and they were usually well
written speeches and they got great
applause and I will fully admit I was
one of the people that when she'd give
that speech of really yeah she got him
great and then you know he'd say
whatever he said about Hillary Clinton
and the
headlines would look and the end the
leads and all the newspapers would look
just like they did this week you know
Hillary and Hillary and Trump traded
barbs and they went back and forth on
each other and blah blah blah and
there's just something about it where I
don't know that the Democrat who gets
sucked into this vortex going into a
back-and-forth with Trump actually
succeeds in getting his or her message
out beyond the message that Trump is bad
and you know there was a woman
interviewed at the end of the New York
Times piece about this who said we all
know we don't like Trump
I want to hear Biden talk more about his
plans and look this is a very this is
not an easy thing to fix this is you
know like the for the people who are in
this campaign they're all smart people
it's not easy to figure out your way out
of this because like you said it does
help button it elevates Biden to go
one-on-one with Trump here but at the
same time I think this moment requires
very creative communication strategies
and messaging to sort of figure out how
to pick the lock on how to deal with
Trump and I don't you know if if I was
in the Biden campaign and Trump was out
there calling me you know old and feeble
and all these other kind of names you
could say something like you know of
course he's talking about me because he
doesn't want to talk about the people
who were suffering from his trade war he
doesn't want to talk about the people
who lost their health insurance because
he sabotaged Obamacare he doesn't want
to talk about the children that he
ripped away from families you know he
doesn't care about the people in this
country he only cares about himself he
only cares about winning reelection so
he can make more money you know like
there's got to be a way to sort of harry
out like you know sorry there's got to
be a way to sort of respond to trump
without making it a fight between you
and Trump yeah I think that's right it
is it's a hard challenge because the
incentives in the primary push you
entirely in the wrong direction yes like
it is a huge benefit like if any one of
these other candidates who are you know
well behind Biden or some of the other
you know second tier candidates can get
Trump to attack them on Twitter and be a
huge bonus to them it allow them to
raise more money they would get some
attention there would be coverage about
them and
so this idea of trying to pick a fight
with Trump to help yourself in a
Democratic primary even if it's just a
very tactical thing like generate
generating some virality before the
fundraising deadline in a couple of
weeks is very appealing and it's just
different than the incentives you need
to or different than the strategies in
fact that you need to defeat Trump in
the actual general election this is why
Kirsten Gillibrand is our campaign
kickoff outside of Trump headquarters
yeah
which is a like like it's an idea that
seems clever on its face but it's
actually a perfect metaphor for all the
struggles the Democratic Party has had
trying to get its message out in the
Trump error which is allowing him to
define the four corners of conversation
the Democrats who I think have been most
successful beneath Biden are the ones
who have spent the least amount of time
talking about Trump really trying to
take a fight with him and that you know
that would be Elizabeth Warren and they
are Pete you have really don't talk
about him that often or at least warned
its Arctic barely talks about him he
talks about him more and sort of an
analysis of the political situation and
talks about people talking about him in
saying how he's not gonna talk about him
in terms of like his changed the channel
wine but just like going toe-to-toe with
Trump like those like a boxer or it's
just it's not this is not a gladiator
match it's not the way to do it but
where Biden is in the campaign right now
he doesn't yet have all this plans laid
out this is a place to go and the
attempt ation of trumping and say at the
same time was probably too much to pass
and I don't like it makes sense
tactically the question is is this going
to be just a tactic or this with
strategy and we'll know that over the
course of time yeah I think the
temptation is like you know it's a it's
a sugar rush like you said in the short
term you get you get coverage you get
tweets maybe Trump attacks you you send
out a fundraising email you get some
money but in the long term if you do it
too much I think it sort of degrades
your brand as a campaign and who you are
and what you stand for
you become defined as opposition to
Trump and not who you are and what you
stand for so I think I can see it being
useful in certain circumstances but I
think it's a very dangerous well to go
to too many times all right so the other
criticisms leveled to Joe Biden get it
oh go ahead yes I did say one more thing
about this which is in when when someone
is challenging a incumbent the
conventional wisdom of the strategy is
that you want to make it a referendum on
the incumbent as opposed to a choice
between two candidates and it is the
incumbents interest to make it a choice
right I I think in this election against
Trump that should be needs to be flipped
on its head and that the Democratic
nominee wants it to be a choice between
two candidates because we talk about
Trump all the time
and I don't mean we've hugs America but
the entire country like all the trumps
flaws and the consequences of having
this president are all there for the eye
to see you're not going to reveal some
piece of information the public doesn't
have the question is are you an
alternative to that particularly in a
good economy and so I think there's even
more incentive to talk about yourself to
tell your story to talk about your
policies and your visions in your
character than in any other re-election
case campaign in recent history and that
the Trump side of the of the ledger is
very well stocked the question is are
you gonna stock yours and look you know
we started this podcast by talking about
or at least I was advocating that you
know Democratic candidates should go out
today and give a speech about how you
know democracy is on the line in this
election even if I were giving that
speech I would use Trump's names
sparingly I wouldn't make it all about
can you believe that crazy thing he said
on ABC and he's awful in blah blah blah
and should be impeached it's because by
the way Trump isn't the Trump himself
isn't the only threat to our democracy
he is a third tomorrow our democracy but
like it's everything from him to the
Republican Party to you know all kinds
of forces around the world like there
are plenty of things to talk about that
aren't just about Trump where you're
where you can make a pretty good case
for yourself and your platform and what
you believe in where you
have to just say his name 50 times you
know alright so the other criticisms
leveled at Joe Biden this week were from
fellow Democrats after the Vice
President reiterated his belief that if
Trump is defeated in 2020 Republicans
will be willing to compromise with
Democrats quote with Trump gone you're
going to begin to see things change
because these folks know better they
know this isn't what they're supposed to
be doing dan what's going on here why
why does he think this Biden is an
old-school institutionalist
he believes something about politics and
politicians that was believed to be true
for very long time may never have been
true it is just in view of politics I
found my disagreements there is this
sense that politics is about personal
relationships that if you can get along
with a Republican and like build some
sort of bond with them you can convince
them to do something different than
their otherwise doing and this is the
genesis of all of the if Obama would
only have more drinks with Mitch
McConnell or play golf with Boehner then
he would have accomplished more things
the problem with that is is that is
deeply naive but as a deeply naive
assessment I think about what drives
politics in this age on the margins
personal relationships could matter if
you have a very specific yeah and I
think this is true in Congress or
candidate work members of Congress have
a very specific project that is sort of
non-ivy out ideological and you can get
help with that but on the big issues
that are the ones that we elect our
presidents weren't on the economy health
care civil rights politicians operating
their political incentives and oh god
yeah no no go ahead no I was saying and
I do think this has become more true
over time I think it's become more over
time because the Republican Party has
become more radicalized and politics has
become more polarized and Republican
politicians now don't just answer to
their constituents they answer to a
conservative media propaganda
and apparatus that punishes them for any
hint of compromise and it's not about
their personalities and what they want
it like you said it is about structural
political incentives I mean I can't be a
Claus right now that's true the Koch
brothers can spend a million dollars in
your district right up until Election
Day if you violate what they consider to
be what it means to be Republican yeah
and look I mean you know Biden gives the
example of the Recovery Act and he said
you know we got three Republican votes
for the Recovery Act Biden was you know
met with all those Republican senators
he knew them I think he you know
probably persuaded some of them he you
know he persuaded I think he played a
key role in persuading Republican
senator then Republican Senator Arlen
Specter to switch parties and become a
Democrat which he did at the beginning
of Obama's time in office and that was
instrumental so like in Biden's mind I
really do believe he thinks that
politics are essentially about personal
relationships
he is the creature of the Senate he has
been there a long time he's had
relationships with Republican senators
that are good and so he thinks he can
bring them over but I always remember
Barack Obama telling the story of almost
doing immigration reform with John
Boehner and John Boehner you probably
member this John Boehner met with Obama
and said I wanted I want to do
immigration reform with you I want to
help pass it through the house let's
let's do it and they had a good
relationship they didn't golf all the
time or have drinks all the time but
they had a good working relationship and
John Boehner wanted to do this and then
you know Eric Cantor loses a primary
race in Virginia to a tea party guy and
all of a sudden Boehner gets cold feet
and says you know what I'd still love to
do immigration reform personally but I
have a caucus where most of my
Republicans in the house live in
districts that are 90% white or more
they don't have a lot of immigrants in
their district they don't have a lot of
Latinos in their district and so they
don't give a about this and if I
push immigration reform through the
house then I'm not gonna be speaker
anymore so while I like you and I like
the idea of immigration reform I'm not
gonna do it and that's how it really
works it's not about personalities and
personal relationships it's about straw
political incentives and I have a real
fear that Joe Biden doesn't understand
that yeah I think that is completely
fair and I and I think the sympathetic
so there's two ways to look at what
Biden said one is he's wrong that he
like he sincerely believes this and he
is just wrong and that sincere belief is
based on his fifty years in politics and
he over weights the first forty years in
under weights the last ten years or he
is not naive and they see can probably
make more progress than others because
he knows the Senate better than anyone
else running in better than Obama did
and but his census as a way to explain
how he's going to get things done
because explaining how you're gonna get
things done in this environment is very
challenging and probably thinks that he
could make some marginal progress that
others couldn't and therefore be better
at the job than everyone else running
but but his actual assessment is
probably more balanced then then his
initial comment suggested and his longer
explanation of this when he got asked
about a by a reporter on the rope line
sort of splits the difference between
the two so I don't really know yeah and
like the question good for Democrats is
how like when the Democrats weren't
against how do you like what is the
right way to use this in the campaign I
think we're gonna see if people use the
debate to jump on this and I think they
have to be careful too because the other
thing that binds people pointed to is
the recent CNN poll that you know they
ask Democrats in the ordinary they yeah
they did they asked Democrats in the
poll okay here's a bunch of different
qualities which is most important in
deciding who you're gonna vote for in
the primary 68% of democrats said that a
willingness to work with Republicans to
get things done was either very or
extremely important in deciding who to
vote for
the only qualities they listed as more
important are the right experience to be
President and has a good chance of
beating Trump and below willingness to
work with Republicans to get things done
just below it I think it's
5% is holds progressive positions and
then just below that was represents the
future of the party so now polling is
polling at the snapshot in time it can
change you know over time it can also
change depending on how you word it but
there is clearly this is the problem is
you pulled Democrats on issues and
positions and I and look I noticed this
when I talked to those focus groups of
Obama Trump voters and Obama third party
voters during the wilderness you asked
them about issues and they are more
progressive than you'd imagine even
people who had voted for Trump some of
them were saying yeah I want Medicare
for all I want a huge infrastructure
bill great and you're like oh wow these
people are pretty progressive and then
you say well do you want someone who's
gonna work with Republicans or do you
want someone who's gonna sort of stick
to their principles and really fight for
these issues and they all say oh I
really want someone who's gonna work
with Republicans I'm really sick of the
gridlock I'm sick of the you know the
political endless war in Washington I'm
sick of everyone fighting I just want
people to get along and get stuff done
and so there's this gap between what
people want in terms of what they want
what kind of policy they want to see
coming out of Washington which is
actually more progressive than you'd
imagine and the style they want in
politicians which is more conciliatory
at least and you see as imposed at least
half the party right there's probably
another half of the party we're probably
more in this half of the party that say
like that we don't want to
compromise with them we want to you know
win elections and push this
forwards because we know how the system
works but what do you do about all those
voters who sort of want compromise and
want people to work with Republicans I
mean this is really hard it is in voter
voters has a complicated set of emotions
it's like the same voters who say they
want the budget cut and don't cut any of
the programs I like yes and so I think
the way to do this and I think this is
an important point did you make that
it's like we honor flesh does it for the
politics of it even within the context
of Democratic primary Biden's rhetoric
is more appealing as at least at this
moment in time then the more war footing
esque rhetoric of other Democrats the
way if I was advising campaign I
try to split the needle between the way
if I was advising in the way I'm trying
to thread the needle there would be to
talk about in very realistic honest
terms about who the current Republicans
in Congress are most notably Mitch
McConnell and the things they are doing
to enrich themselves enrich their donors
to undermine democracy while at the same
time trying to unify the country at
large it suggests that put aside before
this right most rabid parts of the Trump
base that the vast majority of people in
this country what a president who at
least try to unify them we will try to
focus who will not spend all of their
time trying to divide us via Twitter and
our reg estate Minh who will try to heal
the wounds of the Trump era and so you
can appeal to broader national unity
well I'll be realistic about the
challenges of it while still being
honest about who the Republicans in
Washington are and the sorts of steps
you will take to ensure that Mitch
McConnell cannot hold your President Xi
hostage maybe my dad I specifically mean
working to eliminate the filibuster
that's how I would do it yeah and look I
would also I mean Elizabeth Warren I
think in her first event in Iowa on the
campaign talked about this you know
bipartisan piece of legislation that
helped funding for hearing aids that she
worked with on a Republican and she
talked about all the other Republican
Republicans she co-sponsored legislation
with Bernie Sanders has you know has a
practical streak from being in the
Senate for a long time and has talked in
the past about the different Republicans
he's worked with to co-sponsor bills you
know like I think there's a way to say
yeah like I'm happy to work with
Republicans when Republicans want to
cooperate on you know issues that really
matter to people and when they're
willing to work with us then great like
I'm I'm willing to extend a hand to the
Republican Party but I'm not gonna be
foolish about it I'm not gonna ignore
what's been happening in in the Senate
and in the house and the presidency when
Republicans control it for the last
couple decades I'm gonna look at it with
I'm gonna be realistic about it and
figure out
you look I'll work with them when it's
make sense to work with them and I'll
work around them when they refuse to
work with us and I'll do both you know I
think I think there's a way to sort of
split the baby on this one yeah you can
be nuanced is still one except the way
of talking about politics in America
well that brings us to I mean I will say
the other campaigns are being much
smarter about how they handle Biden and
then a lot of the Twitter warriors out
there so in Iowa this week the vice
president said quote I promise you if
I'm elected president you're gonna see
the single most important thing that
changes in America we're going to cure
cancer in response he was ridiculed by
Twitter people on the right and the left
some of them made fun of him for having
a secret cure for cancer like how is
this different from saying if I'm
elected president I'm gonna pass
Medicare for all or if I'm or if I'm
elected president I'm gonna give every
child a world-class education is that
not the most standard formulation for
any campaign promise yes it is people
looking for a cudgel beat by never the
head and it yes it does seem unlikely
that we will cure cancer in four to
eight years but it is no less unlikely
than passing Medicare for all the green
New Deal or eating the naming of a
 post office if you are not for
getting rid of the filibuster so I I
think that if any other candidate in the
field if mayor Pete had said that or
Elizabeth Warren or Camilla Harris no
one would have attacked them but because
fighting is the front-runner and has
become an avatar for a lot of things
that a lot of very vocal people on
Twitter think is all wrong with the
Democratic Party they're beating a bad
with it yes I mean I saw some of the
arguments on this and some people making
the case that for people who have cancer
devil cancer in their family false
promises or overly optimistic crumbs or
however you want to you you know you
want to describe the giving of false
hope is you know it's wrong and you know
and can be painful I very sympathetic to
that but I just we have to put this in
context and perspective along with lots
of other presidents hoo-hoo-hoo
politicians who have made very bold
promises some of which have not come
true and it also has to be put in the
context the personal toll that cancer
has had very recently President Biden's
family well look the other day and it
also has to be put in the context of in
the last State of the Union in 2016
Barack Obama said let's be the country
that cures cancer I'm gonna put our my
Vice President Joe Biden in charge of a
cancer moonshot initiative and we think
that if we have enough federal funding
that we can actually and look though I
mean you can a scientists and
researchers about this it's not like
there's probably gonna be a single cure
for all cancers cancers as a disease
where there's you know many different
kinds of cancer but scientists and
researchers do think they're getting
closer to having an effective
what's an effective cure for cancer or
at least helping people live with it or
reducing its incidence or whatever it
may be and then Biden when he left
office started the Biden cancer
initiative and he has spent a lot of
time working on this issue now maybe it
would have been smarter for him to
actually do a separate event on it and
said okay we're gonna cure cancer in
eight years I think we can do it here's
the scientists and researchers who think
we can do it here's what we need to do
it and like lay it all out but like you
said I mean III worry about some folks
who were against Biden right now having
some kind of Biden derangement syndrome
where you decide that every word he says
is somehow further evidence that he's a
bad candidate and increasingly a bad
person and I don't just think that's
that's wrong I actually think it's a
pretty dumb way of persuading people to
vote against him if that's your plan
because you have to under no it's not
it's not but they just like you know
what look to your favorite campaigns
will tear their candidates you don't see
Bernie Sanders going after Biden like
this you don't see Elizabeth Warren
going after biotin like this because
they're smart and they know that
a lot of people in the Democratic Party
whether they want Joe Biden to be
present or not have a favorable view of
Joe Biden and if you're gonna decide
that every time Joe Biden says something
every time
is a gap every time he says something
that makes him sound you know a little
off which happens a lot if you're gonna
decide that that's the end of the world
and you're gonna turn it up to
an eleven every time Joe Biden says
something that you don't agree with
people aren't gonna take you seriously
you know it's just like it's just
 smart politics if if that's all
you're willing to listen to as opposed
to just being the right thing to do also
I don't know at Twitter is awful
you make this point about a moonshot for
cancer which Biden was in charge of
that's what the moonshot means it is
taking an audacious pool and an
unrealistic timeline and then trying to
marshal the entire country to achieve
that goal that is exactly what Kennedy
did with the move like that's what it
means
it is not sending a super realistic goal
and it's just like that is yeah and
you're right you know people if any
other announced really worked up about
something so incredibly stupid
while the president is committing crimes
Eliot Conway is committing crimes and we
are arguing about a bunch of people on
Twitter we're not arguing were just
yelling into a board about a
bunch of people on Twitter yelling at
Joe Biden into a different point yeah I
know and I honestly just brought it up
because because it is it didn't get like
much coverage it was a entirely
you know Twitter based fight about this
but I do see this trend among people who
don't want Biden to be the nominee where
they're not just debating him or they're
not just pointing out what he says it's
wrong but they're trying to disqualify
him as much as possible and I think a
that's counterproductive and B you know
if Joe Biden ends up as the nominee then
he's our nominee and I'm gonna be out
there and cheering for him and
trying to get him elected and that's
true if Bernie Sanders is the nominee
Elizabeth Warren's and I'm Annie come if
any of them are the nominee and I think
we got to remember that all right let's
talk about mayor Pete who delivered a
major foreign policy speech from Indiana
University in Bloomington in his remarks
Budaj edge went through a list of
specific priorities including
re-entering the Iran nuclear agreement
and rejoining the Paris climate Accord
ending the war in Afghanistan and
withholding aid from Israel if it
annexes settlements in the West Bank
he also said quote for better for the
better part of my lifetime it has been
difficult to identify a consistent
foreign policy in the Democratic Party
Democrats can no more turn turn the
clock back to the 1990s then Republicans
can return us to the 1950s and we
shouldn't try so Tommy and Ben got into
the policy details on pod save-the-world
this week and it's definitely worth a
listen they do a great job but I want to
talk quickly with you about the politics
around the speech why do you think Pete
delivered this speech and do you think
it was effective what was he trying to
do here I'm pretty curious to hear what
you say about this because I did not
originally put this on the outline and
then he responded you wanted to add it
to the outline because you want to talk
about the politics of it well yeah sure
I mean so here's my view I thought it
was a well-written thoughtful speech
that showed his fluency in almost every
major foreign policy topic so in that
sense it was successful in showing
people that he is serious and
knowledgeable and understands the world
and he needs to show that because he is
a 37 year old mayor who wants to be in
charge of our national security and I
think when you read that speech you
think okay he had a lot of really smart
foreign policy advisors that helped him
work on this speech he knows what the
 he's talking about on a lot of
these issues so great so I in that sense
I think it did him or did him a lot of
favors and I found myself agreeing with
just about everything he said in the
speech but despite the fact that he said
we can't turn back the clock or the
Democrats haven't had a consistent
foreign policy which I think you could
certainly make an argument for it was
basically a speech that Obama could have
given at the end of his term and mostly
did and that's fine
like it's totally fine to do that but
you know Pete's doing this thing where
he's saying you know part of his appeal
is that he is new and different right he
says we I think at this moment in time
we need something totally different and
I think what he has to decide is is
what's different him as a person and his
story or does he have different ideas if
he's gonna say if you're gonna say that
the Democratic Party hasn't had a
consistent foreign policy over the last
couple decades well then what do you
mean by that and
how is your foreign policy different
than what the Democratic foreign policy
was if you're saying we can't go back
then what is your new idea and like I
understand this problem because we dealt
with this problem in 2007 and 2008 in
that campaign with Barack Obama and you
know the Hillary people would say oh you
know Barack Obama is just this new shiny
object and he's talking about his
biography and he only relies on his
story and there's no real substance
there and there's no real difference and
I think that was that could have been a
real danger for our campaign but we sat
there and thought okay what is it that
really makes Obama different what is he
what is he saying about the Democratic
Party and you know he ended up with this
argument that I got the Iraq war right
when the Democratic Party decided that
they needed to rush to war because they
were afraid of looking weak and they
felt like they needed to be tough and so
they went along with the Iraq war and it
was a huge mistake and I don't think we
should be afraid of what the Republicans
say about us and that's why when there
was a question and debate about would
you talk to leaders you don't like and
negotiate with leaders you don't like
and Hillary said no and the other
candidate said no Obama said of course I
would talk to leaders we don't like this
is exact this is part of what's wrong
with the Democratic Party is they're too
afraid of getting attacked by
Republicans to do what they know is
right so he made a real coherent case
and he had some proof points there and I
think what Pete needs to do what mayor
Pete needs to do if he wants to be the
nominee and he wants to really flesh out
the case that he is new and different is
actually to put some substance behind
that argument that he is new and
different and I think like Elizabeth
Warren is actually the candidate who's
put out a ton of new ideas that are
different than ideas that you just hear
from the Democratic Party all the time
she's actually done it without
critiquing the Democratic Party but I
think if you're gonna make that critique
then your foreign policy or your health
care policy or whatever it may be has to
truly be different nature of things so I
assume thoughts on this I like like you
said speech well written well delivered
thoughtful largely these campaign
foreign policy speeches are
more vision than policy yeah right it's
just like that mad as hell they're
assembly specific policy in there and
Peeta's as much specific policy as Obama
had in theirs awaits me chance and
Bernie Sanders was born and had him
their speeches earlier this year but
largely they are about vision and their
standing in front at a podium in a suit
in front of a bunch of flags and looking
like you can play the part Yeah right
like then you can be the
commander-in-chief Obama had to pass
that test as you also point out Obama
had a huge advantage which was on the
signature foreign policy questions his
generation he got it right and everyone
he was running against got it wrong with
exception Dennis Kucinich and Microsoft
my apologies to their and but what I
found interesting about Pete's foreign
policy Beach which is indicative of a
larger part of his campaign is that like
Obama ran against clintonism as a form
of democratic politics right sort of the
poll testing school uniforms caution
that defined a lot of Bill Clinton's
policies mm-hmm mayor Pete is also
running against the Clinton version in
the Democratic Party like when he says
we take us back to the 90s no one is
arguing for that right it's not an
argument that we should return to the
Democratic Party or the America of the
1990s that is it is a sits a straw man
argument it's a very effective one
because it has helped him rise to the
polls but he he does run an argument
like his view of politics is
acknowledging of Trump as president but
is very centered his particular Democrat
is very centered in a world in which
Barack Obama was never president right
and I think it's very it is very
interesting and like there is a very
legitimate critique some of it we would
obviously be a ly disagree with some
disagreements areas Jim the critique of
the Democratic Party under Barack Obama
of Barack Obama's of Obama isn't if you
will Bernie Sanders had rain on that a
lot
2016 and some in this election that has
been implicit if not explicit in some of
those with Warren's policies but teeth
has not done that he is he is wrong as a
critique of the Democrats it's just not
a democratic party that I recognize yeah
so that's one the second thing is it is
to the great credit of people to judge
as a politician and to his campaign that
the 37 year old mayor of South Bend who
is now firmly askance in the top tier of
the Democratic primary is in third or
fourth place like session a four-way tie
for second in those polls that the 37
year old mayor of South Bend is giving
his first policy speech in the middle of
June very like that is a the fact that
he was able to pull that trick off is
incredible the fact that in this
election he's able to get to June give a
foreign policy feature where he lists
climate change as the is the greatest
threat face in the country and not have
a specific climate change plan for the
full extent of what he is laid out on
climate changes he generally agrees with
the principles but not the specifics of
the green new deal and like that like it
is like well to be completely fair in a
normal world this is still pretty early
for Canada to have laid out mostly
agenda Elizabeth Warren by virtue of her
aggressiveness in policy has pulled
forward the policy primary but now the
question for Pete is he is going to have
to lay out a series of speeches where
he's going to have to get specific about
which medicare-for-all plan he supports
what climate what is this climate change
plan where is he different than
Elizabeth Warren or Joe Biden or better
or work
where is he different on criminal
justice reform than Kamala Harris you
know like the the next effort is Kenneth
because now the when you are in you know
second or third place in the polls when
you are going to probably raised more
money than any Democrat running this
cycle if he gets what if if he gets less
than thirty million dollars this this
quarter I will be shocked yeah me too it
once you do that that now the the
a incredible spokesperson with a great
story is not enough and you're and we
face this with Obama we had a great few
first few months we cruise we outraged
Hillary we were the best story in the
business and then our summer shock and
we got raked over the coals because now
all of a sudden the questions come and
you have to start picking aside and
putting yourself in one one of two sides
on contentious intra-party debates and
how Pete navigates that will be very
very interesting to say yeah and in look
it's indicative of the speech - like I I
thought the way he framed a lot of
foreign policy issues was very effective
and I found it compelling you know and
Tommy and Ben mentioned this the way he
talked about terrorism you know I
thought was great too I just there were
there was I don't think there's anything
in his speech that many of the other
candidates in the field would disagree
with or hadn't already said before like
when he said you know that we needed a
new sorry when he said that you know the
president shouldn't have as much power
to conduct war and that Congress should
be you know like other candidates have
come out for that position as well and
so yeah I'm just I'm interested to see
what differentiates him in a more
substantive way from the rest of the
field another candidate who delivered a
big speech this week was Bernie Sanders
who argued that the United States must
choose the path known as democratic
socialism was the quote from the speech
he said that quote economic rights are
human rights and that the unfinished
business of the Democratic Party is to
quote take up the unfinished business of
the New Deal Sanders proposed a 21st
century economic Bill of Rights that
would include the right to a decent job
that pays a living wage quality health
care complete education affordable
housing a secure retirement and a clean
environment dan what'd you think of the
speech I really wish I could have
watched the speech in a vacuum or I did
not know where no one had told me what
the quote unquote purpose of the speech
was yeah because I thought this speech
in and of itself was a pretty valiant
effort to take Bernie Sanders is
aggressively populist and progressive
proposals and put them within
mainstream tradition of a Democratic
Party dating back to Franklin Roosevelt
yeah I was an interesting what he didn't
I think it wasn't as people pointing out
that Republicans were gonna call him
socialist they called Obama socialist
they called Franklin Roosevelt socialist
whoever the Democratic nominee is
they're going to be called socialist
what I do have no idea was why they told
the press that this was a defense of
democratic socialism that it would be
explained why he called himself a
democratic social but explained what
democratic socialism is it did not as
far as I could tell it did none of those
things and so you took what wasn't he a
very good speech where he proposes an
economic Bill of Rights which is a great
 policy campaign policy idea it's
a great way to lay out here agenda to
frame it in a way people can understand
it took all of that and but branded it
in this thing that it didn't do and I
don't I think this was it's a
communications failure on behalf of the
campaign that I think this was a it
wasn't helpful and it may have been
hurtful it was one of the best defenses
of New Deal liberalism that any
candidate has ever given but that's what
it was it was a defensive in the New
Deal and New Deal liberalism it was not
a defense a democratic socialism you
know like I mean he taught and in in
addition to that he went on this whole
riff about how you know whether it was
the Children's Health Insurance Program
or Social Security or Medicare or the
Recovery Act things that Democrats have
put forward have always been attacked as
socialist and it's like well yeah that's
right that's the problem but actually
they're not socialist they're just
firmly within the tradition of New Deal
liberalism and the Democratic Party so
then why are you calling yourself a
Democratic Socialist that's what we
don't understand because if you took out
a couple times he said the phrase
Democratic Socialist in that speech
Barack Obama could have delivered that
exact speech and has inverted in various
forms and so have many other progressive
Democrats many other progressive
Democrats have said that I actually
think the way Bernie put it together in
that speech was very effect
even compelling I mean like it was funny
they're talking about the economic Bill
of Rights the second Bill of Rights I
mean it's a favor it's a famous FDR
quote when he said we have one bill of
rights and now we need the unfinished
bit we need to finish the unfinished
business of the New Deal we need to have
an economic Bill of Rights a second bill
of rights I titled the episode about
economics in the wilderness the second
Bill of Rights and it was a defense of
why the Democratic Party needs to be
talking more about economic rights and I
believe that we do and I found myself
agreeing with just about everything
Bernie said in that speech except it was
it did not explain why he calls himself
a Democratic Socialist it does not
explain why Bernie Sanders went from a
mayor of Burlington Vermont who actually
advocated the nationalization of certain
industries like banking and other
industries in this country actually was
like a real socialist would and why he
sort of moved over the years to not
advocating for the nationalization of
most industries in this country but
basically now he's just a progressive
Democrat for some reason he just doesn't
want to call himself that I mean he's a
victim of his own success like there was
a war Mike let's go back to 2016 he
could have given a version of the speech
in 2016 where he said I am a Democratic
Socialist because I believe in
single-payer government health care I
believe that college should be free I
believe that Social Security should be
expanded and the deputy of those are not
the positions of the Democratic Party
right so problem for Bernie is he won
the debate those are now the positions
of most of the people in the mechanic
party in what is a real challenge for
him is how is the polls are pretty clear
that there's wide skepticism in the
electorate more generally and
specifically the Democratic Party about
voting for quote unquote socialist and
so you have Elizabeth Warren who has
much a very similar boldly progressive
populist anti-wall Street anti
corporation agenda who calls herself a
capitalist and then you have Bernie
Sanders with the same agenda who calls
himself a Democratic Socialist
and I still
have not heard and would love to hear an
explanation for why one of the
capitalist and was the Democratic
Socialist
like what is the fundamental difference
but I remember this from Lovitz
interview with AOC just going to bring
that on the primary and he asked her if
he basically said you you believe in
Medicare for all three college etc and
you call yourself a Democratic Socialist
I believe in those thankful as the board
please know those things and cause
yourself a call in bleedin so to be a
Catholic like what's the difference and
that's still a question I think has
become a very hard one for Democratic
for that wing of the party to answer in
a world in which the debate does not
Medicare single-payer or nothing it is
the transition time for that
single-payer it is the gravity like if
it was burning against Biden or Bernie
against Hickenlooper whoever else that
would be that's a real debate boom once
she would bring in all the other times
here candidate support some version of
Medicare for all including our
co-sponsors of his own plan I think that
gets much more challenging yeah and I
think it's a result of you know some of
the it's interesting sort of reading a
leftie Twitter because there's a whole
bunch of lefties you know work at the
intercept other places who were like I
don't understand why he did that either
I understand why he leaned into dirted
the Democratic Socialist label and and
tried to say this is a whole speech
about democratic socialism when he
basically defended FDR the New Deal and
liberalism and partly I think it's
because there's probably some people in
his campaign and there's certainly a lot
of people you know lefty Twitter people
lefty journalists lefty pundits who seem
to want the fight with the Democratic
Party more than they want to win the
fight unless you said like they've what
they've moved the party to the left and
part of politics is saying okay now that
you agree with me come join my movement
and come you know you believe in my
policies now well let's let's join
together and sort of build a movement
and some of these people they don't want
you as part of their movement because
they just want to yell at you on Twitter
that's what makes them feel good there's
a lot like Oh centrist Democratic heads
are gonna be exploding over this speech
no I agree with I found myself agreeing
with almost every word what I couldn't
understand
is why like you said they build it as a
speech about him defending democratic
socialism in his label as democratic
socialism when it didn't really do that
that's the problem it I understand like
having you know we've worked a lot of
fans I understand the world where you
are sitting around the table and you you
probably have done focus groups or
whatever and you understand the Democrat
did the Bernese decision to call himself
a Democratic Socialist is had poses some
political problems either it's a proxy
for electability a you know there's some
number of serves the voters he needs to
expand to grow his base with have
skepticism about that it's either
confusing or they have a natural
aversion to it so you have to deal with
it and to just the problem is so I
understand like why you would give a
speech to do to address a campaign
weakness to try to reframe it I just
don't think that's what they did right
or it's like the better things it's also
interesting I saw this in one of those
Twitter thirds is Bernie Sanders's -
he's there - labels that he's chosen for
not Democratic Socialist in independent
and the independent one is much more
valuable appealing it in drove his yeah
arriving was a huge driver of a lot of
his success in 2016 and he in the he
chose the other one the least popular
more problematic one to do it I don't
know that I have a great solution way to
being perfectly fair then I don't know
that I have a great solution for how
Bernie Sanders answers the question of
why he calls himself a Democratic
Socialist while he's running for the
Democratic nomination and a large
portion of the people running agree with
his vision for the country
and it's not an easy thing answer I just
think that this speech did not
accomplish that and they raised the
expectations that it would and if he had
just been giving a speech about an
economic Bill of Rights and then this
speech would have been a home run but
because the frame did a certain way with
the press then the coverage was not
indicative of what the speech was and
then and then when that happens there's
always the problem here's the way you do
it you start the speech by saying I've
had many
labels in life that I've called myself
I'll call myself a Democratic Socialist
I've called myself an independent here's
what I actually believe about the
economy here's what I believe about our
country and then he lays out the thing
and says it if you believe that -
whether you're a Democrat whether you're
a Democratic Socialist whether you're an
independent whether you're Republican
then you should join my campaign and you
should vote for me and you should be
part of this movement that's that's what
you should have done and then make it
less about the label and more about the
 philosophy it and the policies
you know it's just like they're hung up
on the label which is just so silly to
me um okay when we come back we'll have
Anna Marie Cox's interview with
congresswoman Ilhan Omar
