by Brunel we're live cool welcome I'd
save America's livestream we're live
where we take your questions as always
Priyanka asking the questions it's me
Maggie on the ones and twos an hour
behind the camera all right
let's kick it off let's do this in a
little while Oh forgot what happens
you ask us questions we got a lot to
cover today enough small talk up all
right first up is from Beth she is
asking about Virginia so right out the
gate she's coming in hot Virginia will
flip red in 2020 given all the scandal
going on with Virginia's Democratic
leaders right now no no obviously you
can never predict anything but I think
it is highly unlikely that the Virginia
electorate which voted overwhelmingly
for democratic governance and didn't
want Republican leaders that because
there are a couple of Democrats who they
don't like who have you know done a
bunch of different wrong things
hopefully of offenses here but uh here's
because there's a couple that they don't
like that there'll be other Democrats
who run in Virginia and I can't imagine
that someone would vote for Donald Trump
because they're upset about Ralph
Northam that a Democrat would or even an
independent yeah it's not a really the
Venn diagram of people upset about a
politician wearing blackface and people
who would vote for Donald Trump yeah I'm
so mad about that about Ralph Northam
wearing blackface then I'm gonna vote
for the racist the tried-and-true racist
who's been racist this whole time yeah
you know I mean Oh like if Ralph Northam
is running against Donald Trump
maybe the election maybe then we can
reconsider and some of those people
warning about a field being too big
leading to chaos would have been
accurate a problem comes in take the
nomination we can have a different
conversation since the result of his
listening tour cop copy a Ruth Steph
with your routines ready to go all right
we're on to the next question
now you're talking about the porter deal
question is what do you guys think about
the border deal as it's being reported
is there enough upside for Democrats
I mean before the election before 2018
the Senate Republicans and Democrats in
the Senate agreed on funding for the
Department of Homeland Security a number
that was 1.6 billion dollars that
included fencing and included barriers
that was the agreement right then Trump
said that's not enough for me I'm
shutting down the government for 35 days
the longest shutdown in history
800,000 people didn't get paychecks and
then after all that they came back to
the table and the new package is 1.35
billion for barriers and fencing and not
a wall so you know Trump got a worse
deal master dealmaker master negotiator
got a I got a worse deal than he would
have had with the earlier package before
the election so yeah I'd say that I
think the Democrats made out pretty well
on this deal yeah I mean it's just
Democrats have always been for more
border security that's the Democratic
position he can argue about how
Democrats approach this issue but this
the the issue is the wall I mean Donald
Trump has shut the government down over
this symbol of the wall and he's given
up on it yeah and look you'll hear
you'll hear stuff about detention beds
and Democrats wanted a cap on the number
of detention beds which would have
prevented us from detaining and rounding
up undocumented immigrants and forced
eyes to just focus on more actual
criminals people who have committed real
crimes but you know Democrats didn't
have that in their deal last year in the
funding bill and so it would have been
nice to get it but you know this is if
it's between that and shutting the
government down and hurting a lot of
people that way I don't think they want
to do that I think next time Democrats
are in power and they put together
funding for the Department of Home
security certainly they want to not just
reduce the number of detention beds but
probably or a for mites but for now
yeah I'd say this is a pretty good deal
we still only control one house we got
one house right and the the conditions
of no wall and don't allow the
government to be held hostage to Donald
Trump's demands are both being met yes
sweet we'll move on to 2020 then um
actually no no no wait sorry I missed
one
come on Priyanka I haven't done this in
a while either
now guys for those watching at home you
may be thinking wait who is that is that
Priyanka and it is true she did flag for
us before the livestream began that the
part in her hair has migrated slightly
in some way and she was quite middle
it's not quite middle it's it seems like
original like Howard Schultz's move to
the middle so we knew that is still
Priyanka I didn't recognize her I
introduced myself but you and Sarah said
I had new attitude yesterday she did she
did come in we said that she had the
attitude of a high ranking group
executive is there a question I
apologize yeah we can get this next one
is about Beto
what did Beddoes rally teach us about
how to combat Trump in the battle for
media attention if that's on us
yeah I mean I think so two things one
one thing that Beto does that I think a
lot of people have recognized and been
drawn to is he is unapologetic in
defense of larger values that we have as
Democrats that it's not just about
having an argument against Trump but
it's about centering the values we hold
as Americans and as Democrats in the
fight against Trump because one thing
that I think we have learned you know
look we face a lot of lies we face a lot
of falsehoods and that the best weapon
for us against lies is not facts its
truths and Beto does a really good job
of that and the
other piece of it is just it is still
possible to take the microphone away
from Donald Trump I mean I think that's
one of the big challenges and we've seen
a lot of different ways of doing that
inspiring hopeful messages that draw a
lot of people and a lot of a big crowd
the way better can do that's one way of
doing it
bold policies has another been another
way to do it and protest has been
another way to do it and I think you
actually saw all three of those in the
Beto rally yeah my thinking has it made
my thinking on this issue evolve a bit
because I think for a while we've said
okay for all the 2020 candidates the
potential 2020 candidates Trump goes out
there and says something crazy you don't
need to respond to everything the Trump
does right that you should run your own
campaign have your own message of your
own policies and be apart from Trump and
yet it was interesting because no matter
what Trump does the media's gonna cover
Trump all the time right so Beto was
able to sort of get into Trump's news
cycle and share the coverage with Trump
and sort of take the microphone away
from Trump without directly responding
to Trump yet still talking about the
same issue that Trump was talking about
so it is a little bit of a model for
whoever ends up being the nominee and
for the other candidates too which is
Trump talks about some issue is a
demagogue lies has all kinds of crazy
 you don't have to reply by taking
on every single Trump lie by calling him
names by insulting him by delivering a
bunch of zingers about Donald Trump you
know through all that but if you're
talking about the issue that he's
talking about but on your own terms and
talking about what you believe about in
this case immigration and the countries
like that you can then have this split
screen where Trump looks like Trump who
look who's like a you know a crazy
demagogue and you can look like
bigger than that and you can have a
message that's bigger than even just
that issue can you know better talked
about immigration but he also talked
about sort of what this country stands
for and I think it is interesting that
like for a lot of these candidates when
Trump goes and does something trying to
like counter-program Trump with your own
message on
same issue but not necessarily having to
get in a fight with Trump is a is a
pretty good strategy yeah I also think
this is maybe also just a kind of
logistical thing rallies at the same
time yeah you know what let's that
rallies at the same time maybe it was
maybe there was an answer right it's a
it doesn't have to be some big you know
I think everything you're saying is
right but maybe part of it isn't
philosophical it's logistical couch you
and Donald Trump says he's going to
Phoenix for a rally you say guess what
Carmel Harris is doing a rally in
Phoenix or Amy Klobuchar is doing a
rally in Phoenix or Cory Booker's doing
a rally in Phoenix like like and not to
respond to him but to counter program
let's do they're doing he's doing a he's
doing his races Superbowl will do our
hopeful Puppy Bowl yes because I do I do
think at the end of the day like Trump
strategy is going to be to drive up the
negatives of every single Democrat and
especially the Democratic nominee and
he's just gonna be piling on that person
and making you think that that person is
awful and so the Democratic nominee is
going to have to not just tell but show
voters why they are the better
alternative to trump and why they are
different than Trump and just about
every candidate in the race so far I
think offers quite a contrast at all try
every name in the phone book for a
unifier died right there there you go
fun unifier die vote save America coms
last unifier die just slash unify just
slash unified vote save America calm
slash unify but I bet those crafty tech
whiz is out there god I'm all for reader
right you do them both hopefully tech
whizzes well you guys jumped into our
next question this is kind of a
catch-all we need a primary guide book
this person is asking how she should he
or she should best contribute to the
Democratic effort vote save America and
division indivisible gave us clear
opportunities seems like right now we
are not following Dan's never stop
organizing plan what should we be doing
yeah that my answer this question was
going to be a plug for unifier dive but
no no I'm jumping on your anyway there's
this fun called unifier 'red I will
explain it a little bit sure
and sort of our first offering for the
20/20 campaign and we realize it's gonna
be a very long campaign there's gonna be
a lot of candidates
look maybe you have a preferred
candidate in the primary that's great
you can donate right to that candidate
but also we want to encourage everyone
to donate to the eventual nominee sort
of like we did when we partnered with
Swing left for the crooked seven crooked
a crooked seven back in 2018 we're
partnering with Swing left again on
unify or Die and it's basically one fund
that you can donate to so that right
after the Democratic convention when we
have a nominee that nominee will get all
the money from this fund and that is
exactly the moment that the nominee
needs money because they're all gonna
spend the primaries spending all their
money to fight each other and then
they're gonna win the nomination and
suddenly Donald Trump's gonna be sitting
on this gigantic pile of cash plus the
Republican National Committee plus all
of their super PAC donors and the
Democratic nominee is gonna need a lot
of money and this fund will help them
raise that cash and just in the coming
months
you know vote save America we're really
proud of it part of how we're able to
help in the midterms and then over the
coming months we're gonna roll out more
and more tools to help people in the
primary and the general information ways
to participate ways to donate so you
know look stay tuned watch this space
watch this space watch this watch this
this this space and you guys since you
both you've worked on campaigns if
you're in the primaries and there is the
person that you're supporting or you are
interested in you can go to those people
directly and volunteer right sure of
course
absolutely I think the best way to do it
is go right to the candidates pages
though their websites and they'll have
volunteer opportunities they might have
hiring opportunities yeah you can also
go to the state party of the state you
live in the Democratic Party because I
think what's gonna be really important
in 2019 is to have an army of volunteers
and staffers and field organizers ready
for 2020 in every single state and that
kind of training is going to be happen
this year probably more so than even
next year and so also watch the space
for opportunities to to do that to sign
up and be a staffer or to be trained as
a volunteer in organized
cool well as people are figuring it out
we have another great question from
Jason
Jason's asking how many candidates is
too many candidates that's a great
question
you know we've approached this by saying
the more the merrier that we're gonna
have a big open primary and it'll sort
itself out there are some like analyst
smart people that have said there are
some risks to having a big field right
so when especially in the first contest
is there's a lot of people in right
someone can you know quote unquote win a
primary with you know 20% of the vote
13% of the vote we don't know yet and so
I think that there's some risk there
that that as votes are split you worry
that the actual kind of will of what
Democrats would want if it were smaller
field won't be represented so I think
that's a challenge but for the most part
so far I think what we've seen is a lot
of a lot of candidates getting in the
race and then of yuning unifying behind
a kind of coherent like a consensus set
of policies which i think makes the the
risk a little bit lower you know yeah I
think that you know as we've said
everyone should have a chance to run who
wants to run and a chance to prove
themselves and we shouldn't be telling
people that they can't run for president
unless that person is Howard Schultz and
even then we're just saying do it as a
Democrat right exactly you don't see
color oh you you're the one I found the
one guy that doesn't see color John
Howard Schultz Howard Schultz test this
 out on people you don't pay
remember in the Starbucks coffee cups
they we fixed race yeah they shut down
they shut down the latte machines for a
couple hours came back from well we're
talking about a primary there do not get
it heated so I think you have a chance
to prove yourself in these in these next
months now I do think there comes a time
where if you've been at this for seven
eight nine months
and poll after poll and turn including
your internal polls or showing you it
like 1% not nash national polls in a
primary by the way are mostly garbage
you should be paying attention to the
state polls polls in Iowa polls in New
Hampshire polls in South Carolina
especially but if in your state polls
you're sitting there at 1% you're not
raising much money then yeah if it's a
huge field at some point you might want
to think to yourself is this really uh
is this really the right move here now
that's before I was certainly after Iowa
if you have not placed in the top three
or the top four I don't know in a
multi-candidate race maybe it's more but
if you're if there's like 20 candidates
and you're down there 10 11 12
then you should probably probably step
out you know I think that the the you
know the North Star and all this is this
is a process for Democrats to come
together and pick the person we want to
face Donald Trump yeah you know one
thing that happened in the Republican
primaries in 2016 is there was this
paradox in the primary that made it
possible for Donald Trump to win it had
to be Jeb and it couldn't be Jeb right
so Jeb sucked up a lot of money and
resources and talent and yet was not
appealing was not successful as a
candidate and so what ended up happening
is you have this kind of empty space
where a front-runner should be you have
a ton of people vying for that other
position and then you have Donald Trump
if the Republicans had taken Trump more
seriously if all of us know I'm not you
know nobody was taking Trump seriously
enough then if Republicans had taken
Trump more seriously
early on I mean keep in mind Donald
Trump was winning but not with a
majority for the huge sweep of early
contests if Republicans ifs if several
of the other Republicans had dropped out
of Jeb had dropped out earlier and said
it can't be me and I'll stop sucking up
the oxygen in the room if they coalesce
throughout someone else whether it was
Rubio or Cruz or someone else Donald
Trump may not have been the nominee now
very unpalatable choices
look I'm not I'm not saying I like the
menu all right and I'm not saying I go
to the restaurant but I'm just saying
they picked the worst entree for sure
because well you know gee breaks down
anyway the point is in a big crowded
field
things can get chaotic and the will of
the
of the voters choosing may not be
properly represented because the truth
is had if the Republicans could have
voted in early 2016 or late 2015 and
said do you want Trump or do you want
one alternative that that party really
would about that time chosen an
alternative Donald Trump did not have
some majority support so that is there's
a version of that risk for us obviously
though we won't have a Trump in our
field yeah but right now I feel like we
have one of the most talented diverse
fields of running for president that
I've ever seen and so let's let everyone
run for a while and see what happens and
we can worry about a crowded field you
know check back with us in the fall yeah
you can't you can't throw a dead cat
without hitting a great presidential
candidate texted question and from one
of my friends oh well she okay she is
asking about 2020 digital strategies
what you guys think about is your friend
Tanya Sonya Sonya Tom inator she's
asking what you guys think about
candidates strategies so far so I guess
people who have announced and spending
on digital she is citing the fact that
Trump is spending a lot more on the
Democrat than the Democratic candidates
on Facebook what do you guys think about
how people have been doing it so far and
what they should be doing it's a great
question
I saw one chart a couple weeks ago that
showed the Camila was probably spending
more on digital in the rest of the field
and I think that shows I'm not a
Facebook user cuz but on Instagram
certainly you can see she's really she's
using Instagram very well and she sort
of has these you know like she was doing
a post for every day in Black History
Month talking about a different
african-american and history and she's
got a lot of videos up there and so I do
think that she's probably out in front
on that on the digital digital strategy
right now but I don't know I mean I
certainly think like there's there is no
excuse for whoever the nominee is not to
be spending as much as Donald Trump on
digital
I think in the Democratic Party and
traditionally we have spent too much on
television we always get complaints when
we talk about this from people who are
like well in rural areas and with older
voters television is still the best way
to reach people that's true we don't
have to stop spending on television at
all but we spend far too much on
television compared to what we spend
digitally right now considering that
most people get their news and
information and this is true of all ages
from their phone and so if you're not
spending your money on digital and not
spending most of your money on digital I
think you are making a very big mistake
yeah I'm sort of taking myself out of
the digital economy slowly I'm gonna get
off of email I'll try to get myself off
of Twitter I don't use Facebook I am on
Instagram no I so I'm moving to a kind
of more Luddite version I like to be
advertised in books I'd like to see more
books have ads ads about books pamphlets
I'm a huge fan of learning about
candidates do pamphlets one other point
that Dan makes a lot which i think is
important too is you know ya support
make sure they're prioritizing digital
over television but but it's also that
like it's not a everything is digital
right like we're our whole world is
operated through digital now like when
the television ad goes up it gets
translated it's put out on a tweet like
the you know I think increasingly it's
just about making sure that you don't
think of digital as some siloed off area
it is where the conversation happens it
is where politics is it doesn't take
place as it big the real world aspect of
politics is getting smaller and smaller
compared to the digital footprint of our
conversations of our campaigns of our
lives
ya know you shouldn't have a your your
digital media team over here your
communications director should be your
digital media yeah director as well
speaking of communicating the story
around here what do you think about the
media coverage so far of 2020 do you
think anything has been learned since
2016 or not so much I'm gonna go with
not so much I think it's a mixed bag I
think you've seen some I think I think
that in the early coverage of Elizabeth
Warren I think you're seeing a lot of
the same pitfalls that the media fell
into in 2016 at the same time I do
think journalistic institutions print
digital television are taking more
seriously their obligation to not just
replay propaganda they're not always
succeeding and sometimes they're being
kind of dangerously obtuse in the same
way they were in 2016 but I do think you
see an effort you see an understanding
that there were mistakes made in 2016 I
don't think the New York Times has
grappled with their failures in 2016
nearly enough they seem constitutionally
unable to do that end of thought I think
the challenge is gonna be how legacy
media handles controversies dumb
controversies that bubble up on Twitter
online elsewhere for example I noticed
that today there was this stupid
thing yesterday about you know Connell
Harris gave an interview where she
talked about when she smoked weed she
said she was listening to you know Tupac
and and Snoop when she was smoking weed
in college and then someone pointed out
well they didn't come over their first
album until after she was you know
graduated college
no no this was in my pamphlets and it
was just the stupidest thing you
can imagine
and then learning about this now the New
York Times did a story today that
largely debunked the the the controversy
so on one hand it's like good for the
New York Times for debunking it on the
other it's like wow it bubbled up to the
New York Times and now here we are
talking about this on the live stream
and I don't it's just we're not going
able to stop it completely because
that's just the way that the media works
right now that's the way that the but
Twitter works that social media works it
bubbles up to legacy media but just
going over some of the things we've even
talked about the Democratic primary so
far whether it's like you said with
Elizabeth Warren's rollout whether it
was over the weekend with you know
someone complained about Gillibrand the
way she was eating chicken this Kawa
harris thing she was eating them while
they were alive the better or or dental
cleaning thing whatever you learn what I
said John what is it
they were life it's just like we
Donald Trump is president right now and
this is a race about whether he will be
president for four more years we
cannot be talking about this
 again with the Democratic
candidates every time they do something
a little bit silly no well no it's a no
you put that chicken down that is not
for you what are we chicken down
no who cares what the huh Maharis
was listening trouble she was fighting
hi I don't give me with those eyes that
chicken wasn't for you I think that's a
no I think that's right I actually think
I I think one of the hardest things to
you is that that it's hard to figure out
obviously you like like what are the
deeper reasons that cause the media to
treat every candidate but but Trump in
this way right like Trump is not held to
this standard he doesn't receive the
same kind of coverage doesn't seem the
same kind of attention it's also like so
I think it's true that Democrats
received the scrutiny more than
Republicans generally but there's no
comparison to what's happening with
Donald Trump and I think we expected
from Trump we expected from him but I
think though so but I I don't think
they're related like I think that what's
actually happening is Donald Trump has a
different set of rules but the rules
around Democrats are still the old bad
rules and the question is why do those
rules exist and I think it's a deeper
problem about what we Center in this
contest that the idea of like to your
point like we're trying to pick a
president we're trying to pick someone
to face off against Donald Trump and
there's so few first principles in this
approach we're so unmoored from what the
goals of the actual media are that
nobody really like well why shouldn't
you cover how she eats the chicken or
how do you talk about their health care
proposals or how do you talk about pot
smoke or how do you talk about Elizabeth
Warren's DNA tests like what are the
what are the reasons it's newsworthy
what are the reasons it's important and
to me I talk about this again and again
but I think we've made this notion that
what we're trying to do through
campaigns is uncover the real person
underneath the
realness the real thing the real in the
actual core of a human being as it
exists underneath their skin and the
only way you get at that is by picking
and poking and prodding there's some
truth to that but it's also sand right
like oh that that's there that's the
real person the real person is the
person who ate the chicken wrong or the
real person is the person who took the
DNA test or the real person is the
person who didn't know what the music
was when they were smoking pot and I
think sometimes we just lose sight of
the fact like this is about what they
would do as president sometimes you need
to get under the skin to understand who
they are to understand how they'd
actually handle a crisis but a lot of
the times what matters more is the more
boring truth of what they've been saying
and doing for years publicly yeah that
the public stuff matters it does but I
also think it's something very simple as
like you got to put yourself in these
people's shoes right like of course you
don't remember what music you listen to
however many years ago in college of
course you could say oh is that college
or was that law school or was that some
other time like of course when you're
sitting there at a restaurant and
someone else is eating chicken with
their hands and someone's even at the
fork you'd be like well what's how do
you eat it here what's the best way like
it's a simple question you know like
it's not these these things that we turn
into controversies or something deeper
about the person's character sometimes
they're not something they're not deeper
about the person's character at all
sometimes just a person being a person
we're all clumsily trying to go
through life here that's right people
people are braids in against
Donald Trump president they're not there
that some that that uh it's almost like
this um it's almost like conspiracy
theory that underneath that all these
people are so methodical so careful so
thoughtful gaming it all out thinking
about their options think about every
order every specific knowing sometimes
they are but usually they're not usually
not that calculated yeah if Democrats
were as calculating as reporters thought
we win more yeah guys a side note our
co-worker Elijah has risen from the dead
that's about our live stream he really
liked the no bad media just a note from
him see that would get Elijah was being
very sick for a long time yeah he said
miss him terribly
Ocala Picabo is nice he's sick with a
case of the Cabo San Lucas
got a case of the gotta get real real
case of the sniffles and yeah he got a
case of the Costa Rica's you know he
would not be watching our live stream
from Cabo yeah that's yeah that would
really be angry all right we'll move
into some policy questions what our
candidates will be debating when they
you know start these runs first from
Nicole Nicole wants to know how we make
Medicare for all actually happen in your
opinion magic
so first so the first place to start is
Twitter you want to start an and at
Twitter you know I think we're in the
middle of a Democratic primary to talk
about that you know we're in the and and
one of the big debates that we're gonna
have as a party is is Medicare for all
feasible and actually practical and
achievable or should be pursuing
something more like a public option
that's what a big part of this debate is
gonna be about and I think there's a lot
of people I think that there are some
people who are ideologically opposed to
Medicare for all and they prefer to have
a private system and a public option
there are people that believe Medicare
for all is the only way forward it's an
only moral and just thing to pursue and
we should be pursuing it as fast as
humanly possible and then there are some
people who believe Medicare for all is
the ultimate goal but worried about the
transition and worry about the time and
friction and thinking that through in a
way that won't frighten and scare off
potential supporters of Medicare for all
who like their private insurance and I
think that's just gonna be a big debate
we have as Democrats I will set back
even further about the question how do
we achieve any kind of expansion of
health care coverage because Obamacare
the Affordable Care Act ensures another
20 million Americans various insurance
company protections and yet we still
have a bunch of people who don't have
health insurance we also have a bunch of
people who can't afford their health
insurance because deductibles are too
high what do we do about those people so
any kind of expansion of health care
coverage requires this one a Democratic
president to us retaking the Senate in
2020
that will mean about four seats that we
have to pick up okay
in states like Colorado Maine North
Carolina Iowa Arizona so we need to we
need to win those seats first of all
because no Republican anywhere in the
Senate in the house is going to vote for
any expansion of health care coverage
whatsoever none of them they all just
voted to try in fact to take away health
care coverage from everyone so there's
no universe where Republicans are voting
for an expansion of coverage so
Democrats take the Senate fine so now we
win the president's able win the Senate
then what do we need to do then we don't
have 60 votes so the only way again to
have any kind of expansion of health
care coverage is to eliminate the
filibuster so then we can do it with 51
votes take away the filibusters health
care exactly so then we take away the
filibuster and now how do we get these
pension well now you have a bunch of
Democratic senators who just one very
competitive races in red states and you
have people like doug jones joe Manchin
people who are conservative Democrats so
you have to get them on board how do you
get them on board well perhaps you do a
Medicare buy an option perhaps you do a
Medicaid buy an option perhaps you do
some other version so like it is going
to be very very difficult to get any
kind of health care coverage expansion
at all obviously we should work our
asses off to try to achieve that but and
we should work our asses off if we want
to achieve Medicare for all right which
would be great because it's single-payer
we all we know that if we were
developing our health care system from
scratch single-payer would be the most
efficient way to do it and it would
cover the most people and it would be
the best system that we have we don't
have that right now so the question is
how do we transverse in there but all
I'm saying is we should be very real
about how difficult this is going to be
and I only say that because what I don't
want is a bunch of people to vote for
Democratic president and then say why
hasn't Madam President
waved her magic wand and suddenly made
Medicare for all available to everyone
because it is going to be a very very
difficult path to get there and everyone
should be wide-eyed and realistic about
what it's going to take and it's not
just gonna take electing a president and
it's not just gonna take electing a
couple Democratic senators it's gonna
take a bunch of people organizing and
fighting for this for a very long time
to get
John you're jumping into our next
question from sassy girl she has a good
question I think she wants to guys -
please explain filibuster rules in the
simplest most dumbed down way possible
so we all are on the same page and we
get it we know what we want to do all
right go for it
here we go the filibuster so we got a
Senate we got our house all right in the
house majority rules that's how it's
been that's sort of the way the way of
the house if you want to pass something
you just need a majority of House
members to support it it heads over to
the Senate in the Senate there it's
still majority rules constitutional
constitutionally to pass a bill right
the idea is you know the House passes
their version the Senate passed their
version it goes to a conference they mix
it up it goes back to both chambers they
make sure the lobbyists are okay and
then it gets approved that's what's in
the Constitution no so but in the Senate
for a very long time it's you know it's
called the greatest deliberative body
and there is this rule not ironically
named not ironic and ironic called
cloture and what cloture means is all
right you know what we've talked about
this issue for long enough let's go to
that up or down vote that that fifty one
fifty one out of a hundred rule to pass
it so for a long time in the Senate
cloture required two-thirds vote so
basically in order to say debate is over
you need two-thirds of the Senators say
I may not support this in the end but I
think we've talked about it long enough
and it's time to give it its shot it's
time to give it a chance to be passed at
some point it was downgraded to sixty
votes to get this thing called cloture
now you may remember movie mr. Smith
goes to Washington that has a filibuster
in it the original idea the filibuster
was all right you're gonna stand up
there and you're gonna talk and talk and
talk and talk and talk and at some point
you're gonna try to invoke cloture and
move it on to pass now what's actually
happened in recent years is the
filibuster has become virtual what that
means is for anything for anything to
get the up or down vote first it needs
sixty votes you don't need to stand up
there and talk forever you don't need to
hold up the Senate it's
sort of virtual filibuster where before
anything gets its yes-or-no vote first
it needs to get sixty okay that is a
rule that has been used by conservatives
for a long time it was used to slow down
civil rights legislation it was
something that stood in the way of the
passage of healthcare it's also
something that just makes it harder to
pass things and there's good reasons for
that it is true that the existence of
the filibuster did protect Democrats in
the first two years of the of the Trump
administration because there were a lot
of things they couldn't get 60 votes for
now in recent years the filibuster has
been has been removed from different
parts of things that move through the
Senate so it used to be you needed the
cloture vote to pass judges you need so
first basically Republicans were being
obstinate and blocking a lot of Obama's
judges so we said you know what you no
longer need a filibuster you no longer
need cloture to get lower court judges
out so now that's gone from 60 votes to
50 votes all right and then when Donald
Trump wanted to put Gorsuch on the court
McConnell on the Senate said guess what
you no longer can filibuster a Supreme
Court judge now there's no 60 throat
vote threshold for Supreme Court judges
the 60-vote threshold now exists for
certain kinds of legislation only not
tax legislation not some budget
legislation it gets kind of complicated
but basically what it means is to pass
major reforms through the Senate
you still need 60 votes and if you get
rid of the filibuster that goes away and
you end up with needing 51 votes for
everything no matter what those the
simplest way to just to describe it that
too long should I go into too much
detail
he needs 60 votes instead 50 the Senate
the Senate decided to come up with a
rule saying you needed 60 votes to pass
any legislation in the Senate if anyone
in the Senate decides okay this is going
to be a legislative piece of legislation
or a nomination they need 60 votes I
don't really want to sit here and have
John do it again really I don't pay
Constitution blah-blah-blah-blah-blah
all you'd have to do is whoever's in the
majority in the Senate this isn't better
we're gonna you can no one can follow it
I gave you a little more
history I'll give you a little more
history this is better than the jerem at
gerrymandering explanation is really
good though I didn't tell you anything
touristy town board obviously the
question was this one could have used
visual aids I went into a little too
much history fine-pointed I think all
right this next one's from Madison she
wants to know about the green New Deal
why haven't more Democratic senators
signed onto it is it bad politically or
is it that it hasn't been fleshed out
enough what's going on there I should
have done the virtual filibuster but
it's actually important all right
booking cloture I knew we were going
somebody said invoke cloture whatever
that person guys get it you're sure I
think that people haven't signed on to
the green new deal for a mix of both of
those things
it hasn't been fleshed out but also you
know we talked about this when we were
on the road basically the green new deal
says there's a climate crisis and
there's an economic crisis and by
solving the climate crisis in the right
way we can also help solve the economic
crisis there's some people who are gonna
say I think we should tackle the climate
crisis first there's some people who say
I think it's both substantively right
and politically event advantageous to
tackle both of them together and look
what we know is scientists in this
country and all around the world say
basically we have 10 years to almost
eliminate carbon emissions to get to net
zero carbon emissions from our economy
so how are you gonna get there and the
green new deal offers one way to get
there one set of policies to get there I
think there's probably a bunch of other
senators and maybe there'll be other
presidential candidates who say I know
that we need to get to what the
scientists tell us we need to get to to
avoid absolute destruction and
devastation that we won't be able to
reverse but I have a different way of
getting there maybe I want a carbon tax
maybe I want to do this so there's a
whole bunch of different ways to get
there and I think we should be open to a
whole bunch of different paths so long
as your policy in your plan is aiming at
making sure we hit the targets that
scientists tell us we need to hit so
that we don't lose the planet
got it cool we'll move on to the fun
stuff now but before we get to everyone
else's questions I'm just gonna do one
of my own I just want to give you guys
the unofficial chance to respond to the
johnnycake situation what are your
thoughts how do you feel what the
going on there you know all I know is
that I've that they tell me that I can
never be on keep it and I think that's a
good rule so I think this is a kind of a
nuanced conversation look listen
everyone's day there's there's a
fascinating Canon being built over there
at keep it of stories sequels prequels
I don't know inside jokes outside jokes
I don't know how johnnycakes fits into
it I do know that it was an excellent
episode of The Sopranos and I also know
that Louis and Ira both dress like it's
picture day at the 1980s gay wizard
school those are some of the things that
I know there we have it the official
response great okay this next one is
from Annie and I think this one's for
you to love it Oh Annie wants to know if
Spencer's real look I think every like
Spencer real to Annie you know I think
that's the question like I think
everyone of us has a can have a Spencer
in our hearts and if that's real for you
then of course Spencer's real Spencer
see that's another way you say like we
all met Spencer's you know they're all
Spencer's in our lives that we can meet
cool this next one is from Kevin given
all the security they had at the
Charleston show did you have the entire
New Orleans Police Force working the
night John love it to his life in his
hands pissing off Saints fans it was the
scene Deon whatever whatever you think
you saw it was ten times worse it was it
was louder it was longer you know what
it was I think what I learned first of
all Travis and I originally had hatched
a plan that I would be wearing a Rams
t-shirt to this event which
that would have been me and I strongly
genuinely didn't wrongly advised against
I would say that the that what at the
second the Saints were invoked in anyway
that place got so loud and so rowdy that
we could barely get them back under
control and the thing that was so
frustrating about it is I was reaching
for an analogy that was Pro Saints but
they couldn't hear it and look mayor
Landrieu he sort of whipped them up a
little bit yeah so he came out under the
the notional idea that he was there to
kind of calm them down but he came out
there and he just turned them against me
it was unbelievable great politics he's
great politician yeah I will be if he
runs for anything I will run against him
we did have to shield love it as we walk
down Bourbon Street later in the evening
which is to build a protective barrier
around him I thought you were just being
[Laughter]
okay this next one is about tor also
staff from Instagram is asking about how
much food was consumed on tor who ate
the most I mean if you guys that's a
little weird if you guys have like a
what the best thing you ate I'm adding
that to the question - I ate so much
between Charleston and New Orleans it
was catastrophic
I felt so gross when I got back to LA I
feel like I am now a bear emerging from
hibernation what do we have we had one
of those polar bears that they'd seen
rummaging around Siberia
I had a fried oyster po'boy before this
show in New Orleans which is delicious
and then I think on our day off is like
I had I had a hurricane in queso and
chips what's so stupid I just want I
it's so sweet and so awful I want to
tell you I'm too old to drink this any I
want to talk about the most shameful
thing that I did so the most shameful
thing that I did is it wasn't I love
food nor
I it wasn't the you know fried green
tomato egg benedict with crab cake that
in Charleston in the morning I left it
wasn't the oyster and shrimp po-boy I
had when we arrived it wasn't the other
Oster po-boy I had for dinner it was the
two a.m. stack of chocolate-chip
pancakes
I ate at I hop in New Orleans
what's how despicable of me to pursue
that option at that hour Wow it was
disgusting and you know what happens we
need a stack of chocolate chip pancakes
from I have a 2:00 in the morning in New
Orleans you wake up and that food
doesn't read doesn't register you just
have another meal when you wake up oh I
forgot when I woke up we went to
Stanley's in New Orleans is the best
brunch remember we went there when I was
it's so good I wanted a place called
Joey case the Garden District where I
also had a fried oyster po'boy
and some jambalaya and some french fries
and a little bit of catfish off my dad's
plate one shrimp bought my mother's
plate why didn't your parents game it's
fun yeah I hate so much alright last
question the viewers at home want to
know what you guys are doing for
Valentine's Day I think John Tommy
they're gonna have a nice quiet night in
one other thing I just want to flag in
Durham at the airport on the way out of
town after having lunch before we went
to the airport I got macaroni and cheese
from the Carolina pit barbecue place in
the Durham Airport and added hot sauce
to it and ate it it ate it in the in the
gate area I wasn't even hungry Priyanka
so you know so you're not eating for
Valentine's Day oh no I love a Whitman
sampler
oh love a Whitman sampler can't go wrong
throw the cherry cordials out otherwise
I'm in who's leaving those cherry
cordials like a disgusting it's like a
nyquil explosion in your face you know
was there any other questions right no
that's it
our street that's our livestream for
today thanks for joining us thanks for
joining us stay hungry
[Laughter]
