America I'm Jon Favreau I'm dan Piper
later in the pod I talked to the great
Rebecca tracer about the Republican
attack on reproductive rights and what's
at stake in the 2020 elections before
that we're gonna run through a lot of
other news we got Trump's latest tantrum
House Democrats inching towards
impeachment in a new analysis of the
2018 midterms that may tell us quite a
bit about 2020 on pads excuse me on pod
save the world this week Tommy and Ben
check in on our on-again off-again war
with Iran explain why Fox News loves war
crimes and explorer Bernie Sanders his
foreign policy record from his time as
mayor of Burlington do you have a
foreign policy record as mayor of
Burlington I guess you do
also in case you missed it check out our
 Gerry man during fund at vote save
America calm / donate we've teamed up
with our friends at data for progress to
target 10 winnable down ballot races in
Virginia this year that could help
Democrats flip the state legislature and
draw the congressional districts for the
next 10 years very important check that
out finally big news
crooked media is launching a brand new
podcast On June 3rd called this land
it's hosted by Rebecca Nagel a Cherokee
journalist an advocate based in Oklahoma
and at the very end of today's show for
the very first time we're gonna play the
official trailer it's a really cool
story about a pair of murders and a
Supreme Court case that will decide the
fate of half the land in Oklahoma so at
the end of the pod after the interview
will play the trailer check it out we
are very very excited about this new
podcast it's a limited series and it'll
be out June 3rd it sounds great
it's yeah it's very very cool ok I got a
question I got a question for you before
we get started sure do you know where
you were one year ago today one year ago
today it is Thursday May 23rd 2018 no
where was I then you were in New York
City preparing for your Radio City Music
Hall show Oh what I was doing what were
you doing Hospital that's right today
that Kyla was born one year ago today
was today Kyla was born ten years old
today happy birthday Kaila and 6:30 this
morning she's been what since 6:30
celebrating for 6:30 the swarming I've
already already made Mickey Mouse
pancakes we are rolling through the day
do you do you guys have a you and how we
have a big first birthday party planet
we have a very large first birthday
party Saturday today today is like
ashlynn birthday and Saturday is quite
rager a party rager well that's exciting
that's very very exciting wow I can't
believe it's been a whole year that is
amazing I know I know you're telling me
okay to the news on Wednesday the
President of the United States stormed
out of an oval office meeting with
congressional leaders after only three
minutes and threw a temper tantrum in
the Rose Garden Trump said that he
refuses to work with Congress on
infrastructure prescription drug prices
or basically any legislation at all
unless the Democrats allow him to
obstruct justice and commit his crimes
in peace and later after the tantrum he
tweeted you can't investigate and
legislate simultaneously it just doesn't
work that way
so Trump's meeting with Pelosi and
Schumer was supposed to be about working
together on this two trillion dollar
infrastructure bill that had previously
interested the president the White House
spin is that Trump blew up the meeting
because Pelosi accused him of committing
a cover-up is that really what did it do
you think that's uh that's believable
span I am gonna guess that it's a little
more complicated or maybe even more
stunningly simple than that but you know
hey I before this I googled Trump storms
out Pelosi read the latest coverage on
this and the thing you realize is it was
only five months ago that he did the
exact same thing during a shutdown
meeting the exact same thing this is a
he defined a very thick playbook but
this is one of the plays in it so so you
think this was perhaps a setup that had
been planned in advance well I wouldn't
say that I am an ace detective but the
fact
there was a fully printed sign hanging
on the podium in the Oval Office at the
temper tantrum what's happening suggest
to me based on my own personal knowledge
of the printing kind in the print shop
in the eeob basement in the White House
that they knew this in advance yeah I
mean it also seemed like to me this
infrastructure bill never really stood a
chance
after the first meeting about an
infrastructure bill you know it was
shortly after that that Republican
leaders in Congress and people in the
White House like Mick Mulvaney Trump's
chief of staff basically said yeah no
there's absolutely no way Republicans
are going to spend two trillion dollars
on infrastructure particularly if it
requires raising taxes on rich people
which you know they're not down to do
and then right before the meeting on
Wednesday the night before the meeting
Trump sent a letter to Democratic
leaders saying there would be no
infrastructure bill until Congress
passes his revised new whatever you want
to call it NAFTA agreement you know this
I this whole idea that it's it's the
investigations that are preventing
legislation from happening on
infrastructure well the investigations
were going on three weeks ago when Trump
met with Schumer and Pelosi for the
first time and said he wanted an
infrastructure bill so it really wasn't
the investigations because they didn't
seem to be a problem three weeks ago and
then you know like you said the sign was
already printed is there is there a
strategy Dan behind this whole no
legislating until you stop investigating
threat what's Trump trying to do here I
mean it's always it's always such the
question right which is like is there a
plan and the truth with Trump is he kind
of stumbled into a strategy there's like
no white board with an actual plan on it
he just he like operates by guy and I do
think there is like you could follow
this up with a strategy if Trump didn't
have the attention span of a
two-year-old's off after eating fun dip
but is that
like every pret every incumbent
president serving the time of divided
government wants to run against Congress
Congress is less popular than Trump
which is talking a little because
pond-scum is near chump in the polls and
so you want you off for right you want
to run against something to change the
conversation at least until the moment
when you have in actual opponents chance
conversation between a referendum on you
to a choice between two visions this has
been everyone is wanted to do this since
Truman won reelection by running it the
do-nothing Congress Bill Clinton won
reelection before Bob's old was even
nominated in 96 by running against in
King Grich and the Republicans in the
house
we Barack Obama had real success laying
some of the blame for lack of economic
progress and a few the Republicans who
are blocking his initiatives in the fall
2011 so there was a world in which there
was the strategy where Trump wants to
run against the investing in everything
do-nothing Congress like that is a foil
and the question whether that works or
not is going to end on how Democrats
respond to this attack and how do you
think they should respond to that attack
and and not get sucked into looking like
the do-nothing investigate not legislate
type Congress I think that they should
respond there are several paths to
response work I listen a couple this one
is you could stop investigating the
other one is you could investigate and
legislate and that's what happen I think
the Democrats you take you can easily
walk into them at the same time and they
should do that they should aggressively
investigate every ounce of corruption
that's had coming out of ministration
they should do the duty of oversight
even though things that are not corrupt
in the sense that it's like the usual
Trump grip but it is incompetence like
what happened in Puerto Rico during the
hurricane there couple years ago like
that like they should do oversight like
because it is their job but that doesn't
mean you can't also legislate like if I
was if I was in the Democratic
leadership for the thing out the way I
would respond it is that I would get
infrastructure built it does
get $14 in tutoring hours but a
significant investment infrastructure
paid for by the least popular Trump tax
breaks put it on the floor pass it and
then be able to go out and tell the
world that we've done infrastructure
Trump has it and put in move the onus
name and you can do that on a whole host
of its bills to shore up the Affordable
Care Act
they've already done some stuff around
electoral foam and other things up like
pass bills to show to show that you can
legislate and investigate at the same
time yeah I mean look the Trump in the
Republicans had complete control over
Washington for the first two years and
what we got from that complete control
was a tax bill that gave tax cuts to the
wealthiest that you know the majority of
Americans don't approve of an attempt to
rip away health care from 20 million
Americans probably more and now a trade
war that's hurting farmers in the
Midwest and all kinds of people and
consumers everywhere and in a criminal
justice reform bill that the Trump
administration is now dragging their
feet and implementing and so that's what
we got that's what we got from you know
complete Republican control of
Washington and since Democrats have been
in the house they've passed a slew of
bills whether it's the Equality Act
whether it's gun control whether it's
voting reform whether it's health care
reform that you know a Democratic
president and the Democratic Senate
would sign into law would pass and sign
into law tomorrow if you gave them the
chance
and the reason Republicans aren't doing
anything right now is not because of
investigation is because they want to
protect their rich friends they don't
want to raise taxes on rich people and
they want to gut all kinds of popular
programs like you know Medicare Medicaid
Obama care and the rest that's why
nothing is getting done because
Republicans have this ideology and they
refuse to work with Democrats on that I
mean it seems it seems fairly simple as
we get around sort of what they're doing
yeah they're already they're already
passing these bills and they're doing
the investigations we will talk about
the right context for doing those
investigations and how successful or
unsuccessful they had been but like
people would hear this and say yeah
that's great you pass bills but no one
knows what they are
the press won't cover them they get no
attention you're getting drowned out by
tweets and trumpism and absurdity and
blah blah blah blah and that's all true
and that's not a fixable problem in the
inner arm and it's not even it's even
hard to yell at the press and say you
should cover this more because even when
Republicans were in charge of the house
and they were passing absurd bills that
were going nowhere which is the opposite
of our sensible bills that are currently
going nowhere they didn't get covered
because there's no can't like a quote
unquote message vote has never gotten a
lot of coverage at least in my time in
politics but when it come time for these
members to campaign for re-election they
have things they can point to they have
things they can talk about all the stump
they have things that their doorknockers
can tell voters and they can't think
they can advertise on and that's why
it's important to do that and it gives
you a response in the cut in the
immediate discourse about what's
happening Washington say yeah no it's
not us it's not legislating we passed
this bill we passed this bill we passed
this bill Trump has done nothing right
on the infrastructure proposal
specifically did Schumer employee like
walk into a trap here with this in a
trying to negotiate with Trump on this
in the first place and be you know
walking into the Oval when yesterday
when Trump had already decided that he
was going to storm out and complain
about investigations or do you think
they got the better of this exchange I
think that the original sin here was
going to the White House three weeks ago
for that meeting and then walking out of
the White House and trumpeting your
critical infrastructure agreement with
the president yeah I think that was a
mistake
is it a fatal mistake no is it the end
of the world is out but ultimately like
what I think like human folks are very
smart they didn't think they didn't they
died for one second that they think they
were going to get an actual two trillion
dollar infrastructure bill they'd all go
to the signing ceremony and they got
ribbon cuttings together Aaron we have
better roads and bridges and airports
like that's not what they thought it was
sort of a both sides of trying to manage
the end game I'm like this is not going
to work how can we set this up so that
we look like we wanted to do the right
thing and the other side is responsible
for why it went down and I think
in Schumer employees had their goal was
and summer AIDS even said this and then
Schumer himself may have said it
publicly after we after a lot of people
criticize them for which was sort of
laying out that we're gonna show her for
it republics are gonna show what you
mentioned that they're against and they
won't do this because of their affinity
for tax cuts for the wealthy and will
come out on the high side floor even the
problem was Trump dumped them before
they could dump Trump and he was though
he he is first mover advantage here and
he got to blame them for so the you know
at least wrapped them into the blame of
the death of this idea that was ever
going to happen and blaming it on a
totally factual and normal statement
that Nancy Pelosi had and then the press
in their general both sides go balance
terribleness they didn't bet in that
effort yeah that was I was gonna say the
most surprising but it should not be
surprising at this point it was
certainly the more infuriating part of
yesterday's back-and-forth that somehow
you know this is another both sides
issue when you know because Nancy Pelosi
said that Donald Trump was engaged in a
cover-up it's like well yeah robert
muller wrote a 400-page report laying
out ten instances where the president
obstructed justice with complete with
lots of evidence and part of what he was
covering up was a crime as you pointed
out on Twitter yesterday then a crime
committed by his lawyer who is now
sitting in jail that you know Trump was
named as an unindicted co-conspirator in
pump is literally named as what is
essentially an unindicted co-conspirator
in an actual cover-up like that is the
crime the crime is actually the cover-up
here
the trunk is was involved in paying hush
money to prevent information about his
relationship with some enables come out
like this actual cover-up when suppose
you said is totally accurate and the
fact that the press treatment is some
sort of breach of decorum like how dare
she say this factual thing on the white
house
Trump has repeatedly repeatedly tweeted
that Nancy Pelosi is Pro crime right and
no one cares about that like we're
holding her in Democrats to a different
standard
and there's a larger lesson about how
absolutely up the media is and
how it gives a structural advantage to
the people who make bad safe arguments
because the media is incapable of
calling out bad faith without somehow
feeling like they've lost their sense of
so balance yeah and look and the
Republicans and Donald Trump understand
this and their political strategy
reflects their knowledge that the media
is always going to no matter how much
they lie no matter how many crazy
conspiracy theories they throw out there
the media is always going to cover their
side and give it equal time in equal
consideration as they do people who are
acting in good faith and so they can
work the refs and it works I think with
this is like the ten millionth time that
we've had damaging to learn this lesson
but I think as we think about the role
the media plays in American politics
there is a very important role in the
sense that their job is to uncover
information and show it to the public
like they're very good in that whether
it's investigative pieces about Trump or
you know like this amazing series and
there are times about taxi medallions or
like there are a million great and very
important like that but the role that we
have assigned to the press in American
politics is referee it is your job to
adjudicate disputes to show through to
show who was right he was wrong what is
factual what is online and that is a
role in which they have proven
themselves over the last two decades
been capable of playing and we as
Democrats have to adjust our strategies
to reflect that a we believe that the
media has an important role to play be
they have a constitutional right to play
that role see it is a bet it is the
wrong thing to do it is
counterproductive to try to emulate
Trump's anti media strategy but D we
can't rely on the media to make our
argument for us we have to make it
ourselves and we cannot just say that if
we say this the New York Times will call
it right and then the voters will know
the difference it's not how it works
anymore and we're getting our ass kicked
up and down the political road because
of it yeah I mean we're not so many
thoughts on this and I'm so worked up
about no I mean yeah we
this too when we're on Twitter but we
are not like one piece where the New
York Times finally calls a lie a lie
away from I'm getting rid of Donald
Trump it's right it's fine to argue
about it's fine to get upset about it's
fine to yell at whoever the social media
editor is that these papers who are you
know sending out these absurd tweets
that frame the debate wrong and then we
get them to change it a little
celebration on Twitter RT if you agree
that's that's not changing the
fundamental dynamic and the media's like
the media is not on our team I've said
this before they're not their job is not
to help get Democrats elected their job
is to tell the truth and prize truth
over balance which as we say often they
fail to do because they prize balance
over almost anything else for some
fucked-up reason and so but like yeah
but we you know that we just we got to
focus our energy elsewhere at least the
bulk of our energy yeah like it if you
were to do a sports metaphor of this
like our side is one team their side as
the other team the media is not the
referees they are the commentators right
they're the ones who were just as part
of the business commentating on what is
happening not trying to decide who wins
or loses or call balls and strikes right
like that we have thought we have for
too long on the Fourth Estate as an
adjudicator of justice in American
politics and that is a if it ever played
that role it no longer does yeah there
are there are no referees anymore
okay let's talk about the debate over
impeachment proceedings which this week
it seemed like the house was inching
towards after the White House continue
to defy subpoenas tamper with witnesses
and obstruct all congressional oversight
dan probably the biggest development
this week was when former White House
Counsel Don McGann who was Robert Muller
star witness refused to testify before
Congress after Trump told him not to
what else has pushed quite a few more
prominent House Democrats towards
impeachment over this last week I think
again is the latest example but whether
it's the refusal to turn over the tax
returns it's the fact that here we are
what six seven weeks since the Mulla
report and Jim Boulder has to testify
bill bar has refused to go to the house
there's been discussion of contempt but
there's no actual contempt citation that
is being voted on there's just this
feeling that at every turn
Trump is refusing to cooperate and he's
it's not just like and it's not
happening in this world where we're like
having an actual back-and-forth about
which dock you're going to get documents
we're going to dip we're going to
negotiate over which one so how you get
them and it's not about like debating
about whether a witness is coming and
open or closed testimony or whether
they're going to testify for three hours
or seven hours or whatever it is
Compton's made the argument that
Congress does not have the power of
oversight he said he has said that that
that he has disagreed with the
interpretation of the Constitution as it
exists for 250 years and that is a punch
right to the sorry that hasn't punch
right to the mouth of Congress and what
it's in what it stands for and what they
see their role is and so he's leaving he
is sort of closing off all paths for
people who think Trump is committed in
pitching piece of offenses but are
nervous about the act of starting
impeachment inquiry and by the way
that's not just Trump's view that he is
you know expressing in angry tweets his
lawyers when they went to court over
Democrats requesting some of these
documents basically laid out as a legal
argument that Congress has no authority
to investigate the president the the
lawyers were even basically it admitted
under questioning from the judge that
they believe that Watergate that the the
water great impeachment inquiry wasn't
the correct use of Congress's oversight
Authority which is stunning and the
judge was rightly stunned because the
judge ruled against the Trump white
house I mean do you think by the way
that these you know we've had a cup two
legal rulings this week that basically
the judges ruled against Donald Trump
and said yes you do actually have to
cooperate with Congress you do have to
turn documents over do you think that
changes the dynamic at all now that you
know I think for a while we thought oh
the problem is going to be that
we you know take these fights to the
courts but then they get tied up in the
courts for years and years and years and
so basically Trump is able to Stonewall
until after re-election but now that the
courts are moving quickly and siding
against Trump do you think that changes
anything I definitely gave Nancy closely
an argument to push back against sort of
this growing wave of members who were
publicly calling for impeachment which
you know as you point out it's increased
significantly in the last week or so
yeah and they had a today Thursday they
had a meeting I think yesterday where
she basically made this argument which
is we don't need to go we don't need a
certain future inquiry to win the court
cases because we're wood in the court
cases now that is proven true thus far
but we got a couple more steps to go and
we still don't have documents it's not
like these court cases or adjudicated
documents come there they get appeal to
go the net they go to the appellate
court and then they're gonna go to the
Supreme Court and so we are talking
months a very long time now to McMahon
suppose it's also correct and there's
another argument I read somewhere that
she made which is that timeline is not
going to get she's exactly the timeline
will get significantly sped up in if
there is an impeachment inquiry we'll
still be operating on this timeline so
to her it's not clear at least as long
as we're winning cases that you need to
take this step and that was apparently
persuasive for some at least temporarily
in the Democratic caucus meeting this
week yeah I mean so as you point out
there's you know there's more Democrats
are in favor of impeachment now multiple
judiciary committee members that would
be the committee that would open an
impeachment inquiry have said they're
now in favor of opening such an inquiry
at least five people on Nancy Pelosi's
leadership team five Democrats on the
leadership team pushed her this week to
support an impeachment inquiry she is
still against the move why is that and
how does she see the politics right now
this is something that I've really tried
to think a lot about because you know
Nancy Pelosi is one of the smartest
toughest strategists not just in the
party right now but in all of politics
you probably the best speaker
who has ever lived and so it's like we
have this world where after the like the
last Trump meeting every every Democrat
changed their Twitter avatar picture
Nancy Pelosi and sunglasses in that coat
and then everyone uses 17 times a day
the Jim Nancy closely clapping at the
State of the Union and we say Nancy
Pelosi is the best and then she makes a
decision or makes an argument and then
everyone is like why is she so weak and
um and that yeah she's more than earned
the benefit of the doubt to try to
understand what her strategy is now I
have disagreed with a lot of the public
argument she has made for against
impeach her wishes
you know it'll motivate his base which
everything when I based this base like
we are they are pretty good that is not
a little later but it's like that is not
something there's an argument against
impeachment right that is just stating a
fact that something's already going to
happen but she obviously has a very real
political concern and I my guess is that
there's a significant portion for a
rural caucus I don't know whether it's a
majority or a very large minority who
believes impeachment should not happen
there should it would be a mistake to do
for whatever reasons right cold you know
what almost certainly political and that
she is taking the arrows for that right
she is gonna be looking to stand in the
way so that she gets the blame and you
know the members the freshman who won in
purple and red districts are not out
there doing it they can say well Nancy
Pelosi says we're not doing it so that I
think that is what she doing dancing
cause you think Trump committed in
peaceful offense is a hundred percent if
she said like that today and so I do
think that like as we like if you
believe from should be impeached we
should push the House Democrats to do
that we should push closely but I think
we just have to put that put her
decisions here in the context of all the
other decisions that she has done and I
in one last thing on this which is the
people think that she is someone who
just like reads the polls and just
whatever is politically popular in the
moment right - this is some sign of like
sort of put over over political
calculation I would just note that you
and I worked in the White House when the
Affordable Care Act was hanging on bias
and many many of her members like almost
the entire Blue Dog Coalition the
moderates in the house a lot of other
people who are facing incredibly tough
free elections in 2010 wanted us to walk
away and Nancy Pelosi knew that the this
was the last best chance to to
excessively expand access to health care
in this country and she worked a slow
and arduous and that sometimes
frustrating process to beep on the
outside but she got it done and so she
did the thing that put her that was
politically risky because it was the
right thing to do and I'm not convinced
she's not going to do that here in the
end and yeah she did that on the
Affordable Care Act the house also voted
for pretty significant back then in 2009
climate change legislation where the
Senate Democrats because a lot of them
were from red states and pretty
conservative at the time sort of hung
them out to dry
hung the house out to dry and so you
have all these House Democrats in 2009
taking a vote on a nearly
trillion-dollar recovery package the
Affordable Care Act which at the time
was seen as you know was was depicted as
this extreme government takeover of
health care by the Republicans still is
and then climate change legislation and
they took the votes out all three of
those things in Pelosi you know must
have known that it could cost her her
speakership and cost Democrats the house
in 2010 and she did it anyway you know
so she deserves a lot of credit for that
I do think it doesn't mean she's right
here no I mean I don't agree with her
right no I mean I do think this is a
question of what the politics of
impeachment are and for how much we've
talked about it I still feel like we
don't really know that much
you know I saw some private polling a
couple weeks ago where they tested you
know X Democratic candidate is running
on a platform of impeachment and how do
you feel about that and it decreased
support for the Democratic candidate
versus the Republican candidate by five
points but that to me was a sort of
silly question too because no one's
running on the platform of
impeachment that's insane you know like
if you're gonna go you're gonna go run a
race and you're like my main platform is
impeachment like yeah well good luck to
you you're not gonna do that well like I
haven't seen any polling that asked
people the question
and would you be more or less likely to
vote for ex candidate if ex candidate
voted to open impeachment proceedings
against the president I'd be interested
to see a polling I'd be interested to
see that polling specifically in swing
districts because I do think like you
said a lot of the reticence to move
forward on impeachment is coming from
some of these new members who won seats
in pretty red
Trumpy districts you know although I
should say
Katie Hill who you know one right here
in north of Los Angeles she was on Chris
Hayes the other day and she said that
calls to her office have flipped from
being two to one against impeachment to
now being three or four to one for
impeachment so again we can't treat the
politics of impeachment as static as
Democrats make the case as Trump
continues to obstruct almost every
effort by Congress to conduct oversight
you know public opinion can change and
that's something the Democrats have to
keep in mind too it's not static so
there's a Pew poll out today I think
which asked Democrats how concerned you
are about investigation of Trump
administrations are you concerned that
Democrats will focus too much on
investigations 51 percent concern they
won't focus enough on investigations 47
percent conservative moderate Democrats
55-43 too much first not enough and
liberals 46:52 too much not enough and
what that tells me is that we are a
nation of pundits and people are just
reading and projecting what they think
the politics are and so people are can
we have Nancy Pelosi basically saying
that organ big political trouble if we
investigate too much or overreach or
impeach then you have that is reflected
in voter sentiment might get like to
your point that the politics of
Pietschmann are totally unknown like we
just don't know if I would guess right
now not predict but guess I think
there's a real chance with the politics
of impeachment or dramatically
overstayed in both directions I tend to
agree with that as well like I don't
like voters care about it last
then like looters writ large care about
it much less than the Twitterverse and
you know people are highly engaged in
politics I do think there is an element
of this which is causing me to change a
little bit of my political calculus on
it which is I think the politics of
impeachment is an unknown question
whether the politics of weakness have a
centuries-long record and if Democrats
look weak like they are walking away
from an obvious duty to impeach or they
are you know they keep getting rebuffed
by Trump who's refusing to give them
witnesses and documents etc and they
don't respond to that I think there is a
danger in that sort of politics right if
the message to the people who turned out
who turned 2018 into a presidential
election year sight turnout as opposed
to a traditional midterm one if the
message to them is we are not going to
be the check on strum that we said we
were that could be deflating for 2020
yeah I mean is getting dragged into
impeachment sort of the worst of all
worlds I've been you would think on its
face yes because in the outline I wrote
the term dragged which getting dragged
anywhere is not great not a lot a
positive connotation there no word but
that's another way to look at it which
is is being is doing is there let me try
that again
there's no other way to look at it which
is is reluctant helpful politically here
which is like you're not flopping at the
mouth at the mouth to do this you can
say Trump forced your hand we wanted to
proceed through the normal course of
business do the normal oversight the
traditional or Congress's played term to
take this extraordinary approach this
above the Constitution above the law
approach and that has forced our hand to
do this maybe I get there's a way I
think that where that can be a better
argument what won't work would be if it
just looks like you got beaten into it
by your own voters which is essentially
what happened to the Republicans in 1998
against Oakland they've tried to walk
away their voters wouldn't let him do it
and then they sort of look like they
were being that they were uh that the
base was the tail that wagged the dog
yeah I worry about you know Democrats in
disarray and Democrats divided over
impeachment is not a great storyline and
I do worry about that being the
storyline heading into impeachment and I
think more and more you're seeing
Democrats able to make the case which is
the case you just made like I didn't
come here to impeach the president I
didn't think I wanted to impeach the
president I want to talk about jobs I
want to talk about health care I want
talking about wages that's and and we're
gonna legislate on those things and
we're gonna fight for those things but
you know this is a question of
separation of powers this is about a
president who's acting like he's above
the law and this is about making sure
that you know we that the one branch of
government is able to hold the other
branch of government accountable when
the president is acting lawless like an
autocrat and that's very important so I
read that I have to do this but I have
to do this and I think Elizabeth Warren
when she came out for impeachment said
something like that I saw Alexandria
Acacio Cortes made that made that
argument I saw it better or ork make
that argument during his CNN Town Hall
the other night and I do think starting
by saying look this is not something I
wanted this is not something we wanted
to do as Democrats we're not frothing at
the mouth to impeach this president but
at some point we have to confront this
lawlessness because it's the right thing
to do and because he could abuse his
power even more if we do nothing and
that's dangerous that's dangerous to
people's lives that's dangerous to the
country that's dangerous to the world
and so I do think you can make that
reluctant argument in a pretty powerful
way the other part if they go if we go
down this path as Democrats and this is
where we end up and I think it is
getting more likely every day that that
is where we end up because these things
tend to gain momentum and it sort of
snowballs but if it is I think it's
important to make the subject of the
inquiry much broader yes then just the
findings of the Mullen report the moment
people sort of just made their opinions
on what happened in 2016 obstruction is
wrapped up with collusion but there is a
broader issue with Trump a set of you
know there's a there's corruption as
criminality
there's abuse of power and it not this
should be this like broad giant fishing
expedition but it should it should the
the some of the inquiry should be
broader and the benefit of that is it
allows you to make a broader argument
than arguing over something that
happened three years ago I know that's
not really how it is the Nets how it
would be framed by the media but also
the ability to discover new information
because we should be clear that it seems
unlikely that you know why when the
Picchu inquiry may allow us to have like
an actual person saying the things they
were in Muller's report which was
powerful don't get me wrong
you know I'm person as you know more
politically powerful and PDF but the
word it seems unlikely that the deputy
investigators in the judiciary men are
going to find huge pieces of information
that Bob Muller and his team did not but
if there is a broader area there's a
broader scope of inquiry it it does mean
that there may be some new information
that can be uncovered that would be
persuasive to people yeah the guy is
pardoning war criminals or at least
talking about pardoning war criminals
pardoning his his friends and
benefactors the guys using the
Department of Justice and law
enforcement to now target his political
enemies he was it a rally this
week where he accused Democrats of
treason and said the Attorney General is
gonna look at that and they also heard
cheering locked them up I mean this is
much much bigger than merely the crimes
he committed with regards to obstructing
justice
these are serious abuses of power and
now he's telling Congress off you
can't check my behavior you can't
conduct oversight I'm all powerful in
Congress can't do anything and by the
way I'm not even gonna work on
compromising with you and legislating on
behalf of the American people to try to
improve their lives because I'm pissed
off that you're investigating me I mean
this is this is a president who is now
completely out of control and I think
you're right like I don't think the
impeachment inquiry should have
everything we disagree with Donald Trump
about like policy differences even if
they're serious policy differences
because that's not
those aren't impeachable necessarily but
I do think you're right that they should
have all of the ways that he is
seriously
used his power and you know and and
committed all kinds of crimes so we
shall see oh one last thing robert
muller robert muller still hasn't
scheduled an appearance before congress
and this week CNN said that Muller's
team doesn't really want him to testify
at all that the special counsel quote
does not want to appear political after
staying behind the scenes for two years
I'm sorry it's like again dude you wrote
a 400-page report laying out all of this
evidence at the Prezi nighted states
obstructed justice you didn't think it
was gonna get political at some point
tough you gotta do it this way you
knew this was gonna happen when you took
on this job you got to do it you have a
duty to the country to say whatever it
is you believe but you say it in public
regardless of whether you're going to be
called partisan one way or the other so
you just have to do it and you should do
it soon because you're not doing
yourself or the country any favors by
dilly-dallying here yeah it does make me
think that we should tamp down our
expectations on what Muller's testimony
may reveal you're still willing to have
high expectations for anything in
entering year three at the Trump
administration that's your own fault
let's talk about 20/20 with a brand new
analysis of 2018 catalyst which is a
data firm that operates a huge voter
database just at a very detailed
analysis of the midterms they collected
precinct level results match them up
with individual vote history records
from every state so this is very
specific this is like the most detailed
analysis we're gonna get of 2018 and
what they learned is that one something
we already knew which is turnout was up
dramatically but it was up dramatically
especially among young voters and voters
of color particularly Latin X voters and
to and this is a quote from the analysis
a big piece of the Democratic victory
was due to 2016 Trump voters turning
around and voting for Democrats in 2018
the report concludes quote it is
reasonable to expect another historic
level of turnout
perhaps approaching 160 million voters
or more in 2020 it is not safe however
to assume that Democratic gains from
2016 to 2018 will hold Dan
what were some of the most interesting
findings to you and was anything
surprising to you yeah a couple things
well first what's the main takeaway from
this report to me is great job
people yeah the American people really
crush in 2018 and specifically the
grassroots activists the people who got
involved after the 2016 disaster who
knocked door like we basically had two
years of intense grassroots driven
volunteer voter contact and had paid off
and it's truly unbelievable
what the what sorry it was truly
unbelievable what was achieved in terms
of turnout that is really amazing and we
have to and so everyone's got to Pat
myself on the back and yet working for
2020 because we need to be doing all of
that voter contact that we did the door
knock in the phone calls restoration
that we were doing in 2017 to win in
2018 we need be do in 2019 to win and
twice oh that's a great one the thing
that I found most surprising second
takeaway was it's a validation of the
stupidity of the false choice presented
by pundits about base mobilization
versus persuasion yeah but it makes very
clear here our success in 2018 was based
on both that we were able to turn out
more Democratic base voters but we also
were able to flip votes and we're gonna
have to do that again in 2020 to win and
that I think the other thing that I
think is the unwritten story as we
talked so much about the suburban revolt
against Trump and I think the reason we
talk about that is because there's
definitely merit to it but also
reporters and political pundits often
live in the suburbs and so they see it
happening but the rural areas which move
dramatically for Trump from 2012 to 2016
lose in large way towards the Democrats
2018 there was there were big Democratic
Games in the rural areas now that didn't
that often wasn't enough to whip rule
seats or to hold on to Senate seats and
very Republican very rural states like
North Dakota but it will have impact in
important presidential swing states with
large rural areas like Pennsylvania
or Wisconsin as examples that may be
important in 2020 who knows yeah when
you look at the map and will we will
tweet this out the report but when the
map between sorry the map that shows the
change between 2016 and 2018 the swing
towards the Democrats the deepest blue
is in places like Iowa Minnesota
Wisconsin some of these very Midwestern
states and by the way some of the sort
of southwestern Sun Belt states in
Arizona in Texas and Georgia where you
know there was like pretty rural areas
some pretty Republican leaning areas I
was surprised by how much the margin the
different the sorry I was surprised by
how much the margin depended on Trump
voters people who had voted for Trump in
2016 switching to Democrats like I I
knew that was the case but I think
partly because we have made the argument
against the deluge of pieces about you
know the Obama Trump voter or the you
know white guy at the bar in
Pennsylvania who voted for Trump and
what's he gonna do and there have been
way too many of these pieces and way too
much focus on these voters and yet the
Democrats would not have a house
majority today were it not for a lot of
people who cast a ballot for Donald
Trump in 2016
coming out in 2018 in deciding no we're
gonna vote for a Democratic candidate
now it also as you've been pointed out
it wouldn't happen it wouldn't have
happened
the majority wouldn't have happened if
it not were not for young voters voters
of color new voters people voting for
the very first time coming out knocking
on doors and voting for these candidates
but we have to be we have to acknowledge
the reality that both things are
necessary and that we need to keep some
of these voters or actually most of
these voters who voted for Trump in 2016
and then voted for Democrats in 20 to 18
in order to win in 2020
yeah and that's that is a scary part of
this which it is one thing to convince a
Republican leading independent or Obama
Trump voter
someone that there should be a check
against Trump like that that's a very
important argument but it is much easier
one than to pick a Democrat over Trump
in the White House to replace Trump and
so you're giving we gotta finish that
argument you're gonna have to take it to
the next step which is challenging just
because someone voted for a Democrat for
Congress you definitely team does not by
any trustee imagination mean that they
are as of right now prepared to vote for
a Democrat certainly one who has been
under the who will spent months if not
years under the sort of caricature
making lens of Trump's Twitter feed in
his propaganda machine right so like
there's a lot of work to do to get
across the finish line here yeah and I
would love to and and may do some
exploring on this I would love to know
more about who these voters are what
they believe what they want
what gets me involved in politics I do
think at this point the people who voted
for Obama in eight and twelve then voted
for Trump in 16 and then voted for our
Republican in 18 are probably fairly
lost to Democrats and we shouldn't spend
a lot of time worrying about those but
the people who switched back who voted
for a Democrat even though they voted
for Trump in 16 and then had voted for
Obama in the past those people I do
think we need to spend some time
thinking about learning about talking to
and wondering sort of what drives their
vote and what would make them finally
say okay I voted for Democrat in 2018
and now I'm also you know I'm fed up
with Trump and I'm willing to walk away
from him and vote for a Democrat in 2020
I think it would do Democrats good to
figure out what what's on those people's
minds yeah I I really wish like there is
an ungodly amount of very limited media
budgets being spent on horse race
polling for a national you know sort of
national horse race coal mine on the
Democratic primary that is relatively
irrelevant to anything since we don't
since we pick our nominees based on
states in a very particular and somewhat
bizarre order of States so what I would
love it as one of these you know the
wall street journal' their time someone
who spent a lot of money on polling to
do dig deep into the following groups of
voters right and this would be a large
survey followed by so mature so
qualitative and quantitative research
one like let's learn a lot about the
four million Obama twelve voters who sat
out sixteen yeah right how many of them
came back in twelve and eighteen why did
they come back what made them come back
who are the people who didn't come back
in eighteen how do we get those people
like that is a hugely important group
another group of people are the Obama
Trump voters right and then you can cut
that across what how they go to in
eighteen so Obama Trump Democrat
eighteen let's find out what made them
make those decisions and what they care
about in twenty and another group are
this other group isn't talked about much
which are Romney Clinton voters right
they are people who voted for Mitt
Romney they think Mitt Romney over
Barack Obama so that tells you something
crude and then pick Trump Clinton over
Trump and I'd love to know are some of
those people sort of decided they're
Republicans and they're just gonna stick
with a Republican president or some of
them available Democrats and then the
other group would be third party voters
than Johnson Stein voters of sixteen
like let's let's understand what those
people think what they care about
let's have that information impact not
just campaign strategies but also media
coverage about what this is all like
this is a very doable thing but per
usual the general political commentary
sphere is focused on the wrong thing not
the most valuable pieces of information
and again specifically the third party
voters the Johnson Stein voters who
turned around and then cast a ballot for
Democrats in eighteen you know because
they think everyone's first reaction to
both the Obama Trump voters and some of
these third party voters is these
people you know they may they're a vote
they took they voted for Trump or they
vote of a third party now look with you
now look at the mess we're in like we
can't kindness people we shouldn't
expend energy on those people and maybe
that's true for the people who either
sat out in eighteen or voted for
Republican again in eighteen there's a
whole bunch of people who either voted
third party in sixteen or voted for
Donald Trump at sixteen who said you
know what I'm voting for a Democrat in
eighteen and we need to keep those
people Democrats need to keep those
people in 2020 if
are to win as well as by the way like
you said figure out how to bring back
some of the four million people who
voted for Barack Obama who just decided
to sit out in 16 because we know those
people have voted for Democrats in the
past where are they what are they
thinking so I do think that's you know
that those people are important one
thing that is we we should all just
internalize is that telling any group of
voters or non voters to off it's
not a good strategy to get them to vote
for your kid right to just yes and I
think all the time about the
conversation that I had during one of
our HBO's Clubs of America specials last
year with Latasha Brown who has been
organizing non-voters primarily Africa
in the south and when she said non
voters are not ambivalent they make a
decision not to vote and it is up to
politicians to understand why they made
that decision and tailor their arguments
and their agendas to changing their mind
and just simply saying like you you know
yeah it's like we have to every time
Trump does something we have to yell
Susan Sarandon right yeah like this that
seems fair but it's not doing that
across the country to everyone who voted
either or for no one who didn't vote for
voted for Jill Stein or Gary Johnson or
whatever else is not a good way to win
the 2008 election there's a way to
understand why people made their
decisions and then understand if you can
within the context of your agenda and
your policies and your and your beliefs
can bring those people back into our
democracy yeah and look I see this a lot
on Twitter when you know people talk
about a lot of these farmers now in the
Midwest who are hurt by Trump's trade
wars and say you know I voted for Donald
Trump and and now you know I'm
struggling because of this trade war and
I'm not gonna vote for him again and the
response to that from a lot of people is
I don't care about these people they
voted for Donald Trump they deserve it
and I don't believe they deserve it but
whether even if you do believe they
deserve it it is in your own political
self-interest as someone who wants to
see Donald Trump leave this office in
2020 to say we want to bring those
people we want to bring those people in
we want their votes maybe we don't agree
with him on everything maybe they have a
lot of
views that we've strongly disagree with
but if we're trying to build a majority
then we need their votes and we want we
want them to vote Democrat in 2020
because we want to get rid of
this guy and we want to get rid of all
the Republicans in Congress who are
obstructing everything and have been for
the last ten years you know so I do
think that's that's important as as
important as it is to I'm sorry and it's
equally important to go out there and
find people who didn't want to
participate who haven't been paid
attention to who have been voters who've
been taken for granted over the last
several years and to go to those places
and try to get those people to vote for
Democrats too so both both are important
that's that's sort of what I took from
this analysis okay
when we return we will have my interview
with Rebecca tracer
you
