welcome back to pod save the world this
is a very special day here in crooked
media HQ ben rhoades is on the ones and
twos as always at the deejay term for
all your world doesn't down there for
the world is very important we also have
Tony blinken one of the nicest people we
ever worked with former Deputy Secretary
of State and deputy national security
adviser
you know Tony would walk around with
Denis McDonough and you know people
would say was that it was the Baywatch
the MSC yeah well more like town and
country models will be glad that we're
resurrecting that I was just tagging
along Tony thank you so much for being
it great to see you thanks best hair
best hair and the NSS heard you know
Sarah so guys I was hoping we could
start with Briggs it because watching
British politics right now is the only
thing that makes me feel good about our
own so last week the EU imposed a new
deadline of April 12th for the UK to
either approve Teresa Mays Briggs a deal
or ask for a long-term extension or exit
the EU without ironing out all the
thousands of details that govern
Commerce or travel between nations then
on Monday the British Parliament took
control of the government efforts to
manage the brexit plus what could go
wrong well I so I was gonna ask you what
the hell does that mean and would you
guys like our Congress to have the
capacity to yeah that's a that's a close
call yeah there yeah I mean I look we
talked about this the car crash has been
playing out in extreme slow motion now
for a few months Tommy and there's an
original sin here that can be voided
which is the referendum to brexit in the
first place and the British Parliament
and people did not like Theresa Mayes
deal because it creates all kinds of
problems for them and they don't like no
deal brexit because that's even worse
and potentially catastrophic for the
British economy and future relationship
between Britain and Europe but they're
kind of casting about when basically any
real brexit is going to have a number of
quinces right and so you're either going
to leave or you're not if you're going
to leave a lot of these bad things are
gonna happen you're gonna have to pay a
bunch of money to the EU you're gonna
lose a bunch of market access your your
citizens are gonna lose the freedom of
movement they have and on down the list
and you know the Parliament can kind of
pretend that they're somehow going to
generate some deal that miraculously
avoids the bad consequences of brexit
and is agreed to by the you but that's
not going to happen either so either
they're just gonna have to swallow hard
and brexit and accept the pain that will
go along with that or they're going to
have to figure out a way to stay in or
have a what's called the soft brexit
where they're still in the customs union
and essentially you're not achieving
what you know the brexit people wanted
and that's basically it and like
everybody's watching this and they're
almost pretending as if there's some
magic solution that they can find when
it doesn't exist yeah and especially
because the EU has to agree to this
right if you if there's a deal it has to
be a deal made with the EU and the EU
has no incentive to give Britain a good
deal because why would they want to send
the message to any other country that
well you can have your cake and eat it
too you can leave the EU and still have
the market access well they're not going
to do that they're not going to give
them a better deal than what Theresa May
got so all they're doing is prolonging
the inevitable here and the inevitable
is they either have to have a pretty
tough brexit or they have to figure out
what it stay in so so Tony over the
weekend there all these rumors of an
insurrection in Theresa May his party
that in her cabinet that she might
actually get ousted as Prime Minister do
you think that would change anything or
would this just be punting for more
extensions and and asking for more time
for the EU you know if there's a major
shift well you know first time I think
Ben's exactly right this is not just the
dog that caught the car this is the dog
that caught the car and then the car
goes into reverse and runs over the dog
and it's a total total mess and the real
problem is there's not there doesn't
seem to be a majority for any scheme
whether it is ma plan whether it's a
softer brexit whether it's a hard
brexit whether it's a second referendum
whether it's an all the whole thing
entirely
that's what Parliament is trying to test
right now by trying to seize control of
this and get a number of votes on these
different schemes to see if anything has
a majority up until now nothing has but
for Theresa May yeah
rumors of her demise have been frequent
they've maybe we're reaching the point
where they're actually accurate but
here's the thing no one wants to be left
holding the bag yeah the game for those
who were who've been challenging her who
would want a challenge for who would
want to become Prime Minister is that
let her hold the bag on brexit let that
get done and then push her out and take
over no one wants to be there what it
actually happens but we may be at a
point where her you know sell-by date is
is real close if you were still in the
State Department do you think that you
would have been dispatched by secretary
Kerry to go over there to help manage
this or is this a relationship would
that's so mature that you're have to
just watch and see what they do look I
don't know what Ben thinks on this but I
think it's it's awful tough to walk that
line between you know interfering in
someone else's politics but also
standing up for your own interests and
our interests clearly is would have been
in keeping you know Britain in whether
we could actually put our nose in this
in a way that a would have an effect
wouldn't be counterproductive mm-hm is a
pretty pretty tough question but then I
don't know what you think well yeah I
mean we went over there famously Obama
went over there at the request of
Cameron and what was interesting at this
is it
Cameron was self-aware enough to know
that he wasn't a very good advocate for
staying in the u because her his own
party was for leaving and then Jeremy
Corbyn as we've talked about kind of has
a secret brexit you know impulse himself
you know he's an unreconstructed
socialist who's skeptical to you so
there was no spokesperson really for
staying with a lot of stature and Obama
poll did like 80 percent the UK and they
said please come here and make the
argument now we went as Tony said we
might made the argument based on like
our own interests you know we want you
to stay yes we think that's best for you
and it's also clearly best for us
clearly that wasn't enough to move the
needle for this but part of the problem
that they have is that there's no one
for brexit or
for the U of a certain political stature
in the country to lead them anywhere
it's very interesting to watch a country
that essentially is lacking in any
political leadership and you know part
of what's interesting and watching this
and you know Tony I know what you think
and you know Tony would actually you
were an se Europe at one point so you
bought a long time not that long yeah
you know but the the national identity
of the UK is kind of playing out and
before our eyes and what is this country
you know it was the British Empire for a
very long time and then it was kind of
the Cold War beachhead for liberal
democracy and open markets during you
know the Cold War years and then it was
this kind of you know unique bridge
between the Americans and the Europeans
and the Commonwealth
don't forget cool Britannia well as you
say you mix in the Beatles and and the
British Invasion and all that but but
really what they're deciding is who are
we are we your opinion country or not
you know are we we embracing the legacy
of the Empire are we moving past that
are we an isolated island unto ourselves
or are we connect to the rest of the
world and they're doing that without any
political leadership so it's a strange
thing to watch a country trying you know
an ancient country trying to define what
it is in the 21st century but without
any political leaders to to point the
direction and and that's what's been I
think so disheartening to watch and you
know Boris Johnson the the leading
brexit voice yeah he's he's the guy
wants to make Britain great again you
know the Empire was great and if only we
could go back well guess what they're
not going back to the empire you know
then you have kind of the the modern
multicultural Britain embodied by like
Sadiq Khan the the Mayor of London but
you know that is something that is not
embraced Chloe by people in rural
England they just seemed to not know
who they are and to be fair to them I
mean we're sitting here the United
States we're having some of the same
national identity problems but this is a
pretty profound moment I'm a
generational aspect of this is really
striking too I mean you have so many
young Brits who feel like they have been
had the rug pulled out from under them
in being pulled out of the European
Union and their own futures their
ability to travel their ability to study
their ability to work on the continent
has been made much much more difficult
and they feel like their elders have you
know done something to them that they
will regret yeah there's there's so many
components of this that are so
unbelievably fraught so for example
under brexit Northern Ireland leaves the
EU with the UK but Ireland stays in the
EU which ignores the fact that they have
a totally open border and the Good
Friday Agreement less northern island
residents basically choose their
citizenship now it was not until I
recently read this book called say
nothing by Patrick rad and Keith I want
to have on the show to talk about the
troubles which is the period in in
Northern Ireland where the IRA was
blowing civilians up in an astounding
clip how unbelievably fraught that
period was how conditional the peace
ultimately was how the factions all
still exist I mean just wrenching them
out of that agreement is is a
unbelievable thing to do and Toni you've
worked on this do you think the Good
Friday Agreement is possible without the
EU it's certainly a heck of a lot
tougher and I mean you know you both
referenced something important because
the United States actually played a
critical role in getting peace in
Northern Ireland and Bill Clinton folks
who worked with him and for him were
actually instrumental and this was a
perfect case of where a sort of outside
honest broker made all the difference in
getting these parties Tommy as you said
the violence was you know extraordinary
and the animosities had been built up
over the generations were so hard to
peel away and compromise was seen as a
as a weakness as a failure
Clinton through his own diplomacy George
Mitchell who played an instrumental role
in this they were the ones who really
helped bring people together I think
it's a lot harder without the U and of
course no one wants to go back to a hard
border
you know between Northern Ireland and
Ireland but for the brexit errs
this is a real problem because they
think this is the backdoor way of
keeping Britain in in the EU so this is
why this has been so one of the main
reasons it's been so difficult yeah to
get to some kind of agreement let's go
to a much less troubled part of the
world Gaza it has been a very scary few
days in Israel Hamas has been firing
rockets from the Gaza Strip they've
wounded several people I believe seven
into the last count I read Israel hit
back they hit targets across Gaza that
they said were responsible for the
indiscriminate rocket fire that's just
you know hitting civilian homes the the
early news reports seem to indicate that
both sides are trying to ratchet things
down and Hamas even said that the
Egyptians have brokered a ceasefire but
you know two questions I guess one
Israel and Hamas there hasn't been a
full-fledged war since I believe 2014
how worried are you about the latest
conflict and I mean given the Israeli
elections are on April 9th and Netanyahu
was actually in the US when the rocket
fire began do you think the timing was
coincidental or is Hamas sending a
message here well look from my
perspective the only thing worse is
people have said then an intended war is
an unintended one and I think neither
Hamas nor Israel
want an all-out conflict it would be bad
for both sides not to mention the many
innocents who would get killed injured
or made homeless in the process but it's
very very easy for these things to
spiral out of control and especially
when politics is in the mix on the eve
of an election every single decision is
incredibly fraught
so I think there's a real interest on
both sides and tamping this down but
it's something you have to watch really
really closely because we're in such a
fraught political period yeah and one of
the things that you know it hasn't
gotten a lot of attention Tommy is that
you know there have been reports
recently of some Palestinian uprising
against Hamas in Gaza some some
frustration with Hamas is rule and and
you know it's a part of this and you
know we'd have to obviously look more
carefully and pull the threads on these
things but you know sometimes a group
like Hamas it doesn't really have much
to offer its people other than you know
its resistance to Israel when they're
feeling some pressure
internally you know you you lash out at
the external enemy in Israel right and
so this kind of I think speaks further
to the dysfunction and Gaza obviously
there you know Hamas is responsible for
this indiscriminate rocket fire which is
totally unacceptable at the same time
the question is how do you how do you
try to dislodge Hamas right Israel's
fault
multiple wars in Gaza since Hamas took
control in 2005 and the reality is this
strategy of blockade in Gaza making
people there suffer you know I think the
goal was to send a message to the people
of Gaza that it'll be worse for you
because Hamas is in charge but that's
only served to kind of entrenched Hamas
there I I do think it's worth rethinking
whether the all-out blockade that is
causing humanitarian crisis is an
effective political strategy in in in
weakening Hamas because they seem to be
perfectly capable of entrenching
themselves despite this blockade the
people suffer Hamas is still there you
know I think it's worth exploring
whether trying to increase connectivity
between the people of Gaza in the
outside world increase the humanitarian
proved the manatorian situation might be
you know both better for the people of
Gaza and a different way at trying to
get at the need to promote you know the
Palestinian to be able to choose their
leaders Hamas is leadership is horrific
and what they're doing to their own
people is horrific at the same time the
living conditions in Gaza particularly
because it's been blockaded are really
unsustainable one of the most shocking
things is that over the last few years
since 2014 the suicide rate in Gaza
among young men has gone through the
roof and of course it's not a far step
from someone committing suicide to
someone committing suicide with a
suicide belt on yeah
and so something's got to give and one
of the things that is clear as we've
seen these indiscriminate rocket attacks
they're designed from Hamas designed to
kill Israeli civilians one of the things
I'm proudest of during our
administration was the work we did to
make sure that Israel had this Iron Dome
missile defense system which was a
extraordinarily effective and there was
a point during the 2014 crisis when very
late at night and this was when Ben and
I were working together on the National
City Council the Israelis came to us the
Ambassador came and said we're running
out of these interceptors we need more
we spoke to President Obama the next day
on a Friday in the Oval Office he said
three words get it done and by Tuesday
we had more Iron Dome money for Iron
Dome interceptors for Israel but here's
the other side of the equation we were
talking in the context of brexit of the
lack of leadership in in the UK Israel
is about to engage in in an election
we'll see what the result is but there
is tactical leadership which arguably
Prime Minister Netanyahu is very very
good at but strategic leadership is an
entirely different question and it's
very hard to see where this story ends
if Israel continues on the current
course the absence of trying in a
meaningful way to find a two-state
solution outcome I think creates a huge
dilemma yeah for Israel because the
bottom line is if the current trajectory
continues in the absence of such
resolution Israel cannot remain Jewish
and democratic it either has to
subjugate a population that will be
majority Palestinian and Arab if it
wants to retain its Jewish character and
hence it won't be democratic or if it is
democratic it'll lose its Jewish
character so a choice has to be made and
playing for time is one thing but
avoiding these hard choices is another
and of course Israelis are right they
haven't exactly had a great partner in
the Palestinians but the need for vision
for how to sustain Israel as a Jewish
Democratic insecure state is what's
really lacking at least in this election
and I think with Bibi you know he's good
at playing for time through the next
election you know there's always some
at the last minute last time it was
demonizing Israeli Arabs and the Arabs
are voting in droves Bibi said you know
this time it'll be this mix of you know
bashing Ilhan Omar daypack and and and
you know flexing the Golan Heights I
want to ask you guys about that because
you know Bibi was in Netanyahu for the
AIPAC meetings but he also got a pretty
big political win from President Trump
who officially recognized Israeli
sovereignty over the Golan Heights while
sitting next to him in the Oval Office
Pompeyo it I believe it already made a
trip to Israel to have a ceremony there
so it got maximum press coverage but um
so the Golan Heights were were seized
from Syria in 1967 by the Israeli
military in 1981 the Israelis passed a
law but essentially annexed the place
they took legal and administrative
control over the territory should note
that the UN does not think that that is
a valid law the 1981 law they declared a
null and void but I mean I guess my
questions for someone who's like what
the hell is a Golan hi why is it such a
strategically important piece of turf
for the Israelis why do people find the
precedent of allowing annexation
worrisome in your mind and and what did
you make of this election day miracle
Prime Minister Netanyahu yeah I mean you
know the first thing is consistent what
I was saying about Bibi always trying to
get to the next election that seems he
was only time when he worries about and
thinks about and and meanwhile all the
underlying challenges get more
intractable and unless he really is just
playing for time for settlements to
displace Palestinians it's hard to see
what else the strategy is on this one
the Golan Heights are in you're
strategically significant because as the
description there it's the high ground
literally and you can see on them yeah
and in the past you know before is real
sees them in 1967 obviously if you're if
you're military opponent has a high
ground that is looking down on you that
has military advantages you know
particularly with the development of new
rocket technology Israel feels like it
needs the Golan Heights is almost like a
buffer between them and and and their
Arab neighbors to the north now here
the problems one for the US president
two naked ly and transparently do some
the Golan Heights have not been in the
news there's no reason to be doing this
there's not some ongoing struggle for
the Golan Heights no one is calling them
to hand over the fact oh there's a
peacekeeping force there that the
Syrians aren't trying to overrun the
Golan Heights so so this did not need to
happen Trump chose to do this right so
the first problem with this is making a
major decision that goes against but
there's been multiple UN resolutions
that say that this under international
law does not belong to Israel and
multiplayer can administration multiple
America administrations have backed that
position so for Trump to change a u.s.
position on this territory against
multiple UN resolutions just on the eve
of Bibi visiting Washington for the
AIPAC conference in front of his
election plays into the very worst you
know cynicism around the world that that
all of our foreign policy is just rooted
in domestic politics our domestic
politics are Israel's right that's the
first problem the second problem is all
this is going to do given that this
wasn't it can be currently being
particularly contested is once again
inflamed Arab opinion against Israel and
against the United States playing any
kind of broker role in these conflicts
and so if Jared has a peace plan in his
pocket everybody knows that that would
be weighted heavily towards trying to
get other Arab states to in some fashion
recognize Israel or play a constructive
role well this just made that much much
more difficult frankly it only plays
into the hands of the Assad's and Iran's
of the world who use conflicts like this
to bolster their own legitimacy as the
people who are standing up to Israel so
it made every it made the regional
dynamic worse well not really doing
anything it's not like Israel got
something new they you know they've
already had this kind of de facto
ability you know control so the second
point is it just it made the regional
dynamic worse third is we we've spent
four years since Tony was leading this
process in situation
rejecting the Russian annexation of
Crimea on the basis of international law
that you can't just kind of come in win
a piece of land in a war and annex it
against the the the wishes of the
inertial community and against
international law against you and you
know previously you want positions we
just handed Putin a gigantic gift he can
rightly say what the hell is the
difference between us annexing Crimea
and israel annexing the golden knights
it's exactly the same thing yeah and so
we are now playing the role that we've
been standing up against in terms of
Crimea and so collectively this is such
a Trump thing to do it's naked ly
political it's entirely to serve as
domestic political interests it makes an
intractable conflict in the Middle East
worse and it's a gift to Putin yeah I
mean Ben said it exactly right this has
nothing to do with security and
everything to do with politics president
Trump's politics Prime Minister
Netanyahu's politics it's as simple as
that and for all the reasons Ben said it
just makes life a heck of life that's
already very complicated a lot more
complicated one of the ironies is you
want to talk about security and Israel's
security one of the things that's
actually undermined Israel's security
was president Trump unilaterally without
any process without apparently thinking
about it pulling our very modest force
out of Syria very different than the you
know hundred thousand troops we had in
Iraq with a hundred thousand troops we
had in Afghanistan a very small force a
couple of thousand leveraging tens of
thousands of local forces to help keep
what was left of ISIL at bay to help
keep the other countries in the region a
little bit on their heels and not on
their toes and among other things to
keep Iran from acting out too much
against Israel that he just removed
without talking anyone but including the
Israelis so if I were Netanyahu instead
of praising President Trump in the Oval
Office and at this press conference in
the rather robust way that he did I'd be
saying to in private what did you do you
just pulled the rug out from under us in
in Syria yeah and this guy's still
 more on that if you if you if
you watch the Press Council Netanyahu
unfortunately I had to do
and he goes on this long rant about Iran
and he goes because of what we've done
you know with Iran Iran today this is a
quote from crumb is a totally different
country than it was when I took office
what the is he talking about it's
the exact same country like you have a
map Tommy could you pull it up like the
last I checked the Iran is the same
place good radio the last I checked here
Iran it has all the same influence that
it's had in Syria and in Iraq Iran is
actually still complying with the
nuclear deal that Trump pulled out of
like literally nothing has changed right
it just shows that this is a farce it's
just about politics it's about being
able to stand up next to Netanyahu and
say Ron is totally different like what
is the backup for that and who asks him
that question like in the press it's
like he just says he sings excuse me
could you describe how they're a
different kind of one good one please
I've asked this question before but
could someone in the White House press
corps please ask the president states
what is the Iran deal could you describe
the terms of the Iran deal he has no
idea what's even in this agreement you
know and so this is all the show and
we're all supposed to treat it like it's
on the level like we're supposed to
treat it like it's like real thought-out
foreign policy well can you imagine the
process that led to the Golan Heights
sing how many meetings you think there
were of like the National Security
Council to discuss this he woke up and
he tweeted something because he and
Jared and whomever figured out it'd be
good you know you know a nice gift gift
for greeby here for AIPAC will give you
what you get to come to AIPAC and get an
extra party favors a great swag bag yeah
it's also it's notably on the heels of
Netanyahu aligning with a party that is
so far right and so overtly racist that
AIPAC denounced them one too you know
it's worth stepping back and remembering
that these very overt efforts to
interfere in a foreign election often
don't work including when Bill Clinton
went to Israel in 1996 and to endorse
essentially Shimon Peres
in his race against Bibi Netanyahu and I
believe it backfired so yeah there's a
good lesson there anyway amateur
hour anyway next thing so
speaking of the Middle East so the Trump
White House sorry
speaking of Syria recently Trump White
House announced that Isis has lost its
last bit of territory in Syria I think
we all would agree it's unequivocally a
good thing especially for the people
that were living under Isis rule I can
imagine it was hell on earth but the
reporting feels a little bit like
Groundhog Day the New York Times is
quoting an analyst in a story today it
said Isis is more powerful than it was
in 2011 the pattern basically is that
when Isis loses territory like they did
in Syria they return to the same
guerrilla tactics that they've been
using for years including back when we
all called them al-qaeda in Iraq
Tony how big a deal do you think the
territorial defeat is and and how far
along in the process is that territorial
defeat in terms of eradicating the
threat from Isis to the US let's say
look from where I said the territorial
if heat is a big deal it does a number
of things it takes away literally a
physical place to bring various folks
who would sign up to become foreign
fighters in an ISIL there's no place to
go it denies the organization resources
in the areas that they controlled
including a lot of oil that they once
controlled banks you name it and it
actually even more important goes to
their entire narrative of actually
building a state a physical state that's
been taken away from them so it's a big
deal but here's the thing Tommy first it
was pretty galling to see president
Trump go out in front of the helicopter
he's taking off the other day
and again we're this is great great
radio to pull out a map and say here's
what's happening now ISIL is entirely
gone and showed what what it looks like
now in Syria and then he showed the map
of what ISIL looked like and what Syria
looked like with ISIL at the very end of
the Obama administration there two big
sort of red blotches on that map well
here's the thing the one area where
President Trump is actually continued
Obama's policy was in dealing with ISIL
and thank goodness that he did because
the coalition that we put together the
strategy we put in place the local
fighters that we trained and equipped
that's what got us to this point the
territorial defeat of ISIL and back at
the end of the Obama administration yes
there were two red blotches left on that
map Raqqa and Mosul that systematically
comprehensively we had cut off and
isolated and then time ran out on us and
it fell to our successors to finish the
job but it's a little bit like and I
hate to even put President Truman and
President Trump in the same sentence but
it's a little bit like Harry Truman at
the end of the Second World War
taking credit for everything that
happened under FDR's waters but to your
point yes unfortunately Tara told
defeats a big deal but it's not the end
of the story and we're seeing them
revert to more traditional tactics
including in a bunch of different places
around the world
yeah and also the danger as foreign
fighters who've survived try to go home
and maybe reintegrate their countries
and do bad deeds there that's something
that demands very intense international
cooperation to make sure we're all
working together to track them to trace
them to stop them the one weird thing
about this as tony said we had this plan
in place and was working and and the
territory had begun to be taken back
from Isis we'd taken back a bunch of
population centers in Iraq and Syria you
know the the the that inkblot of Isis
territory on the map had been shrinking
steadily the most operation and begun we
actually gave them the whole rock a
battle plan the weird thing to happen is
that they delayed that they said oh no
we have to review this and we thought
this was weird we're on the way out the
door were like hey this is all ready to
go you know we've got these Syrian
forces Kurds and Arabs ready to go and
they deleted for a pretty brief period
of time and then they basically just
restarted it the one points one Adame is
like the person who deleted the criminal
grifter who deleted Mike Flynn yeah is
at that same time we know climbed into
bed with Ty a Bedouin and Turkey who was
the one guy who didn't like the plan
because he didn't like that the Kurds
were central to the plan right and we
were arming them and we were arming the
Kurds right so I you know among the many
scandals that didn't get all the
attention that we needed while you know
we were apparently too focused on Bob
Muller which we could talk about a
moment if you want but it
why the National Security Adviser the
United States literally slowed down the
rock a battle plan at the same time that
he had business interests with the
Turkish government that didn't like that
plan okay someone should look at that
but you'll remember this the very last
meeting of the National Security Council
chaired by President Obama the last week
in office had one decision teed up and
that was whether to go ahead or not and
add to the arming we were doing of the
Kurdish led militia in Syria in order
for them to be able to take Raqqa and
that was what was teed up for the
meeting and Susan Rice the national
security advisor at the time said look I
just got off the phone with Mike Flynn
my successor to be and he asked that we
not make this decision and President
Obama said well look I have to respect
that they're coming in we'll leave it to
them if the decision were mine we'd go
ahead and do it but you know we thought
this was on the up and up that they
wanted to review the plan but it's been
said and we later find out yeah that mr.
Flynn has ties with Turkey he wants to
like get paid to render like we went
from Pennsylvania kidnap a cleric living
in pencil like wrap up enos cantor in
the United States do more anyway that's
not you could actually believe anything
about these people so I do need to
clarify don't think James Dolan do two
more things I would ask you guys about
so there's been this ongoing struggle in
in Venezuela as we've talked about a few
times in the show
Pompeyo told his Russian counterpart
recently that the US will not quote
stand idly by if Russia sends more
military personnel to Venezuela to pop
up Maduro who is their guy in Venezuela
this followed reports to at least two
Russian planes carrying a hundred troops
and a whole bunch of heavy things in
boxes in down to Venezuela over the
weekend you know as you guys know so the
Trump administration recognized one
Guido as president Venezuela in January
they spent the last few months trying to
get the Venezuelan military to defect
from Maduro side - quite aside they've
had a little very little success instead
they've they've ratchet up the
military's ratchet up the use of force
against protesters and quite of
so it's probably also worth noting that
Russia has loaned Venezuela billions of
dollars in recent years that all gets
paid back in oil so they have a vested
interest in the most literal sense um I
guess my question is when you tell the
Russians if you're Mike Pompey or the
Secretary of State we will not stand
idly by
if the Russians continue to send
military officers and support to
Venezuela how do you back that up well
someone we work closely with former Vice
President Biden used to remind us big
nations can't Bluff yeah so if there's
something behind that we'll see I don't
think that there is but here's the thing
in in fairness I want to give the
administration some credit standing up
for the one democratically elected
institution in Venezuela the National
Assembly led by mr. Guido putting more
pressure on Maduro those were good
things to do those were the right things
to do and they also helped bring some
other countries in the hemisphere
together to do that but here's the
problem one of the things they done is
they put all their chips on the bet that
increasing this pressure would cause the
military to flip and Tommy as you said
to date that hasn't happened Maduro has
done such a good job in literally buying
off the senior brass of the military
Cuba has about a thousand advisers there
who are also making sure that if there
any signs of defection they get nipped
in the bud and now Russia has deployed
some forces that's a lot there and all
of that makes it really really hard so
the problem now is we've increased the
pressure we don't have a lot of other
cards to play absent and an invasion
which would be a catastrophic mistake
and the military still there now it's
possible that at some point we'll hit
the the tipping point and they go but by
the way even if that happens even if
Maduro goes that's not the end of the
story that's the beginning of the story
this country is so destroyed
economically and so divided politically
that what follows Maduro will be chaotic
and potentially catastrophic unless
there is a strong and serious and
comprehensive international plan to help
put the pieces back together I've seen
no evidence of that coming from the
United States
yeah you know I just think they they
they said was unacceptable when the
chief of staff to Guate got arrested
he's rested they said they're not
standing idly by I mean they the
rhetoric they've employed on Venezuela
you know is only making them look
feckless here and and again like I've
been bit uncomfortable with this
direction for a while if you really want
to solve the problem you're gonna have
to get in the room with a bunch of
different people including probably the
Venezuelan military and the Cubans and
and so if they're not gonna do that
there's just gonna be this brinksmanship
and these this crowd knows how to do
that Maduro knows how to dig in he's
paid off the military zone he said he's
got the Russians giving a lifeline he's
got the Chinese giving him a lifeline
he's got the Cubans he plays on the
social divisions the people leaving the
country people are he don't like him so
you know we're just kind of continue to
drive this car over a cliff without like
giving it any thought and like we
Russians are more than willing to back
odious characters like we learned that
in in Syria with Assad so I just I
really worry about the direction of this
is taking and you know all the chest
thumping rhetoric in the world isn't
gonna make Nicolas Maduro
step down yeah it's not good it's not
good um last thing for you guys so the
the bar sparknotes of the Muller report
are now public that has sparked a bit of
recrimination from several journalists
on the Left who who say that like the
Muller discussions have been inflamed
and and you know ridiculous for a year
so one reporter in particular for
Rolling Stone wrote a piece claiming
that Russia Gate is this generation's
WMD so again I want to say too late we
haven't actually seen Muller's report
but I like I just I've turned up you got
a great little ringer for you yeah I
sorry I just turned my thing off do you
guys have the ring app no what's that I
mean there's not an ad on pad save the
world we're gonna cut this last thing I
want to ask you guys
since we've gotten the the AG's summary
of the mullet report there's been some
recrimination come from the left about
whether the media completely screwed
this up the the the most hyperbolic
version of it being a Rolling Stone
article that said Russia Gate is this
generations debbie md it was actually a
Rolling Stone reporter so again we
haven't seen the report but I guess I'm
just trying to understand how you can
make that comparison one given the
impact of the Iraq invasion that we're
still living with that we just basically
spent the last hour talking about but
also I mean when you look back at the
reporting in the lead-up to Iraq I mean
the New York Times was running stories
that said front-page headline USS
Hussein intensifies quest for a bomb
parts
the New York Post had a story on
September 16 2002 Saddam aims to give
terrorists briefcase bio bombs right
like I'm Ed Shalaby who is at exiled
Araki politician who was a favorite
neocon and a huge source in the run-up
to the war was seen as someone who's
given constant misinformation and Judy
Miller who was a reporter at The New
York Times during that period said that
he provided most of their front page
exclusives on WM B so the paper so I'm
trying to find what like where was the
media failure to be sent there was one
in in the Russia reporting I asked you
guys as people that were involved in the
Russia hacking Intelligence and have
been consumers of the information since
because this reporter for Rolling Stone
compares the steel dossier to on that
Chalabi x' role in the WM a screw-up and
that to me seems a touch off I think
that first of all I I've never quite
understood the the kind of collection of
people on the Left who apologized for
Putin because he's basically the most a
Liberal leader imaginable anything you
know the values that I think
on the left purport to care about human
rights free media LGBT rights and the
man just steamrolls on a regular basis
so there's this kind of weird but
putting that aside I this is could seem
like a mildly annoying thing on Twitter
I think it's actually really dangerous
because let's separate out two questions
there's what Russia did and there's
Trump we nothing about Bob about the
bars you know Cliff Notes version of the
report does anything to diminish in any
way shape or form what Russia did right
so if Russia is the WMD here right in
fact to confirm their very that they're
very present Russia like make no mistake
in an operation led by Vladimir Putin on
down through their intelligence agencies
interfered in our election through the
mass dissemination of social media aimed
at supporting Trump and creating
societal divisions in this country that
we are dealing with to this day hacked
into some of the most significant
political institutions in the country
provided that information to WikiLeaks
to be released to help Trump timed the
release of that information to help
Trump sought to make relationships with
people and Trump's orbit so as to
presumably gain information that could
help them more effectively intervening
in the election there is nothing even if
you take this kind of stupid absurd over
cranked exoneration narrative that Trump
there is nothing that suggests at any
way shape or form that Russia didn't do
those things and that those things
should be really worrying to Americans
because Russia did them and they're
gonna do them again and again and again
and again and their objective is a
divided broken America that will no
longer be an impediment to their
ambitions and so even if you are unlike
me somehow sympathetic to Russia's
ambitions or you think that the West has
pushed too far and to Russia's orbit or
what-have-you
that doesn't diminish the fact that
Russia
is seeking to continually use asymmetric
means to basically break apart our
society and diminish our country so it's
it's offensive to to our intelligence
into everything we care about and by the
way I should say this as people who are
on the Left I mean I think of myself as
on the left this is not a good look for
us to be somehow apologist for Putin or
somehow diminishing what Putin is doing
our election that Putin is weaponizing
social justice movements in this country
it cries so division he's trying to you
know you use pit the the black lives
matter movement against the NRA like
these are things that we know to be true
right and again look at what he's done
to LGBT rights in Russia they've
tortured gay people in Russia okay
they've killed gay people in Russia you
care about gay rights how can you
apologize for Vladimir Putin and look in
the mirror after so I look I agree with
that but like it's a separate point like
the question of is the media they're
saying that this was worse than Iraq WMD
it doesn't seem like there's any
evidence there but so then to take the
media side of it we I'm shocked by what
I learned in the Moller report to date
and I mean read the thing okay I
mean I've said if you had told me when I
left the White House and I thought I was
pretty alarmist that Donald
Trump jr. would be like yeah can't wait
to get that dirt on Hillary and had
meetings in Trump Tower with a bunch of
Russians and the Trump is negotiating to
build a Trump Tower in Moscow through
the election that would have
floored me in German I've actually only
know that because of the combination of
these investigations and the media
rights and let's let's read the report
that yes yes because what I used to do
book reports based off of cliff notes
instead of actually reading the book
they usually weren't as good so let's
see the full thing but here's the other
thing that I think we're missing and Ben
really puts his finger on it what Putin
has been trying to do at the at the
heart of everything is to divide us to
play on our existing divisions to
amplify them to pour gasoline on them
and to get us going at each other to D
legitimize our institutions to call into
question all of our most fundamental
beliefs and leaving aside the
finding of no collusion in the molar
report on one level President Trump is
colluding every single day with Lattimer
Putin's ambitions in that every time the
president goes after one of our
institutions
every time he denigrates the
intelligence community the law
enforcement community muller himself and
that whole process or any group you can
think of he is advancing mr. Putin's
narrative he's actually doing Putin's
job for him every time he embraces an
autocrat and denigrates a Democrat
somewhere around the world he is doing
Putin's bidding form now that may or may
not may not be willful but it has the
effect of actually advancing Russia's
objectives to do exactly what Ben
described which was divide us get us to
question our institutions get us the
question who we are and to be to take
your point about being fair here like
the okay did some people over predict
what would come out of the Moller report
I'm sure you could find some media that
did that but collectively I don't I
don't really think so I I don't think
anybody had there was this kind of mass
expectation right the Trump would be
arrested by Bob Muller or even impeach
Nancy Pelosi went out a few weeks ago
and said Beecham was off the table like
so I the media's role they've been
focused on it because it's a big story
yeah
appropriately focused on it and in a big
story that yielded many indictments and
that revealed a lot about what Russia
did and revealed a lot about what Trump
did and even if there's not a criminal
conspiracy it didn't rise that level it
doesn't mean it's still not a huge story
that Russia did this and that the Trump
people were at minimum winning of
elements of this in welcoming of it
that alone merits all of this media
attention so to compare this a wd the
the underlying event is true the Russian
interference the Trump associates being
witting of that and in some ways
engaging with that even if doesn't rise
the level of criminal conspiracy that
actually exceeded Tommy what I ever
thought would come out of this
investigation
and and so to compare this to WMD is is
sheer huge disservice and I do think
it's relevant to Putin because Putin
wants
to be able to say oh it's fake news so I
think you are playing into Putin's hands
I think that a couple things like one
there were some incredibly there were
some glaringly wrong reports like did
Michael Cohen go to Prague or not
because McClatchy is just let that story
hang for the better part of a year there
were some reports that were probably
overheated like intelligence officials
say they're not briefing Trump on the
the best stuff because they're worried
he'll disclose it maybe that was true
maybe it wasn't we do know that he
disclosed highly sensitive information
to like the Russian ambassador in the
Oval Office so but whatever like the in
but moreover I think that what was
 but moreover I do think
that it is true that a lot of cable news
panels allowed people to make
predictions to do punditry that was
wrong but that doesn't compare to like
but can we put this in context yeah just
a second we have in the current
commander in chief
someone who it has been documented has
made 8,000 erroneous or misleading
statements as president United States on
average more than 10 a day we have gone
from the first president United States
who could not tell a lie to the current
president who cannot tell the truth
and so for anyone on behalf of President
Trump to go after the credibility of any
other person or institution in this
country when the President himself is
the leading purveyor of fake news the
leading consumer of fake news
yeah the leading purveyor of conspiracy
theories the leading consumer of
conspiracy theories it doesn't hold up
yeah so we so let's get let's put this
in the right context I agree but in but
even like let's say Trump wasn't
president let's say it was a robot that
could only say that the truth I mean
comparing some pundit on MSNBC
predicting Trump would get locked up or
as kids would go to jail to Judy Miller
writing a front-page story about Rakhi
efforts to get aluminum tubes it could
be only used to create nuclear weapons
when in fact they were experts sitting
in the intelligence agency said no those
are probably just traditional rockets
components or you know to to go to one
person chalabi
over and over again as your source for
WMU related stories knowing that he was
completely self interested in this
process and wanted to rule a rock later
on like that is a that is a failure that
allowed the Trump White House to launder
erroneous or half-assed intelligence
through the mainstream media and make a
case for war that led to like a decade
of a disaster
Bush what else yeah and and these are
yeah but the I guess the the reason I've
such a visceral reaction to it though to
is it
okay yeah the Michael Cohen meeting say
that never happened like like you said
the first point here is that what was
the consequence of that in the classroom
yeah the consequences McClatchy looks
stupid and nobody's ready to prove it
and right and so if your point is oh ha
once again the mainstream media reported
some things are wrong because they were
too invested in a certain narrative I
you know okay I can engage with that but
the point is that in the scale of what's
happening in our country and in the
information space is tommy's as tony
says of our country that McClatchy
report is is not the most concerning
thing you know we're dealing in in a
situation here where the the the scale
of what is at stake between the Trump
Putin and again this is why I do kind of
have a reaction about why are we doing
this on the left like Trump Putin be be
aired on the far-right parties in Europe
Breck said look we've got enough coming
at us here you know this is this is like
the existential challenge of our
generation as to whether this wave of
authoritarian strongman post truth
us-versus-them politics is going to wash
over us and wash away everything we care
about and if you can somehow step back
and look at that and think that the the
Iraq scale problem is some cable
news panels and and some over cranked
predictions about the Muller report it's
just such a miss Reid
of what the actual moment is that we're
living through and what the what the
scale of the the post truth politics is
that is numbing us every single day if
you can somehow look at that and still
think that the biggest problem in
American politics last two years is some
over-torque Muller coverage like I just
don't I don't get why that's yeah what
what what is the point of that
especially when you make that assertion
without having you know read them all
report which I would like to rebut uh me
too but that's all we have the time for
today
Tony thank you so much for being here I
think we think you should move to
California it's it's not a hard sell
okay
yeah well there's a new and there's a
new blinkin I wasn't sure about allowed
to mention john rowley blinken one month
old today born in Encinitas California
unbelievable congratulations and thank
you all over for for agreeing to do this
because uh you know I'm sure you had
electric much going on literally all
right are we going
you
