now it's time for okay stop well roller
clip the man who can say okay stop at
any point to comment George
Stephanopoulos he seamlessly
transitioned from storied White House
communications director to successful
television anchor and pundit so like his
generations Anthony scaramouche II he
sat down with Donald Trump in the White
House
well actually stood next to him at his
desk and Donald said some surprising
things let's watch as we walked into the
Oval Office President Trump had already
tweeted about new polls showing him
behind the Democrats clearly not happy
why does it bother you so much because
it's untrue
I like the truth okay why does Trump
always look like he was wearing goggles
and like just stood in front of the Sun
but it's so distracting so I'm very
interested in this question about his
tan it's a very interesting question so
there's a couple theories that I've been
working on as to why he constantly looks
like a reverse raccoon and so I used to
believe it was because he's on his phone
while he's getting his makeup so he's
constantly looking down and they can't
get under there that that was my go go
to theory but this extends the white
really all the way up to the eyebrow and
beneath which leads me to believe maybe
he really is lying in a tanning bed and
then I think with the goggles on so
let's say it's 12 minutes in the booth
does that mean that there is only one 12
minute period every single day where
he's not looking at a screen I think you
can do stuff in the bed and I'm also
wondering like does he have one of those
like Playboy bunny stickers to track out
Annie's kidding listen I was a in
college okay
you gotta track your tan okay if I
thought they were correct I wouldn't be
complaining at all I understand that
it's like the witch hunt
that goes on your son John Jr is up
before the Senate Intelligence Committee
net today and again he was not charged
with anything
in retrospect anyway not only wasn't he
charged if you read it with all of the
horrible fake news I mean I was reading
that my son was gonna go to jail this is
a good young man okay stop
that is 1/3 trail he's not that young
he's not that good and it is it's just
amazing that for Donald Trump a black
teenager is a adults who should
be put to death and and you are a young
man into your major 40s with
Donald Trump you're just an innocent a
babe in the woods and it's very
frustrating he's gonna go to jail and
then the report comes out and they
didn't even say they sued me I'm going
to the FBI when he got that okay let's
put yourself in a position you're a
congressman somebody comes up and says
hey I have information on your opponent
you call the FBI I think I mean from the
bite one you do I've seen a lot of
things over my life I don't think in my
whole life I've ever called the FBI okay
stop of course not of course not of
course not your life is a series of
unending financial crimes of course
you're not calling the FBI
that's no one mr. president no one
thought you've been calling the FBI
that's the last person you should call
you're a criminal my whole life I don't
you don't call the FBI you throw
somebody out of your office you do
whatever got a stolen briefing book he
called the FBI okay stop just want to
again reiterate that that has now turned
out to be one of the biggest mistakes in
human history lesson of the
trump administration you get george w
bush's stolen briefing book you read
every page copy it
read it again throw the original out
throw the copy out and then you beat
george w bush in that debate and then
you never talked about it and it doesn't
get to be a little proof point about how
you were better than Donald Trump
after the Iraq war too much stolen
briefing but this is understood this is
somebody that said we have information
on your opponent oh let me call the FBI
okay I love when he acts
oh we got and then he doesn't even like
jus he doesn't even do the phone in a
fun way he's like oh he's never taken an
improv class in the two films
you got it it's not a banana come on his
object work is Rob he's sitting at a
desk with a phone you have the real for
who mr. Hoover I bet you're vacuums
can't pick up that phone cuz the second
he picks up that phone you can hear
through the microphone die cope sir life
doesn't work director says that's what
should happen the FBI director is wrong
okay stop so the FBI director says if a
foreign government or foreign adversary
comes to you with information to help
your campaign you should call the FBI
that's a pretty good closed loop of
expertise I am in charge of the FBI if
this happens you should call me and I
say that as the person who knows what
the FBI is for and what happens when we
get that call and Trump's like disagree
hard disagree don't see it that way
we're on different pages this mr. Trump
that the fire department says that when
your house is on fire
you should call the fire department no I
think the fire department is wrong I'm
paying this time around if foreigners if
Russia if China if someone else offers
you information on opponents should they
accept it or should they call the FBI I
think maybe you do both Oh
art of the deal art of the deal you
compromise you do both you take the
information you use it then you
I'm still a material never mind if
somebody called from a country Norway we
have information on your opponent oh I
think I'd want to hear you want that
kind of interference in our elections
it's not an interference they have
information I think I'd take it
Denmark Norway Sweden Spain UK France
Germany Belgium Italy are you paying
attention help help help help help
do what listen listen you're small but
you're scrappy all right get your guys
on it all right
[Music]
