I'm Tommy Vitor I'm John love it love it
what's out uh we got one HBO show under
our belts yeah whoo well you can still
catch it online you can catch it
streaming to HBO now it would be nice if
you did tomorrow you and I are gonna
head to Austin Texas dan and John go a
little later for our show on Friday our
guest is Beto O'Rourke he is and I want
you to know that as we go to level two
of the video game of me not eating carbs
Texas barbecue the next challenge
Oh God well you look good everyone don't
forget to go to vote save America com
get everything you need for the election
on November 6 you get an interactive
voter guide fill out a copy of your
ballot you can find volunteer
opportunities we're just trying to make
it easy there's a couple cynical people
out there think this is some sort of
data capture play for us we'll burn the
data when we're done we don't have a
 just vote
maybe you'll brother Dan I'm burning the
data ok 22 days until the midterms love
it
today is Monday October 15 we're gonna
talk about Elizabeth Warren's October
Surprise federal Rourke's fundraising
nationwide Republican voter suppression
tactics Jared Kushner tactics Jared
Kushner's taxes in the murder of Saudi
journalist Jamal khashoggi whew okay
okay
section one midterm grab bag there's me
a lot of polls there should be some
horse race stories there to make you
anxious the thing you all need to know
is it's gonna be close it's gonna be
close
it's gotta work hard keep your head down
but here are some things that jumped out
at us over the weekend yes
overnight Elizabeth Warren released a
DNA test that provides quote strong
evidence you had a Native American in
her family tree dating back six to ten
generations scoreboards Donald Trump
doing another racist birther demand from
our racist president who's been
demanding to see the longest form of
birth certificate her DNA for a long
time it was a cool video I don't know
what do you think so the results suggest
that she has Native American heritage
somewhere six to ten generations back
Donald Trump has said that if she can
demonstrate that she has Native American
heritage she would donate 1 million to
charity Elizabeth Warren selected a
charity that focuses on helping Native
Americans
my advice to that charity would be do
not assume the money in the budget for
the fiscal year
that would be my one will not clear one
one thing I would say hey if it comes in
you know hope for the best plan for the
worst that's what I would say yeah for
that organization yeah I mean like the
video was well-executed like everything
she does I it was very compelling I mean
it depresses the life out of me that are
racist birther president demanded
another person like live up to a level
of truth and factual accuracy and
evidentiary presentation that he doesn't
live up to you but whatever okay yeah
you know this isn't a shouldn't focus on
this too much shouldn't give this too
much oxygen clearly this is something
that Senator Warren wanted to dispense
with before next year I who knows why
who could who could think of a reason as
to why she'd want to dispense with this
before we enter some sort of a I don't
know a race a marathon next year yeah
but you know I I can't imagine this will
solve the problem totally but look we
talked to her a few months ago and when
this controversy was first erupting or
at least erupting in a bigger way we
asked her about it she actually was
pretty frustrated by the fact that she
was being put in this position I think
she's right to have been frustrated to
put be put in this position but all in
all I'm glad she's dealing with it it
seems like it's the kind of thing that
she was gonna have to answer one way or
another so she wanted to deal with it
now now there's been some criticism I've
heard that she's doing it before the
midterms like it's a big distraction the
idea that Elizabeth Warren putting out a
video when she reveals that she has a
Native American heritage is gonna cost
us midterm persistent I've ever
heard
so this seems to be to be unrelated to
the midterms yeah I mean I think the
birther thing followed Obama around
forever because it was fundamentally
racist and people wanted to have a
racist attack on him I think this is
different but I don't think Trump will
let it go anyway let's talk about bet
O'Rourke yeah bet O'Rourke's campaign
announced that he raised an astonishing
38 million dollars in the last three
months that brings his total to nearly
62 million dollars the biggest quarter
ever for a Senate candidate this
immediately led to criticism from
Democrats want that money to spread the
wealth around like Joe the Plumber the
latest iteration of that narrative was a
New York Times story with the headline
better or or swore chess bothers some
Democrats of these struggles can Ted
Cruz
love it does Beddoes warchest
bother you it doesn't it doesn't bother
me you know it feels like it's the wrong
so there's sort of two things that are
getting combined one is it's absolutely
true that if better work were to win a
Senate seat it is worth the exact same
number of votes for Majority Leader as
Phil Breslin as Claire McCaskill as
Heidi Heitkamp as bill Nelson as Jackie
Rosen as Kyrsten Sinema that's
absolutely true and we need all of those
candidates to do well we need all of
those candidates have the resources they
need to compete it would be a shame to
wake up on Election Day having the day
after election day and having discovered
that if we just put a few more resources
into a race we could have won the Senate
that that's obviously true but it's
actually a separate point than what
better work is doing because better work
has not taken a single dollar away from
another Senate candidate yeah I think
well well said I mean this criticism I
think tells you a lot about traditional
fundraising for many candidates there's
like a finite number of bundlers and
lobbyists and PACs that they go to and
that is a zero-sum game beto got
contributions from 800,000 donors more
than half of the third-quarter money was
from people in Texas and so like the
average small dollar donor in Houston
isn't sitting around thinking like I got
a hundred bucks so I give the beto or
split it with Heitkamp and Manchin like
that's a very DC way to think about it
some people pointed out that in 2008
Mark Warner transferred a bunch of money
the DSCC but like he was winning that
was down by as much as eight points so
and and also by the way you know Beto is
doing more than just campaigning for
himself when you have a war chest like
that and you can use it to get out the
vote organize put up ads you help build
a growing Democratic coalition in Texas
Texas is getting closer and closer to
being a state we can win more frequently
this has been something we've been
talking about I remember when George W
Bush was the candidate for re-election
the conversation was this may be one of
the last times Texas is not in
contention it hasn't been true yet it's
taking longer than anybody wanted but
Texas was closer than Iowa we still in
our minds think of Iowa as a swing state
so so I think I'd say that as well also
but by the way like it's true you know
Democrats are driven by sort of heart
in a way that I think Republicans aren't
as much and that is a problem right it
is a problem we don't pay enough
attention to down ballot races that
don't inspire us we don't pay attention
enough to Secretary of State's races and
judges races and District Attorney races
we do treat politics as something that's
about inspiration rather than you know
practical purse pretty sure exactly
absolutely sure and that that's
something that we should think about
more but but using beto and sort of
saying that Beddoes warchest should
trouble you is actually not the right
conclusion the question we should ask is
what can we do to have other Democrats
excite people in the same way take the
positions that get more fundraising in
and that's it yeah if you're listening
to the show right now and you're
thinking I want Democrats to take back
the Senate then you should give money to
Claire McCaskill Bill Nelson Heidi
Heitkamp Joe Donnelly John tester
darling or challengers like Kyrsten
Sinema and Jackie Rosen we have to win
those races if you gave Tibet oh because
you were inspired by bet oh that's great
there's no negative there like the idea
that he has an obligation to pull a
bait-and-switch on his own donors and
start giving money away before the
election is like bonkers
that said I don't know how you spend 38
million dollars in a month but we're
gonna find out yeah it's just not a
zero-sum game that's all it's silly not
a zero-sum game and you know what like
look we talked about all this time right
that that like there's this
contradiction right which is we need Joe
Manchin to win but we wanted to pay him
a price for voting for Cavanaugh we want
President to win but it pisses us the
pisses us off that he gets behind
Cavanaugh for no reason and
actually loses some some volunteers
because of it well there's actually that
that's the kind of negative one right
the one where you're like oh man you
know we need him to win but it sucks
that they took that position but there's
actually a positive example right we
want people like Beto to be rewarded for
being the kind of candidates we believe
in yeah and that sends a message about
what kind of candidates we want in the
future so I think this kind of hand
wringing is silly I think it was a
narrative in search of examples yes and
that's it run better run okay that story
was annoying
this one is downright frightening even
though Trump had to solve his
voter fraud panel efforts to prevent
people from voting are so happening at
the state level and a bunch of states in
the name of voter role maintenance
Georgia has cancelled over 1.4
voter registration system an in charge
of purging the voter rolls is Secretary
of State Brian Kemp who is now running
for governor
more recently Kemp's office put 53,000
registration applications on hold 70% of
those applications are african-american
so is Kemp's opponent Stacey Abrams what
a coincidence
love it like this is so brazen it is so
obvious it's clearly voter suppression
it's happening in plain sight what do we
do about it
yeah so another number was that six
hundred and seventy thousand had been
thrown off in 2017 alone and you know
look you turned on a football game you
know football the sport that I can talk
to you about I mean it'd be quite a
thing if at some point during the game
the the quarterback just one in the
middle field start started throwing out
flags you know on the other team yeah
yeah yeah keeping out being the ref your
UMP write anything that's inappropriate
you'd be like wait a second you can't
call balls and strikes on the football
field home run man well you're on the
game you're in it you're the QB you're
the halfback the fullback we can't have
a fullback moving the chains and if I
was really moved away from is that right
but yeah yeah absolutely that's what's
going on here
the other thing is you know Michelle
Goldberg wrote a really great piece
about this in New York Times that I
would recommend everyone read it
actually is a really great rundown of
this issue and where it stands one thing
I would hope is that Chief Justice John
Roberts gets a newspaper and reads it
because the Voting Rights Act look the
United States was not truly a literal
democracy until we changed our voting
rights laws and we made sure that a
history of segregation votes oppression
and racial terrorism in the south didn't
prevent millions of African Americans
from casting about it
third the success of the Voting Rights
Act was used to undermine the Voting
Rights Act in the second John Roberts
and that court allowed the Voting Rights
Act and its key provisions that means
states with a history of racial voter
suppression have to have their voting
laws reviewed by the Justice Department
before they're approved the second that
was removed these states went
hog wild that's what's going on right
now that's going on across the south and
across the country and you know one
thing we need to do is again as we were
talking about earlier you hear pundits
shaking she's furious
she's wearing bowties she looks really
cute she is she looks like Paula
Poundstone the we need we need to win
Secretary of State's races we need to
win local races we need to win judges
races and we need to make sure we win
down ballot so that we can fight this in
the future but it's honest and we need
to have see how these cases play out but
it's a really tough issue and the bottom
line is if Stacey Abrams loses by a tiny
bit in this governor's race it will be
an illegitimate elation I mean this is
racist in Florida african-americans are
more likely to other about their
vote-by-mail ballot rejected in Texas
the Secretary of State is trying to
invalidate voter registration
applications submitted through vote org
this is happening all the time like you
said in 2013 Roberts gutted the Voting
Rights Act and he made it harder for the
federal government to do anything so we
got to win the governor's office and
legislators and Secretary of State's
because as much as people criticize
Hillary for not going to Wisconsin it is
probably more significant that nearly
17,000 registered Wisconsin voters were
prevented from voting by the state's
voter ID law and Trump won the state by
twenty two thousand seven hundred and
forty eight votes look at what's
happening at North Dakota address Heidi
Heitkamp needs Native American votes to
win they have just changed the law to
make it so that if you are if you're if
you're registered a Tapio box that Nolan
our accounts well guess guess who tends
to be registered appeal boxes player box
is more than the rest of the state
Native Americans because a variety of
reasons and so we are seeing this it's
incredibly dangerous it is
anti-democratic and that's it yeah over
the weekend the New York Times reported
that Jared Kushner appears to have paid
basically zero federal income tax from
onine to 2016 basically he was able to
claim that buildings he owns were
depreciating in value and used those
losses on paper to offset any money he
actually made because you know real
estate in New York it's always going
down in price love it how do we buy a
building and get in on this action well
first you have to buy a building on
Fifth Avenue at the height of the boom
and then go so far in debt that you are
really a supplicant to foreign
governments down writing this yeah this
is good I mean I would that sounded like
TV button managing the yeah look this is
and one other thing I'd say is to the
the corporate tax bill that they just
passed makes
even easier for people like Jared
Kushner to claim that their losses
outweigh their need to pay federal
income taxes you know Donald Trump has
probably has claimed the same we know
that from his 1995 tax return that he
claimed almost a billion dollars in
losses which meant that he probably
didn't pay taxes for the next decade
at well even as he's accruing massive
wealth this is one of the great issues
of our time you know I've said this
before but inequality is not some
mysterious force you know we see a lot
of like harrumphing and conferences
about the future of work and
globalization and technology and all the
rest that is not because of economic
inequality in America the cause of
economic inequality is corporate
concentration and government policy and
this is yet another example of that yeah
I mean all rich people like Donald Trump
and the Koch brothers and many others
they use like populist rage to get
economic policies that benefit them
Dysport Lee like when you hear Donald
Trump complain about his taxes just
remember that his dad was able to give
him over four hundred million dollars
Jared pays no income taxes like these
wealthy people use these loopholes to
avoid paying taxes Warren Buffett is
honest about it he says he pays a lower
effective rate than his secretary Gary
Cohn was quoted as saying that only
morons pay the estate tax so when they
say this is about helping farmers
they're lying it's rigged
it's this is why Democrats need
to be in control so we can actually
change the tax code to get Jared to pay
something and help you know working
people it really is you know it really
really are you know we need there really
are two systems here and I think one
thing people don't understand about what
these sort of high-powered lawyers and
tax accountants do is you know for a
person who's just has a job and goes to
their accountant or does their taxes
themselves it's all pretty simple you
know what you're supposed to declare or
not it's it's not it's not as simple as
you want to be it can be complicated and
really confusing but ultimately
you're like you know what you made you
know what you're supposed to declare you
know what you're you know what would be
kind of skirting the rules a bit but you
do your best to pay your taxes and what
you owe for people that have these
incredibly complicated wealthy high-end
lawyers that are kind of looking at
investments and losses and and write
offs and all the rest their lawyers
don't actually tell them here's what's
legal and here's what's illegal they
basically say here's what's really
conservative here's what
think you can get away with here's
what's pushing it here's what's really
 pushing it it's a shot and
you're got this guy in jail and you bit
and basically you know these they sit
around the table and they decide what
they don't decide what do they oh they
decide what can we get away with that is
what our tax code is written to do and
one other piece of this is over and over
again we have seen through budgets
through policy decisions the Republican
Party has tried to undermine the IRS
ability to investigate tax fraud amongst
the wealthy because it the the audits
are much more likely to come for people
who make less sue me because they're
more people but also because it's just a
lot harder to go into Donald
Trump's books and figure out what the
 is going on but I'd say one thing
Democrats should be talking about when
they see this is we need to make sure
that we have federal investigators with
the ability to go after tax krod to go
after tax fraud at the highest levels
these people are getting away with
stealing from you Donald Trump has done
it his father has done it Jared Kushner
has done it countless people in finance
are doing it every single day when they
don't have the scrutiny of national
politics on them and it's a huge problem
that the donor class doesn't want to
address but we should corporate robber
barons okay
let's talk about the horrifying murder
of a Saudi dissident named Jamal shogi
this is a tough story but it has major
international consequences so I'm just
gonna try to walk through the basics
relatively quickly um
Jamal Khashoggi worked as a journalist
for more than 30 years at one point he
also served as an advisor to the Saudi
leadership including a former
intelligence chief so he's like a
well-known well-respected dialed-in
person
he left Saudi Arabia after the current
leader he left Saudi Arabia after the
current leader Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman or MBS came to power and started
cracking down on dissent show you've
been living in Washington DC for about a
year and writing columns in the
Washington Post on October 12 so a
couple weeks ago he went to the Saudi
consulate in Istanbul Turkey to get
paperwork that would allow him to marry
his Turkish fiancee then he never came
out on that same day to private planes
arrived in Turkey from Saudi Arabia
carrying 15 men who since been
identified by a Turkish official as
members of an assassination team
according to Turkish officials and news
reports Khashoggi was interrogated
tortured and murdered dismembered with a
bone saw that had been brought along for
this purpose the Saudi kill team then
act out of their hotel allegedly and
flew back to Saudi Arabia the same day
love it
the Trump response has been all over the
place and terrible first he basically
said I don't like what happened but this
guy wasn't an American citizen the
Saudis buy a lot of weapons from us so
you know what can you do last night in
60 minutes I seemed too tough in his
stance a little bit saying that while
they've denied any role in the murder
the US will inflict quote severe
punishment if they're lying this morning
he said he's sending Mike Pompeo the
Secretary of State over to Saudi Arabia
to deal with it what do you make of how
they're handling this yeah one thing I'd
add is he tweeted Trump tweeted this
morning just spoke to the king of Saudi
Arabia who denies any knowledge of
whatever may have happened to quote our
Saudi Arabian citizen he said that
they're working closely with Turkey to
find an answer I'm immediately sending
our second state to meet with with with
King that so it seems pretty clear that
Trump does not want to be accused of not
caring he wants to kind of hit the
points he's supposed to hit but that's
that's what he wants to do what he what
his instinct is telling him is to create
distance by reminding people that even
though he was a legal immigrant in the
United States that he was a Saudi
citizen and he wants to kind of not care
about this not deal with this take the
Saudi talking point at their face value
it's very very his his rhetoric on the
Saudis is very similar to his rhetoric
on Putin when he said look please tell
him he didn't do it
mm-hmm you know that's a it's it's um
it's the position he takes when he does
not want to deal with this problem it's
when he either is for reasons we don't
know perhaps financial unwilling to
criticize somebody who clearly deserves
it you know the this goes back actually
to our conversation about taxes we don't
know you know now we've gotten some
window into Jared Kushner's taxes and we
know that he hasn't pay taxes we have no
idea what's going on with Trump's taxes
it seems pretty clear that their
financial ties between the Saudis and
whether it's Trump or people in Trump's
orbit that have led them to be
incredibly solicitous of this government
there be the unhealthy relationship
between the United States and Saudi
Arabia has been kind of made even worse
but they kind of find whether their
personal financial ties between Kushner
and this government whether Jarrod's
just in this guy's pocket whether you
just been dude you don't know but it's
shameful yeah um a few thoughts I mean
the initial response basically told
every dictator
I don't care about human rights I don't
care if you crack down on journalists
dissent etcetera I don't think that
surprised them after years of lock her
up chants and threatening to change the
libel laws and all that
Trump is right that the Saudis buy lots
of weapons for us it's not nearly as
much as he claims but it's also immoral
to suggest that that's more important
than preventing the murder of innocent
people it's also pathetic to talk about
arms sales as if that ties our hands
versus like being leverage for us like
these these weapons systems are top the
line they're they're hard they're
expensive they're complicated you can't
just like switch from one to another
like it's Coke and Pepsi like it would
take a while to do that the reality of
his response I think Congress might be
able to force him to respond a group of
bipartisan group of senators sent a
letter to Trump calling for an
investigation of what happened under the
global magnet C Act which will require
Trump to submit a report to Congress
indicating what happened if he's gonna
sanction Saudi leaders if they had a
role in the murder if they do that it
would be a huge step like Mohammed bin
Salman has been wildly overreacting to
everything the Canadians tweeted a mild
criticism of him he like suspended trade
investment flights they went nuts but I
mean to your point I think there's a
chance that his long-term financial
interests are more important to him than
the country's interests and so like but
the one thing that makes me feel great
about all of this is that this
relationship rests in the hands of Jared
Kushner right I mean Jared and Mohammed
bin Salman whatsapp each other all the
time they're Bud's one Prince to another
so Jared is on it right love it like
nothing to do with future investments or
anything else yeah so look part of this
too is you know the United States
relationship with Saudi Arabia wasn't
worthy of praise before Donald Trump and
Jared Kushner came along you know one
thing you know it's it's fascinating to
see how this murder of a journalist has
excited a reckoning in terms of what's
out Saudi Arabia has been doing when
their behavior in Yemen has not when
they're kidnapping of a foreign official
from Lebanon has not when they're
incredibly dismal human rights record
has not but if this is what it took to
wake people up to something maybe that's
positive I mean Tommy
why is it that the United States has
this relationship with Saudi Arabia in
which we look past human rights abuses
that for any other country we would be
far more critical oh so it's very
complicated
I mean the us-saudi alliance goes back
70 years our demand for oil is like
obviously a huge part of it but there's
also a very close security alliance
between not just the military but the
intelligence services like al-qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula AQAP
is a lethal lethal threat and they spent
years for example working on special
explosives that you could get on a plane
they were undetected and they nearly
took down a couple of planes like when
we were still in the White House and I
remember being in Situation Room
meetings where we were talking about
like very specific ways the Saudi Intel
services had helped us deal with AQAP so
I'm not saying that to absolve them but
that's a piece of it um also like
obviously I'm a support of the Iran deal
but we were not always friends with Iran
in the United States and the Iranians
are hardly good guys they've done a
horrible and Syria they killed our
troops in Iraq they were supplying arms
to groups that went after our guys in
Afghanistan and the Saudis have
historically helped us check them but I
don't think any of that means you can
get away and excuse the murder of a
journalist or the war in Yemen that you
mentioned or the human rights abuses in
the name of combating terrorism because
ultimately like cracking down on human
rights in in basic decency like that
leads to more terrorism yeah and if we
had a legitimate president who was not
guided by personal interest and Fox and
Friends
like what what would President Obama be
doing if in 2000 in 2015 mm-hmm this had
happened with this journalist you know
it's hard like I was thinking about that
over the weekend I mean first of all the
cries of weakness and attacks on him for
not immediately stepping in would have
been instantaneous I think I mean I
think the first thing is that we
wouldn't necessarily have been in this
place like like I don't want to harp on
Jared too much but when you put
like a little dilettante in charge of
foreign policy or this huge relationship
he's gonna get tricked I mean he
shouldn't have been back-channeling with
Mohammed bin Salman and supporting him
when he was locking up all the senior
figures in the Saudi government in the
Riyadh ritz-carlton like he shouldn't
have been cutting out experience State
Department officials from that process
he shouldn't have had Trump go to Saudi
Arabia of all places on his first
foreign trip or had them intervene on
the Saudi behalf during their dispute
with Qatar our biggest base in the
region is in Qatar right so it's like
dumb on its face but Jarrod bought this
line from Mohammed bin Salman that he
would help us solve the Middle East
peace process he bought into Trump's
political narrative that he was gonna go
after Iran where Obama had been weak and
Kushner just you know Mohammed bin
Salman told people that Kushner was in
his his pocket so like what I think we
would have done differently is when NBS
started locking up critics or kidnapped
the Lebanese prime minister or you know
as Yemen has gotten worse and worse we
would have started applying pressure
then and maybe it would have prevented
this kind of step but again like to your
point like I'd love to whack Democrats
in a minute too but Mohammed bin Solomon
went on this media tour already sold
himself as a reformer to journalists
businesspeople celebrities politicians
he went to Google Amazon Facebook you
got a puff piece on 60 minutes so Thomas
Friedman Tom Friedman so yeah like you
know there's a lot of people who are a
little more hardened who don't have a
financial interest in government who
think Mohammed bin Salman is Kim jong-un
with a billion dollar sovereign wealth
fund right like we would be maybe a
little more cynical yeah and there was a
there was a moment in the State
Department briefing that I thought was
revealing where a reporter to kind of
put it to the briefer and said who's our
ambassador of Turkey who's our embarrass
adore Saudi Arabia and the answer is we
don't have one because again that they
have so dismantled the State Department
under Tilson and and you know I don't
and and which is continued under Pompeo
and it's all being run out of the White
House and it's been run by people with
personal financial interest and no
 clue what they're doing
interesting that he sent Pompeo this
morning like the Kylie I would cover
State Department for CBS tweeted the
manifest jared is not on there like the
the adults got sent but like again you
to your point like
before I get too self-righteous
Democrats have hardly taken a pure
position on Saudi Arabia over the years
the war in Yemen is a humanitarian
disaster this was started in 2015 by hon
Mohammed bin Salman Obama did put some
pressure on them both in terms of public
statements and trying to pull back arm
sales but more could and should have
been done I think all this to the
international community should have done
a lot more like at the UN knew we could
that's another thing you could do you
could empower international bodies like
the UN General Assembly the Security
Council to try to push them but like
yeah the Saudis have done terrible stuff
that have gotten a pass for a long time
like women were just recently allowed to
drive Shia activists were locked up
protests were made illegal around the
Arab Spring they got a pass because of
what they gave us in terms of security
Iran and yeah and also they have spent
millions and millions of dollars
building up a lobbying and press
operators in Washington DC that has been
incredibly effective
avi Oscar Shapiro was posting what he's
gotten from his sort of seeking of
government documents our filings and one
thing he found is Norm Coleman a former
senator from Minnesota kind of emailing
the Foreign Relations Committee just to
kind of plant the seed that actually you
know kind of with the talking points to
kind of defend the Saudi government on
Yemen so they have put a ton of
resources behind an effort to make them
seem like a more modern and reformist
State one thing that has happened in the
past few days is a lot of companies have
been under pressure a lot of individuals
been under pressure to cancel their
visit to Saudi Arabia for what they call
Davos in the desert which is the first
Davos important that is so depressing so
lame the only problem with Davos in the
desert is there is water yeah yeah I'm
glad you brought this up because this is
not just creating like political and
ethical problems for our government
the Saudis invest billions of billions
of dollars into like investment funds
like soft banks vision fund which is
this big technology investment fund the
investment companies like uber and slack
my understanding is they put in forty
five billion and there's 45 billion more
pledged so that's a lot of money while
Street is currently salivating over the
prospect of the biggest IPO in history
of Saudi Aramco the state-owned oil
company goes public there's that huge
investment conference so I guess
secretary minuchin is still going but a
bunch of business leaders that you
wouldn't expect like Jamie Dimon CEO JP
Morgan the CEO of uber all the media
sponsors pulled out like do you think
the private sector might lead us in a
right direction here I do not ever put
my hopes in the leaders of these
companies I think they should be under
pressure to not go I think we need to
make a category shift just how we think
about Saudi Arabia and as you said think
about it less like some reformist and
modern state and more like Kim jong-un
Kim jong-un with oil
stepping back you know this is a country
with an incredible mint of oil wealth
they make kind of a dirty deal with
their own people which is you know have
to work very hard right you're you're
gonna be able to have resources and air
conditioning and an incredibly nice life
because of this oil wealth the only
thing you have to do is give up your
basic dignity and liberty we will bring
in people immigrants from other
countries and we will work them to
 death and treat them like
absolute so that you can lead a
nice life in which you're you know safe
and ensconced as long as you don't
question the authority of the government
but that you look in the long term you
said go to 30,000 feet and eventually
that oil will run out and so these
conferences these investments this idea
of reforming the country is incredibly
incredibly important to the future
without oil wealth they can't they can't
pay the bills they can't pay the
electric bill and they're trying to
figure out how to build the
infrastructure education infrastructure
economic infrastructure outside of oil
to maintain their lifestyle maintain
their level of wealth into the future
that is an extraordinarily difficult
prospect with the cooperation of Goldman
Sachs with the cooperation of Jeff basis
it is impossible without it so all this
talk about how how you know we're gonna
lose some contract with Raytheon that
you know we need Saudi they need us they
need us and they need the international
community far more than anyone needs
them especially as the economics of
fossil fuels are changing especially if
we have our own
especially as we're moving towards
renewables at least we should be moving
towards them faster so the idea that
we're somehow reliant on them is
changing and our we need to change the
way we think about that country and like
why can't the art of the deal guy ever
identify his own leverage on the front
end like Mohammed bin Salman you're like
he understands what you just said which
is that like the u.s. is doing fracking
and exporting more oil their reserves
are gonna run out they need to change
their economy in a hurry rusts are gonna
not just bankrupt themselves but face
massive social unrest so he's been
trying to take all these steps like you
know some social things like allowing
women to drive but then trying to build
all these like tech companies in the
city of the future all the like
that's what he's sold the press on but
to your point earlier like I am very
cynical about the Saudis facing
long-term punishment because of the 27
million dollars they spent last year
alone on lobbying that goes to
Republicans and Democrats they try to
influence lawmakers their staffs the
White House the State Department DoD and
journalists and that doesn't include
luck the off-the-book stuff where
countries are trying to gain access
through Trump's big donors the New York
Times did a piece on that or when state
linked firms hire former generals or
State Department officials and they're
like fun think tanks so I do think like
okay I'm angry and emotional about this
you could make a compelling case that if
we totally overreact and there's a
rupture in the us-saudi relationship
they turn to Russia in China and a
decade from now we think to ourselves
that was not a long-term prudent thing
look I'm not making that argument I want
to hear it
but I also think like there's right and
there's wrong and we should do the bare
minimum right now and at least like try
to figure this out and stand up for
basic values right and look for all
their kind of sort of sabre-rattling in
Saudi Arabia saying a will will respond
and do more if we do if we take steps to
punish Saudi Arabia for their human
rights abuses
once those steps are taken the
fundamental conditions of the
relationship remain the same it is
fascinating to me how many people who
rely on kind of realpolitik reasons for
our kind of looking the other way with
dictators and shameful actors around the
world
simply lose sight of that reality when
it comes time to making those actors pay
a price for bad behavior
if you believe that we shouldn't be
guided by principle alone if that's your
position then why do you think doing the
right thing making them pay a price will
make them act irrationally after that
price has been paid once we have
punished them it magnons magma magnets
quisqueya sanctions for example their
need for us will remain exactly as it
was the day after we put those in place
as they did the day before so uh yeah
yeah no like what you just said reminds
me so much of sitting in meetings in
2011 when the Arab Spring was starting
because you'd have like the the 70 plus
crowd advisors talking about whether or
not Obama should speak out against mu
Bark's crackdown Egypt or side with the
protesters and they'd be like you know
hosting the boys were with us in Gulf
War one you know like in 91 we couldn't
have done it without them and you know
the younger people were thinking we have
to live these values we claim to care
about as a country now the tale of the
tape on the Arab Spring is is is
unfinished and certainly the security
situation in in Cairo looks a hell of a
lot worse than it did seven years ago
but no one else said this was gonna be a
quick process and I don't know like
values should mean something yeah just
we shouldn't be rider to have a
dictators heart and just to make
sure we have an option for a tight for
an episode title Davos and help you know
that's just there for us to use or not
use I've said it so now it can count and
that's all I said my brain jumped all
over writer David dictators we have good
options we have good options today last
little caveat that people should just
know all of the information we're
getting about this is through the Turks
it seems to me like the turkeys have the
Saudi consulate in Istanbul wired
because we're hearing about maybe audio
tapes of him being tortured and killed
so that would mean that they're in their
comms they have bugs in there they video
cameras but we don't know we haven't
vetted any of this right so it's also
notable that the Turks and the Saudis
hate each other the turkey was a
colonial power over the Saudis air Dewan
wants to be the chief leader in the
Muslim world and so you know the they
don't like them because they're close to
the
Muslim Brotherhood so the Saudis view
them as a real enemy that said he went
and he didn't come out examine Oh
plausible explanation for where this man
is so they literally stopped texting
back when reporters asked that exact
question right anyway okay
very complicated stuff to be continued
coming up is our interview with
congressional candidate Debbie mucosal
Powell
you
