welcome to pod save America life we're
here to take your questions with us as
always Priyanka guys this is exciting
alright let's just jump right into it
great I just say that I am streaming her
today we did that whole all guys if you
haven't had hello guys there's the white
sauce and the red sauce and the red
sauce is very strong and I touched my
eyeball some red sauce so I wasn't gonna
cancel on you guys there put some milk
in there judge they put some milk in
here huh
I was once chopping while I once
chopping jalapenos and was told not to
put my finger in my eye and I did and it
was out of control painful and our good
friend Nikki buffa found some milk and
port at my eye and it fixed it what was
anything you were chopping jalapenos
that's the clip from the stream okay Oh
God
alright this first one comes from Robert
he is asking what options do Senate
Democrats have to push McConnell to
bring HR 1 to a vote what actual power
is McConnell invoking to block bills
from coming to a vote is this more of a
gentlemen's agreement that have so him
hamstrung that body zero options no
options this is why when your Senate
Majority Leader you control the Senate
when your party controls the Senate you
have you are you have all the power
there is no norms no institutions no
stunts the Chuck Schumer is not pulling
the majority leader has all the power
that is why the Senate is so important
that is why we have to win the Senate
that is why it is ridiculous that if we
win the Senate we should definitely get
rid of the filibuster because that is an
example of a rule there's only there
because it's a rule but once one party
has control of the Senate the other
party has very little power what he said
all right on to the next one this one is
about Paul metaphor it please discuss
the impact of white collar crime
sentences on our faith that the criminal
justice system is truly fair
can be done to change this abomination
you know it's a good question
you see these juxtapositions like there
was a public defender that did a thread
about all like really draconian
sentences their client had gotten over
the years for you know stealing a pair
of shoes or like some silly thing that
got you five years in prison then Manta
Ford gets off on the first round of
sending so it's a pretty light I don't
know that like for me that the answer is
getting really harsh all around it's
probably like rethinking the amount of
time we throw people in jail for really
stupid things like for like marijuana
offenses or like petty theft I mean it's
just it's insane that you would lock
away say an 18 year old kid for stealing
a hundred dollar pair of shoes it's it's
you're ripping that kid's life away for
good I mean now that said like it does
feel frustrating that if you have money
and you can hire good lawyers
you can lessen a sentence in almost
every instance and maybe there's
something we can do about that but
certainly does sort of shake the faith
in the system yeah I agree I mean so
Paul Manafort is going away for seven
and a half years he's in his seventeen
out 69 or 70 so he's going away for a
long time
and that is a look you know judge Ellis
has sentenced him last week and it was
on the it wasn't even part of the
guidelines it was way below the
guidelines
Amy Berman Jackson sentenced him today
and it was more in line with what the
guidelines are for that sentencing but I
do think focus it I I don't believe the
focus should be on why isn't Paul manna
for being locked up for longer I think
it should be as you were saying why are
all these people who are incarcerated
for small offenses being locked up for
so long like we're the United States
incarcerate it's too many people period
whether you are a rich corrupt criminal
 like Paul Manafort or whether
you know more importantly you're loving
millions and millions of people who have
been jailed for you know minor drug
offenses or other kind of offenses that
are very minor and that's what we need
to focus on those people who are being
locked up for way too long
definitely I do think we should I think
on the mana forefront though I think you
know the next president
however she or he maybe should focus on
nominating an attorney general and
staffing a Justice Department with
people who are willing to go after
white-collar crime more than we have so
far in this country because I think
we've had a big problem in this country
for not going after a white-collar crime
that's different than what the sentences
should be for those white-collar
criminals but I think we've had a
problem with not even going I mean like
if we had enforced the laws and went
after white-collar crime as much as we
should
like Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen
they wouldn't have even been part of the
2016 campaign because they could have
been in jail a long time ago because of
all the crimes they committed
that just went you know unpunished can
we before we move on from Paul Manafort
can we talk about the new developments
today with the charges in New York and
what the implications of that might be
yes in New York State charged him with
16 counts I think a lot of crimes
mortgage fraud some other fraud you know
there's been some suggestion that the
reason that Newark did this and
announced it when they did is to prevent
Trump from pardoning Manta for it
because if Trump pardons Manta for today
for his federal crimes then he would
still be tried by New York State and
Trump cannot pardon him from state
crimes because the president can't
pardon you from state crimes only
federal crimes so there's an idea that
maybe the New York you know Manhattan a
district attorney announced this today
because he wanted to make sure the Trump
didn't partner will stay tuned all right
I guess we will switch gears to foreign
policy before we come back to the u.s.
world owes want to know all right
roll those want to know want to know
this world I wanted to know your
skincare routine but you apparently
didn't feel like answering whatever I'm
saying water use soap at night oh yeah
waters might I go 5 I bar soap all
around when I run out of that sometimes
the shampoo doubles as a body wash I got
one body wash and whatever Hannah has
all right good to know this is
interesting John ed pert plus
I like Irish Spring they sell it at
Gelson's I just use the Old Spice three
and one that's like shampoo conditioner
and Body Wash well is it these a hammer
you for that was it John loved it oh
sorry
three and one that's a new one alright
Alessandra wants to know what your
thoughts are on the latest projection of
Theresa Mays Briggs a deal what's going
on there so Theresa May Prime Minister
UK lost another overwhelming vote on
brexit she was painstakingly negotiated
this plan with a youth like two and a
half years for all the ways they could
still have relationships with the EU
once they were out of the European Union
the Parliament voted it down there'll be
another vote I think pretty soon about a
so called hard brexit which would mean
that they leave they leave the European
Union without any deals and negotiated
that would be very bad that would be
very chaotic there's another chance that
they might punt it even further down the
road and try to buy for more time but
like Ben and I talked about this in
great length on pot sales world today
there's not a lot of paths forward and
there's a lot of very complicated issues
particularly around Northern Ireland so
it's like they're just gonna keep there
just keep kicking this can down the road
but they have no idea how this happens
yeah I mean they're set to leave March
29th so this is this train is coming
it's like can they vote to give
themselves an extension they can try to
buy for more time but it's like I think
a question of that will probably be what
they do but then I'll be like who will
lead this process and then an extension
to commend to work on what plan to
actually deal with that because no one's
stepping up to lead no one wants to like
step into the breach and inherit this
 I mean Theresa May should step down
when you're the prime minister and your
party votes against you overwhelmingly
twice in a row it's a disaster but it's
not clear who comes next I mean I don't
know hopefully we'll get through a
second referendum maybe give them
another shot so that's still a
possibility a second so but look it is
your guess is as good as mine
unfortunately sounds bad it states bad
yikes okay this one is about your
interview with Elizabeth Warren it
sounded like she would basically
continue Obama's foreign policy towards
Israel do you guys think that other
candidates would do things differently
regarding Israel he talked about
allowing more criticism but do you see
actual policy changes happening with
these 2020 Democratic candidates um good
question it's hard to predict Warren and
Bernie have written letters or signed
letters that were calling on the Israel
to stop demolishing Palestinian villages
and to you know generally calling on the
military to exercise restraint Bernie's
been really critical of the Israeli
military's actions in Gaza way too many
and some people are getting killed
especially children um so I don't know
if any of them would reduce the amount
of military aid we give Israel I don't
know if any of them would be tougher on
the Netanyahu government if Netanyahu is
still around he may not be in terms of a
peace process it's not clear I do think
that if you're looking for someone to
the left of traditional foreign policy
positioning on us-israel relations I
would take a hard look at Bernie and
what he rolls out in the next few months
because he's got a interesting track
record in history of you know not
necessarily a shooing to the party
orthodoxy on this got it we'll stay
tuned all right speaking of Bernie we're
gonna shift our focus back to 2020 we
had a bunch of questions for you guys
this one is from Brian and he wants to
know or he's asking I understand that we
all need to do our part to get the vote
out but is it fair to assume that the
demographic who voted against Trump's
policies in the midterms
will vote against him in 2020 and is
that not an advantage for us moving
forward
[Music]
oh well no it's not fair to assume that
the people that everyone who voted for a
Democrat in 2018 will vote for the
Democratic candidate in 2020 and in fact
past midterms
have not been great predictors of what
happens in the presidential election and
you could see and in fact I've I've
heard this anecdotally there are a
number of voters who they could have
been Trump voters or they could have
been Republican voters maybe they didn't
vote for Trump but they're just
Republicans who in 2018 said okay Trump
is crazy I don't like Trump and there's
a Republican Congress so I need to vote
for Democrats to check Trump to make
sure that he doesn't go crazy and now
that there's a Democratic Congress in
there to check Trump's craziness I'm
free to vote for Trump again in 2020 do
I think that's gonna be most of those
voters no I think I think we should feel
good that so many people came out and
voted for Democrats by such a large
overwhelming margin in 2018 but it
should not make us think that we somehow
start the 2020 election with a leg up
because you know voting for your own
Congress person or your own senator is
much different than voting for a
president and just because we are all
sort of partisan and live in this world
where we're all Democrat or all
Republican does not mean that most
voters think that way yeah and remember
those were like hundreds of individual
races where you got to vote for an
individual whose views might have been
more specifically tailored to your views
then the general election nominee will
be that's right right so each can we can
take nothing for granted in fact we
should be scared shitless about this
election I am most presidents get
reelected
period yeah we all know that we should
be as scared as we were in a you know
between 2016 and 2018 and the way you
the way you deal with that with those
odds being against us did you start
working today and we don't start working
six months out this is a question I'm
jumping ahead a lot
just giving you a heads up this is asked
by Megan she is asking if it's okay to
phone bank or canvas for more than one
candidate during the primaries or is it
better and more effective to choose one
and throw all your support behind that
person at this point a little bit
further down the line especially if you
care about electing a Democrat now I
think it's an odd look to phone bank for
two different or three different
candidates I would choose one I disagree
I think in a primary I think at this
stage if you are undecided and you want
to help a couple people get ahead
because you might not have picked you
could be in a different place right you
might not have picked your candidate yet
but you might know that there's five or
six you don't like and that there's
three or four that you're deciding
between and if you want to donate took
like I saw some a bunch of people are
donating to Pete Buddha judge to make
sure that he can get into the debate
because they like him even though they
haven't decided on him as a candidate
that's a specific thing if you want
someone to be able to get into the
debate or be on the stage by giving him
20 bucks and hit that threshold of
donors that's fine but I think like I
don't I would you have to make a choice
eventually you might as well choose the
person you like now and you can switch
down the road but like it would be if I
were a field coordinator and I knew
someone just phone banking for my person
one day and then someone else the next
day it would make me question that
person I think if you're positive about
all the people that's fine yeah I think
if you're like sling and negative
attacks punch through three different
candidates that's not good
 Pete vote for Pete right but I
think if you're positive if you're
honest and you're positive about a
couple different candidates I don't want
that make a choice speaking of food a
jazz bass says she's really impressed
with him but he talks about a universal
income can you guys talk about what that
means and what are the various flavors
of policy she says are yeah flavors of
that policy idea what are we looking at
here universal basic income is the idea
that the government gives every person
in America usually starting when they're
like 18 years old an month Lior annual
stipend and the idea is therefore no
matter what even if you don't have a job
if you can't find work
then you'll always have some sort of
basic income that's why it's Universal
basic income so that you don't fall into
poverty I think Andrew yang who's
running for president this has been a
big proposal of his his is like I think
something on the order of a thousand
dollars twelve hundred twelve hundred
dollars a month
the state of Alaska has had something
like this for quite some time because
Alaska has a lot of oil and so they
actually refund some of the oil
royalties in Alaska back to their
citizens so I think people in Alaska get
like one to two thousand dollars a year
that's not that much but so a universal
basic income could maybe be more than
that so that's the that's the general
idea I've heard and you know I talked
about this with a lot of the economists
that I interviewed for the wilderness
and none of them really liked it but all
for different reasons like some people
said okay if we're gonna spend that much
money now universal basic income by
definition it has to go to every single
citizen so like Gene Sperling said to me
he's like my problem with it is why are
we spending money on giving Howard
Schultz you know twelve thousand dollars
a year when that money could be spent on
people who really need it so it the
tough part about universal basic income
that it goes to everyone I've heard
other people say I don't like universal
basic income because it's just a cash
payment and what I really like is a
universal job guarantee so that you
guarantee that every sink the federal
government guarantees that every single
person in the country has a job to do
and that job could be you know caretaker
and a senior center Riley you could make
up all kinds of different jobs that the
country could use and you pay that
guaranteed job you pay that person with
that guarantee job a livable wage of $15
so they're also not you know they don't
fall into poverty that way so at least
that way someone's doing a job and they
earn through their labor you know the
money that they're making but so that's
that's a different sort of yeah like ubi
is on them it's not a monolithic thing
it's not like a clear defined policy I
think there's a lot of different ways at
it like Andrea I was just reading about
this how Andrew yang wants to pay for
his you
versal basically income proposal which
is $1,000 a month through a value-added
tax which is basically a sales tax which
is a very regressive tax because you
know if you're on if you're poor you pay
a sales tax if you're rich you pay a
sales tax I mean hates you everybody
equally so it's just I'm confused by the
mechanics of the proposal and the
financing of it I want to learn more
about it but um yeah it's also been
tested out in different places like you
know Finland I think
yeah and I Sweden I think something like
that Stockton and yeah Mayor Michael
Tubbs who we've endured before has tried
a pilot program in stocked and so you
know look it comes the idea comes from a
good place which is in an age of
automation when so many jobs are getting
automated or you know out sourced out of
existence what do we do for people who
can't make it and can't find a job and
universal basic income is one way to
make sure that people don't fall into
poverty alright well I've just got a
follow up for us when sherrod Brown came
on didn't he also say that like a Earned
Family Tax Credit is like functionally
the same thing or it could be
yeah there's ways to do it so it's not
just so there's like refundable tax
credits which is sort of like a
technocratic way of describing it but I
think sherrod and I think it might be
Michael Bennett have some legislation
that would basically give every family
out there a certain stipend every month
it's a tax refund but it's refundable so
it's actually like cash so that's a
there's all kinds of different ways to
just actually transfer cash directly to
people which is an idea that it's like
oK we've had all these government
programs to try to help people but maybe
sometimes government can it up and
the easiest thing to do is just give
people cash and maybe that's better than
you know actually going to apply for
welfare benefits or food stamps or all
this other stuff so there's different
ways to do it cool all right this next
one comes from Andre Andre wants to know
why there isn't more focus on the 2020
Kentucky Senate race every Democratic
presidential candidate ought to commit
to campaigning hard for the Democratic
nominee against McConnell Senate
arguably is justice
Porton is having a democratic POTUS
after the next election he says what are
your thoughts all right Andre you did
you better believe we want Mitch
McConnell the out of there but it
doesn't mean it's easy he's incredibly
popular in Kentucky I think it's
probably bad to assume that every
Democratic presidential candidate would
be wanted and well-received in Kentucky
would actually help the nominee against
Mitch McConnell right there are some
people that would be problematic in the
state are too liberal or whatever so
like you know it's not it's not as
simple as effort or inputs in that would
get us this results I think we are gonna
field an awesome candidate and Aimee
aggressed she's signed up I don't know
yet so they're talking about eating the
grass potentially running against
McConnell if that happens like we will
do everything in our power from here to
get her support she needs and votes etc
but it's gonna be a slog
I mean Mitch McConnell is is doing more
harm to the institution of the Senate
than anybody else
he is bought and sold by big donors and
special interests and the Koch brothers
and he's just a creepy weirdo but that's
who the state voted for I mean it's it's
tough yeah I mean here's deal all-star
candidates with outstanding messages can
make all the difference in competitive
races but if you ran the same candidate
in Colorado as you did in Wyoming I
guarantee you the Democrat would
probably win in Colorado and lose in
Wyoming because the demographics of a
state who lives in that state how they
vote their voting history what kind of
population they have they say it matters
a lot and you know I remember we were
doing the crooked seven and we threw
Devin noonas his district on there
because he's really dumb because he's
awful and we hate him and we said yeah
and even the folks that swing left and
we said we're gonna add Devin unity like
well we're trying to make sure people
donate to districts that can actually be
flipped and now Devin newness this
Challenger by the way under chance came
a lot closer than anyone thought
but sometimes it is just very difficult
to get over the demographics of
district or state that said Kentucky is
I say Kentucky Kansas are and probably
Texas because Cornyn's and better shape
than Cruz was are sort of the outside
shots in the Senate for 2020 I think
then Iowa is possibility but I was still
hard even though we won a couple of
seats in Iowa in in 2018 the host the
state as a whole like we didn't win the
governorship and you know Hillary lost
that state by almost double digits yeah
I mean I remember like Steve King is a
white nationalist yeah sociopaths and
like JD's Scholten ran a hell of a good
race against him for Congress in Iowa
and and unfortunately King still won I
mean like there's some places where this
is gonna be hard you know we can do our
best but we can't demand the people
allocate time and resources to places
that are a lost cause and I'm not saying
it's a lost cause but it's gonna be a
tough slog look and this goes both ways
so one of our best pickup pickup
opportunities in 2020 is Maine Susan
Collins is as much as we're all
disappointed with her for all of her
votes she is incredibly popular in Maine
I do not know if that personal
popularity will save her from the fact
that the demographics of that state will
make it very possible for a Democrat to
win so she that's the opposite thing
where she's really popular but it still
might not save her so I think the top
the top targets our Colorado Maine
Arizona and then we probably need a
fourth and that fourth could either be
Georgia North Carolina or maybe Iowa got
it I haven't follow up for you guys all
up so would you rather so would you guys
rather see Trump defeated or the Senate
going to attempt to Democratic control
and this is my follow up which do you
think is more feasible if there have
different feasibilities I want Trump
defeated because a Senate can't bomb
Iran that's perfectly said got it
totally great it's just it's too much
he's too much of a risk it we are beyond
lucky that there has not been a you know
horrible national global attack crisis
something like that at this point that
he could up really bad he just he
needs to be out of office as soon as
possible it just needs to and I actually
think I think that's easier because I
think the states that we need
to win to get a Democrat in there we
need to win back Wisconsin Pennsylvania
and Michigan and then possibly flip
Arizona if we can't get one of those
three and those three states are gonna
be easier than getting that fourth
Senate seat which is air which is
Georgia North Carolina and it's time
Priyanka has been tweeting updates which
was gotten your wife really worried
about what has been shared I wasn't
gonna talk about Emily's responses I'm
gonna talk about swing left they just
responded to me and said they're already
fundraising for Mitch's Senate
Challenger and four Dems challenging
seven other senators up in 22 perfect
we're gonna raise money for Mitch's
challenger we want to fight it out but
like just just want everyone to be
honest be realistic about what's the
most flippable yeah the least focused we
should fight for them all also Travis
who works here got banned from the chat
room associated with the livestream
Travis who works here is I'm not doing
work and on the chat room okay on to the
fun questions all right Connor wants to
get a mini drag session on Jacob wall do
you guys did you see the latest that
stories from last night it's the best
update us all Tommy tell us what's going
on
Jacob wall serial entrepreneur he's one
of three people that I know of who has
built a business off replying to Trump
tweets it's him
thing one and thing two so but I think
you're gonna say crooked media seemed
nice whatever Jacobs is a sociopath
so this doofus in some other
nutty Twitter person named Laura Loomer
who got kicked off Twitter and you've
probably seen her like chasing Jack
around another member of Congress at
hearings they went to Minneapolis
because they wanted to try to prove this
like racist disgusting conspiracy theory
about Johan Omar to be true and I'm not
gonna repeat it cuz it's just like it's
so dumb and they are so stupid and
obviously wasn't that good so um part of
their a little bit is they're trying to
portray the city of Minneapolis as
dangerous and like Sharia law controlled
so he's
he has been posting pictures of himself
in a bulletproof vest and like talking
about the security can use so there
there was someone posted a photo of his
security guy from CPAC up to here and
was wearing ear pods what everybody so
it's just hilarious the whole thing / so
he is part of his little drama in his
own head he posted an alleged threat
from a direct message he said he got and
in the in this specific quote was I hope
you know if I bump it to you in
Dinkytown or anywhere else in my city
I'm going shoot you and on your
 bodies get that out of my
city you piece of period now period
reporters immediately figured out that
this is an account that Jacob himself
had created and Twitter so he was
threatening himself so he threatened
himself by saying he would on his
body yeah get out of dinky town pal so
again so it's not clear if Jacob
reported this threat to the actual
authorities because I think that might
get him in some considerable legal
jeopardy but it's certainly funny crazy
yeah I hope we never had to talk about
him again yeah I know like I was I
always feel we were talking about him
because he's like a dumb 19 20 year old
kid but come on in love the vitor detour
no what do you do um all right this next
one Sonya wants to know if she could get
a tiny glimpse of crooked media behind
the scenes what does a regular work day
look like for Jon Tommy and other Jon
outside of the recording studio is there
a routine what are you guys doing
alright so we come in in the morning we
usually have a morning meeting
usually with Tanya and Sarah just to
sort of go through the day then there's
sort of just meetings all day long I
know meetings about new podcasts
meetings about we have a we have a
weekly news meeting now after the Monday
pod where we all talk about what's
happening in the news all week
what everyone's gonna cover and Brian
tells us what pieces are going on
crooked comm and we talk about the
newsletter what a day yeah I mean the
rhythm is really day by day it's like
Monday the morning is crazy because we
have the pod recording at 11:00 a.m. so
you like wake up at 6:00 and just study
and prep until then and do whatever in
between and then for me that afternoon
and Tuesday morning is is intense
because I do pod save the world on
Tuesdays and then the afternoon and I
free up
Wednesdays we do the live stream and
then you know for you Thursday's is
another pod recording and love it that
evening so like our days are kind of
staggered but we talk about a lot of
things that are you know months and
months out like our development slate
like we're trying to develop a whole big
crop of really cool new shows and that's
an ongoing process and all of them are
in different phases of getting done like
some shows were actively have people on
the ground recording things and editing
and structuring shows other things are
then like the deal phase where you're
trying to see if you can get the rights
to a show or whatever some things are
even further out you're talking about
politics we're talking today about what
our plans could be for the Democratic
convention yeah I'm talking about all
the the vote State of America 2.0 stuff
we want to do cool meaning about that
yeah we yeah you and Tanya and Shaniqua
have been crushing very cool planning
meetings so like that resulted in the
program we talked about a couple weeks
ago about where we can all help unify
our to unify our diet well there's
unifier dive then there's another
program where we can help people raise
money to pay for organizers yeah get
trained this summer to be ready for the
general election so we're always
thinking about that kind of stuff and
there's some fun things lose a lot of
mentions getting checked we you know we
have lunches all staff lunches once in a
while we got town halls we got happy
hour there's lunch and learns love and
you should know that about every day
around five or six o'clock Michael
Martinez our senior producer for pod
save America will comment on the sunset
we have a beautiful view of a Los
Angeles sunset outside the window and
you know my it really means a lot to
Michael who made the day me and our team
one of our amazing designers made a
slack bot that if you say the word
sunset it
up a photo of Michael Martinez in a
cowboy hat and we're not sure why it's
really funny and then there's just like
you know doodles running around the
office all day and everyone's just
playing with dogs yeah I would say for
sure if you guys want to see what's
going on behind the scenes our Instagram
is like place to go that's the place to
go
yeah good media on Instagram
okay who would you say is the most and
leaked least tech-savvy in the office
and Elijah what is on your wish list for
the new Mac Pro oh oh yeah you got it
for Travis and something terrible but
who's the most and least tech-savvy in
the office I have my answers but I think
Tanya's incredibly tech savvy but for
some reason she uses like a Microsoft
Pro from that she's still off an NFL
sideline in 2014 I feel like the three
founders are not that taxing or Luddites
yeah we'll use Microsoft Word now which
is big or not Microsoft Word Google Docs
Google Docs yeah we're all alike because
we're we're old we do Microsoft Word and
track changes and kids just aren't doing
that this days no who's I mean obviously
you guys are all you two in particular
their mother barely sits at his desk
love-in is um and he's an ex the couch
is a settler oh no this is gonna tech
savviness but I don't think it says
anything good no I was gonna say Lucca
is the most tech-savvy playing that song
during livestream for like a year ago
for the old stands well then she ate at
para headphone yeah so maybe she's also
know least all right and then Laura
wants to know if you guys have thought
about strategies to stay sane next year
not lose our minds in sheer terror
besides volunteering and working hard
what do you do
I'm gonna try stay off my resolution
about using Twitter better is working
some people mistook it for me saying
like I'm just gonna be on Twitter less
that's not that's not gonna be able to
happen but I am NOT in my mentions as
much I have not gotten in Twitter fights
over the last couple months in my
mentions is like the new and my feelings
I'm gonna do something and like the next
I like it I think you should so I feel
like my social media habits changing
those is making me still feel a little
more saying I don't know what you got
any tips Tommy I'm gonna get out of my
own head out of my own virtual world and
get out into States more yeah because in
2007 when all you guys were at the
Chicago headquarters like slogging away
and I was in Iowa I was always in a
better place than you were cuz I was
like seeing people on the ground doing
work and meeting volunteers and and
it goes such a long way to actually just
be a part of democracy rather than tweet
about it so we're all excited to do it I
had this moment over the weekend when we
watched the premiere of the beto or
Rourke documentary at South by Southwest
just like these all these like fights
online that you're reading even if you
don't get involved in them yourself
you're just reading about all these
people yelling each other on Twitter and
awful and then we watch this
movie and it's mostly about all these
volunteers and young kids who signed up
for a campaign and how they're trying to
like you know build this grassroots
campaign it's so inspiring when you
people are actually out in the world
doing politics as opposed to yelling
about it online yeah
totally great that yep alright that was
our last question but Tommy says he has
something to say so the floor is all
yours Tommy look I just have one point
of clarification a few weeks ago Alyssa
was here and we talked about an incident
with a cat where when I was very young
my cat Snooper was an
she was jumped up onto the kitchen table
and had a heart attack in midair and
died and I you know mentioned the fact
that what was anyone supposed to do in
that moment but laugh and then bring the
cat down to the very cold basement to
leave for my father to deal with who was
away on a business trip my mom was not
pleased with me we're sharing the story
she thought it made her seem
like she didn't care for the cat whether
or not that's true there's nothing she
could have done for the thing it was
gone
Snooper was gone super lived a full life
she was very largely like twenty-two
pounds so I just want to apologize to my
mother
I'm not your fault Louise I love cats we
had another cat named mouse who was very
sweet who I loved forever one before
that named pansy he was also great I'm a
dog and cat person but um me too you
know that's all I got
yes hi it's been quiet Leo's being good
he didn't cause hundreds of dollars in
destruction like we could all right
that's it for this dream thanks
everybody
you
