on the pod today we have right here in
studio senator Kirsten Gillibrand hello
presidential candidate yes thanks for
coming by
I'm delighted to be here Congrats on the
announcements thank you
Congrats on a great first trip to Iowa
it was amazing I had more fun than you
can possibly imagine yes
so I'm always fascinated by the process
of making a decision as momentous as
running for president when did you first
seriously consider running and why did
you ultimately decide that this
particular moment in history was the
right moment for you to run well I've
been feeling very called at this moment
to do what is necessary to right the
ship I really believe in right versus
wrong and up until the last election
wrong was winning and I have been
feeling that I need to fight for this
country for families for children as
hard as I would fight for my own
children and it's why I believe we have
to fight for the causes that so many of
us have been fighting for health care is
a right that our public schools making
sure people can earn their way into the
middle class and live the American dream
but I think it's gonna take a kind of
conviction and a courage that
understands we have to take on the the
status quo in a way that perhaps we
never have because Washington's run on
corruption and special interests every
legislation gets written in the dead of
night and someone's making it sure that
the corporate interests and the
corporate greed is constantly protected
and that's what I feel I really have to
challenge because you're never going to
get any of that stuff done if you're
unwilling to and so over the last couple
months I really wanted to spend time
with my family to talk to them
personally
is this a sacrifice you're willing to
make are we willing as a family to do
everything we can to change what's
happening this country and restore in my
mind what's been lost and we just need a
time together to really think about it
and understand I mean I have a
ten-year-old Henry's gonna give a lot to
this country in the next year - yeah
he's used to mommy you know making
breakfast every morning lunch dinner
every night picking him up from school
how does he feel about that did weekends
together I think he was a little
concerned but he also feels called to
this moment in a way that I I think any
parent who's listening to this will
understand president Trump's create a
lot of anxiety in the world and a lot of
hate and division and I think people are
feeling that this is the moment they
have to do whatever it takes and even
Henry who's ten feels no mom you might
be the only one who could beat him you
should do this my fifteen-year-old
saying you know mom I think you should
do it he's terrible he's you know doing
all these terrible things around the
country in the world and you should do
this and so I just needed time with them
so over the last few months I made the
decision to actually do this and I just
feel like all of us have to just use
whatever time talent courage passion we
have to change what's happening so it's
shaping up to be a very crowded field
mm-hmm
there's a lot of talent there's a lot of
diversity there's a lot of experience
there's also a lot of consensus around
sort of a very big bold progressive
policy agenda what makes you different
how do you stand out in the field of
Democratic candidates well we all have
our own stories of course and I am a
mother with young kids and what drives
me to public service is that I do want
to fight for other people's kids as hard
as I fight for my own and I have been
working over the last 12 years in public
service to bring people together to find
solutions for really hard problems and I
do that by listening to all my
constituents whether they're in red
parts or blue parts or purple parts in
my state I serve all of them and because
I listen and then find common ground and
build for their I get a lot done
I passed a 9/11 health bill twice for
first responders all across this country
people who ran up the towers on 9/11
when everybody else was coming down and
unfortunately because they've been
breathing and all these toxins for now
you know decades it it's it's
they're dying and so I had to lift up
their voices and carry their stories
with the 911 responders knocking on
doors with me all those senators and got
it passed I also was able to bring
people together on Don't Ask Don't Tell
repeal even Democrats at the time and
advocates at the time we're saying you
can't do this and this is not a
convenient time or this is the right
strategy and I just was very clear that
when is civil-rights convenient you have
to fight for it for the right reasons
because you have to fight for it cuz
it's necessary these are men and women
who will die for this country and
they're being denied the ability to
serve based on who they love and then
transparency and accountability I passed
the stock act telling members of
Congress they can't engage in insider
trading surprise surprise and doing
things about transparency and
accountability
you know posting my schedule my web back
when we had earmarks my taxes online so
I get things done and I bring people
together and last I fight I I do not
back down from a fight
especially if it's the right fight for
the right reasons and it doesn't matter
if it's hard
I will fight especially if it's hard and
I've shown that I could do that by
taking on the generals in the Pentagon
over sexual harassment in the military
being willing to take on special
interests on on all host of ideas and
making sure that we do the right thing
even when it's hard and especially when
it's hard so one of the most difficult
decisions that a president makes is how
to prioritize keeping all the different
campaign promises right so you remember
this Obama comes into office and spends
much of the first two years aside from
trying to fix the financial crisis
passing the Affordable Care Act and that
meant that some big-ticket priorities
like immigration reform you know voting
rights or form sort of took him took a
back seat you've proposed quite a few
very big bold progressive policies
Medicare for all universal family leave
publicly funded elections a federal job
guarantee which of those do you tackle
first as president well the thing that I
hear most about to be perfectly honest
no matter where I've traveled over the
last year for the candidates because I
was working really hard to flip the
house of course yeah
hold our Senate seats and and the
victories in Nevada and Arizona are
amazing I talk to voters everywhere and
the number one thing still on their
minds is health care and I can't explain
to you why how important this is because
if you don't have access to health care
just can't afford it or because you're
being denied because of an insurer you
might not think you'll survive to be
able to provide for your kids you might
think my child is a pre-existing
condition and he'll die if I can't get
the treatment or the medicine that he
needs so this is an issue of life or
death so I would really like to bring
people together and focus on health care
as a right - not a privilege
I think Medicare for all is the right
solution I campaigned on Medicare for
all in 2006 in my two-to-one Republican
district and I made it really simple for
folks back then they just said archer's
charges too much money co-pays are too
high deductibles are too high
keeps going up I said well how would you
feel if you could just buy into Medicare
at a percentage of income something like
5% would that be something you're
interested in and they said of course
because they knew number one it creates
competition because you're having a
not-for-profit public option that will
drive competition with the for-profit
insurers and number two they knew
Medicare is good it covers most things
the things they want and even after this
last you know presidential election I
would talk to voters in upstate New York
and the thing I'd hear is I'm angry that
my my neighbor and $5,000 less than me
and he gets access to Medicaid and I
don't and it's unfair so folks want
access to basic health care so I would
really focus on that I would focus on
education making sure our public schools
aren't crumbling and people actually
have a chance to get a good education
and have a hope for a future and I would
focus on the economy particularly jobs
making sure we can get anyone who wants
to work full-time who wants to work hard
the training they need to get a job and
get this country to full employment
those are the kinds of common-sense
things I think you can bring people
together on those issues so they feel
like this is certainly about them and
their community no matter where they
live so it's interesting in in you
referenced your 2006 campaign and you
were for Medicare buy-in yeah there and
Medicare is a public option that would
be let you buy into Medicare you've
recently signed on to Bernie Sanders
medicare-for-all bill which is much more
sweeping right sort of transition out of
private insurance altogether what made
you decide that the Bernese bill was a
better bet than just a Medicare buying
which some other senators are offering
is so the part of the senator Sanders
bill that I got to write was the
transition which is the part that I
think is really important for people to
understand it's a four-year transition
where anybody can buy in at 4% of their
income to create competition in the
market and let people begin to choose
what works for you I promise you if you
have a choice of paying your church
endless amounts of money and not great
coverage and actually buying into
Medicare people are going to choose that
because it is affordable medicine
affordable health care quality service
and I want people to look at this as
something that is there is that they
they out like an earned benefit because
what we have with Social Security it's
really clear you buy-in across your
lifetime at 6% of your income up to a
certain amount I would blow that cap by
the way as a way to have more people
invest into our social safety net
through all incomes and then let people
find 4% so if you bought it at 4% and
for your earned benefit of health care
people can understand that if you're
you're committing 10% of your income
overall to make sure that you have
access to healthcare as a right not a
privilege to make sure that you will not
die in poverty that you'll have a safety
net when you're a senior I think that's
the kind of thing that makes sense to
people and so that's the part of the
bill I wrote that I really like and
that's how you get to single-payer
that's how you get to true Medicare for
all because you're letting people
participate in a way that makes sense to
them are you worried at all that even
with the transition period you know
there's going to be people who say it
was because we know there's a lot of
people in this country who like the
insurance they have I think you've got
to try it's the only way we're gonna get
there because if you just keep fixing
the current system the current system is
built on for-profit insurance industry
like it's built on a for-profit industry
that has obligations to their
shareholders and they pay their CEOs
millions of dollars so if we're putting
all that fat into another industry it's
not going directly to the doctors and
the nurses and the hospitals that are
doing the work and so I want our money
my money you are
to go for the things we want to buy
which is better healthcare and so I
don't want my money to go to an
insurance company they don't you don't
need to have insurance to have health
care in this country let's just buy into
healthcare right so it's an unnecessary
layer of fat that I would like to remove
and that's why if you explain to the
American people this is going to be your
earned benefit benefit in the same way
that Social Security is I think they're
gonna vote for it I think they're
actually gonna say this is something and
again when I ran in 2006 in a two-to-one
Republican district this was my solution
for health care people liked it they
felt comfortable with it and they voted
for me for those reasons ya know I've
talked to Obama Trump voters who look
like I love Medicare for all you're like
you voted for Donald Trump well he ran
on if you remember we need universal
health care that's cheaper and better
well that's medicare for all and it's
not going to happen because he didn't
mean it he never meant it um do you
support a green new deal I do I think
they're the platform it's not like
details yet behind the green new deal
but the platform of it is really
exciting because it recognizes and and
the way I see a green economy is this I
think we need a moonshot we need to tell
the American people we are going to have
a green economy in the next ten years
not because it's easy but because it's
hard because it's a measure of our
innovation and effectiveness like that
JFK moment where he says this is what
we're gonna do in 10 years not because
it's easy but because it is hard and I
think if you lay out a large agenda that
really transforms the economy in a lot
of places and I'll explain the places
where I've been working for a long time
which are very much part of that
platform so the simple thing jobs we you
can create more economic growth if you
invest in entrepreneurialism innovation
if you actually invest in wind turbines
in solar panels in geothermal in hydro
power in biofuels if you use our ability
to innovate and invent you will solve
the problem of moving into a green
energy economy and by doing that you're
going to create a lot of jobs you also
can use the investment of investing in
efficiencies so there's a school in
upstate New York where they teach green
energy and it's what they do and
so the kids learn how to build a home
that's LED certified they learn how to
install solar panels and wind turbines
and they learned how to do
energy-efficient appliances everything
and what I was told what I too heard
that school they said ninety-eight
percent of our graduating seniors have
three or more job offers before
graduation well now that's a true
statistic that's pretty amazing but
that's what that's what the green
economy can look like you're just
actually creating the vision for how to
create a faster growing economy and
we've made a mistake in the last 10
years because you know Congress always
hems and Haws and doesn't provide these
tax benefits for innovation we've let
the tax credits it lapse and expire and
so industries that would normally be
investing over and over again just chose
not to and you know what happened all
that innovation all that manufacturing
went to China so now China is in a
better position to innovate than America
is because they took on the goal of
making green energy a real part of their
economy so make it a rillette part of
the economy let me just do two more
thing no no no the platform's so big
there's a lot of this I've been working
on for a long time it's very complicated
so the other part of the platform that
I've been working on for the last 10
years is clean air clean water because
clean air and clean water should be a
right and not a privilege it should be a
right for every community and so you
take any part of this country they have
brownfield sites they have dirty water
from eras of pollution by different
manufacturers New York State with the
largest Superfund site called the Hudson
River because of PCBs the county I live
in and Rentschler County has been
polluted by companies that have been
manufacturing with plastics and so now
we have PFOA in our water so you need to
focus on clean air and clean water as a
major goal for addressing global climate
change and for addressing a green
economy because if if you don't have it
communities can't thrive or survive it's
it's really important I think you should
put a price on carbon if you really want
to attack global climate change
effectively you should put a price on
carbon because what you're doing is
you're incentivizing good behavior
you're saying
if you want to be a polluter fair enough
but you're gonna have to pay a lot more
because you're harming the rest of us
and we're gonna have to pay all those
hospital bills that's gonna come to the
taxpayer eventually so you don't get the
benefit of being a big polluter unless
you're gonna pay for it but if you're
gonna be the inventor and the innovator
who's gonna create the new
energy-efficient processes you get the
benefit and so I love putting that price
on carbon as well do you worry that you
know some folks on the Left who said
that our carbon tax is regressive
obviously McCrone had some problems with
that in France to say the least there
was you know a referendum in Washington
State that jay Inslee tried that carpet
carbon tax didn't pass obviously I think
everyone agrees like on the polluter the
car though the floor should pay goes
down - no it doesn't it doesn't have to
be regressive that's a different tax
that's like putting a price on gasoline
right that's a different approach
putting a price on carbon is much more
about incentivizing good behavior and
disincentivizing bad behavior that's all
you struck it's a market yes it's a
market and it works it's worked in other
places there's been places where I
didn't work because of fraud and
corruption but it is it is using market
dynamics to help you so I think it's a
good thing that we should be talking
about as well and I just believe that
global climate change is one of the
greatest threats to humanity it is a
life or death threat that we have to
face right now and it's been a life or
death threat for a long time across this
country I mean we lost so many lives
during superstorm sandy and tropical
storm Lee Irene and Lee it really I mean
I I met parents who lost their babies
because when a mom got out of a car to
get her kids to safety the water swelled
to ten feet and literally took them out
of her arms people died and you cannot
turn a blind eye and anybody who does I
don't think should be in public service
because it's not they're not making the
differences that need to be made do you
think that a federal job guarantee
should be part of a green new deal it's
in some of the drafts of the plan and I
know you've been for a federal job
guarantees separately so I believe in
full employment and I think you should
get to a full employment and the way you
do that in my mind is you make sure that
anybody who wants to be working
full-time
I can get whatever job training it takes
to get a full-time job yeah and we've
been doing that in New York in a couple
places effectively and the way I think
you could do it is you partner with the
community colleges and the state schools
and the apprenticeship programs and the
not-for-profits that do this today do
the really good hands-on job training to
get the skills you need for the job that
is available in upstate New York
one of our local manufacturers
Bombardier needed advanced welders and
so they said we couldn't find anybody in
five hundred mile radius of our
manufacturing plant so they went to the
Community College and said will you
offer this course work will hire
everyone it's a $70,000 a year job sure
enough it works perfectly so now they
have all the welders they need we're a
great not-for-profit I just toured in
the Bronx called purse Cola and it's a
not-for-profit it's fully funded it's
it's free training for anybody who wants
to learn something in cyber or in
computer technology so they've taught
young adults how to code how to build
computers how to fix computers how to do
cybersecurity and they've already paired
800 students directly into the
employment market by giving the right
job training for the jobs that are
available so my vision for full
employment is making job training really
accessible in funding that because
that's what our community colleges and
state schools and these not-for-profits
do so well they're already doing it so
amplify their work investing in that
directly so you know if you're
underemployed or unemployed and you want
you want a better job or higher wages
you have someplace you can go and know
that there's a path for you but should
government be an employer of last resort
sure can be particularly public service
and that's another idea I have so I
believe that public service is life
changing for people I believe that if
you give someone a chance to put others
before themselves it changes their
hearts it changes who they are it
changes what they care about and I think
if you told every young person in
America if you do a year of public
service we're going to give you two
years of Community College free and if
you do two years of public service we'll
give you four years free for Community
College or state schools or any
not-for-profit
training program and so I would combine
that so with your full employment goal
so that young people can also get good
training and then encouraging them in
those public service jobs you know go
into health care for a year we used to
have candy stripers in upstate New York
I don't know if you ever had them where
you are but you could go work in a
hospital just as an intern to just help
you could create a not-for-profit
training for people in healthcare
because our baby boomers are retiring
we're gonna have an onslaught of
Alzheimer's like you've never seen
before we don't have enough home health
aides to meet that need and so really
giving young people go into health care
go into first responders you know if you
want to be a firefighter or a police
officer military education amplify what
we're already doing and Teach for
America extend that one of the things
that Ted Kennedy did right when I was
first part of the Senate was trying to
create more slots for public service it
was I was very excited about that bill I
think it was still only maybe 50,000 but
imagine if any kid could say I'm gonna
dedicate at least a year or two of my
life to public service before they
decide what they want to be yeah I think
it would change everything I've combined
those things together to get to full
employment okay so at best you as
president would have a Democratic
majority in the House and a narrow
Senate majority certainly not 60 votes
right after this election so there are
no Senate Republicans in favor of
Medicare for all Oh probably very few in
favor of a big program like green new
deal or something like that as president
would you push hopefully Majority Leader
Chuck Schumer to get rid of the
filibuster so you can pass something
like Medicare for all or a great new
deal the filibuster is mostly gone so it
barely exists no I think yeah that's why
I'm sort of thinking like it barely
exists it barely exists there's pretty
much a 51 vote threshold now for
everything right the only part we had
left in place was for Supreme Court
justices and Mitch just took that away
so I think it's useful to bring people
together and I don't mind that you have
to get 60 votes for cloture because
you're trying to get people to a point
where
and that's a that's a term of art for
your listeners it just means that you're
done with debate and so you will urge
people to have at least 60 votes to say
we're done with debate that's not an
unreasonable goal because if people
don't feel like you're done with debate
and that they haven't been heard enough
maybe you should debate a little more
and I think government only works when
people who care deeply stand up and
fight for what they believe in and and
know how important their voices are and
so if you are not able to get 60 votes
on something it just means you haven't
worked hard enough talking to enough
people and trying to listen to their
concerns and then coming up with a
solution that they can support so I'm
not afraid of it one way or the other
you'd be oh you'd be open to getting rid
of it for something big like Medicare I
don't think we should have gotten rid of
it for the Supreme Court justices
because their lifetime appointments and
I do think you should be at least 60
votes yeah but you know think about it I
you know I I can I believe I can work
well under either system because if you
don't have 60 votes yet it just means
you haven't done enough advocacy and you
need to work a lot harder okay so
another potential impediment to your
agenda would be a fairly conservative
fairly partisan Supreme Court some folks
on the Left are saying you know what
after what McConnell did to garland
after ramming through Kavanagh who was
openly partisan at his hearings the next
Democratic president needs to consider
reforming the Supreme Court potentially
adding seats potentially instituting
term limits what do you think of those
ideas either those appealing to you well
they're interesting ideas that I would
need to think more about but I do think
what President Trump has done with the
judiciary is is shocking and is so
destructive I thought both Cavanaugh and
Gorsuch were disqualified in my mind
because of their records because of
their previous statements because their
belief that money is speech and that
corporations have same free speech
rights as you and I I think that's
outrageous I think we need to get money
out of politics I think that the special
interest the moneyed interest the the
levers of power
exist in Washington are so powerful they
don't need more power
they need far less and we need to
restore direct democracy we need to
actually put the power of this country
back in the hands of the people and so
you need to undermine those special
interests and these two justices they
just want to glorify those special
interests so do you think the Supreme
Court needs reform do you think it does
well I can give you one example that I
desperately believe the fact that a
Supreme Court justice can be wined and
dined by a special interest have you
know junkets paid for where they can be
lobbied incessantly by special interest
by the wealthy special interests I think
we have to make that illegal I think it
is absolutely essential that we take
away the ability for them to be wined
and dined we need transparency and
accountability is something I've been
working on since I was first elected in
2006 we need to make sure that the
public knows what's happening and how
it's happening and I don't think we
should have a system where legislation
is written in the dead of night by the
most powerful people in the land we
really have to restore that to the
people so I'd be very interested in
looking at a very significant
transparency agenda for the Supreme
Court because I do not think they are
held accountable and I I think you know
way back when we used to say oh they're
above the partisanship well I have not
believed that since Bush v Gore when I
saw extreme partisanship come out of our
justices and certainly with judge
Cavanaugh are now just as Cavanaugh in
the way he spoke in his last hearing
creating a screed saying this was some
conspiracy of the Clintons and a screed
against Democrats and it was so
inappropriate for a justice of the
Supreme Court that I do believe we need
a full transparency agenda put in place
for them because they are no longer
public servants in the way that we have
always imagined them to be mm-hmm um
let's talk about immigration which is
seemingly Trump's only political issue
and one that where you're thinking has
evolved over the but I will just say one
thing that stuff that I just talked
about is why we're not taking corporate
PAC monies in my campaign it's also why
we're not taking federal lobbyist money
it's also why I don't think individuals
should have super PACs
because if you have to start somewhere
and if you are unwilling to take on the
special interests in a way that shows I
value your voice as an individual more
than a corporate interest or a
billionaires interest or people who can
manipulate politics with their money
right you will never get to healthcare
as a right not a privilege because you
can't then you need to take on the
insurance companies and the drug
manufacturers you will never get to any
of the issues you will never end gun
violence if you won't take on the NRA so
this is the stuff that's necessary in
this moment we're in you really need a
direct democracy and you need to restore
that power back to the hands of the
people not the not the powerful
interests that just control everything
yes
um so on immigration um you're in favor
of a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants you've talked
about splitting ice immigrations and
Customs Enforcement into two agencies
one that handles crime and terrorism one
that handles immigration what would
enforcement look like under a gillibrand
presidency what would you do about
immigrants who come across the border or
overstay their visas right so let me
answer the first part your question
first in the second part second so
Democrats believe in border security
Democrats believe in national security
and the initial mission of ice was to do
anti-terrorism that was it was founded
in 2003 to do anti-terrorism so we need
to fund anti-terrorism and unfortunately
under this president he's taken a lot of
the money that would normally go for
anti-human trafficking anti-drug
trafficking anti gun trafficking and
cross-border terrorism and taking all
that to put moms and babies in
for-profit prisons and pay for those
for-profit prisons so yeah so so I
believe that we should be funding the
anti-terrorism work keeping our country
safe making sure if people know that law
enforcement have the tools they need and
the support they need to do hard work of
arresting criminals and finding
terrorists and arresting terrorists that
has to continue immigration in our
country has always been a strength we
thrive on our diversity our diversity
has always been a strength it helps to
increase the economy it helps to create
entrepreneurialism and innovation
it's the American story the Statue of
Liberty stands in New York Harbor with a
beacon of light and hope saying to the
world come we will help you you know for
anyone the huddled masses yearning to
breathe free we are here that beacon of
light
we've never been afraid of refugees
we've never been afraid of immigration
we've always seen it as something that
is part of our story and so we need to
build that and it should be under the
Department of Justice it should be part
of a humanitarian issue certainly for
asylum seekers and as you humanitarian
issues and immigration as an issue of
families making sure families who
desperately want to be reunited can be
reunited and those communities can be
strong and economic and making sure that
we ultimately right-size immigration and
so that's why you need a comprehensive
immigration approach and you're gonna do
all of it so you're not going to
sacrifice national security and
anti-terrorism work that needs to be
fully funded as part of homeland
security but immigration is about so
much more it's not a criminal issue it's
not a national security issue
it's about who we are as a nation and
what makes us strong and immigration is
going to be part of that and so you've
got to make it work you have to have a
pathway to citizenship for the 11 or 12
million folks that are here you have to
let people who are here start buying
into Social Security and buying into
paying their taxes and making sure
they're investing in our schools so you
have to create a pathway for that to
happen and then you have to look at
asylum very differently because we have
a lot of reasons why asylum seekers are
coming here you've got things happening
in South America and Central America
that frankly were turning a blind eye to
that we should be actually addressing
working in with the international
community with political solutions and
diplomatic solutions to try to end the
gun violence gang violence and terrorism
that's happening these communities that
are making mothers send their young boys
to travel by themselves to America so
they just don't get recruited into a
gang think about the problem that these
people are facing how many women are
seeking refuge because of gang violence
and rape and and and being just treated
so horribly that they can't survive
so if you don't start with the human
story about what's actually happening in
these families you're not gonna create
the right solution I promise you locking
them up in a for-profit prison or
sticking lots of young boys in a Walmart
with no windows is not the solution to
the horror their lives are facing or our
immigration challenges and so I would do
comprehensive and I would try to solve
each problem based on what is the actual
problem and and and get at it from the
root I guess yeah I guess my question is
so say say we do comprehensive right and
we provide a path this edition of
citizenship for all the undocumented
immigrants over here and then we you
know Democrats beef up border security
not like no like we're not with the wall
but maybe the border security we have
you're still gonna have people who come
across the border you're still gonna
have a family you have do you have visa
overstays which happens all the time and
those folks are coming from countries
that we have visas with these are these
are people we have coming as a tourist
visas so I think you just have to have a
more humane system created so people
know there's a real process so they
don't feel like they have to go around
the law because the law is fair and just
make it feel like they can work with the
law and that is possible we've done that
for many decades in this country had a
proper immigration process that worked
for people it's when it in when it's
what it lacks compassionate when it
lacks empathy and when it lacks justice
like that people feel they can't trust
the system so let's build a system that
they can trust and do it in the way
that's healthy for our economy our
country our families and our communities
with the recognition that this only
makes us stronger um so you spent your
career as a senator working to reduce
sexual assault in the workplace in the
military in Congress you've been called
to the political face of the me2
movement you tweeted about how the
future is female and intersectional I
saw that tweet and I thought that is a
brave thing to tweet just from a
political perspective someone was gonna
run for president saying that I could
also hear some you know cynical DC
consultant probably a guy in my head
saying okay that's a great thing to
tweet for a presidential primary
Democratic primary how do you how do you
deliver that message can you deliver
that message in some of these redder
States the
Trump one that we know we need to win
back I definitely can and I have been
because in my state most people look at
New York and say oh it's blue state and
it's New York City but what they don't
realize is upstate New York is a lot of
red it's a lot of it's a rural area
there's a lot of agriculture there's a
lot of manufacturing there is a lot of
the rural challenges we have in other
parts of the country the manufacturing
tradition is a lot like Michigan it's a
lot like Ohio it's a lot like Wisconsin
agriculture is a lot like Wisconsin and
Michigan too so there's just a lot of
similarities with the rest of the
country our suburbs in Westchester and
in Long Island are purple it's a lot of
those you know white middle-class moms
who didn't vote with Democrats last time
they are in my state and I do well with
all of them talking about what I believe
in and not everybody necessarily knows
what the tweet map but I certainly can't
explain it to them when you say the
futures female I'm not saying the
futures only female I'm saying please
include the ladies in the future because
we have a lot to offer which is why I
created off the sidelines it was a
political action committee I created
seven years ago a call to action asking
what America's women to vote to become
advocates to participate to run to find
out what we can teach to support because
we want 51% of one at the table why
would you exclude half of our US
population from the decision-making
table and that's that's gonna resonate
in any community because they know that
their mom or their sister or their aunt
or their daughter have important things
to say that they listen to in their own
families and so when you elevate men and
women at the same table you're gonna
have a diversity of opinion about what
are the biggest problems but also what
are the best solutions and the diversity
of that really works I'll give you one
example so when I first got elected in
2006 I was put on the Armed Services
Committee and I'm sitting next to Gabby
Giffords and a bunch of new freshmen
women and we were having a hearing on
military readiness and you know a lot of
the men were talking about equipment
they wanted to know how many guns how
many ships how many aircraft it was all
about you know the the the the function
of military readiness from from a that's
the word from an equipment perspective
you know from what are we gonna buy and
what are gonna build but the women just
instinctively we're looking at
their data and saying well why is the
divorce rate as high as it is right now
why is the suicide rate as high as it is
domestic violence rate as high as it is
and we realize that military readiness
also has to do with the troops and that
you and the service members to say each
one of these service members they're
being pulled to the thinest they're not
having rotations at home their
deployment times are longer than they've
been in other conflicts and there's no
rest time and no dwell time and they're
struggling and so the military readiness
that we're talking about is both
equipment and personnel and so for that
for America that was a better answer for
them because the combination of our
voices was strong and so when I see the
futures female I'm talking about the
fact that 120 women just ran for
Congress in one and what allowed them to
win was all these women who came out and
were activists and voted and we have
been marching since President Trump got
elected to say we don't agree with you
we don't agree with your vision for this
country we don't agree with how you talk
about people we don't agree with the
hatred and we see a different future and
so it's a call to action saying we want
to all be part of this discussion
and so intersectionality let me finish
it's a longer question so so I've been
talking about this for seven years in
New York stage about why I want more
women's voices at the table I have the
highest vote margin in the history of
state is 72% vote margin and the reason
why of the highest vote margin in the
history of State against anywhere who's
ever run statewide including the
presidentials yeah outperforming
President Obama outperforming Secretary
Clinton because when I'm talking to
folks in red and purple places I have
time to tell them what I'm for and why
and they can see my heart and they
understand it yeah and they also know
how important women in leadership is so
that's all it takes you just have to
talk to people about their lives and
what they care about and tell them why
you care and why you want more women
more female leadership so I've never had
that and I talk about a whole time and
people okay with that and they know when
I'm trying to get rid of sexual
harassment and sexual assault on a
college campus or in the military or in
Congress itself I bring people together
on those issues my co-sponsor in working
on sexual harassment Congress was Ted
Cruz my co-sponsor entering sexual
harassment or sexual assault the
military was Rand Paul and Ted Cruz
Marco Rubio worked with me on sexual
assault on college campuses so you can
cross party lines you can talk to people
from red and purple places if you just
care about if you talk about what you
care about why and I've done it so I
know that I can talk to people in all
parts of the country about what they
care about because I listen first I find
where the common ground is and then I
build from there and that's how I bring
people together
it's how I pass laws it's how I get
things done when it's how New Yorkers
see me so I'd like to introduce that to
everyone so intersectionality what that
means to me is that if you are
discriminated against in more than one
way its intersectional and for example
if you are a woman you're gonna be
discriminated against because of gender
bias and sexism if you're a black woman
you might be discriminated against
because of racism and that burden on
that black woman is so much harder
because she has to deal with racism and
sexism at the very same time and if you
explain that to someone who might not
know what that word means they're gonna
say that's right that that is right and
then you give them a few facts like well
you know if you're a black woman in New
York City and you went to go have a baby
you are 12 times more likely to die in
childbirth because of institutional
racism if you explain to someone a lot
of forcement really isn't that fair and
if you are a black or brown man and in
my in my city of New York City and in
the country you are 10 times more likely
to be arrested than a white man in New
York City and four times more likely in
the rest of the country for marijuana
possession so that's why I'm for
decriminalization because how it is how
people are treated is unacceptable it
isn't and when someone's been arrested
and put in jail for possession of
marijuana you know how their lives
change they might have missed work that
day they might be fired they might have
just lost the one job it took them a
really long time to get if their mom
lives in one of the housing authorities
in New York City and they well they want
to go visit her on Thanksgiving they
can't if that somehow gets in their
record and they go for a job interview
and this you know employer says you ever
been arrested and he has to say well
yeah when I was 18 I the job interview
is over
and so criminal justice has to be
important and
and in the economy like you'll see one
of the issues you guys have talked
abouts postal banking percent of our
country doesn't have access to a savings
account do you know it it's very
expensive to be poor in this country it
means that if you have to wire some
money to your your mother who's in
Puerto Rico they're gonna charge you
maybe 20% of what you just sent her or
if you want to buy a couch for your
house well your only option is layaway
and the predatory lending aspect of that
you're gonna pay $500 for a couch that
was $200 because you had to you couldn't
pay it all in one go so I think as a
white woman it is my responsibility to
take on these these issues of
institutional racism as if they were my
own because that's my job and it is not
should not be left as a burden for black
and brown people to fight these their
own on their own it should be me who can
lift up their voices can can make sure
their voices are heard and so that we
can end it and so those are my
responsibilities as a woman who seeks to
serve so and so I will talk about that
in red purple and blue places and I
promise you if I told any mom in America
that if you're a black lady and you go
to get to have a baby you're gonna more
likely die they're gonna be as mad as I
am because it's not okay yeah it's not
it's not okay so you just have to take
time well so well somewhat related to
that I mean you you know you've talked
about last question you talked about
working with Republicans and you
obviously this record in the Senate
where you were able to reach out to the
other side and get stuff done you talked
about bringing people together you know
there's some people on the Left who
often say like it's naive to think we're
gonna go after those Trump voters it's a
waste of our time and energy we should
be only going after non voters because
you know these Trump voters even if even
if they themselves aren't racist they
have supported right this man that you
know you yourself have called a racist
and misogynist are they wrong are those
Democrats wrong yes I do I think you
should ask everyone for their vote and I
think you should ask Americans to put
this country first and our values first
we despite all our flaws have always
believed in a more perfect union we have
fought as a nation to end discrimination
over and over again whether we were
trying to abolish slavery or fighting
for suffrage or fight
for basic civil rights for black
Americans are fighting for LGBTQ
equality or clean air and clean water so
that if you're poor you're not being
poisoned to death these are issues that
we have chosen as a country to bring
people together towards a more perfect
union despite all our flaws and we do it
because we believe that we should care
about one another this country believes
in the golden rule that we should treat
others the way we want to be treated we
should protect and fight for the least
among us we have to remind America
that's who we are we have to heal this
division and this hatred in this
darkness that President Trump has
created I believe that only light can
defeat darkness we just had MLK Day
we're reminded of his amazing statements
and amazing preaching and everything
he's ever said we celebrate his legacy
once a year for that reason and he's not
wrong so only light can drive out
darkness and that is what I'm called to
do to be able to bring and fight for
what's right what's good against what's
bad and what's harmful in all forms and
so I want to inspire all voters and not
enough you know it last election we lost
for a lot of reasons but you need to
inspire all voters you need to inspire
folks in red places blue places and
purple places and you're only gonna do
that if your vision actually reaches the
people who you intend to serve and you
should intend to serve everyone and
you'll bring them with you it doesn't
mean you're gonna I don't think
triangulating and running as a
conservative is the way to go run is the
person you are run on the values that
you want you will bring people along
when I started running my
tu-tu-tu-tu-tu-tu one Republican
district in upstate I ran on getting out
of Iraq which would have been perceived
by some as a very liberal issue but I
explained to folks listen we need to
defeat terrorism and we are not going to
do that effectively with troops in Iraq
if the Iraqis themselves won't won't
push out terrorists we there's not
enough military might in the world to
defeat terrorism in a country that won't
fight for it for themselves
I said we should read to play out we
should invest in other anti-terrorism
methods but being in Iraq is the wrong
way to keep us safe by Election Day from
30% it went to 70% where for getting out
of Iraq so I would
just urge Democrats speak your truth
speak your values be for what you're for
if everyone doesn't agree with you on
day one you can bring them along we
don't have to accept the racism and
division and the hatred the President
Trump has created I believe you can call
on people to be better than that to
actually care about one another and
speak to their better angels not their
worse demons kirsten gillibrand thank
you so much for joining us and come back
again and good luck on the campaign
thank you thanks
you
