from everyone and we love our audio
but we'd like to ask them to keep their
reactions to a minimum and we're not
gonna hold back and making sure the
candidates stick to time so with that
business take care it taken care of
let's get to it and we're going to start
today with senator Sanders good evening
to you you've called for big new
government benefits like universal
health care and free college in a recent
interview you said you suspected that
Americans would be quote delighted to
pay more taxes for things like that my
question to you is will taxes go up for
the middle class in a Sanders
administration and if so how do you sell
that to voters well you're quite right
we have a new vision for America and at
a time when we have three people in this
country owning more wealth than the
bottom half of America while 500,000
people are sleeping out on the streets
today we think it is time for change
real change and by that I mean that
healthcare in my view is a human right
and we have got to pass a medicare for
all single-payer system under that
system by the way that's majority of the
people in this country will be paying
significantly less for health care than
they are right now I believe that
education is the future for this country
and that is why I believe that we must
make public colleges and universities
tuition-free and eliminate student debt
and we do that by placing a tax on Wall
Street every proposal that I have
brought forth is fully paid for senator
Sanders I'll give you ten seconds just
to ask the answer the very direct
question will you raise taxes for the
middle class in a Sanders administration
people who have health care on the
Medicare for all will have no premiums
no deductibles no co-payments no out of
extra out-of-pocket expenses yes they
will pay more in taxes but less in
health care for what they get
[Applause]
senator Bennett we're gonna get to
everybody
senator Biden promise everybody's gonna
get in here promise Vice President Biden
senator Sanders as you know has been
calling for a revolution recently in
remarks to a group of wealthy donors as
you were speaking about the problem of
income inequality in this country you
said we shouldn't quote demonize the
rich you said nobody has to be punished
no one's standard of living would change
nothing would fundamentally change what
did you mean by that
remember that is look Donald Trump
thinks wall street build America
ordinary middle-class Americans build
America my dad used to have an
expression see Joe a job was about a lot
more than a paycheck
it's about your dignity it's about
respect it's being able to look your kid
in the eye and severities going to be
okay too many people who are in the
middle class and poor have at the bottom
fall out under this proposal what I'm
saying is that we've got to be
straightforward we have to make sure we
understand that the return dignity to
the middle class they have to have
insurance that is covered and they can
afford it they have to make sure that
we're in a situation where there's
continuing education and they're able to
pay for it and they have to make sure
that they're able to breathe air that
it's clean and they they have water that
they can drink look Donald Trump has put
us in a horrible situation we do have
enormous income inequality and the one
thing I agree on is we can make massive
cuts in the 1.6 trillion dollars in tax
loopholes out there and I would be going
about eliminating Donald Trump's tax
cuts for the wealthy Vice President
Biden thank you
there's a lot of talk in this primary
about new government benefits such as
student loan cancellation free college
health care and more do you think that
Democrats have a responsibility to
explain how they will pay for every
proposal they make along those lines
well let me tell you something I hear
that question but where was that
question when the Republicans and Donald
Trump passed a tax bill bit that
benefits the top one percent at least a
one trillion dollars to the debt of
America which middle-class families will
pay for one way or another working
families need support and need to be
lifted up and frankly this economy is
not working for working people for too
long the rules have been written in the
favor of the people who have the most
and not in favor of the people who work
the most which is why I am proposing
that we change the tax code so for every
family that is making less than $100,000
a year they will receive a tax credit
that they can collect up to $500 a month
which will make all the difference
between those families being able to get
through the end of the month with
dignity and with support or not and on
day one I will repeal that tax bill that
benefits the top one percent and the
biggest corporations of America
let me get you in on this you've warned
that Democrats will lose in 2020 if they
embrace socialism as you put it you were
booed at the California Democratic
convention when you said that only one
candidate on this stage senator Sanders
identifies himself as a Democratic
Socialist what are the policies or
positions of your opponents that you
think are veering towards socialism well
I think that the bottom line is if we
don't clearly define that we are not
socialists the Republicans are going to
come at us every way they can and and
call us socialists and if you look at
the green New Deal which I admire the
sense of urgency and how important it is
to do climate change I'm a scientist
but we can't promise every American a
government job if you want to get
universal health care coverage I believe
that health care is a right and not a
privilege but you can't expect to
eliminate private insurance for 180
million people many of whom who don't
want to give it up in Colorado we
brought businesses and nonprofits
together we got there and your universal
health care coverage we were the first
state in America to to bring the
environmental community and the oil and
gas industry to address aggressively
address methane emissions and we were
also the first place to expand
reproductive rights on a scale basis and
we reduce teen pregnancy by 54% we've
done the big progressive things that
people said couldn't be done I've done
well pretty much everyone else up here
is still talking about doing governor
Thank You senator Sanders I'll give you
a chance to what is your response to
those who say nominating a socialist
would reelect Donald Trump well I think
the responses that the polls last poll I
saw had as 10 points ahead of Donald
Trump because the American people
understand that Trump is a phony that
Trump is a pathological liar and a
racist and that he lied to the American
people during his campaign he said he
was going to stand up for working
families while President Trump you're
not standing up for working families
when you try to throw 32 million people
off their health care that they have and
that 83 percent of your tax
benefits go to the top 1% that's how
we'd be Trump we expose them to the
fraud that he is their perspectives the
debate we're having in our party right
now is confusing because the truth is
there's a big difference between
capitalism on the one hand
you
to want to try to get healthcare as a
right and not a privilege
so big there need not be disagreement in
the party because in truth we want
healthy things of you
we don't want corrupted capital you
don't want to be there to break it
senator Bennett you have said quote it's
possible to write policy proposals that
have no basis in reality you might as
well call them candy were you referring
to any candidate or proposal in
particular when you said that it was a
drug conviction
yeah that sounded like me thank you I
appreciate it well first of all I agree
completely with Bernie about what the
fundamental challenge we're facing as a
country is 40 years of no economic
growth for 90% of American people
160,000 families in the top point one
percent have the same wealth as the
bottom 90% and we've got the worst
income inequality that we've had in a
hundred years where I disagree is on his
solution on Medicare for all you know I
I have proposed getting to universal
health care which we need to do it is a
right health care is a right we need to
get to universal health care I believe
the way to do that is by finishing the
work we started with Obama care and
creating a public option that every
family and every person in America can
make a choice for their family about
whether they want a public option which
for them would be like having Medicare
for all or whether they want to keep
their private insurance I believe we
will get there much more quickly if we
do that but Bernie if I could just
finished Bernie mentioned that the taxes
that we would have to pay because of
those taxes Vermont rejected Medicare
for all
we are going to talk about health care
at length senator but for the moment at
my colleagues I thank you the brony cart
in senators we will bill I wrote the
part in Senator Sanders's bill that is
let's do single-payer more quickly
senator we will get to this we will get
to it before we do I want to say hello
and good evening when I'm not just too
mayor Buda judge well as much as Bess is
Damita knows Tom Brokaw I hear many of
your colleagues on stage support free
college you do not why not sure so
college affordability is personal for us
Chason and I have six-figure student
debt I believe in reducing student debt
it's logical to me that if you can
refinance your house you ought to be
able to refinance your student debt I
also believe in free college for low and
middle-income students for whom cost
could be a barrier I just don't believe
it makes sense to ask working-class
families to subsidize even the children
of billionaires I think the children of
the wealthiest Americans can pay at
least a little bit of tuition and while
I want to ition cost to go down I don't
think we can buy down every last penny
for them now there's something else that
doesn't get talked about in the college
affordability debate yes it needs to be
more affordable in this country to go to
college it also needs to be more
affordable in this country to not go to
college you should be able to live well
afford rent be generous to your church
literally whether you went to college or
not that's one of many reasons we need
to raise the minimum wage to at least
$15 an hour long dead myself to you in
count on the people who've been in
government for the last 30 years who
were around when this problem was
created to be the ones to solve it it's
gonna be the next generation the 40
million of us who can't start a family
can't take a good idea and start a
business and can't buy our first home
this is the generation that's gonna be
able to solve student loan debt this
generation is ready to lead mr. yang
your signature policy is to give every
adult in the United States $1,000 a
month no questions asked that's right I
think that's like three point two
trillion dollars a year how would you do
that
sorry how would you do that oh so it's
difficult to do if you have companies
like Amazon trillion-dollar tech
companies paying literally zero in taxes
while they're closing 30% of our stores
now we need to put the American people
in position to benefit from all these
innovations and other parts of the
economy and if we had a value-added tax
even half the European level it would
generate over 800 billion in new revenue
which combined with the money in our
hands it would be the trickle up economy
from our people families and communities
up we would spend the money and would
circulate through our regional economies
and neighborhoods creating millions of
jobs making our families stronger and
healthier we'd save money on things like
incarceration homelessness services
emergency room health care and just the
value gains from having a stronger
healthier mentally healthier population
would increase GDP by 700 billion
dollars this is the move that we have to
make particularly as technology is now
automating away millions of American
jobs it's why Donald Trump is our
president today that we automated away
four million manufacturing jobs in
Michigan Ohio and Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin and we're about to do the same
thing to millions of retail jobs call
center jobs fast food jobs truck driving
jobs and selling off through the economy
if I get to understand a little bit
better so you're saying a thousand
dollars a month for everyone over 18 but
a value-added tax so you can spend that
thousand dollars on value-added tax
well the value-added tax would end up
you still be increasing the buying power
of the bottom ninety four percent of
Americans you have to spend a lot of
money for a mild value-added tax to eat
up twelve thousand dollars a year per
individual so for the average family
with two or three adults it'd be
twenty-four to thirty-six thousand
dollars a year okay a congressman solo I
talked a little bit about what mr. yang
is talking about it and you just
actually mentioned it many Americans
were worded things like self-driving
cars robots drones artificial
intelligence will cost them their jobs
what would you do to help people get the
skills they need to adapt to this new
world we must always be a country where
technology creates more jobs than it
displaces I've seen the anxiety across
America where the manufacturing floors
go from a thousand to a hundred to one
so we have to modernize our schools
value the teachers who prepare our kids
wipe the student debt from any teacher
that goes into a community that needs it
invest in America's communities
especially where places where the best
exports are people who move away to get
skills but Jose
I was six years old when a presidential
candidate came to the California
Democratic convention and said it's time
to pass the torch to a new generation of
Americans that candidate was
then-senator Joe Biden Joe Biden was
right when he said it was time to pass
the torch to a new generation of
Americans 32 years ago he still today
[Applause]
pass the torch we're gonna solve the
issues of climate chaos pass the torch
if we're gonna solve the issue of
student loan debt pass the torch if
we're gonna end gun violence for
families who are fearful of sending
their kids to school pass the torch vice
president would you like to sing a tour
I'm still hold out of that torch I want
to make you clear to your look the fact
of the matter is we have to do is make
sure that everybody is prepared better
to go on to educate for an education the
fact is that that's why I proposed us
focusing on schools that are in distress
that's why I think we should triple the
amount of money we spend for title one
schools that's why I think we should
have universal pre-k that's why I think
every single person who graduates from
high school sixty-five out of hundred
out need something beyond high school
and we should provide for them to be
able to get that education that's why
there should be free Community College
cutting it in half the cost of college
that's why we should be in the position
where we do not have anyone have to pay
back a student debt when they get out
they make in less than $25,000 a year
their debt is frozen no interest payment
until they get beyond that we can't put
people to position where they aren't
able to go on and move on and so folks
there's a lot we can do but we have to
make continuing education available for
everyone so that everyone can compete in
the 21st century we're not doing that
now senator says
[Applause]
Joe's generation generation let me
respond please please these are sandals
and how that's generation who has the
guts on it to take on Wall Street to
take on the fossil fuel industry to take
on the big money interests who have
unbelievable influence over the economic
and political life of this Colette you
all speak senator hey guys you know what
America does not want to witness a food
fight they want to know how we're gonna
put food on their table
on that point part of the issue that is
at play in America today and we've all
been traveling around the country I
certainly have I'm meeting people who
are working two and three jobs you know
this president walks around talking
about and flouting his great economy
right my great economy my great economy
you ask him well how are you measuring
this greatness of this economy of yours
and he talks about the stock market well
that's fine if your own stocks so many
families in America do not you ask them
how are you measuring the greatness of
this economy of yours and they point to
the jobless numbers and the unemployment
numbers well you have people in America
are working they're working two and
three jobs so when we talk about jobs
let's be really clear in our America no
one should have to work more than one
job to have a roof over their head and
food
[Applause]
and talking about healthcare so let's
let's talk about healthcare and this is
gonna be a show of hands question we
asked a question about health care last
night that spurred a lot of discussion
as you know we're going to do it again
now many people watching at home have
health insurance of their employer who
here would abolish their private health
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan so this is a very important issue
so the plan that senator Sanders and I
and other support medicare-for-all is
how you get to single-payer but it has a
Buy in transition period which is really
important in 2005 when I ran for
Congress in a two-to-one Republican
district I actually ran on Medicare for
all and I won that two-to-one Republican
district twice and the way I formulated
it was simple anyone who doesn't have
access to insurance they like they could
buy in a percentage of income they could
afford so that's what we put into the
transition period for our Medicare for
all plan I believe we need to get to
universal health care as a right and not
a privilege to single-payer the quickest
way you get there is you create
competition with the insurers
god bless the insurers if they want to
compete they can certainly try but
they've never put people over their
profits and I doubt they ever will so
what will happen is people will choose
Medicare you will transition we will get
to Medicare for all and then your step
to single-payer is so short I would make
it an earned benefit just like Social
Security so that you buy in your whole
life it is always there for you and it's
permanent and it's universe many times I
want to put that same question to Mayor
Brita geez yeah we've taught look
everybody who says Medicare for all
every person in politics who allows that
phrase to escape their lips has a
responsibility to explain how you're
actually supposed to get from here to
there now here's how I would do it it's
very similar I would call it Medicare
for all who want it you take something
like Medicare a flavor of that you make
it available on the exchanges people can
buy in and then if people like us are
right that that will be not only a more
inclusive plan but a more efficient plan
than any of the corporate answers out
there
we'll be a very natural glide path to
the single-payer environment but let's
remember even in countries that have
outright socialized medicine like
England even there there's still a
private sector that's fine it's just
that for our primary care we can't be
relying on the tender mercies of the
corporate system this one's very
personal for me I started out this year
dealing with the terminal illness of my
father I make decisions for a living and
nothing could have prepared me for the
kind of decisions our family faced but
the thing we had going for us
was that we never had to make those
decisions based on whether it was going
to bankrupt our family because of
Medicare and I want every family to have
that same freedom to do what is
medically right put the question do you
were an architect of Obamacare so where
do we go from here look this is a very
personal to me when my wife and daughter
had killed Norland well actually my two
boys were really very badly injured I
couldn't imagine what it'd be like I not
had adequate health care available
immediately and then when my son came
home from Iraq after a year he was
diagnosed with terminal cancer and he
was given months to live I can't fathom
what would have happened if in fact they
said by the way the last six months of
your life you're on your own we're
cutting off you've used up your time the
fact of the matter is that the quickest
fastest way to do it is build on
Obamacare to build on what we did
secondly secondly to make sure that
everyone does have an option everyone
whether they're private insurance and
pleure insurance are no insurance they
in fact could buy in in the exchange to
a Medicare like plan and the way to do
that we can do it quickly look agency
matters there's people right now facing
what I've faced and what we've faced
without any that help I had we must move
now I'm against any Democrat who opposes
it but it takes a pound
Obama care and then a Republican wants
to get rid of let me let me turn to
senator Sanders
basically basically you want to scrap
the private health insurance system as
we know it and replace it with a
government-run plan none of the states
that have tried something like that
California Vermont New York has
struggled with it have been successful
if politicians can't make it work in
those states how would you implement it
on a national level how does this work
lissa I find it hard to believe that
every other major country on Earth
including my neighbor 50 miles north of
Maine Canada somehow has figured out a
way to provide health care to every man
woman and child and in most cases
they're spending 50% per capita what we
are spending let's be clear let us be
very clear the function of health care
today from the insurance and drug
company perspective is not to provide
quality care to all in a cost-effective
way the function of the health care
system today is to make billions in
profits for the insurance companies and
last year if you could believe it while
we pay the highest prices in the world
for prescription drugs and I will
lowered prescription drug prices in half
in this country top 10 companies make 69
billion dollars in profit they will
spend hundreds of millions of dollars
lying to the American people telling us
why we cannot Centerton a Medicare I I
just said okay I just have to follow up
there how do you implement it out of
national how do you
I'm at it on a national level given the
fact it's not succeeded in other states
of tribe I will tell you how we'll do it
we'll do it the way real change has
always taken place whether it was the
labor movement the civil rights movement
or the women's movement we will have
Medicare for all when tens of millions
of people are prepared to stand up and
tell the insurance companies and the
drug companies that their day is gone
that health care is a human right not
something to make huge progress in the
question miss Williamson we've been
talking a lot about access to health
insurance but for many Americans our
most pressing concern is the high cost
of health care how would you lower the
cost of prescription drugs well first of
all the government should never have
made the deal with the big pharma that
they couldn't negotiate that was just
part of the regular corruption by which
multinational corporations have their
way with us you know I want to say that
while I agree with I'm I'm with Senator
Bennett and others but I agree with
almost everything here I'll tell you one
thing it's really nice if we got all
these plans but if you think we're gonna
beat Donald Trump by just having all
these plans you've got another thing
coming because he didn't win I think he
had a plan he won by simply saying make
America great again we've got to get
deeper than just these superficial fixes
as important as they are even if we're
just talking about the superficial fixes
ladies and gentlemen we don't have a
health care system in the United States
we have a sickness care system in the
United States we just wait till somebody
gets sick and then we talk about who's
going to pay for the treatment and how
they're going to be treated what we need
to talk about is why so many Americans
have unnecessary chronic illnesses so
many more compared to other countries
and that gets back into not just the
healthy big pharma not just health
insurance companies it has to do with
chemical policies it has to do with
environmental policy
[Applause]
question for you you want to keep the
system that we have in place with
Obamacare and build on you mentioned
that a moment ago is that enough to get
us to universal government I believe
that will get us the quickest way there
and I thought the vice-president was
very moving about this in mayor Pete as
well I had prostate cancer recently as
you may know and while I was a little
late getting in the race the same week
my kid had a rap and ected me out and I
feel very strongly that families ought
to be able to have this choice I think
that's what the American people want I
believe it will get us there quickly I
there are millions of people in America
that do not have health insurance today
because they can't they're too wealthy
wealthy they make too much money to be
on Medicaid they can't afford health
insurance when senator Sanders says that
Canada is single-payer there are 35
million people in Canada there are 330
million people in the United States
easily the number of people on a public
option they could it could easily be 35
million and for them it would be
Medicare for all as as mayor Budaj ed
says but for others that want to keep it
they should be able to keep it and and I
think that will be the fastest way to
get where we need to go so I will say
bernie is a very honest person he has
said over and over again unlike others
that have supported this legislation
over and over again that this will ban
make it legal all insurance except
cosmetic except insurance for I guess
that's for plastic surgery everything
else is banned under the Medicare after
all you're opposed let's go a little
longer understand you got a response and
basically you know Mike Medicare is the
most popular I hope the insurance
program in the country people don't like
their private insurance companies they
like their doctors and hospitals on the
our plan people go to any doctor they
want any Hospital they want we will
substantially lower the cost of health
care in this country because we'll stop
the greed of the insurance company
for all of how this affects real people
is captured in a story that many of us
heard and I will paraphrase there is any
night in America a parent who's seeing
that their child has a temperature that
is out of control calls 911 I do and
they say take the child to the emergency
room and so they get in their car and
they drive and they're sitting in the
parking lot outside of the emergency
room looking at those sliding glass
doors while they have the hand on the
forehead of their child knowing that if
they walk through those sliding glass
doors even though they have insurance
they will be out of five thousand
deductible five thousand dollar
deductible when they walk through those
doors
I'm one of those parents I was just the
emergency room kind of talisman thank
you we fight health insurance companies
every single week you stand in line and
pay expensive prescription drugs we have
to have a health care guarantee if
you're sick you're seeing and in America
you never go broke because of it okay we
thought a lot of you have been talking
tonight about these government health
care plans that you've proposed in one
form or another this is a show of hands
question and hold them up for a moment
so people can see raise your hand if
covered if your government plan would
provide coverage for undocumented
immigrants
[Applause]
why because our country is healthier
when everybody is healthier and remember
we're talking about something people are
giving a chant given a chance to buy
into in the same way that there are
undocumented immigrants in my community
who pay they pay sales taxes they pay
property taxes directly or indirectly
this is not about a handout this is an
insurance program and we do ourselves no
favors by having 11 million undocumented
people in our country be unable to
access healthcare but of course the real
problem is we shouldn't have 11 million
undocumented people with no pathway to
citizenship it makes no sense and the
American people the American people
agree on what to do this is a crazy
thing
if leadership consists of of forming a
consensus around a divisive issue this
White House has divided us around a
consensus issue the American people want
a pathway to citizenship they want a
protections for dreamers we need to
clean up the lawful immigration system
like how my father immigrated to this
country and as part of a compromise we
can do whatever common-sense measures
are needed at the border but Washington
can't deliver on something the American
people want what does that tell you
about this system we're living in it
tells you a new structural reform Vice
President Biden I believe you said that
your health care plan would not cover
undocumented immigrants could you
explain your position I'm sorry big
apartment
I believe with the show of hands you did
not raise your hand did you raise your
hand all I do okay sorry sorry
so you said they would be covered under
your plan which is different than Obama
care yes blame that change yes you
cannot let as as the mayor said you
cannot let people who are sick no matter
where they come from no matter what
their status go uncovered you can't do
that it's just going to be taken care of
period you have to it's a humane thing
to do but here's the deal the deal is
that he's right about three things
number one they in fact contribute to
the well-being of the country but they
also for example they've increased the
life span of Social Security because
they have a job they're paying a Social
Security tax that's what they're doing
it's increased the life span they would
do the same thing in terms of reducing
the overall cost of health care by them
being able to be treated and not wait
in extremis the other thing is folks
look we can deal with these insurance
companies we can deal with the insurance
companies by number one putting
insurance executives in jail for their
misleading their for the misleading
advertising what they're doing on
opioids what they're doing paying
doctors to prescribe we should we could
be doing this by making sure everyone
who is on Medicare that the government
should be able to negotiate the price
for whatever whatever the drug costs are
we can do this by making sure that were
in a position that we in fact allow
people we need to take a short break
here we got a lot more I need to talk to
all of you about so sick of this we're
just getting started we'll be back with
more for Miami right
you
you
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you very much senator Harris last
month more than 130,000 migrants were
apprehended as the southern border many
of them are being detained including
small children in private detention
centers in Florida and throughout our
country most of the candidates on this
stage say the conditions of these
facilities are porned on January 20th
2021 if you are president what
specifically would you do with the
thousands of people who try to reach the
United States every day and want a
better life through asylum immediately
on January 20th of 2021
I will first of all we cannot forget
that our daca recipients and so I'm
going to start there I will immediately
by executive action reinstate daca
status and daca protection to those
young people I will extend protection
for deferral of deportation for their
parents and for veterans who we have so
many who are undocumented and have
served our country and fought for our
democracy
I will also immediately put in place a
meaningful process for reviewing the
cases for asylum I will release children
from cages I will get rid of the private
detention centers and I will ensure that
the this microphone that the President
of the United States holds in her hand
is used in a way
and not about locking children up
separating them from their parents and I
have to just say that we have to think
about this issue in terms of real people
a mother who pays a coyote to transport
her trial through their country of
origin throughout the entire country of
Mexico facing unknown peril to come here
why would that mother do that I will
tell you because she has decided for
that child to remain where they are is
worse but what does Donald Trump do he
says go back to where you came from that
is not reflective of our America and our
values and it's got to end
day one if you are day one at the White
House how do you respond let me get to
you in just a second
governor day one thousands of men women
and children across the border asking
for asylum for a better life what do you
do one day one hour one well certainly
the images we've seen this week just
compound the emotional impact that the
world is judging us by if you'd ever
told me any time in my life that this
country would sanction federal agents to
take children from the arms of their
parents put them in cages actually put
them up for adoption in Colorado we call
that kidnapping I would have told you I
would told you is unbelievable
and the first thing we have to do is
recognize the humanitarian crisis on the
border for what it is we make sure that
there are the sufficient filth
facilities in place so that women and
children not separate from their
families the children are with their
families we have to make sure that that
ice is completely reformed and they
begin looking at their job in a
humanitarian way where they're
addressing the whole needs of the people
that they are engaged with along the
border and we'd have to make sure
ultimately that we provide not just
shelter but food clothing and access to
medical care miss Williamson yes what
Donald Trump has done to these children
and it's not just in Colorado Governor
you're right it is kidnapping and it's
extremely important for us to realize
that if you forcibly take a child from
their parents arms you're kidnapping
them and if you take a lot of children
and you put them in entertainment center
thus inflicting chronic trauma upon them
that's called child abuse this is
collective child of you
fine both of those things are fine and
if your government does it that doesn't
make it less of a crime
these are state-sponsored crimes
President Trump has done is not only
attack these children not only demonize
these immigrants he is attacking a basic
principle of America's moral core we
open our hearts to the stranger this is
extremely important and it's also
important for all of us remember and I
have great respect for everyone who is
on this on this on this stage but we're
going to talk about what to do about
health care well where have you been
guys because if it's it's not just the
matter of a plan and I haven't heard
anybody on this stage was talked about
American foreign policy in Latin America
and how we might have in the last few
decades what would you do as president
with a reality well one of the worst
things about President Trump that he's
done to this country is he's torn apart
the moral fabric of who we are when he
started separating children at the
border from their parents the fact that
seven children have died in his custody
the fact that dozens of children have
been separated from their parents and
they have no plan to reunite them so I
would do a few things first I would
fight for comprehensive immigration
reform with a pathway to citizenship
second I would reform how we treat
asylum seekers at the border I would
have a community-based treatment center
where you're doing within the
communities where asylum seekers are
given lawyers where there's real
immigration judges not employees of the
Attorney General but appointed for life
and have a community-based system I
would fund border security but the worst
thing President Trump has done he's
diverted the funds away from
cross-border terrorism cross-border
human trafficking drug trafficking and
gun trafficking and he's given that
money to the for-profit prisons
I would not be spending money in
for-profit
children and asylum seekers we had a
very spirited debate on this stage last
night on the topic of decriminalization
of the border if you'd be so kind raise
your hand if you think it should be a
civil offense rather than a crime to
cross the border without documentation
can we keep the hands up so we could see
them unless remember that's not just a
theoretical exercise that
criminalization that is the basis for
family separation you do away with that
it's no longer possible of course it
wouldn't be possible anyway in my
presidency because it is dead wrong we
got to talk about one other thing
because the Republican Party likes to
cloak itself in the language of religion
now our party doesn't talk about that as
much largely for a very good reason
which was we are committed to the
separation of church and state and we
stand for people of any religion and
people of no religion but we should call
out hypocrisy when we see it and for a
party that associates itself with
Christianity to say that it is okay to
suggest that God would smile on the
division of families at the hands of
federal agents that God would condone
putting children in cages has lost all
claim to ever use religious language
again vice-president
we're just asking you to speak would you
first he criminalize crossing the border
without documents the first thing I
would do is unite families I'd Serge
immediately billions of dollars worth of
help to the region immediately look I
talk about foreign policy I'm the guy
that got a bipartisan agreement at the
very end of the campaign at the very end
of our term to spend seven hundred and
forty million dollars to deal with the
problem and that was to go to the root
cause of why people are leaving in the
first place it was working we saw as you
know a net decrease in the number of
children were coming the crisis was
abated and Along Came this president he
said he immediately discontinued that we
all talk about these things I did it I
did it
714 11 second thing second thing we have
to do the law now requires the reuniting
of those families we would reunite those
families period and if not we put those
children in a circumstance where they
were safe until we could find their
parents and lastly the idea that he's in
court with his Justice Department saying
children in cages do not need a bed do
not need a blanket do not need attics
president that is outrageous
Vice President the obama-biden
administration was the obama-biden
administration deported more than 3
million Americans my question to you as
if an individual is living in the United
States of America without documents and
that is his only offense should that
person be deported depending if they
committed a major crime they should be
deported and the president was left in
as President Obama I think through the
heck of a job to compare him to what
what this guy is doing is absolutely I
find close to immoral but the fact is
that look we should not be locking
people up we should be making sure we
change the circumstance as we did why
they would lead in the first place and
those who come seeking asylum we should
immediately have the capacity to absorb
them keep them safe until they can be
heard a 15 second if you could if you
wish to answer
should someone who is here without
documents and that is his only offense
should that person be deported that
person should not be the focus of
deportation we should fundamentally
change the way we deal with you senator
I suggest that I agree with a lot of
what colin has just said and that is on
day one we take out our executive order
pen and we worse in every damn thing on
this issue that Trump has done number
two number two picking up on the point
that killed me we got a look at the root
causes and you have a situation where
Honduras among other things is a failing
state massive corruption
you got gangs who are telling families
fed up a ten year old does not join that
gang that family is going to be killed
what we have got to do on day one is
invite the presidents and the leadership
of Central America and Mexico together
this is a hemisphere thank you problem
that we have behind us whoa well what do
you do
day one know if someone is here without
documents and that is their only offense
is that person to be deported no that
person can be a part of this great
American experience that person can
contribute my congressional district is
one of the most diverse in America and
we see the benefits when people
contribute and they become a part of the
community and they're not in the shadow
economy day one for me families are
reunited this president though for
immigrants there's nothing he will not
do to separate a family cage a child or
a race their existence by weaponizing
the census and there is nothing that we
cannot do in the courts and that I will
not do as president to reverse that and
to make sure that families always belong
together senator Harris well thank you I
will say no absolutely not they should
not be deported and I actually this was
one of the very few issues with which I
disagreed with the administration with
whom I otherwise had a great
relationship and a great deal of respect
but on the Secure Communities issue
I was Attorney General of California
the second-largest Department of Justice
in the United States second only to the
United States Department of Justice in a
state of 40 million people and on this
issue I disagreed with my president
because the policy was to allow
deportation of people who by Isis own
definition were non criminals so as
Attorney General and the chief law
officer of the state of California I
issued a directive to the sheriffs of my
state that they did not have to comply
with detainers and instead should make
decisions based on the best interest of
public safety of their community because
what I saw and I was tracking it every
day I was tracking it and saw that
parent debt parents people who had not
committed a crime even by Isis own
definition were being deported and but I
have to add a point here the problem
with this kind of policy and I know it
as a prosecutor I want a rape victim to
be able to run in the middle of it but
to run in the middle of the street and
wave down a police officer and report
the crime against her I want anybody who
has been the victim of any real crime to
be able to do that and not be afraid
that if they do that they will be
deported because the
we're gonna turn to the issue of trade
now if we can last night we asked the
candidates on this stage to name the
greatest geopolitical threat facing the
u.s. four of them mentioned China US
businesses say China steals our
intellectual property and party leaders
on both sides Agusta of manipulating
their currency to keep the cost of goods
artificially low last this to Senator
Bennet to start off with how would you
stand up to China I think that first of
all the the biggest you the the biggest
threat to our national security right
now is Russia not China and second on
China
we've got competent because of what
they've done with our election in China
I think the president's been right to
push back on China but has done it in
completely the wrong way we should
mobilize the entire rest of the world
who will all have a shared interest in
pushing back on China's mercantilist
trade policies and I think we can do
that I'd like to answer the other
question before this as well you're do
you have the time when I when I when I
see these kids at the border I see my
mom because I know she sees herself
because she was separated from her
parents for years during the Holocaust
in Poland and for Donald Trump to be
doing what he's doing to children and
their families at the borders I say this
as somebody who wrote the immigration
bill in 2013 that created a pathway to
citizenship for 11 million people in
this country that had the most
progressive DREAM Act that's ever been
conceived much less passed that got 68
votes in the Senate that had 46 billion
dollars of border security in it there
was sophisticated 21st century border
security not a medieval wall and the
president has turned the border of the
United States into a symbols of nativist
hostility that the whole world is
looking at when what we should be
represented by is the Statue of Liberty
which is brought my parents to this
we need to make a change mr. young let
me bring you in on this on the issue of
China you've you've expressed a lot of
concerns about technology and taking
jobs are you worried about China and if
so how would you stand up against it
well I just want to agree that I think
Russia is our greatest geopolitical
threat because they've been hacking our
democracy successfully and they've been
laughing their asses off about it for
the last couple of years so we should
focus on that
before we start worrying about other
threats now China they do they do pirate
or intellectual property it's a massive
problem but the tariffs and the trade
war are just punishing businesses and
producers and workers on both sides I
met with a farmer in Iowa who said he
spent six years building up a buying
relationship in China that's now
disappeared and gone forever and the
beneficiaries have not been American
workers or people in China it's been
Southeast Asia and other producers that
have then stepped into the void so we
need to crack down on Chinese
malfeasance in the trade relationship
but the tariffs and the trade war the
wrong way to go
how would you stand up against China
yeah I mean first of all we've got to
recognize that the China challenge
really is a serious one this is not
something to dismiss or wave away and if
you look at what China is doing they're
using technology for the perfection of
dictatorship but their fundamental
economic model isn't going to change
because it's in tariffs I live in the
industrial Midwest what folks who aren't
in the shadow of a factory or somewhere
near a soy field where I live and
manufacturers and especially soy farmers
are hurting tariffs are taxes and
Americans are gonna pay on average eight
hundred dollars more a year because of
these tariffs meanwhile China is
investing so that they could soon be
able to run circles around us in
artificial intelligence and this
president is fixated on the funder
relationship is if all that mattered was
the export balance on dishwashers we've
got a much bigger issue on our hands but
at a moment when their authority and
model is being held up as an alternative
to ours because ours looks so chaotic
compared to theirs right now because of
our internal divisions the biggest thing
we've got to do is invest in our own
domestic competitiveness if we dissing
that right man in our own infrastructure
education we were never going to be able
to compete and if we really want to be
an alternative
mccr attic alternative we actually have
to demonstrate that we care about
Democratic Rachel Maddow will be here
much more with our candidates straight
ahead
[Music]
[Applause]
you
ball and can't get help you will lie on
the
you
[Music]
[Applause]
to the Democratic presidential debate
from the Art Center in Miami as we
continue the questioning we want to
bring in more members of our team so
let's turn it over to Chuck Todd and
Rachel Maddie well Rachel I had a dream
that we've done this before no no no
didn't have there's definitely a first
time Thank You Lester Savannah knows a
let's quickly recap the rules one more
time 20 candidates qualified for this
first debate we've heard from 10 of them
for last night
we're hearing from 10 more tonight
breakdown for each night was selected at
random candidates will have 60 seconds
to answer direct questions 30 seconds
for follow-ups if necessary because of
this large field of candidates not every
person will be able to comment on
everything but the less audience
reaction there is the more time they
will all get we will hear from all of
these candidates but we are going to
begin this hour with mayor Buda judge in
the last five years civil rights
activists in our country have led a
national debate over race and the
criminal justice system your community
of South Bend Indiana has recently been
in uproar over an officer-involved
shooting the police force in South Bend
is now six percent black in a city that
is 26 percent black why has that not
improved over your two terms as mayor
because I couldn't get it done my
community is in anguish right now
because of an officer-involved shooting
a black man Eric Logan killed by a white
officer and I'm not allowed to take
sides until the investigation comes back
the officer said he was attacked with a
knife but he didn't have his body camera
on it's a mess and we're hurting and I
could walk you through all the things
that we have done as a community all of
the steps that we took from bias
training to de-escalation but it didn't
save the life of Eric Loeb and when I
look into his mother's eyes I have to
face the fact and nothing that I say
will bring him back this is an issue
that is facing our community and so many
communities around the country
and until we move policing out from the
shadow of systemic racism whatever this
particular incident teaches us we will
be left with the bigger problem
of the fact that there's a wall of
mistrust put up one racist act at a time
not just from what's happened in the
past but from what's happening around
the country in the present it threatens
the well-being of every community and I
am determined to bring about a day when
a white person driving a vehicle in a
black person driving a vehicle when they
see a police officer approaching feels
the exact same thing a feeling not of
fear but of safety I'm determined to
bring that day about question just
because I think governor I'll give you
30 seconds I think that the question
they're asking in South Bend I think it
seems across the country is why has it
taken so long we had a shooting when I
first became air ten years before
Ferguson and the community came together
we created an office of the independent
monitor civilian oversight Commission we
diversified the police force in two
years we actually did de-escalation
training I think the real question that
America should be asking is why five
years after Ferguson every city doesn't
have this level of police accountability
we respond to that look we've taken so
many steps toward police accountability
that you know the FOP just denounced me
for too much accountability we're
obviously not there yet and I accept
responsibility for that you should fire
the chief
so under Indiana law this will be
investigated and there will be
accountability for the officer and here
the mayor you should fire the chief if
that's the policy and someone died all
of these issues are extremely important
but there are specifics there are
symptoms and the underlying cause has to
do with deep deep deep realms of racial
injustice both in our criminal justice
system and in our economic system and
the Democratic Party should be on the
side of reparations for slavery for this
very reason I do not believe I do not
believe that the average American is a
racist but the average American is
woefully under educated about the
history of race we're going to come back
to you on this again in just a moment
for 30 seconds okay so on the issue of
race I couldn't agree more that this is
an issue that is still not being talked
about truthfully and honestly I there is
not a black man I know be he a relative
a friend or a co-worker who has not been
the subject of some form of profiling or
discrimination growing up my sister and
I had to deal with the neighbor who told
us her parents couldn't play with us
because she because we were black and I
will say also that that in this campaign
we have also heard and I'm gonna now
direct this at Vice President Biden I do
not believe you are a racist and I agree
with you when you commit yourself to the
importance of finding common ground but
I also believe and it is personal and I
was actually very it was hurtful to hear
you talk about the reputations of two
United States senators who built their
reputations and career on the
segregation of race in this country and
it was not only that but you also worked
with them to oppose busing and you know
there was a little girl in California
who was part of the second class to
integrate her public schools and she was
bused to school every day and that
little girl was me so I will tell you
that on this subject
it cannot be an intellectual debate
among Democrats we have to take it
seriously we have to act swiftly as
Attorney General of California I was
very proud to put in place a requirement
that all my special agents would wear
body cameras and keep those cameras on
[Applause]
a chance to aspire
mischaracterized my position across the
board I did not praise racist that is
not true number one number two if we
want to have this campaign litigated on
who supports civil rights and whether I
did or not I'm happy to do that I was a
public defender I didn't become a
prosecutor I came out and I left a good
law firm to become a public defender
when in fact when in fact when in fact
my city was in flames because of the
assassination of dr. King
number one not number two as the US as
excuse me as the vice president on
States I work with a man who in fact we
work very hard to see to it we dealt
with these issues in a major major way
the fact is that in terms of busing the
busing I never you would have been able
to go to school the same exact way
because it was a local decision made by
your City Council that's fine that's one
of the things argued for that we should
not be we should be breaking down these
lines but so the bottom line here is
look everything I've done in my career I
ran because of civil rights I continue
to think we have to make fundamental
changes in civil rights and those civil
rights by the way include not just only
African Americans but the LGBT community
do you agree today that you were wrong
to oppose busing in America though do
you agree I did not oppose busing in
America what I opposed is busing ordered
by the Department of Education that's
what I oppose without a failure of
states to enjoy public schools in
America I was part of the second class
to integrate Berkeley California Public
Schools almost two decades after brown v
board of education because your City
Council made that decision history was
States fail to preserve the civil rights
of arms reported to you all right from
the very beginning when I thirty Seconds
because I want to bring other people in
support of bringing RA from the very
beginning
I'm the guy that extended the Voting
Rights Act for 25 years we got to the
place where we got 98 out of the 98
votes in the United States Senate doing
it I've also argued very strongly that
we in fact deal with the notion of the
nine people access to the ballot box I
agree that everybody once day in faddish
and my time's up I'm so thank you vice
president senator Sanders senator
Sanders I'm gonna go to you on this you
said on the day you launched her
campaign that voters should focus on
what people stand for not a candidate's
race or age or sexual orientation many
Democrats are very excited by the
diversity of this field on this stage
and unless night stage and the
perspective that diversity brings to
this contest and to these issues are you
telling Democratic voters that diversity
shouldn't matter when they make this
decision no absolutely not unlike the
Republican Party we encourage diversity
we believe in diversity that's what
America is about
but in addition to diversity in terms of
having more women more people from the
GBL LGBT community we also have to do
something else and that is we have to
ask ourselves a simple question and that
how
today the worker in the middle of our
economy is making no more money that he
or she made 45 years ago and that in the
last 30 years the top 1% has seen a 21
trillion dollar increase in their wealth
we need a party that is the first but we
need a party that has the guts to stand
up to the powerful special interests who
have so much power over the economic and
political life of this country senator
gillibrand I want to give you 30 seconds
on this well first of all where Bernie
left off we've heard a lot of good ideas
on this stage tonight and a lot of plans
but the truth is until you go to the
root of the corruption the money in the
pot in politics the fact that Washington
is run by the special interest you are
never gonna solve any of these problems
I have the most comprehensive approach
that experts agree is the most
transformative plan to actually take on
political corruption to get money out of
public politics through publicly funded
elections to have clean elections if we
do that and get money out of politics we
can guarantee health care is a right not
a privilege we can deal with
institutional racism we can take on
income inequality and we can take on the
corporate corruption that runs
Washington first constant number to do
that was introduced by me when I was a
young singer thank thank you vice
president we want to shift topics here
senator Bennet the next question is for
you on the issue of partisan gridlock
President Obama promised in 2012 that
after his reelection Republicans would
want to work with Democrats fever would
break that did not happen now best
President Biden is saying the same thing
that if he is elected in 2020 both
parties will want to work together
should voters believe that somehow if
there's a Democratic president in 2021
that gridlock is going to magically
disappear gridlock will not magically
disappear as long as Mitch McConnell is
there first
that's why it is so important for us to
win not just the presidency to have
somebody that can run in all 50 states
but to but to win the Senate as well
and that's why we have to propose
policies that can be supported like
Medicare acts so that we can build a
broad coalition of Americans to overcome
broken Washington DC I agree with what
senator Gillibrand was saying I share a
lot of her views we need to end
gerrymandering and watch it we need n
political gerrymander watson the court
today said they couldn't do anything
about it
we need to overturn citizens united the
court was the one that gave us Citizens
United
and the attack on voting rights in
Shelby versus holder is something we
need to deal with all those things has
happened since then Vice President Biden
was in the Senate and we face structural
problems that we have to overcome with a
broad coalition it's the only way we can
do it we need to root out the corruption
in Washington expand people's right to
get some tools and I think then we can
succeed Vice President Biden 30 seconds
I want what it does sound as if you
haven't seen what's been happening in
the United States Senate over the last
12 years it didn't happen
why I have seen what happened just since
we were vice president we needed three
votes to pass an 800 billion dollar
Recovery Act that kept us from going in
a depression I've got three votes
changed we needed to be able to keep the
government from shutting down and going
bankrupt
I got Mitch McConnell to raise taxes six
hundred billion dollars by raising the
top rate and as recently as after
President got elected I was able to put
together a coalition to the Cure's Act
that billions of dollars go into cancer
research bipartisan but sometimes you
can't do that sometimes just have to go
out and beat them I went into 20 states
over 60 candidates and guess what we
beat them we won back the Senate thank
you
Chuck thanks to this problem with what
sometimes you do have to beat him but
but the deal that he talked about with
Mitch McConnell was a complete victory
for the Tea Party it extended the Bush
tax cuts permanently the Democratic
Party had been running against that for
ten years we've lost that economic
argument because that deal extender
almost all this bush tax cuts
permanently and put in place the
mindless cuts that we still are dealing
with today that are called the sequester
that was a great deal for Mitch
McConnell it was a terrible deal for
Mack you said it Thank You senator the
trunk tax cut had to be passed is
because they had to pay back their
donors you heard it they actually said
those words so the corruption in
Washington is real and it is something
that makes every one of the plans we've
heard about over the last several months
impossible and I have the most
comprehensive approach to do it with
Clean Elections publicly fun elections
so we restore the power of our democracy
into the hands of the voters not into
the Koch brothers we were talking about
issues imagine we're in Florida imagine
the Parkland kids having as much power
in our democracy as the Koch brothers or
the NRA imagine their voices sorry
[Applause]
Center children I'm trying to get our
buddy it's the first thing I'm gonna do
because nothing else is possible or
there it's education or healthcare or
ending institution thank you very much
course I'd like to put a different
question to you Roe versus Wade has been
the law of the land since 1973 now that
there is a conservative majority on the
Supreme Court
several republican-controlled states of
passed laws to severely restrict or even
ban abortion one of those laws could
very well make it to the Supreme Court
during your presidency if you're elected
president what is your plan if Rho is
struck down in the court while you're
president well my plan is somebody who
believes for a thought that a woman's
right to control her own body is a
constitutional right that government and
politicians should not infringe on that
right we will do everything we can to
defend our Roe versus Wade second of all
let me make let me make let me make a
promise here you asked about litmus test
my litmus test is I will never appoint
any
nominate any justice to the Supreme
Court unless I trust this is 100 percent
clear he or she will defend roe v wade
third wall I do not believe in packing
the court we got a terrible 5-4 majority
conservative Court right now but I do
believe that constitutionally we have
the power to rotate judges to other
courts and that brings the new blood
into the Supreme Court and a majority I
hope that will understand that a woman
has the right to control her own body
and the corporation's cannot run what if
the court has already overturned row and
row is gone all of the things you just
described would be to try to preserve
row if row is gone what could you do as
president well first of all let me tell
you this didn't you come up here but
let's face this Medicare for all
guarantees every woman in this country
the right to have it
if she wants it Thank You senator can I
just address this for a second and I
want to talk directly directly to
America's women and to the men who love
them women's reproductive rights are
under assault by President Trump and the
Republican Party 30 states are trying to
overturn roe v wade right now and it is
mind-boggling to me that we are debating
this on this stage in 2019 among
Democrats whether women should have
access to reproductive rights I think we
have to stop paying defense and start
playing offense but let me tell you one
thing about politics because it goes to
the corruption of the deal-making when
the door is closed and the good
negotiations are made there are
conversations about women's rights and
compromises have been made on our backs
that's how we got to hide that's how the
Hyde Amendment was created a compromise
by leaders of both parties then we have
the ACA during the ACA Nevada Nevada
negotiation I had to fight like heck
with other women to make sure that
contraception wasn't sold down the river
or abortion services and so what we need
to know is imagine this one question
when we beat President Trump and Mitch
McConnell walks into the / office god
forbid to do negotiations who do you
want when that door closes to be sitting
behind that desk to fight for women's
rights I have been the fiercest advocate
for women's reproductive freedoms over
over a decade and I promise you as
predator when that door closes I will
guarantee women's reason no matter what
you know thank you
we're moving the climate we're gonna
climb out guys senator Harris I'm
addressing you first on this you live in
a state that has been hit by droughts
wildfires flooding climate change is a
major concern for voters in your state
that's pretty obvious
obviously this state as well last night
voters heard many of the candidates
weigh in on their proposals explain
specifically what yours is well first of
all I don't even call it climate change
it's a climate crisis it represents an
existential threat to us as a species
and the fact that we have a President of
the United States who is embraced
science fiction / science fact will be
to our collective peril I
while the embers were smoldering the
wildfires in California
I spoke with firefighters who were in
the midst of fighting a fire while their
own homes were burning and on this issue
it is it is a critical issue that is
about what we must do to confront what
is immediate and before us right now
that is why I support a green new deal
it is why I believe on day one and as
president will re-enter us in the Paris
agreement because we have to take these
issues seriously and frankly we have a
present United States we talked about
you asked before what is the greatest
national security threat to the United
States it's Donald Trump and I'm gonna
tell you Ron and I'm gonna tell you why
because I agree climate change
represents an existential threat he
denies the science you want to talk
about North Korea real threat in terms
of nuclear arsenal but what does he do
he embraces Kim Jong on a dictator for
the sake of a photo-op thing Putin you
want to talk about whether as we're
going to vote the word of the Russian
wooden stick the call for the word of
the American intelligence economy when
it comes to a threat to our attention
over see and our election Thank You
senator the issues that are before us
Chuck I'm here you Thank You senator
Eric
mebu digits in your climate plan
if you're elected president in your
first term how is this going to help
farmers impacted by climate change in
the Midwest well the reality is we need
to begin adapting right away but we also
can't skip a beat on preventing climate
change from getting even worse it's why
we need aggressive and ambitious
measures it's why we need to do a carbon
tax and dividend but I would propose we
do it in a way that is rebated out to
the American people in a progressive
fashion so that most Americans are made
more than whole this isn't theoretical
for us in South Bend either parts of
California on fire right here in Florida
they're talking about sea level rise
well in Indiana
I had to activate the emergency
operation center of our city twice in
less than two years first time was a
thousand year flood and the next time
was a 500 year flood this is not just
happening on the Arctic ice cast this is
happening in the middle of the country
and we've got to be dramatically more
aggressive moving forward now here's
what very few people talk about first of
all rural America can be part of the
solution instead of being told their
part of the problem with the right kind
of soil management and other kind of
investments rural America could be a
huge part of how we get this done and
secondly we've got to look to the
leadership of local communities
Yunos networks of mayors and cities from
around the world I'm trying not even
waiting for national governments to
catch up we should have a Pittsburg
summit where we bring them together as
well as rejoining the Paris Thank You
mayor but I want to bring governor
Hickenlooper into this for a moment
governor you have said that oil and gas
companies should be a part of the
solution on climate change lots of your
colleagues on stage tonight have talked
about moving away from fossil fuels
entirely can oil and gas companies be
real partners in this fight
well I share the sense of urgency I'm a
scientist so I recognize that were
within 10 or 12 years of actually you
know suffering irreparable damage but
you're guaranteeing everybody a
government job is not going to get us
there so socialism and in that sense is
not the solution we have to look at what
really will make a difference in
Colorado closing a couple of coal plants
replacing with wind solar and batteries
and that and the monthly bills go down
we've gone on we're building a net
work for electric vehicles we are
working with the oil and gas industry
and we created the first methane
regulations in the country
methane is 25 times worse than co2 and
then we've got to get to that last part
I mean the industrial heavy industry we
haven't seen the plans yet if you look
at the real problem co2 the worst
polluters in co2 ores China is the
United States and then it's concrete and
it's exhalation and beyond that I think
we've got to recognize that only by
bringing people together businesses
nonprofits and we can't demonize every
business we've got to bring them
together to be part of the stick because
ultimately if we're not able to do that
we will be doomed to failure we have no
way of doing this govenor everyone
together thank you I president biden on
the issue of how you do this Democrats
are arguing robustly among themselves
about what's the best way to tackle
climate change but if we're honest many
Republicans including the president are
still not sure if they believe it is
even a serious problem so are there
significant ways you can cut carbon
emissions if you have to do it with no
support from Congress the answer is yes
number one media when our administration
we built the largest wind farm in the
world the largest solar energy facility
in the world
we've drove down the price competitive
price of both of those renewable and
renewable sources I would immediately
insist that we in fact build 500,000
recharging stations throughout the
United States of America working with
governor's mayors and others so that we
can go to a full electric vehicle future
by the year 2020 oh by the way 2030 I
would make sure that we invested four
hundred million dollars in new science
and technology to be the exporter not
only of the green economy but economy
that can create millions of jobs but I
would immediately join the Paris climate
Accord I would up the ante in that
Accord which it calls for because we
make up 15% of the problem 85% of the
world makes up the rest and so we have
to have someone who knows how to corral
the rest of the world bring them
together and get something done like we
did in our administration
I want to give you 30 seconds to follow
up and I'm going to hold you to 30 the
old ways are no longer relevant the
scientists tell us we have 12 years
before there is irreparable damage to
this planet this is a global issue what
the President of the United States
should do is not denied the reality of
climate change but tell the rest of the
world that instead of spending a
trillion and a half dollars on weapons
of destruction let us get together for
the common enemy and that is to
transform the world's energy system away
from fossil fuel to energy efficiency
and sustainable energy the future of the
planet rests on the torch pass the torch
the generation that's going to feel the
effects doesn't mean you don't have old
ideas say John Kennedy did not say I
have a plan to get a man to the moon and
so we're going to do it and I think we
can all work together and maybe we had a
man on the moon John Kennedy said by the
end of this decade we are going to put a
man on the moon because John Kennedy was
back in the day when politics included
the people in included imagination and
including great dreams and included
great plans and I have had a career not
making the political plans but I've had
a career harnessing the inspiration and
the motivation and the excitement of
people matches the people when we know
that when we say we are going to turn
from a dirty economy to a clean economy
we're gonna have a green new deal we're
going to create millions of jobs we're
gonna do this within the next 12 years
because I'm not interested in just
winning the next election we are our
grandchild we got a
we're gonna sneak in a break in a minute
but before we go I'm gonna go down the
line here and I'm asking you please for
one or two words only all right please
really
President Obama in his first year wanted
to address both health care and clinic
and he could only get one signature
issue accomplished it was obviously
health care he didn't get to do climate
change you may only get one shot in your
first issue that you're going to push
you get one shot that it may be the only
thing you get past what is that first
issue for your presidency Eric swallow
your first for Parkland for Orlando for
every community affected by gun violence
ending gun violence senator venogram
[Applause]
climate change in the lack of economic
mobility Bernie talks about Senator
Gillibrand passing a family Bill of
Rights that includes a national paid
leave plan universal pre-k affordable
daycare and making sure that women and
families can thrive in the workplace no
matter whether they are passing a middle
class and working families tax cut
that's what daca guns for the first
thing you said the tax cut the premise
that there's only one or two issues out
there to enormous crises senator Jenner
a political revolution people have got
to stand up and take on the special
interest we could transform this country
fine Vice President Biden your first
issue mr. vice president I think you're
so underestimated with Barack Obama dude
he's the first man to bring together the
entire world 196 nations to commit to
deal with climate change immediately
but first the first thing I would do is
make sure that we defeat Donald Trump
okay period there Budaj is your first
priority your first issue as president
that you were going to block and tackle
we've got to fix our democracy before
it's too late get that right climate
immigration taxes and every other issue
gets better mr. mr. gang I would pass a
$1,000 freedom dividend for every
American adults starting at age 18 which
would speed us up on climate change
because if you get the boot off of
people's throats they'll focus on
climate change much more clearly
governor Hickenlooper I would do a
collaborative approach to climate change
and I would pronounce it well before the
election to make sure we don't react the
worst president in American history and
Ms Williams prime minister of New
Zealand who said that her goal is to
make New Zealand the place where it's
the best place in the world for a child
to grow up and I will tell the
girlfriend you were so on because the
United States of America is going to be
the best place in the world for a child
to grow up thank you guys were closed
with the short at least it was shorter
not a response not at all all right see
- we're gonna take a quick break we'll
be right back with these candidates
right after this
[Applause]
you
[Music]
welcome back to the Democratic
candidates debate in Miami we're gonna
continue the questioning now with Lester
in the audience we are just we are a
second are going to have a question from
Lester but that was just a fake out
let's go we're gonna go to the issue of
guns and Congressman small well among
this field of candidates you have a
unique position on gun reform you're
proposing that the government should buy
back every assault weapon in America and
it should be mandatory how do you
envision that working especially in
states where gun rights are a strong
flashpoint keep your pistols keep your
rifles keep your shotguns but we can
take the most dangerous weapons from the
most dangerous people we have the NRA on
the ropes because of the moms because of
the Brady Group because of Giffords
because of March for our lives but I'm
the only candidate on this stage calling
for a ban and buyback of every single
assault weapon in America I've seen the
plans of the other candidates here they
would all leave 15 million assault
weapons in our communities they wouldn't
do a single thing to save a single life
in parkland I'll approach this issue as
a prosecutor I'll approach it is the
only person on this stage who has voted
and passed background checks but also is
a parent of a generation who sends our
children to school where we look at what
they're wearing so we can remember it in
case we have to identify them later a
generation who have seen thousands of
black children killed in our streets and
a generation who goes to the theater and
we actually look where the fire exits
are we don't have to live this way we
must be a country who loves our children
more than we love our guns senator
Sanders
senator Sanders of Vermont newspaper
recently released portions of an
interview you gave in 2013 in which you
said quote my own view on guns is
everything being equal States should
make those decisions no how's your
thinking changed since then do you now
think there's a federal role that's a
mischaracterization of my Texan look we
have a gun we have a gun crisis right
now 40,000 people a year are getting
killed in 1988 Rachel when it wasn't
popular I ran on a platform of banning
assault weapons and in fact lost that
race for Congress I have a d-minus
voting record from the NRA and I believe
that what we need is comprehensive gun
shot gun of legislation that among other
things provides universal background we
end the gun show loophole we end the
straw man provision and I believed in
1988 and I believe today
why would use weapons or weapons you
leave from the military and that they
should not be on Whiteley streets of
America you would lead your plan leaves
them on the streets you leave 15 million
we've banned the sale and we banned the
sale we buy motion and that's what I
believed with many years we buy back if
people want to buy the government wants
to do that of people you're gonna be the
government you buy them back yes senator
Harris we're gonna give you 30 seconds
thank you I think
your idea is a great one congressman
swallow and I'll say that there are a
lot of great ideas
the problem is Congress has not had the
courage to act which is why I want
elected president of the United States I
will give the United States Congress 100
days to pull their act together bring
all these good ideas together and put a
bill on my desk for signature and if
they do not I will take executive action
and I will put in place the
comprehensive background checks policy
we've had I will require the ATF to take
the licenses of gun dealers who violate
the law and I will ban by executive
order the importation of assault weapons
because I'm gonna tell you as a
prosecutor I have seen more autopsy
photographs than I care to tell you I
have hugged more mothers who are the
mothers of homicide victims and I have
attended more police officer funerals it
is enough it is enough there been plenty
of good ideas for members of the United
States Congress there has been no action
as president I will take action there
Buddha judge I want to bring you in on
this a lot of discussion about assault
rifles that are often short-handed as
military-style weapons you're the only
person on this stage tonight with
military experience as a veteran of the
Afghanistan war will know you're
thinking on this view do you believe
that military families or America's
veterans will at large have a different
take on this than the other Americans
who we've been talking about and who
congressman small well is appealing to
with his buyback program yeah of course
because we trained on some of these
kinds of weapons look every part of my
life experience informs this being the
mayor of a city where the worst part of
the job is dealing with violence we lose
a as many as we're lost at Parkland
every two or three years in my city
alone and this is tearing communities
apart if more guns made us safer we'd be
the safest country on Earth that doesn't
work that way and common-sense measures
like universal background checks can't
seem to get delivered by Washington even
when most Republicans let alone most
Americans agree it's the right thing to
do and as somebody who trained on
weapons of war I can tell you that there
are weapons that have absolutely no
place in American cities or
neighborhoods in peacetime ever
a real 30 seconds the real 30 thought
okay I'm the only person that's beating
the NRA nationally I'm the guy that got
the brady bill passed the background
checks number one number two we creased
that background check wasn't one during
the obama-biden administration i'm also
the only guy that got assault weapons
ban band and the number of clips and a
gun band and so folks look and i would
buy back those weapons we already
started talking about that we tried to
get it done i think he can be done and
it should be demanded that we do it and
that's a good expenditure money and
lastly we should have smart guns no gun
should be able to be sold unless your
biometric measure could pull that
trigger it's within our right to do that
we can do that our enemies the gun
manufacturers not the nra the gun
manufacturer that's passed away is
ticking Lester Holt has our next
question Lester taking on all right
Chuck this is a question from our
viewers we put some suggestions that
asked maybe they could share some here's
one that came from Kathleen from Canby
Oregon who writes many fear the current
administration has inflicted irrevocable
harm on our governing institutions and
norms and the process on our reputation
abroad the question is what do you see
as important early steps in reversing
the damage done and will put this one to
senator Bennett thank you very much what
an excellent question first of all we
have to restore our democracy at home
the rest of the world is looking for us
for leadership we have a president who
doesn't believe in the rule of law he
doesn't believe in freedom of the press
he doesn't believe in independent
judiciary he believes in the corruption
that he's brought to Washington DC and
that is what we have to change and
that's why everybody is up here tonight
and I appreciate the fact that they're
up here for that reason second we've got
it we've got to restore the
relationships that he's destroyed with
our allies not just in Europe he flew to
the g20 last night and attacked Japan
Germany and a third ally of ours without
saying anything about North Korea or
Russia and when you got a situation
where you have a president who
something happened in the Straits of
Hormuz and the whole world doesn't know
whether to believe it or not that is a
huge problem when it comes to the
national security so Thank You senator
ben is a perfect time for me to do
another one of these down the line and
this is what this question is which is
you gotta have to read you're likely
gonna have to reset a relationship
between America and an another country
or entity if you become president
because of perhaps because of some
relationship that you just mentioned
about President Trump what is the first
relationship you like to reset as
president go down the line and I'll
start with miss Williamson well one of
my first phone calls would be to call
the European leaders and say we're back
because I totally understand how
important it is that the United States
be part of the Western alliance I want
and I'm trying to get one one or two
words here it's I hear you governor
Hickenlooper you know I talk about
constant engagement and I think the
first country I would go to yeah I
understand they've been cheating and and
stealing an ultra poverty would be
trying to because if everyone do do a
stroke like health can demonstrate do
with all the challenges of the globe
we've got to have relationships with
everyone
mr. yang we're trying to squeeze in a
couple more things before we go to
another break mystery in China we need
to cooperate with them on climate change
ji in other issues North Korea thanks
for the quickness Mara Buddha do we have
no idea which of our most important
allies he will have pissed off worse
between now and then what we know is
that our relationship with the entire
world needs to change and it starts by
modeling American values at home okay
mr. vice president trying to be quick we
know NATO will fall apart if he's
elected four more years as a single most
consequence alliance of United States
senator Sanders it's not one country I
think it is rebuilding trust in the
United Nations and understand that we
can solve conflicts without war but with
diplomacy senator Harris all the members
of the NATO alliance
senator Gillibrand President Trump is
hell-bent on starting a war with Iran my
first act will be to engage 'iron to
stabilize the Middle East and make sure
we do not start an unwanted never ending
war senator Bennet quickly our European
allies in every Latin there
can country that's willing to have a
conversation about how to deal with a
refugee and Congressman swallow my first
act in foreign policy we're breaking up
with Russia and making up with NATO
thank you all thank you all we have ones
with good food last question for Vice
President Biden tonight you have made
your decades of experience and foreign
policy a pillar of your campaign but
when the time came to say yes or no on
one of the most consequential foreign
policy decisions of the last century you
voted for the Iraq war you have since
said you regret that vote but why should
voters trust your judgment when it comes
to making a decision about taking the
country to war the next time because
once we once the bush abused that power
what happened was we got elected after
that I made sure the president turned to
me and said Joe get our combat troops
out of Iraq I was responsible for
getting 150,000 combat troops out of
Iraq and my son and what was one of them
I also think we should not have combat
troops in Afghanistan it's long overdue
it should end and I thirdly I believe
that you're not going to find anybody
who has pulled together more of
alliances to deal with what is the real
stateless threat out there we cannot go
to lone in terms of dealing with
terrorism
so I'd eliminate the the the act that
allowed us to go into war and not the
AUMF and make sure that it could only be
used for what it's intended would what's
intense was and that is to go after
terrorists but never do it alone that's
why I have to repair our alliances we've
put together 65 countries to make sure
we dealt with Isis in Iraq and other
places that's what I would do that's
what I have done and I know how to do it
senator Sanders's
one of the differences that Joe and I
have been our record is Joe voted for
that war I helped lead the opposition to
that war which is a total disaster
second of all I helped lead the effort
for the first time to utilize the War
Powers Act to get the United States out
of the saudi-led intervention in Yemen
which is the most horrific humanitarian
disaster on earth and thirdly let me be
very clear I will do everything I can to
prevent a war with Iran which would be
far worse than disastrous war because of
the very got people good news is you get
more time to talk but I have to sneak in
one more break right they right back
with more debate
[Music]
you
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Applause]
each candidate will have a final chance
to make their case to the voters 45
seconds each we begin with Congress and
sois well we can't be a forward-looking
party if we look to the past for our
leadership I'm a congressman but also a
father of a two-year-old and an infant
when I'm not changing diapers I'm
changing Washington most the time the
diapers smell better I went to Congress
at 31 and I found a Washington that
doesn't work for people like you and me
it's made of the rich in the
disconnected I was the first of my
family to go to college and have student
loan debt and so I have led the effort
to elect the next generation of members
of Congress and we have a moment to
seize this is a can-do generation this
is the generation that will end climate
chaos this is the generation that will
solve student loan debt and this is the
generation that will say enough is
enough and end gun violence
this generation demands bold solutions
that's why I'm running for president
congressman thank you we haven't talked
more tonight about how we're going to
beat Donald Trump I have an idea about
Donald Trump Donald Trump is not going
to be beaten just by insider politics
talk he's not going to be beaten just by
somebody who has plans he's going to be
beaten by somebody who has an idea what
this man has done this man has reached
into the psyche of the American people
and he has harnessed fear for political
purposes so mr. president if you're
listening I want you to hear me please
you have harnessed fear for political
purposes and only love can cast that out
so I sir I have a feeling you know what
you're doing I'm going to harness love
for political purposes I will meet you
on that field and sir
love will win
thank you thank you my mom and her
parents came to the United States to
rebuild their shattered lives 300
country that they could three hundred
years before that my parents family came
searching religious freedom here the
ability for one generation to do better
than the next is now severely at risk in
the United States especially among
children living in poverty like the ones
I used to work for in the Denver Public
Schools that's why I'm running for
president I've had two tough races in
Colorado by bringing people together not
by making empty promises and I believe
we need to build a broad coalition of
Americans to beat Donald Trump and the
corruption in Washington and build a new
era of American democracy and American
opportunity this is going to be hard to
do but it's what our parents would have
expected it's what our kids deserve I
hope you join me in this effort thank
you Thank You governor I'm a small
business owner who brought that same
scrappy spirit to make Colorado one of
the most progressive states in America
we expanded reproductive health to to
reduce teenage abortion by 64% we're the
first state to legalize marijuana and we
transformed our justice system in the
process we passed universal background
checks in a purple state we got to near
universal health care coverage we
attacked climate change with the
toughest methane regulations in the
country and for the last three years
we've been the number one economy in
America you don't need big government to
do big things I know that because I'm
the one person up here who's actually
done the big progressive things everyone
else is talking about if we turn towards
socialism we run the risk of helping to
reelect the worst president in American
history Thank You governor
women in America women in America are on
fire we've marched we've organized
we've run for office and we won but our
rights are under attack like never
before by President Trump and the
Republicans who want to repeal roe v
wade which is why I went to the
frontlines in Georgia to fight for them
as president I will take on the fights
that no one else will I stood up to the
Pentagon and repealed Don't Ask Don't
Tell I've stood up to the banks and
voted against the bailout twice I've
stood up to Trump more than any other
senator in the US Senate and I have the
most comprehensive approach for getting
money out of politics with publicly
funded elections to deal with political
corruption now is not the time to play
it safe now it's not the time to be
afraid of first we need a president who
will take on the big challenges even if
she stands alone join me in fighting for
this senator gillibrand Thank You mr.
yang you have 45 seconds for your
closing first I want to thank everyone
who put me on this stage tonight I am
proof that our democracy still works
Democrats and Americans around the
country you have one question for their
nominee and that is who can be Donald
Trump
in 2020 that is the right question and
the right candidate to beat Donald Trump
will be solving the problems I got
Donald Trump elected and will have a
vision of a trickle-up economy that is
already drawing thousands of disaffected
Trump voters conservatives independents
and libertarians as well as Democrats
and progressives I am that candidate I
can build a much broader coalition to
beat Donald Trump it is not left it is
not right it is forward and that is
where I'll take the country in 2020
mr. yang thank you
[Applause]
supporter thank you I just want to leave
you with a couple of things one we need
a nominee who has the ability to
prosecute the case against four more
years of Donald Trump and I will do that
second this election is about you this
is about your hopes and your dreams and
your fears and what wakes you up at
three o'clock in the morning and that's
why I have what I call a three a.m.
agenda that is about everything from
what we need to do to deliver health
care to how you will be able to pay the
bills by the end of the month
and when I think about what our country
needs I promise you I will be a
president who leads with a sense of
dignity with honesty speaking the truth
and giving the American family all that
they need to get through the end of the
month in a way that allows them to
prosper so I hope to own earn your
support please join us at Comley hair
start work senator thank you mayor
bootie joke 45 seconds
nothing about politics is theoretical
for me I've had the experience of
writing a letter to my family putting it
in an envelope marked just in case and
leaving it where they would know where
to find it in case I didn't come back
from Afghanistan I've experienced being
in a marriage that exists by the grace
of a single vote on the US Supreme Court
I have the experience of guiding a
community where the per capita income
was below $20,000 when I took office
into a brighter future I'm running
because the decisions we make in the
next three or four years are going to
decide how the next 30 or 40 go and when
I get to the current age of the current
president in the year 2050 five I want
to be able to look back on these years
and say my generation delivered climate
solutions racial equality and an end to
endless war help me deliver that new
generation to Washington before it's too
late
thank you
[Music]
I suspect people all over the country
who are watching this debate are saying
these are good people they have great
ideas but how come nothing really
changes how come for the last 45 years
wages have been stagnant for the middle
class how come we have the highest rate
of childhood poverty how come
45 million people still have student
debt how come three people are more
wealth in the bottom half of America and
here is the answer nothing will change
unless we have the guts to take on Wall
Street the insurance industry the
pharmaceutical industry the
military-industrial complex and the
fossil fuel industry if we don't have
the guts to take them on we'll continue
our plans will continue and I have
talked and the rich will get richer and
everybody else will be struggling
president biden sir you have 45 seconds
thank you very much i'm ready to leave
this country because i think it's
important we restore the soul of this
nation this president has ripped it out
it's only president our history who has
equated racist and and white
supremacists with ordinary and decent
people he's the only president who has
backed engaged and embraced dictators
and thumbed her nose at our allies
I'm not secondly running for president
because I think we have to restore the
backbone of America the poor and
hard-working middle class people you
can't do that without replacing them
with the dignity they once had lastly we
got to unite the United States of
America as much as anybody says we can
if we do there's not a single thing the
American people can't do this is the
United States of America we can do
anything if we're together together so
god bless you all and may God protect
our troops
[Applause]
on a range of issues 20 candidates and
on we want to thank all of the
candidates last night they say it takes
guts to run and stick your neck out like
this to you guys into the 10:00 last
night just like to thank the audience
for completely ignoring our suggestion
[Applause]
of course thank you to everyone at the
Adrienne our Center for hosting us here
and our terrific audience ohs a second
Rachel I'm Lester all good night
everyone from Miami
[Applause]
[Music]
you
you
