hey we're back now we've done 50
episodes that's over 50 hours of content
we've gifted the world in honor of
hitting the 50 episode mark we wanted to
play a game with crooked media darling
and podcast newbie Tommy Vietor would
you welcome Tommy Vietor this stage stay
over there Yeah right we hug backstage
also Tommy Lewis and I are in a similar
color palette it just shows how like on
the wave of keep it you are I like to
stand out like Effie white actually we
all have some version of like some like
updated urban Santa's workshop for this
show because I'm such a big fan I am the
biggest Cupid fan I host a show that
releases on Wednesdays - and what's it
called you are not here to promote
yourself no I was gonna say when I wake
up in the morning I could work out and
I'll come back my wife will be streaming
a podcast when she's like in the shower
and it's keep it even though my show
came out that day right is it nice to
wake up and for a moment you think that
me IRA and Lewis are in the shower
what's your very briefly I'm sure it
passes weekly but you're like it's
bleeding yeah Riverdale up in there
crazy it will never not be this is a
huge tangent that that is what they
named like the crack that they're
selling and then now you stroll into
Trader Joe's and they're like jingle
jangle for sale in a tin it's crazy now
Tommy claims to Stan keep it but does he
truly deserve the title of keep its
biggest fan which he just called
himself we're gonna quiz him and see how
much he truly stands keep it in a game
we're calling for no other reason than
it sounds funny Jim Stan laundry
here on keep it we like to honor our
nation's icons everyone from Martha
Stewart to Frederick Douglas to Ariana
Grande's high pony
but recently celebrities have been
talking about Harriet Tubman and some
pretty ignorant ways here's what you
have to do Tommy you have to say who on
keep it said this quote here we go
if you don't stop mentioning
Harriet Tubman I swear to god stop
saying her name she doesn't want you
talking about her I promise
keep it shut up Cara you know what it
was Cara Harriet even sent out a tweet
she's not having it Tommy
who is often possessed by the living
spirit of Catherine Deneuve it is not
May unfortunately should we give it okay
that was he gave it to him this is
technically that's the advertising
portion of the show that's true
I will have you now I worked on my
French accent longer than Rita Ora did
for her in Fifty Shades of Grey I
thought that was some actress that died
and also to I yes
when Tommy said that he reached out to
me almost to say like I see you Louis I
know it's you and it so wasn't me it was
unfortunate Tommy yeah who once had the
audacity to say keep it to a baby Tommy
just looked at me like we're on the
Titanic and I had the last lifejacket
there is not room Tommy IRA no it was
actually me it was the Royal baby
because we already had one we didn't do
anything with
yeah it was the girl yeah Charlotte was
the new one imagine remembering
Charlotte a baby I just hope it's
already gone I don't remember these are
hard right as we know the GOP also known
as the Grand Old Party is having shall
we say a PR crisis why the hell are they
called the Grand Old Party when they're
members of the most boring looking group
of white dudes see Mitch McConnell ever
as it is the holiday season keep it
wanted to do our part in giving back so
Tommy what was the name we suggested to
revamp the GOP was it a the grand
Omarosa party be the grimy old pricks or
see the grumpy old perjurers take a
second time take a breath be shockingly
know what was this it was the grand
Omarosa party and i'll tell you how you
could tell there's no cleverness we just
substituted all four Omarosa
that's the keep it signature Tommy we
need to get your average up there you
know I used to talk about yes IRA and I
physically fought over him not talking
about Omarosa we do wrestled it was that
the Harper's was our party I still need
my shoe back anyway speaking of Harper's
Bazaar okay the girls are fighting and
you know we can't get enough of it any
true fan would have a strong opinion on
the feud of the year so Tommy are you
team cardi or nicki minaj cardi I would
say yes why are you team cardi because
you are brilliant I'm the only one team
Nicki why are you seeing the key huh why
she follows me on Twitter okay
pathetic we're gonna try to get your
average up here okay I think you're
doing just fine who had this hot take
about beloved late pop star Prince
Purple Rain is deeply overplayed and
doesn't need doesn't we don't need to
hear it ever again right Tommy come on
come on guys it's the eighth best track
on that album the only one worse is
anybody computer blow that was correct
the other seven are lovely you got one
boo that's right he was assured out of
the room he's gone Tommy what shocking
breaking news story triggered the
beginning of the keepit mysteries a the
ongoing investigation into the Trump
urination tape I said urination because
this is classy be Beyonce being
mysteriously bitten at a Hollywood party
or see who threw the shoe yeah that was
such a fun story yeah unfortunately
there wasn't biting Beyonce
no unfortunately there was really only
one suspect it was like the like a
scooby-doo thing where it's like do you
think it's the decrepit carnival worker
I know yes all right we got one more
okay one more this is really hard
is anyone keeping score good ten for ten
who is not on Karis top-10 list of white
women is it a sin Lindsay on B Victoria
Beckham C Jane Fonda the opinions are
wild okay this isn't Price is Right my
dad out there I think it is James in the
low twenties Victoria Beckham never
smiles of course I love Victoria Beckham
I love a woman who just refuses to smile
and a scowling all the time and also
like her hair is always wrapped in like
a chignon around her neck so that she
can do the same face she always does in
pictures which is this it won't
translate on a podcast I don't know why
I even started this Tommy you need to
watch Victoria's Vogue well how many
questions 72 73 yeah it's incredible
that's one it's incredible she answer 73
questions yeah oh you've not seen these
renter's title Wow yeah it's really good
all right yeah after that watch mine
okay and guys hey that was Tommy Vietor
hey should we give it to him I thought
you he gets the just fine award yes he
is keep it's fan right no you're a
biggest fan
I am I stay in the show we love you
thank you yeah for doing 50 great
episodes 50 more shall we it's in my
crotch right bye Tommy
[Applause]
you
