I would like to welcome to crooked media
HQ Andrew yang a entrepreneur running
for president the Democratic nomination
in 2020 it's great to have you here it's
great to be here Tommy thanks so much
for having me uh straight from Iowa
you've been here a couple days um but
I've been in LA for about a day okay
cool what's good to have you um
let's jump right into it so your
candidacy has really been like laser
focus on a big central idea which is the
need for universal basic income and I
want to get to that in detail but I was
hoping we could start with how you
arrived at the need for UVI through your
work adventure for America can you talk
to us about what that was and what you
did yeah very much so
so I started my career as an unhappy
corporate attorney and then worked in
startups I started my own business that
flopped then I worked at another startup
in software and then became the head of
an education company that did very well
and was bought by a bigger company in
2009 and in the wake of the financial
crisis I thought well we have so many
talented people doing the same things in
the same places Wall Street Silicon
Valley consulting and I thought well we
need more people generating jobs and
businesses in places like Detroit
Cleveland st. Louis Birmingham New
Orleans so I spent last 7 years helping
hundreds of entrepreneurs create jobs in
those cities as part of this
organization I started venture for
America and it was during my time in
these cities that I realized that we
were automating away jobs much more
quickly than we were creating them
particularly where the Midwest and the
south were concerned and if you look at
2016 when Donald Trump became president
he won Michigan Ohio Pennsylvania
Wisconsin Missouri Iowa all states that
we'd automated away 4 million
manufacturing jobs in and working in
technology you know that we're gonna do
the same thing to millions of retail
jobs call center jobs fast food jobs
truck driving jobs so when you you
realize that we're in the midst of the
greatest economic and technological
transformation in the history of our
country and the third inning has brought
us Donald Trump then you think ok what
can we do about that what's what's a
realistic countermeasure and when I've
dug into it universal basic income was
most powerful response that we could
adopt and really universal basic income
is the reason I'm running for president
so I've listened to a ton of your
interviews in preparation for this
everyone includes a part where you just
scare the out of everybody about
how automation is coming well I'm good
at that can we can we just let rip on
that I wanna hear your I wanna see in
person sure so the five most common job
categories the United States are
administrative and clerical retail food
service and food prep truck driving and
transportation and manufacturing those
five jobs comprise about half of all
American jobs they're all going to
shrink very very fast thirty percent of
American malls and stores are gonna
close in the next four years because of
Amazon sucking up twenty billion dollars
in business and the average retail
worker is a 39 year old woman making $10
an hour so if you think about her mall
or store closing what's her next move
going to be driving a truck is the most
common job in 29 states in this country
there are three and a half million truck
drivers average age 49 94 percent male
and so if rabbat truck start hitting the
highways in five to ten years what does
that mean for them as well as the over 7
million Americans who work in truck
stops motels diners and retail
establishments that rely on the truckers
getting out and eating Google just
recently demoed AI that can do the work
of an average call center worker and
their two and a half million call center
workers in the United States they make
14 bucks an hour average education high
school so when you start digging in you
realize that we're going to automate
away the most common jobs in our society
and we're already in the midst of doing
so I studied economics and when you look
in a textbook what happens what 2 to 4
million manufacturing workers who lose
their jobs about half left the workforce
that never worked again and of that
group about half filed for disability
and then you saw surges and suicides and
drug overdoses and those communities to
the point where it's brought down
America's life expectancy for the last 3
years in a row which is unheard of the
last time American life expectancy
decline for three years in a row was the
Spanish flu of 1918 it's been a hundred
years and it's highly unusual forward
life expectancy in a developed country
to decline even one year let alone three
so if that's what happened the
manufacturing workers it's clear that
that's what's going to happen to the
retail workers call center workers and
on
and it's not just blue collar workers
bookkeepers accountants insurance agents
financial advisors pharmacists there are
many white-collar jobs will also be
upended by AI and you're already seeing
this in many organizations I spoke at a
group of CEOs in New York and I asked
them how many are looking at having AI
replaced thousands of back office
workers and out of 70 CEOs 70 hands went
up so this is not just an us-versus-them
thing this is a human thing and we need
to wake up to the fact that it's not
immigrants it is technology and then
have meaningful solutions that will
actually help America manage this
transition yes
so was that scary did it work that's
yeah that's pretty scary I mean and it's
also you know I think people may be here
okay robot trucks are coming I mean
wasn't that one of the first companies
that uber acquired was a automate yes
right so like this is something people
are putting big money into oh yeah this
savings behind automating Freight are
estimated to be a hundred sixty eight
billion dollars per year and that's not
just labor savings that's fuel
efficiency equipment utilization because
a robot truck never needs to stop a
human truck driver has to get out after
14 hours and go to sleep the robot truck
never needs to stop it would also save
about 4,000 lives a year because that's
how many people died in accidents with
human truck drivers right now so if you
have 168 billion dollars a year in
potential savings then that would
justify investing tens of billions a
year to try and make it happen right
right um okay so let's go just with the
basic question like what does a
universal basic income plan you're
proposing the freedom dividend well the
freedom dividend is a universal basic
income plan where every American adult
gets $1,000 a month starting at age 18
until the day they die so every American
adult gets $1,000 and then you get it
you can do whatever you want twelve
thousand dollars a year and it continues
until you expire so I want to start by
saying like I really respect it
appreciate the fact that you aren't you
weren't just naming the problem of
automation because I think every
candidate out there is like automation
is coming people are going to be
displaced then we pivot back to so we
need more retraining and all the things
you've recommended that failed I have
some question
about the way the freedom dividend works
if you don't mind indulging me at least
I'm learning about this on the fly so
let's say I'm a truck driver I make 50
grand a year yeah I get laid off because
of automation yeah I get a freedom
dividend worth $12,000 a year aren't I
still in a pretty tough spot
economically oh yeah
but right now so I'm running for
president I become president in 2021 the
dividends go out in 2022 and then the
truck driver looks up and says wow
apparently my job is gonna disappear
pretty soon it does it's not gone right
now so then I get $12,000 a year but I
haven't lost my job yet so maybe not
being a total idiot like you know
president Yang's like hey your jobs
gonna disappear so I save it and then
when my job does disappear three or four
years later I've got 50,000 in savings
president yang is appointed a trucker
transitions are to take some of that
hundred sixty eight billion dollars a
year and put it towards new resources
and opportunities for me and when I go
home having lost my job at least now
it's not an existential threat like it's
not that I'm going to fear for my very
existence I'm not gonna take my gun and
riot because tens of thousands of
truckers are ex-military and right now
if you said look you're about to lose
your life savings and you're being fifty
thousand you it's going to go to zero
then you'd expect some very terrible
catastrophic type of reaction to that
whereas like a militia force so what do
you mean ex-military okay really talking
about well dozens of truckers in
Indianapolis protested several months
ago by doing something called a slow
roll so they started driving their truck
slowly and gummed up traffic that's the
entire highway starts going 45 miles an
hour now what they were protesting was
the digital monitoring of their driving
time they didn't like the fact they have
a timer so if you take three and a half
million truckers who in many cases suck
their life savings into a small fleet of
trucks and then you say hey you're now
competing against robot trucks that
don't need to stop then to me it's
entirely reasonable that some of those
truckers will park their trucks and a
highway in a place that that's going to
really screw things up
or even worse they'll like park their
truck bring
guns out and say you know the robot
truck should not be allowed because in
this case they feel like their very
existence might be at stake
so we're thinking like a post Automation
Mad Max trucker scenario I mean like
you're worried about like actual
violence not just people losing their
jobs it sounds like yeah I mean you can
see right now that again you've had
these record levels of suicides and drug
overdoses in response to the did the
decimation of manufacturing jobs it's
only a matter of time before some of
that despair ends up becoming
externalized and that that would include
violence if you look at the first
Industrial Revolution at the turn of the
century there were mass riots that
killed dozens of people and caused the
equivalent of billions of dollars worth
of damage and this Industrial Revolution
is projected to be two to three times
faster and more severe than that one so
if you were into history and you say
okay this is what happened last time and
this time will be two to three times
worse than it would almost be surprising
if there were not some form of violence
okay um
another question I had about the freedom
dividends so my understanding is it
doesn't come on top of other welfare
programs you have to sort of choose one
or the other you have to opt in so if
you're getting Social Security
disability insurance or food stamps you
have a choice between the existing
welfare state and the freedom dividend I
guess my question is why wouldn't you
want to help the poorest people more
like why structure this so Jeff Bezos
gets the same money as a homeless guy
yeah so one of the lessons we took was
from Alaska which has had this petroleum
dividend in effect for almost 40 years
and it's not means-tested everyone in
Alaska just gets between one and two
thousand dollars a year no questions
asked and because of that it's
politically very popular and everyone
sees it as just like something that they
get as an Alaskan and so if you want to
get people in America excited about the
dividend then having it be distributed
across the board to every citizen seems
like something that would become
universally popular I'm all for taking
steps to try and see to those who have a
greater need in different ways and the
freedom dividend is not intended to
solve all problems you know it would
channel
of billions of dollars into the hands of
Americans every day and anyone listening
to this you know thousand dollars a
month to be a huge difference maker in
many many people's lives but to me there
are other things that we should do to
help those who need frankly even more
than any amount of money I mean there
are certain programs that you need to
have in place money is not a cure-all
but this to me is the the best way to
provide a floor for everyone and then we
can start attacking some of the other
systemic issues of poverty in different
ways you know but wouldn't there's some
argument for just sort of like finding
some tearing say it cuts off after two
hundred fifty thousand dollars a year or
five hundred thousand dollars even I
hear what you're saying in that if you
make a benefit universal everyone gets
it they're less likely to resent it but
I feel like you could maybe manage the
cost because you're I've heard you talk
about it costing maybe two trillion or
1.8 trillion a year for the freedom to
vend yeah Olli implemented yeah that's
pretty significant right now it's
significant though you know and you and
I know this is that unfortunately there
aren't even that many rich Americans
such that doesn't even bring the cost
out because of the way our income is
distributed but one of the great things
about not having means-testing is that
you d stigmatize it so it's not like oh
I get it you don't you know you're
giving it to me somehow
there's no rich to poor transfer so it's
truly universal if it's truly says
something that everyone enjoys then you
get rid of any stigma and you also get
rid of any monitoring requirement or
need to try and under report your income
or change in circumstances and no
there's no issue around timing of
payments so I love the EITC the ITC has
been great at fighting poverty but
thirty percent of families that should
get the EITC don't get it because of
various administrative hurdles and
there's also this massive timing a
payments problem because if I lose my
job this year
maybe the EITC will give me some extra
money next year when it's tax time but
like I needed the money right now right
now yeah um so my understanding is the
primary way you finance the freedom
dividend is through a value-added tax on
tech companies like say Amazon but that
tax or sales tax they tend to be the
really the most regressive form of
Taxation companies tend to pass those
costs along to consumers I mean those
costs are likely to disproportionately
hurt people who are poor
so I financed it that way so in a vacuum
like a value-added tax does tend to be
regressive because poor people to spend
a higher proportion of the buying power
on consumer staples and there are things
you can do where you can tailor it you
can exempt certain consumer staples you
can have the VAT be higher on luxury
goods in this case because we're taking
every dollar from the value-added tax
and putting it directly into Americans
hands and then adding another $2 on top
of it then it would be the opposite of
regressive it would increase the buying
power for approximately the bottom like
90% of Americans who aren't making and
spending hundreds of thousands of
dollars but if you're the bottom 90%
let's say you're you're on welfare
you're getting food stamps so you're not
taking the freedom dividend and then
there's a VAT on a whole bunch of things
you buy isn't that gonna hurt you
yeah like in in certain situations we'd
have to do more it's the easiest thing
to do would be to take and so I have a
physician principle of do no harm last
thing I want to do is stick it to
someone who's relying upon benefits are
a fixed income and so the easiest thing
to do is just to say hey if you're on
one of these programs or benefits we're
just going to scale up your benefits to
a point where the VAT is immaterial to
you ok so I guess here's probably the
most important question I have is I mean
how do you think you can get this passed
because I think not to be cynical but
you've been in government for while me
Mitch McConnell Mitch McConnell a very
cynical guy you know he's got his wife
like cutting deals for him and come at
me no I couldn't believe that it's so
you know a lot of probably to say this
is welfare as to socialism whatever I
mean what's your plan to get this
through
I guess you're also talking about
proposing Medicare for all I mean the
cost of both is going to get people some
sticker shock yeah so this is the fun
part of it is that when I'm president
2021 the Democrats thanks to you all
Thank You pod save America will be so
pumped to have gotten Donald Trump out
of there we'll all be dancing a jig you
know in in DC and so everyone will be
super excited about the dividend because
it's going to get more money into the
hands of everyday Americans and make
families and children stronger and
healthier and then on the conservative
side they're gonna look at this and be
like wait a minute this is actually a
big win for rural areas and red states
that have been
decimated by automation and a lot of
their constituents will say what I don't
like is government making my decisions
but this is actually the freedom
dividend this is pro economic freedom
and so there will be at least some
conservatives who will look at this and
say well Alaska passed something just
like this in Alaska is a deep right
conservative state that was a Republican
governor there there's some native
appeal on the conservative side because
it feels like it's somehow increasing
people's economic autonomy now that's
not going to work on everyone I mean
obviously there'll be some Republicans
were like I hate this it's like you know
massive government handout it's etc but
we don't need 81 percent of Congress
really need 51% because this is just a
bill like any other and so when the
dividend goes out then Americans will be
so pumped that the government did
something that actually changes people's
lives in such a direct concrete way that
then we'll be able to hopefully get some
other big things done too I mean I feel
like you're a thoughtful logical
rational human being thanks man I'm
trying to apply those principles to a
party that has lost its mind I mean
they're likely to call this like the
death panel dividend right like they did
with Obamacare Mitch McConnell
prioritized defeating Barack Obama in
the reelection above saving the economy
giving people oh yeah yeah that's where
my cynicism comes from is like I I just
wonder how we will get Republicans to
change their mind or if you've thought
through like what it would take
politically to try to bring people over
well one thing I found is that cash is
hard to demonize like like if you say
hey I'm gonna change your health care be
like Oh death panels doctor is like
screwed up but it's like hey the Asian
man wants to give you money it's a
little trickier to be like oh the
money's gonna kill you it's like like
foods have been demonized right and
stigmatized they have been and that's
one reason why the dividends so powerful
is because the food stamps it's like
it's like something for other people
like you go to folks in various parts of
countries to go oh they're getting
something they're pulling one over on
you this time it's like everyone gets it
chill out it's gonna be great and I'm
already getting people from you know the
like the cancer
end of the spectrum and libertarians and
independents folks in Iowa and Ohio have
said to me that they actually hoped they
were getting someone like me when they
voted for Donald Trump which I take is
like a very mixed bag there's a part of
me it's like oh no but that part of me
was like oh well you gonna vote for me I
guess that's a win all right I'm gonna
move away from you VI if that's okay
no we must talk about you B I'm kidding
I mean look I bring topic I learned a
lot about it so you you were at the Iowa
Democratic Party Hall of Fame dinner
this weekend along with 18 of your best
candidate friends
I noticed you kind of you dinged Biden
for missing the dinner you repeated that
criticism in a tweet today I guess he
was at his granddaughter's high school
graduation is that sort of like a weird
thing to attack him for well so when I
first did it and you look at the quote
unquote attack it was like you know a
joke he was like I guess Joe Biden
really doesn't like to travel right and
it just struck me as really jarring that
there were literally 19 candidates there
and everyone but the front-runner here
right sure and and it was something of
like this elephant in the room so I just
said like you know hey like I guess Joe
Biden doesn't really travel very much
and then and then you know from there he
said something about how like he has
values of a different kind that led him
to attend his and I wouldn't begrudge
anyone like making a choice not to
attend an event but there was like this
implication there that was like he had
somehow like made this decision that the
other 19 candidates like had not made
and so I pointed I was like look 19
candidates like 19 candidates have
families like we all are going to miss
stuff and so it's fine if you decide to
miss stuff too but you know it's like
making it seem like it was a value
judgment on his part that other people
weren't making I thought was like you
know a little bit unfortunate truly I
mean the question service we have seen
recently that abortion rights has been
under assault by the Trump
administration by the courts by states
have you thought about how you would
ensure that reproductive rights are
protected across the country well
I think it's crazy that in 2019 we have
States passing laws that are bringing us
back to the Stone Age in terms of
women's reproductive rights so I want to
protect women's reproductive rights the
highest possible levels and there's
nothing in the Constitution about the
number of Supreme Court justices I think
we should very very much consider
increasing the number of justices past 9
and appointing justices that would
protect women's reproductive rights
there's really nothing off the table
when it comes to protecting women's
reproductive rights for me so you're
sure you're the primary goal will be to
really think about packing the courts as
soon as possible and preserving Roe or
preventing it from being overturned in
that way yeah yeah that's right
and what about sort of enshrining Roe
and legislation is that something you
think we should pursue yeah I think that
that's the right move to and you know I
mean I understand that Americans have
different feelings on this but I'm very
much Pro women's reproductive rights I
do not think it's the role of government
to be curbing that the Trump
administration talks relentlessly about
immigration if you're the nominee I
imagine that will be the attack every
day there will be some caravan headed to
your house or the border or wherever you
know whatever they make up but
like that aside yeah there is also a
massive surge of migrants coming to the
u.s. from so-called central triangle
company central triangle countries El
Salvador Guatemala etcetera what are you
would you do to reduce the flow of
asylum seekers and fix so I think people
in both parties view to be a broken
system yeah so the first thing to do is
try and adequately resource the system
we have because if you go if you go near
the process you see that we have a
massive shortage of not just judges to
administer asylum cases but case
managers and facilities and and border
officers there was one thing I saw where
there's something like hundreds of
unfilled job openings because it's just
hard for them to hire at in these
stations so one if you have a process
you have to adequately try and resource
and implement it but the big thing there
and this is one reason why cutting back
international aid was so so destructive
it's like obviously if you're going to
try and get people to migrate less out
of an area then you try and support the
the existing government and way of life
so that people feel like they don't need
to migrate hundreds of miles over
dangerous conditions for another
opportunity that they have an
opportunity closer to them so you think
about increasing foreign aid as part of
an immigration policy yeah yeah I think
that'd be the right thing to do so I've
noticed like as I was prepping for this
I your voice was in my head for an hour
most of the driving I was it was
magnificent frankly um but I mean i-i've
noticed you've done a lot of outlets
non-traditional stops in the Democratic
primary circuit let's say like Joe Rogan
ben shapiro dave rubin so there have
been some reports that are unrelated to
you and your candidacy that suggests
that some of those guys are a gateway
via youtube to more radical fringe
outlets like Infowars or like worse um
said were you at all that that some of
these guys like the ben Shapiro's could
provide a way for people to find that
kind of content or is that YouTube's
problem how do you think about it you
know it's it's a really profound
question and it's becoming all the more
pressing in an age where white
nationalism and tribalism are surging
into very you know like like tragic
murderous behaviors and there's a guy
named Jaron Lanier is one of the
pioneers of the Internet and he said
something that stuck with me he said
that the Internet is more powerful at
conducting negative ideas and sentiments
than it is positive ones so the YouTube
controversy and clamping down I mean
it's so core because if you have toxic
ideas that are out there they can spread
like wildfire and end up like leading
people to terrible ideologies and this
also being very candid starting out
there weren't a lot of mainstream press
outlets that were having me someone's
like I was it's a strategy it's like
actually my strategy just to try and
reach Americans and and if there was
like someone who wanted to have me on I
do think that it's important
particularly if you're going to try and
win a general election to try and reach
people at different points in the
political spectrum I certainly would
never go on a program where it
was like where I thought it was like a
direct gateway to hateful ideologies but
this is one of the most pressing
problems of our time is to figure out
how we can manage freedom of speech and
First Amendment rights with the fact
that unfortunately the Internet is
highly conductive for toxic and
poisonous ideologies yeah so I think
read that you don't agree with I think
Elizabeth Warren's proposal for example
to break up some of the biggest
technology companies the Facebook's the
googles why is that am i right first and
why is that
oh you're generally right and this is
not to say I'm against breaking up tech
companies because some of them you
should break up
certain parts their businesses and it
has gone really haywire in Silicon
Valley where the primary business model
is to get bought by one of the behemoths
now it's not like build a company for 20
years and yeah yeah it's just like hey
if I become a enough of a pest then
someone will throw some money at me and
I'll get like they absorbed into the the
Borg innovation competition in its best
Drive yeah yeah so so there are massive
excesses we should have some of these
companies get quote unquote broken up in
some respects the problem is that
assuming that if I break up Amazon into
for many Amazon's that then competition
will take hold and that will improve the
situation doesn't take into account some
of the dynamics of technology
marketplaces so the the comparison I
make is that no one wants to use the
fourth-best navigation app and no one is
begging anything I was banging your name
all weekend well then you're the only
way I am I question CEO Bing is like I
[Laughter]
think it's still a division okay got it
so so saying like hey like are there
quasi monopolies that need to be curbed
yes if I break them up into four mini
versions of themselves it probably does
not solve the problem and one of the
problems that I cite is that right now
our young people are in a mental health
crisis with the anxiety and depression
coincident with smartphone adoption and
social media apps and my friend Tristan
Harris says that we have the smartest
engineers in the country turning
supercomputers into slot machines and
dopamine delivery devices for teenagers
now if you say hey now Facebook and
whatsapp and Instagram have separate
ownership structures does that make our
kids less depressed probably no impact
and so the the break em up solution to
me is not necessarily digging in and
solving the true problems that
technology is causing sometimes break up
breaking them up having them divest
parts of the business would be the right
solution but in other cases you'd want
to adopt different types of approaches
all right I'm gonna ask Jeeves that
answer later and see if it's right um
like you look at a Facebook right they
acquired Instagram they acquired
whatsapp so suddenly they are by some
major order of magnitude the biggest
messaging platform on the planet do you
think a company like that well let me
ask this definitely do you think we
should update our antitrust laws so
price is the wrong framework for
antitrust because a lot of the stuff
they're like it's freak out you like I
wouldn't dream of it man fight that's
why I give it to you know that absorb
all your data of it so so certainly we
need an updated framework and what I've
been saying is we can't have twentieth
century solutions to 21st century
problems and having a price and
competition framework is a 20th century
solution and those are not the problems
we face why do you hate the penny
because someone threw one at me when I
was a kid and I swore I would get all
the pennies out of the world no no it's
it's that there's actually like there's
several economic and environmental
rationales to get rid of the penny yeah
like we actually spend more than one
cent per penny on its production stupid
yeah we lose I think it's something
about law and order by magnitude maybe
like
like 25 million dollars a year making
pennies what's the argument against
getting rid of the penny then inertia
and and that's one of the greatest
things that's happening in this country
is that inertia is taking over a lot of
things we're like why do we have
lifetime appointments for Supreme Court
justices when that clearly makes no
sense anymore like we should change that
eighteen year term limits why haven't we
inertia so why do we have Penny's
inertia and you know one of the themes
of my campaign is that we have to
examine things and say look we can
improve that we totally should also
Penny's about the environment because
directing copper like it you know it
costs energy yeah well you if you hate
inertia you are gonna hate the
government
heads up then like there's no more
annoying question than what you say why
do we do this and the answer is because
that's how we've always done it come on
well I mean I I admire you and your team
so much I mean you did you fought the
fight you know you spent time in Iowa
and like helping you get Obama elected
and served in government and you got a
sense like I have friends who work the
administration the Obama administration
and they saw what was going on in DC and
they were like holy cow like that the
best of them were frustrated you know
and and like I'm definitely ready to
enter the frustration zone you know when
I become president with the knowledge
that a lot of the stuff that we're going
to try and get done it's going to be
like a massive challenge because of the
nature of the institutions yeah all
right I'm gonna close with some foreign
policy if that's all right
sure so a president Trump fantastic
president he's done a number on
basically every Alliance we have since
taking office
he's called into question the value of
NATO we wouldn't reaffirm article 5 he's
undercut the Japanese and South Koreans
and negotiations with North Korea have
you thought about how you would undo
that damage is there like a hundred day
plan to try to fix some of the damage
that's been done well I'm the fourth
candidate after Bernie Elizabeth Warren
and one other to sign the and the
forever war pledge which is that we need
to try and push the power to declare war
back to Congress where it belongs in the
Constitution and having that is like my
my one of my first acts then the rest of
the world would be like oh I get it
this president is different than the
last one that I'm kind of the opposite
and so the the second thing I would do
is then go to our longest-standing
partners and say America is open for
business again that that guy's gone it's
this guy and this guy wants to work with
you wants to rebuild long-standing
relationships and make it seem that
we're reliable we'll be here for the the
test of time one of the things I've said
is that our foreign policy reflects how
we're doing at home to me Donald Trump's
our president because our way of life
has been disintegrating for years
you know life expectancy income and
affordability mental health crisis like
there's so much despair and suffering
and angry anger in this country so much
so that we ended up with this guy is
president and then he's going on
breaking partnerships and alliances
around the world and ones like what the
heck is going on with the US so my goal
is to be the opposite of Donald Trump
the opposite of Donald Trump is an Asian
man who likes math is that on your hat
it does say on my hat and then it
doesn't say that entire phrase I'd be
very long long phrase dad but then the
rest of the world if you could imagine
president yang coming in like the rest
of the world would be like wow like
America has a very different leadership
style and they'll find that I'm someone
that they can work with would you repeal
the AUMF yes I would that's one of the
things that to me has been such a like a
concession of power and the part of
Congress and so it should be in
Congress's hand whether or not we go we
go to war have any sort of military
intervention and one pipe dream of mine
I know this one's going to be tough not
only do I want Congress to have the
ability to declare war I also want one
adult child of Congress to have to
participate in whatever military action
we take because to me there's something
fundamental that if you're going to send
America's young men and women into
battle at least one one of your kids
should also be going yeah well so
knowing that you want to return that
authority to where it belongs to
Congress um wondering when you think
it's appropriate to use military force
because Obama used military force in
Libya to prevent what he thought would
be like a catastrophic loss of civilian
life in Benghazi that I think the
near-term objective was achieved with
the long term situation in Libya is a
mess he was criticized for not
responding fast enough in Syria after
Assad used chemical weapons the
so-called redline debate I mean like how
do you view when it's appropriate for
the u.s. to use military force to
intervene well well this is one of the
reasons where I think it's so important
to have Congress actively involved with
this is that if the people of the United
States and the Congress agree that it's
the right thing to do to intervene
militarily then that to me is like a
huge source of popular judgment like in
a way that's to me more powerful than if
if an individual even the president
United States things that it's the right
thing to do in terms of principles if
you can avoid catastrophic loss of life
in in a way that doesn't bog us down for
years on end with an indeterminate
timeline then that to me is like a more
appealing use of military force but even
then I would push it to Congress and say
look guys this is what I think we should
do like do I have the go-ahead because
that's the way the Constitution set it
up but I mean Congress is a bunch of
cowards who don't want to take votes
that are difficult the population writ
large is understandably and rightly
reticent to get involved but world war
one world war two if there's not
presidential leadership we're probably
not entering those wars right I mean
like they're gonna look to you
regardless of your efforts to restore
their authority you know means I just
don't know if you if you if there's a
conflict in recent history you think
that was just that made sense that was
appropriate you know to me the times I
get most excited about it is if you feel
like you can help maintain the integrity
of society in some way or if there is
it's not quite like humanitarian
intervention cuz I know we're talking
about military action well I mean you
know you could debate oh sorry I get to
no no like that if there is a way that
we can essentially prevent like a
collapsing Society or a failed state
those are the situations I'm most drawn
to and I would be very happy to champion
that cause in Congress and say look if
we do this we can help preserve the
integrity of this society in a way
that's going to end up being very
positive not just for them but for
American interests over the long term or
globally I would love to make that case
so when I hear when I imagine a near
term failed state I think Venezuela yeah
is that an example some please do you
think it might be appropriate
particularly if there is a constituency
in Venezuela that welcomes you know that
sort of move like you know unilaterally
I would not want to do it because I do
not think it's just the United States
place to decide you know the regimes of
other
trees if we can at all prevent being
that sort of outside force but if there
was a group in Venezuela which there may
well be that says look we've actually
welcomed the intervention because we
need to try and have some sort of
infrastructure or while we establish our
new government or some along those lines
that I'd love to to work with them on
that it's Chris make you think about
diplomacy I mean do you are you sort of
in I'll talk to anyone anywhere camp
like Obama was I mean or let me say this
way do you think Trump's negotiations
with North Korea had been appropriate or
successful well I don't think his exact
negotiations have been the way I'd go
about it but I do agree with the
principle that it's very hard to get
things done if you're not willing to
talk to someone engage them and I also
am NOT the sort who thinks if you talk
to someone you're somehow endorsing
their government or their approach to
things so my my first position would be
we should be engaging directly even with
people that we might consider
adversaries so if you if you win
would you reengage in those talks with
Kim jong-un in North Korea I mean
clearly like the the problem he's trying
to solve is very real in fact it's
gotten considerably worse since he took
office because the DIA estimates they're
making a new Newcombe month so it's
something we're gonna it's gonna come to
a head at some point I'm just curious
how you would approach what past
presidents have viewed is really like an
existential threat to the US yeah and
you know like my sister-in-law's in
Seoul right now I mean this is something
where you know it's like I have some
personal yeah yeah to me a lot of these
actors are going to do whatever they
think is in their best interest and what
we have to avoid is we have to avoid a
situation where they think stockpiling
nuclear weapons and acting erratically
is in their best interest and the best
way to show them that it's their best
interest to scale down and possibly give
up some of these weapons is to engage
with them and say look what's it going
to take you know right because right now
unfortunately some of them think if I
don't have these weapons the US would
come in and ask me tomorrow and you know
if that's the situation there and then
it gets more dangerous
last question the New York Times wrote a
piece suggesting you are too nice to be
President or to run for president so I
was hoping you would
roast me or somebody in the room just
say something really shitty pick your
poison there's like eight people over
there you could you can go for I don't
like the look of that one no what do you
make of it
what do you make of a political process
so cynical that someone could be could
be too nice to run for president well I
mean I appreciated the headline I was
like wow I'm a nice guy because the the
the approach I have the campaign and in
life is just like we have to solve the
problems that are that are making
people's lives miserable and in this
case have threatened to tear us apart
and so I don't particularly like to
demonize people because I don't find it
to be helpful or productive but no one
runs for president unless they have a
deep fighting spirit I would say and
you've been on the trail you know what I
mean like you have to go out there and
make the case every day plus I think I'm
a bigger and then that
particular journalist thought okay so
it's like I'd love to like if they just
saw me in you know like like in other
circumstances they might be like I take
it back all right well we'll find a
chance to correct them and your gang
thank you so much for being here I
really appreciate you taking the time
oh thank you for the opportunity Tommy
you
