Don love em Tommy Vitor later in the pod
Tommy's interview with London Mayor
Sadiq Khan who made time for us this
morning to talk about presidents Trump's
visit to the UK by all accounts going
smoothly he's pumped about it
mayor Kanye's you'll also hear a
conversation Tommy had with Rebecca
Nagel the host of crooked media's
brand-new podcast out today this land
I've had so many people text me this
morning to say they were listening and
loved it
that's fantastic we're all listening to
this land if you haven't subscribed yet
what are you even doing so be sure to
listen through the entire podcast for
Tommy's interview and to subscribe and
download the first episode that's weird
so be sure to listen through the entire
podcast for Tommy's interview and then
go download that first episode but first
we get a lot of news to get through from
Trump's latest trade tax to his trip to
the UK to all the latest twenty20 news
also a reminder we will be on the road
this week the T words you're gonna be
able to hear our Thursday night show in
Chicago on Friday and our Sunday night
show in Des Moines on Monday and there's
still tickets to come see us at those
shows and in Minneapolis at crooked comm
slash events own home the Des Moines
home to Des Moines maybe I'll find the
truck that I abandoned at a gas station
in 2007 that would be wonderful
ya cookin uh I don't think so is a 1990
Ford f-150 and the went so I just
left it there
this happened Lovitz got a show in
Minneapolis I love it and Amy Klobuchar
mean the club loved it in the club one I
don't like what's a great stuff going on
this tour okay let's get to the news on
Friday Donald Trump announced that he
will raise tariffs by five percent on
all goods coming from Mexico quote until
such time as illegal migrants coming
through Mexico and into our country all
capital letters stop the president said
that if Mexico doesn't comply he'll
raise the tariffs an extra five percent
every month until it hits a maximum of
twenty five percent even Trump's own
economic advisor recently admitted that
can American consumers pay the price for
these tariffs which will affect
everything from cars to electronics
computers alcohol lots of different
a lot of guys what are the other
potential consequences of Trump's
new trade tax amazing leadership
everything getting better I mean it's
it's it's gonna make it people keep
saying we go avocado prices we know it's
like mostly auto parts and in all the
beers we drink
Coronas to sekiz like a lot of consumer
goods that a lot of people like are
gonna go up if you live in Texas a lot
of imports from from Mexico are gonna be
more expensive and so I don't know a big
picture this makes us look like a pretty
unreliable trade partner writ large
he just negotiated the NAFTA 2.0 the
u.s. MCA thought we had that behind us
and he's arbitrarily slaps escalating
tariffs on Mexico to deal with a
immigration problem that is actually
coming from other countries in Central
America that seems crazy yeah you hear a
lot of when you read about analysis of
this people say oh it's gonna disrupt
the supply chain which is something
everyone's like what the does that
mean I was in D'Amato yeah here's an
example of that the American auto
industry is you just said they the
American auto industry right now is
facing the most layoffs over the last
four months that they've seen since the
Great Recession which is when the auto
industry almost collapsed completely and
a lot of parts and American cars are
imported from Mexico and that happens
that that's what they mean when they say
the supply chain there's all these
American manufacturers the head of the
American manufacturing Association said
there would be devastating consequences
for American manufacturers because of
this because so many different parts in
so many different manufactured goods in
this country come from Mexico not just
come they go back and forth like yeah
we've built a big system and it's not a
perfect system and there are plenty of
reasonable criticisms and it's
interesting that you see some of the
criticism of Trump's proposed
replacement for NAFTA kind of coming at
him saying things like you know we don't
know this would be a good enough deal
for American workers everybody
recognizes that there's been blowback
because of NAFTA but one of the things
we built is an international system
across our southern border where it's
supposed to be open things go back and
forth products start in Mexico end up in
the US go back to Mexico to be completed
products start AMEX it you know the
product start in us go to Mexico come
back like things move across the border
as they're constructed as we've built
this international system of of trade in
which borders are supposed to be more
open it's actually hard to identify what
it means
or something to be a you know it's a
domestic car versus an intercom made
abroad so to introduce this very
simplistic notion that we're just gonna
stick a tax on things coming in elides
how complicated international trade has
become in part because of the you know
agreements the United States has been
privy to for the last thirty years yeah
I mean on a micro level we are just
making it really hard to do business
like for example GoPro just moved a
bunch of its operations from China to
Mexico to avoid tariffs and then they
wake up in the morning and they read
about this new tariff on Mexican meaning
and how are you gonna see what happens
when a dog goes to the Grand Canyon
right exactly on a macro level like this
could actually start to hurt the economy
you know like yeah it's been weird
watching the trade war unfold because
there are a lot of dire warnings and
then the markets just kind of absorbed
the slow escalation we're all a bunch of
boiled frogs but Josh barro wrote a
smart piece this weekend where he talked
about how some economists think that the
latest iteration of China tariffs and
Mexico tariffs could hurt GDP up to a
percentage of way which is like that's a
big deal
for someone if I were Donald Trump and I
were trying to run a reelection campaign
I think I'd be a little more worried
about the general economic sentiment in
the country than whether my base thinks
I mean enough to immigrants I feel like
he's so really solidified the case that
he's a horrible person to anyone who
lives south of the border yeah I don't
think he understands the economics
around trade to say that to say the
least but yet Joshua's peace was very
good because I think up until now a lot
of these tariffs have affected I think
he said like you know 7% of the imports
or 10% of the export exports or some low
percentage of imports and experts in the
country so therefore it's a small
percentage of the overall economic
output but when you're getting up to if
we get up to 25% tariffs for Mexico and
25% tariffs for China which he is
threatened to China to now you're
talking a significant chunk of the
economy I mean already American house
the average American household has paid
about 831 dollars more because of higher
prices due to tariffs and they think
that these new there's an estimate that
these new tariffs could cost 750
five thousand American jobs Mexico that
is a lot that evaporates any value from
his crappy tax cut for the average
family and also I mean yeah Trump's
numbers on trade I mean Harry Anton from
CNN did a piece on how Trump's approval
on trade issues generally are actually
down from where he started so people
aren't looking at his track record and
thinking this is going well in fact it's
hurting how do you think Democrats
should talk about this and how much
should they talk about this because I do
think you know it's it's tough obviously
the consequences could be devastating to
the economy it could erode Trump's
advantage on the economy that he's had
in polls is you just pointed out with
you know Harry's analysis on his numbers
on trade but as we also know trade is
sort of a complicated issue to talk
about and you know what do you think
Democrats are didn't yeah I mean I think
it's um I think it's similar to
immigration in that I think you can talk
about this as a strategy that's failing
right like you know he's getting some as
long as we were in the trade war he can
claim any problem you have a China or
any problem you up with Mexico is why
he's doing this right but then you go
down the list of the things he's trying
to achieve with China and and he's just
not getting them he's not getting what
he wants out of this trade war you look
at what's happening with Mexico he's now
set a goal that I'm gonna put a tariff
on this unless you deal with a systemic
multi decade-long failure of our
immigration system so I don't know how
you can look at that I mean he may be
able to declare some kind of victory if
there's sort of a natural trend in a
reduction of migrants try to cross the
border because of the the seasonal
change in the way people come to this
country but for the most part you know
you look at the actual list of things he
wants they're not totally crazy demands
right to have Mexico do a better job
securing its southern border of Mexico I
camera I'm you know for example well
you're not remembering because he
wouldn't he didn't lay that he didn't
lead them in any way Mexico has no idea
what standards it has to reach right now
they're sending their foreign minister
to the United States for some emergency
meeting to try to figure out what the
 they have to do because even
Mulvaney went on television and said
they said we what do you want or he I
don't where he said I think anytime
television even Mohini said when a sort
of what is the goal of this set of
tariffs he said we're gonna evaluate
that on an ad-hoc basis they want to see
Mexico do something to reduce the
my grits coming in to do something along
with southern border to help them with
the asylum situation along the southern
border which Mexico has been loath to do
but it's they don't know what they're
supposed to do to prevent this outcome
Rick Malini went on Meet the Press a
bunch of Sunday shows this weekend to 1
humiliate himself further by just being
an and pretending that it's okay
to move a ship named after John McCain
because you're right as a prick I was
too he said the catalyst for the
surprise tariff on Mexico was there was
a video of a thousand migrants coming
from Tijuana cross the border into the
u.s. and this major incident in that
just like that's how you make your trade
policies everybody just got Trump's
racist dander up and so that is you know
like so I guess the case I will be
making is about immigration which is you
know the the China trade war is an
ongoing massive problem that could have
you know pay the China trade war is a
whole separate problem that might create
massive economic problems this incident
with Mexico feels like he has set up a
situation where he's going to get some
minor concession and then declare a win
on it I think we need to be making a
case against him that he's been
president for a couple years and his
immigration policies have failed the
maximum cruelty policies have failed the
Democrats need to go after and just
hammer him on that yeah I think I would
make it
I would link it to a broader economic
case against the president if I were
Democrats I would be doing events with
the farmers in the Midwest who've been
hurt by this I'd be going to auto plants
right now and going with all and doing
events with Auto Workers I'd be talking
about how you know average families Auto
Workers farmers they're all being hurt
by Trump's economic policy while CEOs
big corporations have never done better
you know there's a study out last week
that corporations paid ninety billion
dollars less in taxes as results of this
tax cut and you know profits are doing
better than ever and they all use the
tech the tax cut for stock buybacks and
everyone's doing great on Wall Street
and most of the people in the middle of
the country are getting and and
and for Mexico too it will devastate a
lot of these border communities
communities that deal with a lot of
trade from Mexico there are a number one
trading partner the other question we
sort of dance around this like can this
even work on the immigration side can
can the Mexican government stop asylum
seekers from traveling through their
country to get to the United States I
don't really know the answer but I don't
think that a punitive reaction that
punishes the country of Mexico is gonna
solve a much broader systemic problem
that starts with incredibly unsafe
northern triangle countries where people
are going to leave no matter how mean we
are to the Mexican government period and
and and there's an international right
to asylum to seek asylum that Mexico
wants to honor it's also you know you
know we've seen a few immigration plans
from a work from Castro that include as
part of their plan to help countries in
Central America and to help Mexico deal
with the flow of people there's a kind
of trumps all stick no carrot right and
it's also it's also like slap - and
mercurial like there is a you could
imagine a disciplined right-wing
revanchist administration that hates
brown people with a sophisticated plan
to try to kind of punish Mexico if it
doesn't help while providing rewards to
Mexico to try to help them manage the
process - like actually a chief apology
outcome but when it comes to trade deals
where it comes to the Iran deal when it
comes to the Paris Accords there's no
there's it's all stick no carrot it's
all just you shoot the hostage you
punish Americans without a clear plan
for how to get out of it you pull
yourself out of the deal without a clear
plan to replace it with something better
that's that's what he knows how to do he
knows how to lash out he knows how to
walk out of her room yeah right it's
what I'll do with Pelosi it's what I'll
do with anybody Donald Trump knows how
to walk out of a room and he doesn't
know how to actually make a deal in the
room accept it like there's no in this
situation there's no room to walk out of
like the border is still there the
problem still gonna happen you know so
like you're right that that's what he's
trying to do I think was a Vox wrote a
piece where they thought they're trying
to get men they Vox suggested that
Trump's trying to get Mexico to sign
what's known as a safe third country
agreement which says that basically
Mexico is a safe place for people
fleeing from Central America to just
stay there for those Central American
migrants fleeing will not be entitled to
asylum hearings that's a pretty devious
cruel way to treat a bunch of people
because I don't think anyone suggesting
that just parking in Tijuana is remotely
safe that's incredibly unfair unsafe
things to those people yeah so in
addition to his trade wars with China
and Mexico our chief diplomat is doing
his best to with politics in the UK
during his visit there this week on an
interview with The Sunday
Donald Trump said Britain should be okay
with a No Deal brexit and walk away from
the EU if they can't get favorable terms
Trump's visit comes a few days after
Prime Minister Theresa May is scheduled
to step down the list of those angling
to succeed her includes former Foreign
Secretary Boris Johnson who Trump
praised during his interview the
president also said that nigel farage
should be involved in the brexit
negotiations Tommy can you talk about
the state of brexit politics right now
and what's going on in the race to
succeed Teresa made just so we have some
setup for Trump's visit sure I mean
Teresa Mae worked for years to try to
put forward a brexit plan and try to get
that through Parliament and it was
rejected several times so she finally
decided to step down and now there's a
race to figure out to see who will lead
the Tories after her so they'll be
chosen by you know let's call it let's
say super delegates okay a older whiter
more conservative faction will figure
out who the next Prime Minister is on
the conservative side so it will not
likely to be someone good but that's not
gonna solve the problem of brexit I mean
they keep hunt they keep blowing through
these deadlines with the EU and I think
the question is whether they'll ever be
able to get a deal through whether
they'll have to vote again on greg's it
and throw it back to the people and see
if they still really want it or have
what was called a hard bracket where
they just haven't negotiated any of the
relevant customs or border issues or
anything that would you know anything
you would normally do during a bilateral
relationship with another country which
would just be like an economic
catastrophe would just be as much
uncertainty as you can imagine so it's
an ongoing total mess yeah what are the
consequences of a No Deal brexit are a
hard brexit that they're talking about
is that just okay I mean I don't know
all of them but like one example is what
happens to Northern Ireland right right
now between Ireland Northern Ireland
there's an invisible border because
Northern Ireland's part of the UK the
Republican Republic of Ireland as an
independent country and part of the EU
if the UK exits the EU you need some
sort of border between the two countries
all of a sudden for customs and whatnot
but that's like a incredibly fraught
thing to do because the Good Friday
Agreement which ended the you know
decades of terrorism in Northern Ireland
was
designed to soften that border and
increase access and travel between the
two side so you could reignite the
troubles reignite the IRA and all the
things that we saw in the 90s and 80s
that were so horrifying so like there's
all these second or third order effects
there's all these massive economic
impacts of a harbor exit and like I
don't think anyone can really predict
what all of them are I certainly can't
but it would no one thinks that that's a
good way to run a railroad and what is
Trump trying to do here aligning himself
with bozos like Boris Johnson and Faraj
what does he he's now he's you know
interfering in British domestic politics
what's his uh what's his goal here
that's a hard remaining with people that
like him against the people that don't
like him is this like you know
right-wing populist around the world or
his buddies kind of thing or what's
going on there I mean I look your guess
of what his motivation is as good as
mine I mean in the interview he did I
think with independent over the weekend
he basically said Nigel Farage came to
event I did he was exactly what loved it
just yeah I don't I don't think it's
very complicated he's sympathetic to
people who are nice to him and who are
racist so it's a putting and I've worked
itself out Sadiq Khan zop IDI mayor
Conda than Mayor of London we talked
about the first question I asked him
really tied Trump to other far-right
leaders in Europe like Viktor Orban and
a marine lepen and sees this as a scary
global movement I think he's right we
were talking about this before the pot
Tommy but I find myself very unsettled
by Americans up IDI reading it agreeing
with all of it but then realizing that
he's writing an op-ed about a foreign
leader who was our leader like it was
very it was very sort of upsetting to
see a foreign leader talk about the
United States and the leader the United
States has chosen yeah in a way that is
completely accurate yeah I mean look I
mean he said he said that our president
is a global threat which you know I
believe too but when someone else has it
that's not your country's letter like oh
yeah it was a little weird for me to
interview and because I agree with what
he wrote but it is a strange feeling to
talk to a foreign leader about a really
rough criticism an American president
that said I think one of the things that
we fail to do
it'sjust speak as honestly in bluntly as
he did and that not that yeah isn't that
hard he has not the same he made a
global case for why nationalism and
these far-right parties are dangerous
and I think it was very compelling case
I was like I could I would love to hear
a Democrat make a case this I love to
hear Democrats make all kinds of clear
cases the well know it there was some
somebody there was a conversation about
some of the protests that are happening
in London against Trump and what I
appreciated about one of the organizers
is they said you know we're not doing
this because we're not opposing and
protesting Trump because we don't like
America we feel as though we're doing it
because we want to because we actually
like America and we like American values
and we don't believe this president
represents those values so I'm glad that
that is at least part of this you know
it is and America I made that point as
well and it's not bad and it you know
it's a it's shameful it is shameful to
send Donald Trump to represent us it is
shameful that there's a giant balloon
baby flying over London of our president
in a diaper it's all it's all
embarrassing it's embarrassing to have
him call Megan Merkel nasty and it's
embarrassing
even talking about though to have him
compare Sadiq Khan to Bill DeBlasio
because like no one deserves that and
it's embarrassing just kidding Bill de
Blasio's response to that though going
back to the constant
stop saying condoms where you you
 the crescent scene brother here
yeah yeah the third the third Crescent
scene look III think that I talked about
this in there I mean I don't think that
Donald Trump or Boris Johnson or Nigel
Farage is going to up end the historic
relationship between the US and UK there
are cultural ties everyone knows someone
who lives and you know I came to him in
vice versa so that's there but like
Teresa may didn't need to give him a
state visit that was a naked attempt to
kiss his ass and curry favor and you
know he's only the third American
president to receive the honor of a
state visit he's hanging out with the
Queen at Buckingham Palace today he's
got a private lunch with her I wonder
what the shoulder deserve that but the
part the Parliament was like no way in
hell you're addressing this body because
they were to boot him out of the place
so what's democracy's a you know
like you people are gonna say what they
think about you and and
how it is how does the Queen get stuck
with that meeting of everyone in that
conversation she survived the
blitzkrieg she can get through she can
get through a lunch with an it's
fine right not the first rich American
prick she's had to sit across the table
from she's been around for 50
years it's it's um it's a small thing
obviously these are very big important
issues but there is something it's a bit
it's a bit like um we're you know we're
dating someone and we realized that if
we weren't dating them we'd be just
constantly making fun of them I think
it's it's it's sad to know that like you
know you're sitting at the Queen with
your your your your boyfriend and then
you just know that when the Queen goes
back she's gonna make fun of your
boyfriend and you kind of agree you know
you just sort of listen I listen I I
think he sucks - I didn't I
didn't want to I didn't you know yeah
look maybe the the tradition of politics
end at the water's edge I guess was
there for a reason because it kind of
feels right it feels weird to be
criticizing him as he is over in London
but we're past the point of no return he
deserves it I don't think that we can
sit quietly while he tries to spread his
brand of far-right nationalist garbage
politics like it's actually dangerous
Steve bannon's sitting over there in
some European castle trying to try to
get a rush in there trying to fund and
help these kind of parties get power all
over the continent and it's dangerous
yeah yeah I mean yeah it's a shame that
the American president is a threat to
the global World Order and one of the
most dangerous and evil people who'd
ever empowered but anyway on to 2020
2020 at least they didn't let him stay
at Buckingham yeah that was a win for
Russian by mistake it's fine all right
before we move on to 2020 I do want to
mention the mass shooting that occurred
in Virginia Beach on Friday where a
dozen people were killed and many more
were wounded the shooter who was a
municipal employee also died and was
found with a four
five caliber handgun extended magazines
and a silencer and just as a reminder
about how important state and local
elections are the Washington Post
reported that in January Republicans in
the Virginia legislature defeated a bill
that would have banned the sale of
high-capacity magazines like the ones
the alleged shooter used in Virginia
Beach guys do you that one of the
reasons that the coverage of these mass
shooting sorry
do you think one of the reasons that the
coverage of mass shootings like these
moves on so quickly now is because our
politics around gun control is so stuck
I mean it did strike me as incredible
that this happened on a Friday afternoon
and even by Sunday you didn't see the
sunday shows all about this you didn't
hear many people talk about Democrats at
the at the California convention which
about to talk about none of them really
I think Cory Booker mentioned it Cory
Booker should get a lot of credit
because he his whole hidden most of his
speech was about it but most people just
decided to no they all put out their
statements on Friday and then that was
that you know yeah I mean it's you know
there's you know we tend to I sometimes
get the direction of problems and
solutions backwards in that you know
people tend to care about a problem when
they believe they can solve it and so I
think there is a sense of hopelessness
creeping and there's also just this
natural equilibrium which is a heinous
thing but the more mass shootings there
are the less deserving they are of
coverage in the sense that they are more
common and less newsworthy and yet also
at the same time the more coverage mass
shootings get the more that may lead to
the inspiration of other mass shooters
so we're in this sort of delicate murder
equilibrium where when they get more
coverage they start to happen more when
they happen more they get less coverage
and we're just sort of trapped in this
cycle yeah it's also it's just hard to
it's hard to shock us anymore I mean the
the Las Vegas shooting killed 58 people
and wounded 422 or more if you count
people harmed in the panic and the
stampede that resulted in it's like if
an event that's shocking and terrifying
doesn't change something immediately in
our country the way New Zealand's
horrific shooting at Christchurch did
like what the will so it's hard for
me to even I just get so angry when I
read these stories and I feel incredibly
frustrated in
in angry about it but like I don't know
why I guess I should focus my rage and
say one credit to Cory Booker for making
that speech at the California convention
because he he had the chance to make the
case for himself and his campaign to
5000 devoted activists and he instead
decided to make it about the issue of
violence and how we respond as a nation
to come together or not about himself
and I really think it was it was
impressive and inspiring and good for
him too I think we should talk more
about some of the candidates who put
forward proposals to take executive
actions to deal with gun violence so
common law Harris has been out in front
of that and it's important third I mean
I think it's we should thank Mike
Bloomberg in every town and moms demand
action for funding and then working 24/7
on these campaigns to put in place
common-sense gun safety laws and to go
right at the NRA because because of them
because they're funded and financed or
there's grassroots
energy behind them we're actually making
progress for once and it doesn't feel as
shitty as it used to but you know look I
didn't necessarily want to talk about
this issue today because it is so hard
and it does feel really defeating at
times
yeah and I do think you mentioned this
Tommy but the the good news in this
cycle is I think the Democratic
presidential candidates are talking more
about gun control in general and and
more importantly than talking about it
putting up policy proposals to address
the issue more than they have in the
past
Booker wants to establish a national gun
licensing program Kamala has talked
about a series of executive actions
she'd take mandating background checks
and banning imports of ar-15s
sois well who's made reducing gun
violence the centerpiece of his campaign
has proposed a mandatory gun buyback
program for military-style weapons so we
have we have a couple candidates here
who proposed some pretty far-reaching
things I do think like you said Tommy
the ones that are proposing executive
actions like Kamala are most interesting
to me because you know we live through
the Obama administration and we say this
all the time but when a universal
background check bill that was sponsored
by Joe Manchin and Pat Toomey
conservative Republicans that are Pat
Toomey couldn't get through the
Senate I don't know what came after
Sandy Hook after Sandy Hook after say
after children were murdered I don't
know what can get through Congress and
so I do think that when it comes to
executive actions and
on gun control the next president
Democratic president should have a whole
slew of them ready the other thing and
this goes back to the Virginia case is
you know we started this
gerrymandering fund to help flip state
legislators so that their Democratic so
that we can redraw these districts but
the other reason that state and local
elections are so important is because
some of the most sweeping effective gun
control measures that have passed over
the last couple years have happened on
the state level and in the Virginia
legislature right now we're talking
about a few seats for Democrats to take
control of the whole legislature and
then also have to take control the
governorship and imagine what can happen
if a Democratic legislature and a
Democratic governor can sign a bill on
universal background checks on banning
high-capacity ammo that that makes a
real difference so go to the go to the
 gerrymandering fund and and donate
today let's talk about the 2020 primary
the Democratic candidates descended on
California over the weekend for the
state's Democratic Party convention and
move on Big Ideas summit California is
obviously home turf for Senator Kamala
Harris who had a big presence to the
convention and got a great reception but
the biggest applause went to senator
Elizabeth Warren who also turned out
6,000 people at a town hall in Oakland
on Friday night Warren also appeared to
take a swipe at Joe Biden during her
convention speech when she said quote
some say if we all just calm down the
Republicans will come to their senses
but our country isn't a time of crisis
the time for small ideas is over Bernie
Sanders also took a shot at biting Biden
by noting his absence at the convention
and saying quote we cannot go back to
the old ways we've got to go forward
with a new and progressive agenda let
start with Kamala Harris between polling
and the convention this weekend it seems
like she has a little bit of a home turf
advantage but she certainly doesn't seem
like the front-runner here in California
what do you guys think of that and and
what do you think of what she had to say
this weekend and her presence at the
convention just in terms of hometown at
home field advantage
I do think just politics is nationalized
and I just don't think that that's as
important as it once was and of all
states California is a tough one to have
a home state advantage Minh because it's
like you know yeah it's a lot of people
think larger than most countries so it's
hard to have a home state advantage I
think it's a senator and I don't think
that's just going to apply to her I
think we'll see a similar you know
there'll be questions about whether
Elizabeth Warren has any kind of
home-field advantage in New England and
I think that's hard to justify so I just
think in terms of this idea of home
advantage I think that that's not as
important as it once was just as we're
all watching the same news at the same
time yeah I mean I think people were
making note of the fact that it was also
San francisco-based
events and and that's where she came up
politically so people thought that you
know you might have a political
organization to really pack those rooms
and it didn't seem like she did that
that said I like I I think it's not let
me said I don't think we should make too
much of the enthusiasm or lack thereof
from like 6000 people in a room it's
it's a small sample what I noticed about
Warren's speech that impressed me was I
thought that she didn't just do a litany
of Trump attacks and stayed a bunch of
things that every single Democrat in the
race stands for she made a broader case
that was about corruption in Washington
and I thought that actually had people
revved up and and really excited and in
Booker did a similar thing like he made
a much broader speech that was a
critique of a brand of politics it was a
critique of inaction and it was a
critique of thinking small and I thought
that and seemed to really impress a
crowd um I think what else yes yeah
that's ended a Presta grad it's it's
interesting we're gonna have a lot of
these they're known they have been known
in the past as cattle calls where you
have a bunch of Democratic candidates at
one event and then everyone compares
them right and so we're gonna have a
whole bunch of these in the primary in a
field this crowded in a primary that's
become this nationalized it becomes even
more imperative to stand out at these
events and the question is how do you
stand out and you can stand out by
making a case for your candidacy and why
you you know sorry making a case for
your candidacy that differentiates you
from the rest of the field that tells a
story about why you should be running
and why and implicitly talks about why
other candidates should and you saw
Warren Bernie to some extent Buddha
judge did this as well sort of take jabs
at Joe Biden or the centrist candidates
in the field trying to start drawing
lines Kamala
sort of went up there and she you know
she probably had the biggest applause
line of the weekend when she said you
know we need to impeach Donald Trump
but that was an applause line and you
don't you know I don't really know what
the rest of you know the rest of her
speech was more the standard Democratic
affair and a lot of the candidates did
that as well and so each Donald Trump as
this point is sort of just something you
throw on at the end just to get the
crowd amped and she did the energy as
she did and she did you know it's
interesting I feel like a lot of the
conversation about the Waring crowd in
Auckland was about the comparison to
Harris but I think it's actually less
important for what it means for Kamala
and more what it means for Warren I do
think you know I noticed this on the
road they're all you know a crowd is a
self-selecting sample and also be taken
with a grain of salt but I do think
there is a kind of enthusiasm for Warren
that is growing and maybe not
manifesting in the polls but there does
seem to be a kind of excitement about
her candidacy that I think is masked by
a little bit of the worries about her
electability and all those conversations
that we've been having but when you see
a crowd that big I even think when you
see the response to like when she talks
about pride when she tweets out a Jif of
herself at a pride parade there's a kind
of love for her amongst a set of
Democrats that I think is interesting
and important and I think the question
is that I'm always trying to figure out
is how big is that set of Democrats
because you know one of my complaints
about punditry before we started doing
this was that it's a bubble right course
and our crowds are self-selecting the
people who show up at a California
convention or very self-selecting and
you know like you said when you look at
the polls it hasn't necessarily
materialized though she's been gaining
in the polls so the question is does the
does the media coverage she's getting
which has been very positive lately does
that start translating into movement
among the polls from people who aren't
paying attention to the race quite as
closely as we are or some of the
activists in the Democratic base that's
I think what we have to figure out and
and I I suspect it will be as it tends
to be a lagging indicator but I think
the elephant in the room or in this case
not in the room was Biden he didn't
speak at the event and that was
certainly noted by some of the speakers
and then the Young Turks did an
interview with Bernie where they
basically said you know do you think
that if Biden is nominated it could lead
to a defeat like 2016 in Bernie said I
fear that it could be I really do I fear
that you could have a campaign without a
lot of energy without a lot of
excitement
and that seems like that's the case a
lot of these guys are gonna make against
Biden that he is centrism or that he is
the safe choice and I don't know whether
that's true or not but I do know that if
Biden is not in these rooms making the
the case in response he's gonna lose
that fight so I'm wondering when they're
gonna have them out there or what the
argument is not to have him at these
major events where you're talking to
some key activist yeah I also that
there's an I wonder what you guys think
about the other dynamic is the Bernie
Warren dynamic because you know they
have you know they're both progressives
they're sort of going after some of the
same pool of voters though I imagine
both of them would say their pool is
much larger than just progressives but
you see them both trying to go I have
two Biden because they it benefits both
of them to be the one who's taking on
Joe Biden because they get more media
coverage but how do they differentiate
from each other or do they even need to
at this point if I were the the thing
that I found interesting is I do that
that that multiple candidates have all
at the same moment realized that it's
that Joe Biden can serve as a stalking
horse for what they're running against
you is really really dangerous for Joe
Biden and you know it is like that that
is gonna be something that you can start
seeing chipping away to support chipping
away at a support and to me it is
actually really effective for them so it
makes sense to me that Biden I'm sorry
it makes sense to me that Bernie and
Warren would kind of make their same
critique at the same time for a while I
don't know if at some point that shifts
but for now when they when the biggest
pool of voters is sitting in the Biden
number like that just makes a lot of
sense well the other and that the danger
there is and we've seen this happen in
previous races if you're the one who is
most strident going after the
front-runner sometimes that could damage
you because remember whether job you
know whether you like turbine or not his
approval ratings among Democrats are
very high and so most Democratic voters
if you ask them even if they don't want
to support Joe Biden they like Joe Biden
and so you have to be very careful at
how you attack Joe Biden or how you draw
contrast with Joe it's like that it's
like veep when they just they're both
they just want somebody to launch the
negative attack but one of them wants to
do it yes I do I could see this ending
up though with just
like with kind of using Bernie as a kind
of battering ram and they're all kind of
like grab onto the back of his jacket
and just run forward pushing him ahead
like a like like what's that what's that
the thing at the front of the locomotive
called cowcatcher you know just sort of
knocking off things cow catcher never
heard of call the cow catcher the little
thing in front of a train cool cool dark
sorry I'm salt of the earth I know what
those things are yeah yeah for sure well
doesn't seem like Warren's very afraid
either though yeah the cases are
different Warren and and Bernie are sort
of making cases from the left although
even though their cases are different
Warren's is about the system and sort of
Washington in the system Bernie's is
more about progressive ideas and then
Buddha judges case is more past future
and then Buddha judges cases more come
on Kyle okay just leave it off the hook
yeah that's it
thank you and then Buddha judges case is
more past future and it was interesting
because it made me think of Obama's case
in Oh eight against Hillary was sort of
a combination of past future and running
against the system it was kind of a
combination of Warren and Pete's case I
could see the I can see it being very
useful to all the candidates to have
someone out there saying the Biden
electability argument is actually quite
weak and dangerous and and and that
being valuable as other candidates are
making a more substantive policy case I
just think that's that is a like it
clicked for me as I was seeing this we
could be is like that is that is an
assault on Biden in all directions yeah
none of which will kind of none of the
blowback falling on just one of his
opponents so that that to me is a about
Joe Biden I to me like this nominated he
can have it
you know he can go out and win it it
really is there for him and to me it's
like I want to know what are you gonna
do to answer I'm actually the burning
critique to me is so important like what
are you gonna do to like get young
people excited about your candidacy like
what are you gonna do on policy what are
you gonna do in terms of the tenor of
your campaign to kind of show people
that you're not just gonna play it safe
that you're going to kind of lead this
big movement yeah and also what's your
theory of what's wrong with our
political system today
HuffPo had a funny story that Joe Biden
has been saying this is not your
father's Republican Party since 2006
it's always been true well they probably
stole it from what's this not your
father's Oldsmobile add back in god
knows way these things are sticky and
he's right and look it's better that
he's saying that then saying Republicans
are gonna come to their senses and have
an epiphany once a Democrat wins and
start working with us because what we're
saying is we want you know he can't be
his father's Joe Biden right you know
come on man I just had to say what
clicked for me this weekend is I just
cannot believe that these cattle calls
people are gonna have to listen to up to
19 20 21 22 speeches that is terrible
there was a not just for the speaker not
just for the people in the room but for
the speakers if you're dead last like we
need to find a system for grading these
people on a curve you can't sit in a
room for and again ten hours this is all
these candidates are starting to prepare
for the debates and honing their debate
strategy if you go into that debate
thinking that you're just gonna go up
there answer questions be on your
message
talk about your policies and that that's
gonna make a difference you're wrong at
the same time you don't want to be one
of those people who gets attention at
the debate by lighting yourself on fire
Trump like work for him is probably not
gonna work for a Democrat right like
Condon's not gonna get you notice that a
debate or some zinger about light in the
wrong way might in the wrong way or some
like you know the best singer against
Donald Trump that's not gonna get you
notice but you've got to find a way at
these debates where there's gonna be 10
person 10 people on stage every night to
differentiate yourself in a way that
advances your candidacy and separates
you from the rest of the pack without
getting too cheesy or strident and and
one of the reasons that's gonna be
challenging for many of these candidates
is they don't have that argument it
doesn't exist and they will discover it
at the debate yeah yeah this is
not your father's Oldsmobile ad seems to
have debuted in 1988 so that was a
previous Biden campaign there was that
information whatever you want there was
a quiz on time.com where you had to just
type in from memory all the Democratic
candidates and it did fine thanks it was
fun that was one thing it was one though
that that O'Rourke was hard to type I
feel like it didn't register my
apostrophe properly I didn't really get
the credit for it oh that's about
so the New York Times published a piece
over the weekend about California's
earlier twenty20 primary that quotes
Democratic strategist Chris Lehane
saying that the best strategy for the
candidates who want to win California is
still a pretty simple one win Iowa and I
thought this was interesting because
another Times piece over the weekend by
Jonathan Martin argued that quote the
explosive growth of social media has
nationalized the race it may die away at
New Hampshire less important than they
used to be j-mart wrote that quote the
feedback loop between the internet and
television news is the most powerful
tidal force in politics Tommy who's
right here I I don't know who's right in
this piece I'm not gonna make a
prediction I think it will be very hard
to argue that Iowa is not absolutely
critical to whoever wins this nomination
somewhere in early February I mean like
there's just no way that you can raise
enough money to spend it on a real
organization on Super Tuesday to win
California unless you have a ton of
momentum going into it it's also just
sort of it's the kind of thing where
well there's only one way for it to be
really shown to be a true prediction and
that is if the nominee of the Democratic
Party does not do well in Iowa or New
Hampshire I find that hard to believe
yeah I very I'm sympathetic to the Daan
argument that basically says in the
effort to make other states like
California more important in the process
it's ended up making places like Iowa
and New Hampshire more significant
because it's so hard to compete in a
place like California it's so hard to
get people to knock on doors everything
you know there's so many votes at stake
after Iowa New Hampshire that doing well
there will have a big impact
I think j-mart makes a good point that
social media cable news and the fact
that more people are more engaged than
ever before because of Donald Trump and
his presidency sort of helps nationalize
the primary in a way that it hasn't been
before and so you do see these
candidates trying their hardest to find
these viral moments and part of that is
because there's an incentive to do it
because it helps in the national polls
it helps you raise money among
grassroots donors but I think if we even
if we look back to 2018 some candidates
some Democratic candidates running in
some of these Senate and House races
had these ads that went viral had these
viral moments where like sensations on
Twitter raised a whole bunch of money
and did not win and some of them did but
I do think that if you asked a lot of
these campaigns any of the campaign's
Democratic campaigns they would tell you
that there's no substitute for having a
ground game and having a real
organization in Iowa especially to a
lesser extent New Hampshire in South
Carolina but you know you see elizabeth
warren cory booker better or Roark have
invested a ton of money in a lot of
staff in iowa people who to judge now
that he's gonna raise a shitload of
money is starting to ramp up and put a
lot of staff in Iowa as well I think a
lot of these candidate and and Bernie
has always had a big organization I
think a lot of these candidates are
realizing that if you you know we're
it's still early right now in May and I
think it makes sense that right now a
lot of them are going around the country
going to these different cattle calls
going to California I think if you this
story is gonna look a little different
in October November December but when
they're camping out in Iowa for weeks at
a time the other piece of this too is
it's it's actually maybe not so fine it
it's not so hard a distinction in the
sense that you're when you're
campaigning nationally you're
campaigning in Iowa too now you know
that they're part of this
nationalization of the politics so you
Iowa and New Hampshire can remain
incredibly important while at the same
time competing nationally is part of how
you get votes in early states when so
much of your interactions with
candidates are not person-to-person or
face-to-face but through Twitter through
social media through what you see on
television look I'd say Pete mayor Pete
is a top-tier candidate because of that
CNN Town Hall and because he did a ton
of national press better you to Dan
Pfeiffer
Peto is a candidate because of social
media and that NFL speech that went
viral right Kamala Harris has known Diaz
we all saw her viral moment from various
hearings none of them will be President
if they don't do well in Iowa New
Hampshire and I think that is the key
decision you know I mean and you've seen
this Tommy having been in Iowa and and
worked in Iowa I wonder if you know
there's a there's a bunch of voters who
some viral moment makes them pay
attention to a candidate and if a
pollster calls them they'll say yeah I
saw that candidate I CNN Town Hall and I
really like them and I'm interest
and I want to learn more and maybe I'd
support them right now does do those
opinions change when you start meeting
candidates one on one in these events is
is is one-on-one interaction with the
candidates still sort of the most
powerful driver of the vote that's on
the candidate well good for better for
worse yeah I mean I think undoubtedly I
mean look Iowa caucus-goers are
political junkies you know they're
watching the CNN town halls that read in
the national news right like they're
just like us but they have this
incredible honor privilege sure of
meeting these people one-on-one and I do
think that like when you see someone in
a room when you get to ask them a hard
question that will help you make up your
mind
yeah not just like them but decide okay
I'm gonna caucus for you I'm gonna
volunteer for you you know it's also we
get a little taste of that here in the
sense that we've had I think roughly
4,000 of the 6,000 Democratic candidates
come through our office yeah and thirds
of the way through and there's like six
lined up outside waiting for us to be
done but I see some I see a man with a
condo and sign up yeah
oh it's that's a book on downside
there's actually there's actually um
scientifically there is no proven
example of an organically existing
condoms on they are 100% manufactured
and carried the campaign but uh you know
we see that that candidates come through
here and you know they've some I think
there have been better interviews and
worse interviews and they've been more
revealing or less revealing and then
we've also seen what they're like when
they're interacting with like 40
political junkies that are a crooked
excited to meet them and some of them
they'll charm the pants off of you and
some of them it's like goldfish you know
it's part of it we've talked to to this
week's love it or leave it to here which
is which look they're candidates the
mics hurt the mics and cameras turn off
and like that person's super cool we'd
love to hang out with that person and
their some of those said like guys you
got to take the picture they're here you
know what I mean let's let's be honest
that's not yeah okay when we return we
will have Tommy's interview with London
Mayor Sadiq Khan
you
