and now it's time for okay stop look at
the court for the panel to say okay stop
at any points a comment laura ingraham
the woman in a white Porsche Cayenne who
stole your parking spot watched Muller's
press conference - and guess what she
had a lot to say let's roll the clip
but now you gotta listen to him very
carefully on that because I did he said
I don't question his good faith on that
issue I mean it you know let's do our
parsing we're all lawyers how much
weight is laura ingraham a lawyer do we
have proof of that or is that like one
of those things that you could just say
now well if I'll say it I swear to god
I'll say it I think she is a lawyer
because portions of the devil's advocate
are loosely based on her life so he has
to come out in front of the cameras to
resuscitate the whole impeachment thing
there was no reason he had to come out
today he came out because he's a member
of this city's that you don't live here
I do this city's legal establishment has
always hated Donald Trump okay stop I
mean that's true that's it is true
anyone with a postgraduate degree hates
Donald Trump that's the world we live in
they think he's on couth they think he's
not smart they think he didn't deserve
the presidency he didn't chase guests on
this is still accurate
yeah I like this part yeah I mean she's
back she's using that legal degree so
far they think he's dumb they think he
has bad hair they think he's racist they
think people like me have some have
pushed down the part of themselves that
know it's wrong because it was an easier
way to live my life during this time to
make millions of dollars while
ostensibly promoting conservatism and
forcing down the part of myself that is
disgusted by the kind of Trump man Trump
is and they never wanted him to be
President there's no reason for a
prosecutor to get out there before the
cameras your reaction
does anybody else think laura ingraham
looks like a candle that put itself back
together you know man just like rebuilt
the wax with whatever was at the bottom
you know and I mean it's not good I also
I'm sorry I got to take issue with the
name the Ingram angle you want somebody
to always sound like they have peanut
butter in their mouth and they're saying
the title of your show being romaine go
like get a hard consonant in there and
respect your self here in front
of the camera he didn't prosecute the
case all nice try go hey I do like her
be like shut the up song we're done
with you saw saw the face with your box
is gone from the screen you dumb ass no
bring stupid i'ma his ass up yeah
let me look at him you piece of
song where's your tie salt where's your
tie why are you scowling you come on the
ankle looking like that you piece of
 song I hate you saying and dropping
this body's like he's that jerk who has
to have the last word right is that
could you imagine being a supporter of
Donald Trump on Donald Trump's network
on the Donald Trump racist variety hour
also known as the Ingraham angle and gob
angle the angle grim old and saying look
check out this robert muller guy last
word freak he has said one word in three
years
it's his first and as he only people
Lifeson haven't heard his boy
ever heard Donald Trump's on television
every day he's hiding ships in Japan we
don't but Trump is the okk John McCain
is dead
and Donald Trump can't stop getting the
last word robert muller last word free
what are you talking about they got a
cover up McCain on the USS McCain
because Donald cut it he sees it in
front of a Memorial on Memorial Day will
start yelling a
about famous veteran John John McCain so
they got a cover up the letters yeah so
it's not enough to come out and smear
the president again like his report does
but then he also has to say I'm not
gonna answer any questions from Congress
or the Senate I'm going I have the last
word very and drop a little bomb if I
wanted to clear him of a crime I would
have said so that's right that's right
but it's a good girl so I like this top
little casual woman on women violence
there at the end he's like that girl
thing Robert Muller famous girly man
Robert Keller Robert you know those you
know those teen girls with their texting
in their four hundred page reports
documenting multiple examples of
obstruction of justice followed by
several weeks of feeling as though your
words are being poorly interpreted
followed by an eight-minute speech in
which you very carefully described the
findings of your report without leaning
one way or another or adding fuel to
either sides particular partisan angle
classic teen girls we wear pink on
Wednesday says robert muller
and that's okay stop
[Applause]
[Music]
