welcome to pod save America live we're
taking your questions with Priyanka air
bindi with us as always as always got
the whole rest of the crew here love its
back from the road
welcome back hi he's got Twitter back on
his phone so watch out it's back I
couldn't do it
hello chunk down tweeting about sweet
green lids delete what about them it is
concave and he makes no so yeah it
really does what it we're trying to
we're trying to dress a salad here give
us a little gives a little wiggle room
get that lettuce moving that's a good
take thank you
know um we kick it off first we have
Muller ish related questions okay so the
first up we have Trump just declare an
executive privilege on Nadler subpoena
on the unredacted mela report and this
person wants to talk about that and bar
being held in contempt what does it mean
to be held in contempt and how far does
executive privilege extend can you tell
us what to think here about this whole
situation nice try
yes try on that one does it really make
sense I mean I'm not a lawyer I got a
great LSAT score but I'm not a lawyer I
chose not to be but if I were a lawyer
I'd sure I'd agree with what I think now
which is that doesn't make any sense
yeah well he declined to declare
executive privilege over the report at
first and then what happened is Congress
said we want the full report we don't
just want the redacted version and the
Department of Justice and the White
House said off we don't want to
give you the full version and then they
also said by the way the grand jury
proceedings should be protected I don't
know why they'd be protected by
executive privilege executive privilege
involves conversations that the
president has with his advisers yeah
there's like executive privilege which
is a term that's thrown around like
first principles like the idea is she
Congress is entitled to do oversight but
there is a recognition that in order for
the president to do his or her job they
need to be able to have
conversations and receive information to
reach a good conclusion and that some of
that doesn't belong to Congress because
it's part of the decision-making of the
president and that has some kind of
protection because otherwise the
president wouldn't be able to have
advisors tell him hard truths say things
that they wouldn't want to say in front
of Congress etc so that's the underlying
thought or idea behind something by what
people say is executive privilege
why would apply to a grand jury yeah I
mean and there are court fights there
have been core fights in the past over
executive privilege all the time because
it doesn't say anywhere in the
Constitution it doesn't delineate in the
Constitution exactly how much power
Congress has when it comes to oversight
only the Congress does have oversight
Authority and how much power the
executive branch has to withhold
information from Congress so they've
been court fights about it and they go
back and forth what's different now is a
few things number one the Muller report
has a lot of evidence that the president
obstructed justice so we may have
committed a crime so they would like the
full report for that because Congress is
constitutional
one one power the constant that Congress
does have is to begin impeachment
proceedings and to I thought I had it
too well one thing that would add well
you're thinking of your - yeah I'll just
say that the point the motor report
makes a really important point about
this which is it's actually significant
that I remembered - that that when the
President breaks a law that that doesn't
flow from his inherent powers as
president in fact that went you know
that he's supposed to faithfully execute
the laws and so if he is if he is doing
things even things that flow from his
power as president with corrupt intend
right to obstruct justice that it's
actually Congress's duty and obligation
to find out about that and investigate
that precisely because it's the
president's job to faithfully execute
the laws so usually fights over
executive privilege are about a specific
piece of information or a specific set
of documents what the Trump
administration has decided in the wake
of the Muller report is that they are
going to defy every subpoena that comes
from Congress to every administration
official every
subpoena for documents regarding
anything they're gonna defy any kind of
subpoena related to Trump's or not
subpoena they're going to reject
Congress's lawful right to obtain
Trump's tax returns so no matter all
congressional oversight they're
stonewalling and saying no we're just
not doing this so of all people
former george w bush official john you
john you famous for promulgating the
idea of a unitary executive which
basically says all executive branch
functions every cabinet official the
justice department all of its powers
flow from the president and therefore
the president has total control over
those bodies this is somebody who has
advocated for a supremely powerful
executive branch you know and he was
quoted the new york times and saying i
think this is going too far
when you you lost you yeah so so what
can Congress do so the Democrats on the
Judiciary Committee are voting today
probably as we speak to hold the
Attorney General William bar in contempt
of Congress that doesn't necessarily
have teeth because what that does is if
you get a contempt citation out of
Congress usually deliver that to the
Department of Justice and say the
Department of Justice or the US Attorney
for DC would then have to prosecute the
official that you hold in contempt
that's not gonna happen
but why they're doing this is because
this is the first step the next step you
take is you have a there's a second
resolution that the house could pass to
say he's held in contempt and also now
we're going to court to sue him over
this so then you take the fight to court
if the if then the judge sides with the
Democrats and bar and the White House
still refused to comply with subpoenas
then the court can say you're in
contempt of court and they could jail
the Attorney General or you know impose
fines we've never gotten to that place
yet and really playing with the the real
the real bottom layer of Lego's here
we're at the real this is this is some
foundational Lego stuff I will only add
that what I was thinking about it
somebody saying you know mr. president
you lost you and he goes yoohoo and then
an aide comes in with a yoohoo for him
he's like I didn't want that but I'll
take it and then all of a sudden he's
just drinking you who's my bet he's a
big drinker like I burden you who is
definitely up Donald Trump's ally for
sure you and and Cheetos
he's like ignoring the conversation
about John you and executive power kind
of drifted in and out checking his phone
and then all of a sudden is like I don't
maybe think of this but I'll take a
yoohoo Congress also apparently has
inherent contempt power which means that
Congress themselves can jail anyone who
is in contempt of Congress but they've
never used it well no no they haven't
used it a long prior they haven't used
in a long time and it doesn't seem like
they're gonna use it here yeah because
why not why not John I think because
they want it pursue the court strategy
they realize is gonna end up in the
courts and they want they feel like it
will be more legitimate if a court
decides rather than if Congress is just
you know jailing people left and right
yeah but not it would end up in I I
don't know exactly how it works partly
tested but it would still end up in
court but I do think that um you know at
a certain point I mean the reason they
call it an inherent power is because if
the Constitution excuse me if the
Constitution recognizes that Congress
has a duty to conduct oversight and the
executive branch refuses to participate
in that oversight Congress must have the
authority to enforce its ability to find
out information on behalf of the
American people so that is why this
inherent contempt idea is starting to
get circulated and I would like to see
some of these um some of these Democrats
uh put their gobbles on the table you
know named in don't hold your breath
perfectly leads into our next question
from Linnea she wants to know actually
well first she wants to know if John can
pull his mic closer to his mouth sure
second aside from calling what can we do
what can we do to pressure House
Democrats to move faster and more
aggressively on things like this are any
activists planning protests or other
actions what ideas are there for people
to do yeah I mean after after the
calling your members of Congress I think
you know people should start marching
don't start playing me because right now
Democrats in Congress do not believe
that their constituents and the American
people writ large care about impeachment
that's what polls say polls say that
it's not an issue that a lot of people
care about polls say that a slight
majority are opposed to beginning
impeachment proceedings right now even
though a majority of Democrats are in
favor of beginning a Pietschmann
proceedings so so long as Democrats in
Congress don't think that you care about
impeachment they're not gonna do
anything about it and what they're gonna
say is all the people yelling about this
on Twitter or on podcasts just represent
the activist base and they don't
actually represent most Americans and so
we're not gonna do it so it's all about
public pressure if you believe this is
important you should you know call your
member of Congress and organize a group
to go march on the Capitol yeah meet
with your Congressman I also I mean look
also part of this is like a
self-fulfilling prophecy because part of
the reason the American people have said
they're not really sure about
impeachment or leaning against it is
because the second it started being
talked about it was talked about as
something that Republicans were you know
you know not unanimously opposed to and
Democrats were divided about was the
perfect way to get an issue nobody's
gonna be interested in I'd also say too
one thing that I've been thinking about
is just so much of the debate about
oversight has this feeling of kind of
Democrats crying bloody murder and
trying to get stuff from the
administration and it being a kind of
struggle and I would like to see
Democrats in Congress start figuring out
hearings that don't require Trump
cooperation for big moments yeah I just
that that part of why I think this all
feels no perspective is and hypothetical
is it just every day it's another story
about how Democrats are getting to the
point where they really may start to use
some of their serious powers and the
Trump administration is timing them and
like that has just been endless and
repetitive and it does feel it just
feels a bit hopeless and you know one of
the things is it comes out of climate
change but there's there's something
interesting that happens when P
a problem can't be solved they stopped
caring about it and so to me part of
this is there's this vicious circle
where Democrats have said it's
impossible to remove Democrats in
Congress have said it's impossible to
remove him and it's probably not worth
it
people have internalized that so you
have a combination of people saying
they're against impeachment people who
don't think it's worth anything even
though that that's I think an open
question I think John's argued pretty
well about why it would serve an
important function and also people who
believe it's not the right thing to do
which gets combined so to me I would
like to see one place where we could all
agree is Democrats should start pushing
for people to come deliver testimony
that doesn't require Trump to go on
board because that steady drumbeat of it
being in the news will start to make it
look like Democrats are effective and if
Democrats can look like they're
effective suddenly a pitchman won't
necessarily look like such a bad idea I
think that the challenge there is who
can they call to testify that's not a
member of the administration about you
know any of these misdeeds crimes
potential I mean there's like you know
Deutsche Bank executives over the people
who loan Trump money I mean there's I
guess there's periphery yeses but I
think the problem they're facing is so
many of the people they call to testify
work for the administration the
administration is saying you we're
not letting any of them testify yeah I
guess it starts with Muller
stars with Muller it starts that Harlan
that would be a big deal yeah I mean
they're also technically an employee of
the administration still on payroll he's
still getting that uh it's sweet sweet
government health care well I think he's
getting that for life good for him so
James Comey I guess anyway anyway all
right next questions are about the big
New York Times story
I think published yesterday afternoon
TLDR yeah so basically there's a story
that Trump has essentially lost more
money than nearly any other individual
taxpayer year-over-year they had ten
years of federal tax information between
1985 and 1994 and he they lost over a
billion dollars which is not great so
Brendan is asking do these stories of
Trump being not as rich as he claims or
not paying much or anything in taxes due
to loopholes really mean anything
anymore it's a great question I should
tell you I
I saw billion dollar loser trending or
something like that and I really have to
tell you I don't give a I don't I
care that we know officially factually
that the story Donald Trump tells about
himself as a lie but but again similar
to the Muller letter that he was pissed
at bar I do feel like we're getting a
bunch of deleted scenes from 2016 like
it would have been really useful because
a big part of Donald Trump's case was
that he was a successful businessman but
and and you know what I don't want to be
totally dismissive of it it is important
that we get to the bottom of Donald
Trump's finances but I cared more about
his finances in terms of his corruption
and his being beholden to foreign
interest as president than I do about
the fact that the story he told to be
can't become president is a lie because
now we're measuring him not on the
promise of his business acumen in the
White House but what he's actually done
so I do think the stories are important
because they do paint a picture of
somebody that was in a great deal of
debt and beholden to a lot of banks
beholdin maybe to foreign financial
interests beholden to maybe some
nefarious foreign influence whether it's
money laundering or dealings around
Trump Tower Moscow or what-have-you
I find haha he really wasn't a good
business man to be a far less useful now
than it would have been say in October
of 2016 I completely agree with that I
think that the we got him we got him he
said he was this self-made billionaire
and he's not it's like yeah we've always
known that he lied about it now we can
prove it with more documents I think
that's it has limited utility I got have
to except for you know hashtag
billionaire or loser RT if you agree and
then you know a thousand artis and he's
not president anymore but I do I do I
think to your point when you connect it
with I think it is useful in this way
when you connect it with his corruption
and what he's done as president right
we've said before if the overall message
about Donald Trump heading into 2020 is
you know he campaigned America first but
it's always been Trump first it'll
always be Trump first you know
cares about himself he only cares about
him reaching himself then as you start
to make that case you can tell people
like I mean how many of you just had you
know a billion dollar allowance from
your father and then could spend money
however you like lose money however you
like and you know that you have your
parents there to just pick you up even
when you're 50 years old but still give
you millions and millions of dollars you
crazy little tyke and you wonder why
Donald Trump pushed so hard for this
Republican tax law that only that gave
really rich people a whole bunch of
money and didn't give the middle class
much else and you know you your paycheck
hasn't gone up you're paying too much
wealth your painter so he doesn't give a
 he's never given a because
he's a he's cheated the system
ever since he was young he's still
cheating the system today he's a cheater
and I think what you said too but like
who is he in debt to right and when he
makes foreign policy decisions is he or
is he making those decisions because of
what's best for America or what or
because of what's best for Donald Trump
and his personal finances we know during
the campaign that one of the reasons he
was so friendly to Russia is because he
had Trump Tower Moscow waiting in the
wings that could possibly have made him
300 million dollars so he no he was not
looking out for the best interest United
States he's once again looking up for
the best interest of Donald Trump and I
think it's useful in that regard
totally and look I think it's just it's
sad you know there are a lot of people
that voted for Donald Trump because they
believed the story that Mark Burnett one
of the biggest villains in this story
you know told about Donald Trump that he
was a successful billionaire but even
before the election we didn't have all
the information but we knew it wasn't
true
I mean there was plenty of coverage
about what Donald Trump did to get out
of several bankruptcies and how many
times he got lucky and got a second
chance to kind of survive and claw his
way back and look even so so you know
we're not one hashtag away from cracking
this cracking this nut Priyanka to hash
to hashtags got it well I wonder if a
hashtag will be helpful for our latest
breaking news courtesy of Elijah the
Senate Intelligence Committee has
subpoenaed John Jr over Russia matters
you just wanted to ask you for some
reactions I love it it's great
especially in the summer yeah
I will say this this is a point that I
haven't yet made and something that I
found when I was perusing the report by
Robert James Comey Muller and that's I'm
just sorry he's starting to become more
Comey like because the days pass on
that's what I'm sure starting to hint at
this time we face it but no the point I
was gonna make is only that when you
read anything about Donald Trump behind
the scenes he actually is he is never as
stupid behind the scenes as he seems in
front of the camera and I think it's all
sometimes worth remembering that he is
not bright and he is not up to this job
of being president but he's not the
total stone-cold that he has often
painted out to be painted to be however
John Jr when you read when you read
behind the scenes anything that looks at
what Don jr. is like he is truly as dumb
as he seems that is and which is really
 hard to do but he does it and my
hats off to him still gonna be President
someday yeah I think it's smart they do
this because this is not John juniors
not an administration official and so
there is no sort of there's no no my
daddy doesn't want me to Claus right
he's just a private citizen who gets the
paint who got subpoenaed so you don't
show up that's gonna be a problem can't
wait yeah pop your popcorn can make
because it can they uh you know get one
of those cells ready deep within the
Capitol where the Supreme Court used to
meet I'm gonna get a couple of get a
couple of you who's down there for him
we were just talking about what's useful
for 2020 like is this tax story gonna
make a difference whatever is done
juniors testimony you'll be useful to
beating Trump in 2020 maybe maybe not I
don't give a this is gonna be great
sometimes have you even seen Game of
Thrones sometimes it's just fanswer well
you know what we're fans and we want to
be service great time to switch to some
policy questions but I promise we'll get
back to more fun stuff yeah we got some
Game of Thrones don't worry okay
first off we want to talk about the
abortion law in Georgia this is really
taking a turn and I'm sorry
this person says I assume it's going to
be challenged in the courts what may
happen if / when it gets to the Supreme
Court and can we just recap for
everybody what this new law says yeah
this is what our so called heartbeat
bill it's now the law in a number of
different states republican-controlled
states
it basically bans any abortion after six
weeks and of course women don't know
they're pregnant even within six weeks
right many women know that many women
most of the time and so it is an
effective complete ban on abortion it
criminalizes abortion even criminalizes
abortion even if you drive out of state
if you take someone to get an abortion
out of state you could be charged with
conspiracy to commit homicide
under this law so it is an incredibly an
incredibly barbaric law and you know
anyone who's called roe v wade settled
law like Brett Kavanaugh and
during his hearings I think you know it
this should not stand in the Supreme
Court but you know the reason that
anti-abortion activists have been
pushing these laws is because they hope
they know that they're not legal under
the current framework under the current
precedent but they hope that they can
get this law in front of they get these
laws in front of the Supreme Court and
at a Supreme Court made up of bread
Cavanaugh and Neal Gorsuch would
overturn roe v wade or at least say that
the precedent set in roe v wade does not
match this new law or does not hold for
this new law yeah I think that's right
and I think I think a lot of the risk is
painted as a binary as to whether or not
the court will uphold Roe but I do think
it is who knows what will happen but it
is more likely that the Reid part of the
reason they feel so emboldened to pursue
these laws is an opportunity to chip
away at Roe and end up with more and
more restrictions because that is what
the court has the conservative court has
been prone to do yeah and then Michael
just wrote us a little slack that a
stacey abrams gonna be talking you guys
tomorrow and this is signed into law by
her opponent in the race that's right
we're like you have stacey abrams on
tomorrow Daniel
talking to her for the pod and I'm sure
he'll be asking her about this and all
the other kind of shenanigans going on
in Georgia and you know state this law
being signed in Georgia what Santa has
done in Florida is just and and to kind
of be part of putting a poll tax on
people to have been had their their
voting rights returned by the people of
that state right who came together to
vote on it these elections had such
sweeping consequences and certainly in
Georgia you can look at Georgia and say
as they say brooms has that had there
not been so many shenanigans in that
election had people actually been able
to vote she'd be the governor right now
so it would be no heartbeat law right
now so we really are seeing the
consequences of these really close
elections and the effectiveness of
making it harder for people to vote all
right our next one is a question from
Twitter
this may be a naive question but what do
you think could actually change
Republican officials stances on gun
control I'm so tired of planning exit
routes on my first day of school one
thing that would change their mind is if
they no longer could vote in any
legislative body because they were
private lobbyists for an unrelated
industry because we defeated them yeah
beating them is number one the other
thing that changes their mind is if they
are more afraid that they're going to
lose to a Democratic opponent then lose
the support of I'll say the NRA but also
their base which is you know rabid about
some of these issues and so it takes
people like moms demand action and the
Parkland students and everyone who's
been every town and everyone who's been
fighting on the ground and and and you
know letting politicians know that the
voices of people who want common-sense
gun reforms are louder than the NRA
Lobby and the you know pro-gun activists
I will say one other thing because I was
talking to John Hickenlooper when he
came in and he passed a sweeping you
know universal background check
ban on ammo high-capacity ammo when he
was in Colorado and I asked him you know
how did you get it through with the
Republicans we had a Democratic
legislature but then when the Republican
legislature took over some of them are
trying to repeal it and he said he's
like you know we we threw at them all of
these local statistics Colorado based
statistics of how many people who had
come who had been convicted of homicide
or of other violent crimes trying to buy
guns and because they had background
checks they stopped these they stopped
these people from buying guns people who
had been convicted of sexual assault
trying to buy guns and the Republican
argument had been criminals aren't that
stupid they're not gonna go try to buy a
gun when they know they have this record
of of crime and sure enough plenty of
criminals tried to go buy guns and
Colorado stopped them and a bunch of the
Republican legislature legislators who
wanted to repeal that law decided you
know what when it's his argument was
when it's localized like that when it's
giving guns to the people down the
street who've been convicted of a
violent crime suddenly these people like
you know what maybe we shouldn't do that
well they can see the ads coming from
them too it's done I think one of the
issues - and this is the hardest larger
problem to solve is guns have become
like a Shibboleth on the right they've
been sort of the issue has been divorced
of reality it is kind of untethered from
like the human plane and is now just a
kind of moral stance and you know
they're opposed to virtually all gun
control and no matter what the facts say
and I think one of the great this is
again it comes down to a propaganda
apparatus that just doesn't care about
facts or information it's similar to
climate change like how do you get
somebody to believe the obvious evidence
before their eyes that there are
sensible things we can do to reduce the
amount of gun deaths in this country
that protect the right to bear arms if
that's something that these people care
about and it's really hard but what's
this accept it that that is part of the
reason the successes have happened at
the local level because the polls are
the same right
you know people support common-sense gun
recall at the national level they
support it across the country they
support it in most states I think I'm
gonna pull a number out of my hat but it
was something like it had a majority
support in like
42 states that the last time I checked
but but nationally the issue is fully
its its white identity politics its
conservative identity politics and so
there's no moving them but at least at
the local level people seem to be able
to be reasoned with
at times got it okay so speaking of
Elections electing new people in we have
a few 2020 questions
first up what's with states that are who
are declining to put Trump on the 2020
ballot unless he shows us the tax
returns it's a good idea does this even
matter what do we think of this unclear
if it matters you know the state that's
been trying this is here in California
the Legislature passed a provision that
said any candidate who wants to be on
the ballot has to provide their tax
returns I mean you know we've talked
about this before what Trump has made
clear to all of us is rules and norms
are made to be broken by people like
Donald Trump and that's why more rules
and norms should actually be laws so
this is the state of California trying
to codify what had been a norm showing
your tax return if you're running for
president into a lot will it have much
of an effect I don't know if Donald
Trump's not a big no look here's the
thing if Donald Trump's winning kill
challenge was winning in California that
means vote for whoever you want this is
a fake election run by a Russian
computer somewhere so whatever I will
say like what do you think it on the
ballot and in Ohio in Florida talk come
talk to us yeah that's I think you look
I think that that is a I think it's
something that I'm of two minds on you
know if Donald Trump if we believe that
Donald Trump is this emergency like and
these are legal steps people can take to
try to hold him accountable like I
understand the rationale for that at the
same time it is quite a dangerous
precedent to set to have ballot access
perhaps determine the outcome of a
presidential election so I actually just
don't know what to think of it just yet
I think it's a pretty big it's a big and
interesting direction
I'm sure unclear if the courts would
hold it up right yeah because there's
certain qualifications for president
that are laid out in the concept
fusion yeah releasing your tax returns
isn't one of them so I think that the
court would have to decide whether it is
legal to do that or right if it even for
me like I don't even I don't understand
the legal issues cuz this is but but
even before you get to the legal issues
there's this question like well we want
people to altum Utley we want to beat
Donald Trump because uh we beat him you
know we're just beat him yeah I
don't think I'll take anyway good yeah I
suppose that's true too okay
Heather wants to know I think question
on all of our minds
when will the Democratic field start to
narrow do we have to wait until Iowa
probably I think oh man Iowa uh I think
we look I think I think the the lower
ironically the lower down certain
candidates are because they're the least
known the less likely they are to get
out I think we'll see like there are
certain people that have I think
something to lose by going down in
flames in Iowa and there are others that
don't like flames like 0% no one caucus
for it yeah just a zero just a big a
baby you know if you if you head into
the Iowa caucus there's a possibility
that no one in the state of Iowa
caucuses for you yeah you know maybe at
that point you might think seek a
readout in the Senate back to the house
and I should head back to my private
life or whatever you may have been doing
before so I think you could see a few
drop out before Iowa but I think mainly
it'll be after Iowa and again you know
there's a 15% threshold in Iowa to end
up getting any delegates and I think if
you leave Iowa with zero delegates you
don't have much of a path got it okay I
think we had a quick question on the
ballot stuff before we go back what are
you in general people want to know what
you guys think about taking a candidate
off the ballot in primaries because of
the same provision that California is
trying to take Trump off the general
election
take it on oh because isn't there
something that that people think that
the primary it might be more legal to do
so in the primary or something I think
so that's going on in the YouTube
comments
I feel completely ignorant of this issue
I guess I feel the same as I do about
the general election yeah you know okay
it doesn't change it for me that it's
the
primary another general but look how
easily it might I know that I've read
that but I don't I've said it once I say
it a thousand times I want to see
swallows taxes he's gonna be demanding a
movie yeah any nobody calm here yes
wallows here tomorrow Tommy is going to
shut that in a bar the door bar the door
one of those tax insurance you get I
want W to so I'm at w9s okay and more
breaking news this street was wild House
Judiciary panty panel has voted to hold
bill bar in contempt of Congress
escalate in the fight over the Miller
report oh look at that look at that
wearing their power on the outside huh
got him boom all right um now under the
fun stuff we got we broke him out today
because we got a couple specific ones
for each of you okay so and then we have
like you can come back together answer
why don't we just do whatever the
we want once you ask the question all
right well they mean this one sighs love
it comma love it comma what was the best
thing you ate in Texas this time around
great question thank you for asking it
was was from John loved it the I will
say I will say two things I'll answer
your question they don't answer a
different question okay because the
question I want to answer all right
answer the question directly
it was Nia's in Dallas it was the
brisket tacos and they were sounds
delicious
phenomenal that was maybe my favorite
tex-mex meal that I've ever had Wow I
had a lot of tex-mex in your day I've
had so much tex-mex I came back from
Texas with an acute case of Tex Mex
poisoning which is treated with salad
with LA based salads answer your second
question and thank you for asking what
was the proudest moment for me on the
tour in Texas we did a taste test at the
Austin show on stage this show this this
tour was a food based extravaganza so
Travis anonymized that we got four
different kinds of barbecue from four
different restaurants from Cooper's LA
barbecue blacks and Franklin's and I did
a blind taste test of all four Emily
Heller who's a vegetarian
also did a blind smell test we gauged
all four and this is maybe one of the
proudest moments
of my life not only did I rank them
based on taste alone I successfully
identified Franklin's barbecue and
Cooper's barbecue just by taste
Wow I don't go to Austin that much but I
eat so much barbecue it up when I'm
there that I can identify brisket
restaurants buy the brisket how did the
audience about this they loved it thank
you for asking just sayin I'm a bi gage
you from Hollywood all right but I got
the GI tract American cowboy love to
talk about that makes my life great love
it also who is your best pick or who's
your pick for best representation of
camp at the Met Gala another great
question and actually you know how
carefully I'd like to prepare for these
live streams I went through reading the
news I'm trying to figure out tax
returns
it's like Brian our assistant Brian come
in here and talk about the Met Gala with
me well somebody has power go I'm not
gonna talk about it was I'm not gonna
talk about it with the navy blue Bros
Tommy and John I'm gonna talk about it
with with some other people he was
telling the story of me calling you to
have a conversation about Met Gala looks
that side of the camera this is Brian
thanks Brian so he just came running cuz
definitely old his name is anyway back
to the topic at hand what have we become
you just shout someone's name the door
opens he runs in we got al you wanna
listen back to the Met Gala looks all
right some real hits some real misses
I'm gonna say Billy Porter and Ezra
Miller were to me my favorite looks of
the men oh and also by the way obviously
people don't like to praise Jared Leto
because of his personality but I thought
and also he as Jared Leto has one of the
most infuriating sentences in the
Elizabeth Holmes podcast where his way
of complimenting where at the way his
way of complimenting Elizabeth Holmes is
say this person makes me look like a
lazy bastard like he's
like like his own work ethic is the
implied compliment for Elizabeth Holmes
point is he looked cool as hell that
wearing a red a red gown and carrying
your own head on a stick is very camp I
also thought Michael Urie had a
fantastic outfit that was very count to
me and I really appreciated that Billy
Porter looked fantastic
the women Lupita oh my god
Janelle Monae was awesome crappy car DB
was awesome
Lizza was awesome there were a lot of
big who created all the eat all the Joe
Jay Ryan Murphy looked great that was
cool hated all the OJ Brian Murphy
looked great it was cool I will say Rami
Malek
yikes like there are a lot of people who
just did not take the assignment
seriously a lot of men showing up in
just some boring tuxes not not for it
not for it here's the other thing though
controversial position if the theme of
an event is camp it is actually not
possible to successfully achieve camp
because it requires some kind of
defiance like it's like a theme of a
party being counterculture like it
doesn't make any sense how do you some
how do you subvert something whose theme
is subversion do you show up maybe maybe
the answer is to just show up in like a
Men's Wearhouse boxy rented tuxedo be
like this is the all-time abb one yeah
maybe so anyway point is it was uh it
was a great night everybody had a great
time at the Met Gala I love it are we
gonna see you there ever
I mean is it on your plus one is it on
my plus one it I would say I'm crazy
people they're crazier places I could
end up on my plus one world tour than
the Met Gala let's let's all cross our
fingers and by the way if I were to ever
achieve the +1 designation a Temecula
you better believe you better believe
dressed to impress
Wow all right well switch to one for you
Fabri I'll take this one does it does
John still think there will be a
democracy in Westeros
yeah I'm still I'm shipping democracy
and weather on that take Oh spoilers
spoilers spoilers now that's a pretty
broad that's not well that spoiler from
what it was spoiler now turn it off
because we're gonna say some things like
I said vague notion of democracy I think
is what I call the last time a
rudimentary democracy I don't know
they've tried it before in Westeros in a
few different places the Nights Watch is
voted they they vote democratically
although you know where else they vote
iron Island iron islands and they got
your own Greyjoy so that hasn't worked
out so well well you look democracy is
messy sometimes you end up with a really
Ron gray j-type although he's sort of
he's hanging on there honestly yeren
Greyjoy had have achieved his presidency
of the Iron Islands with a fake story
about his own heroism and defeated a
qualified woman who everyone recognizes
divert deserved it
that's right but look I so think about
that as a metaphor for something how
many times is Danny you know we talked
about breaking the wheel
I think the showrunners want the wheel
to be broken I no longer think that
Danny's gonna be the one to break the
wheel because it seems like they're
setting her up for a tough turn so tough
sir I don't know I don't think I think
she's gonna make it I will share what I
what hasn't had been my prediction it's
actually pretty spoiler free ghost will
rule those little role ghosts will come
back whatever hey hey
that dog has been with you from the
 beginning all right you pet that
dire wolf when you say goodbye you pet
that you pet that wolf that wolf lost an
ear for you the explanation from the
director that it was it was CGI so he
couldn't really pet him you got
two people riding around on dragon yeah
I see people petting dragons all the
time what are you talking about you
can't pet you can't pet ghost the
Dragons these dire wolves a symbol of
destiny and magic from the very first
episode of the show which is like you
wave goodbye you wave back to my
prediction for Game of Thrones
I believe my my predict who knows and I
want to say that this is I'm out of the
prediction business
except in Game of Thrones back in back
in if I might if I had to if you said to
me you have to tell me how this is gonna
end here's what I would guess I would
guess that at the end of this series
none of the characters we love and care
about sit on the Iron Throne great that
might be because it's somebody new and
inconsequential who ends up there or
might be because there is no Iron Throne
anymore
but to me what happens is the dragons
are gone the night King is gone magic is
gone from the world and the series
basically ends with the story of our
heroes the the the the queen who
couldn't be burned the king who came
back from the dead the burning of the
Sept all the stories and magic the
killing of the night King the long night
all of that Melisandre it's all told
like a fantasy to people who no longer
believe it and think it's just a story
used to scare children because and
everyone who was a part of saving the
world is no longer around and I sort of
think that's why bran in some way we're
gonna come back to him he's gonna be
integral to the ending he's not he's not
brand I don't understand why you don't
get that bran as the three-eyed Raven
he's just not because he says a memory
single week
it's your choice hey Brad I'm not bran
we get it we get it you're not using
that name anymore because you because
you found Nine Inch Nails though the
warg formerly known as bran
yeah because he keeps the history of you
know the world and part of the lesson is
like let's always remember our history
you know that guy I think they're gonna
do something like that you're think
you're right I'm with you on the end
we'll see we'll see Wow I'm still three
seasons behind this so that's not good
for you anyways yeah it's real of it uh
someone's writing their high school
humanities paper about you and using
humor to express anger and they want to
know when to use it and when to drop the
humor I'm hoping I could get a quote on
the topic
here's what I say questions thank you
for asking drink oh why should catch up
on a few episodes this game of Thrones
humour anger how do they fit together
right this is the topic we're trip we're
looking at here and it's an important
one I tend to I tend to express my anger
when I'm angry
and I like to use jokes when I'm feeling
kind of funny
great what are you looking for no I just
wanted it coated from John Lovett during
livestream I would say this I would say
one thing about humor in politics to
give a serious answer
one thing about humor in politics is it
gives you the opportunity to attack
things that make you angry that make you
frustrated that seem absurd that are
morally reprehensible even without you
yourself having to seem incredibly
outraged or incredibly angry with you
keeping your cool like one of the things
that Barack Obama did incredibly well at
the White House Correspondents enters is
he was able to poke fun and even not at
the dinners whenever he used humor he
was able to poke fun at something
important all right make light of
something where we share some kind of
context without him having to kind of
blow his top right to me it's it's um
it's about connecting with people about
something their ways to connect with
people about something you're really
angry about without being really angry
and humor is one of the ways people can
successfully do that got it that works
that was our that was a call for a term
paper you're welcome Madison Madison man
let us know what grade you get Madison
please your parents really were checking
that's that top names list when they
names you huh
tough break well speaking of baby names
this is a great transition into our next
question watch rapid fire away from you
insulting maybe she was my Maddy oh my
god okay what are you guys thoughts on
the real baby named Archie Harrison
mountbatten-windsor what do you think oh
great uh I got is some of you may have
seen on Twitter I got a
text from Emily as soon as I get to work
that just says the only thing the text
says is Archie Harrison four exclamation
points I don't know what the flexor was
talking about at all because I hadn't I
haven't looked yet okay I have a I have
a little a little text Emily could read
it's called the Declaration of
Independence who gives a
Oh a British person had a baby a lot of
British people had babies today I don't
know any of their names
I don't know any of their names I don't
think she counts as a British person
yeah he's got dual citizenship Archie
great perfect so after we can do this
autocracy we have the next threat coming
down the pike I think it's a really cute
name I like to do yeah Harrison is
Emily's middle name that's why she liked
it too we took down an empire so that we
wouldn't have to give a it reminds
me of Chris Harrison which is like a
tribute to America it's a tribute to The
Bachelor
it's a tribute to Riverdale and The
Bachelor it is a testament to how
unmoored we are from the basic tenets of
what makes America a place worth living
in that anyone cares what some royal
family in Europe okay it is Europe all
right what's going on with them I don't
care they're just people to us they're
just people they're just two people who
had a baby and you know what I hope
they're happy I think it's a beautiful
name that cross cultures anyways have
you guys seen nach dem house yet and
what did you think if so I thought
Saturday I thought it was phenomenal
it was it's very inspiring it's well
done it's you know people know it as a
documentary about Alexandria Ocasio
cortes
but it also followed three other
candidates who were sort of progressive
Outsiders the challenged establishment
candidates and look it's just I think
you will learn more about politics what
drives outsider candidates what
grassroots organizing means from that
documentary than you will from most of
the analysis that you see other places
about politics it's it's very well done
I like to let you see it I haven't watch
it yet in part because
I've not been Ivan my home is a politics
free place when I get home at night
right now and so I have been actually
making my way through the AFI 100
catching all the films I hadn't seen
before
so last night I watched The Maltese
Falcon the night before I watched Double
Indemnity
Double Indemnity because I'm kind of in
a newer place and I was interested in
some sort of like kind of you know cat
and mouse stuff this alright may be
controversial Jon I gotta tell you
Maltese Falcon more likes more like
Maltese uh snooze more like snooze
Double Indemnity now that's a movie
that's a movie huh huh - double
thumbs-up or Double Indemnity alright
last one before we end the people want
to know what are your best ideas for
Mother's Day what should you get your
mom I feel like we're forced to talk
about this every time we go flowers had
series baby you've gotten your parents
in the past like for a thing like this
like you have to give away this I think
if you get as you get older it's like
time is better as sort of the best we
have time with your parents so Wow so
this weekend my parents are gonna come
down for a little arbic you every once
in a while I have surprised my mother
for Mother's Day that's not happening
this year surprise mom you see this
surprise I'm not there but I agree I
like showing up I don't know you know I
don't know cherries berries good option
ProFlowers great option they keep the
lights on here crooked media can't go
wrong there yeah cool sounds great
thanks guys great stream is that the end
of the stream the end of this room Wow
i watch Unforgiven I saw long shot over
the weekend which everyone should go see
it is a phenomenal Phil I want to see
was that the one that they were talking
about I keep it yes
okay wait the people want to know what's
up with that
I mean it's definitely marketed to me
specifically I love a good rom-com I
love a good seth rogen stoner style
humor movie and a movie about politics
and it's about a speechwriter
speechwriter who works for a secretary
of state based on love it and Hillary
Clinton I will - not sure I will say a a
kind of acerbic stoner speechwriter for
Hillary Clinton is you can go you can
look farther to find someone to base it
on
I suppose it yet no I I met with the
director like two years ago and he was
first when it was like a draft script I
went to dinner with him and he wanted to
know all about like what's like being a
speechwriter and all that kind of stuff
and he told me the idea for the script
and I I admit I left the dinner thinking
like I don't know if it's gonna work and
then I saw it over the weekend with
Emily and my mother and we laughed the
whole movie it was very very funny and
it's like not doing as well as I think
it should I'm starting like now original
poetry I'm doing like a pro bono no I
was up Johnny not pro moto they paid us
to market it on pod save America they
did yeah we probably did we did ads were
I didn't know we did an ad for it you
were in there I know well that's how you
know it's legit it's a real opinion
because he thought he thought we didn't
get paid to think it me Emily Sara wick
and Tessa wick we're all doing a pro
bono marketing campaign so I need to I
want to see it I want to see it yeah
cool add it to the list after I'm done
with game ever all right well that's all
the time we have I guess thanks bruh
bearing with us obviously we hit a lot
of important topics we hit a lot of
really important topics and I'm glad we
did go we did too we'll see you next
week same time same place you'll see us
when you see you you'll see us
sometime all right why do you just sit
at your computer hitting that little
that little circle until you see two
people that work for Barack Obama
you
