welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy V thoughts on
the pod today our interview with senator
Brian Schatz who stopped by crooked HQ
on Friday and joined us for some
listener Q&A with war today's Priyanka
Arab indi we talked about impeachment we
talked about the Senate and a lot of
other issues in the news right now what
did we have some cues for his a you know
okay but before we get to that we're
gonna start by talking about 2020 and
how Joe Biden's frontrunner status is
affecting the primary race also some
housekeeping a new episode of love it or
leave it dropped over the weekend we had
a Fanta we are Texas tour has come to a
fitting conclusion I don't know we had a
great time in Dallas we had a great time
in Austin the Dallas Show is out right
now we spoke I spoke to I spoke to who
me and Castro presidential candidate
Texas native he played queen for a day
then eight the latest candidate to face
the gauntlet we had Emily Heller Colin
Allred member of Congress from Texas and
Christian and Christian Hernandez who is
an activist with DSA in Texas so it was
a really great show
unbelieva Erin Ryan and Alyssa
Mastromonaco talked about the
frightening
fetal heartbeat bill just signed into
law by Georgia's governor and check out
our latest candidate bonus episode where
Tommy talked with California congressman
Eric SWA well finally we are on the road
this week in Brooklyn and Washington DC
instead of a Thursday pod will be
releasing the Brooklyn show on Friday
morning and you'll hear the DC show on
Monday all right
before we get to our conversation with
brian schatz let's talk about the
Democratic primary okay since Joe Biden
entered the race a little more than two
weeks ago he has only increased his
polling lead the average national polls
show he's got a 27 point lead over
Bernie Sanders
the next closest candidate he's about 13
points ahead of New Hampshire and a new
poll out this weekend showed him up more
than 30 points in South Carolina two big
caveats here one we have nine months
until the first votes are cast we
haven't even had the first debate and if
we all recall Donald Trump did not even
enter the race until June in 2015
second big caveat Biden's lead in Iowa
where many of the other candidates have
spent a lot of time is an average of
only four
points guys some pundits predicted that
Biden's best day in this race would be
the day before he entered that has not
come true what do you think explains his
current strength as a candidate at this
moment in time because like we we like
to say over and over it's only a
snapshot in time that's our that's our
classic phrase it's only a snapshot in
time that's not predictive why it's just
a snapshot you know I would say the one
thing just before we even get into what
it means like I have to say I was
genuinely surprised like when I didn't I
didn't I
I didn't some time I said again I didn't
foresee that when Biden got into the
race there would be this big pole jump
in my mind as a political Perez in my
mind of somebody paying attention let me
say again sorry
I just didn't expect him to have this
huge bump right I just thought he would
his sort of his popularity was sort of
baked into the polling price and that
his getting in wouldn't have this big
shift in the national polls so that that
just to me was interesting and
surprising because you know the one
thing is like okay is this somebody who
just has the most name ID is this
somebody who just everybody is kind of
behind until they find somebody that
they're more interested in but that is
doesn't explain people choosing him
right when he gets in for a Gump him
going from whatever mid-20s to mid-30s
or higher yeah what do you think Tommy I
think part of it is probably the fact
that he is basically a celebrity I think
2016 taught me a lot about how celebrity
can overwhelm all the things we think we
know about politics
remember that guy Trump got elected and
and Biden is the closest to that level
of Fame you know I also think that
electability is is been his core
argument and it's something people are
looking to hear and because no one knows
what electability means you just have to
say it a lot and people will assume
therefore you are electability the
question we all will be asking ourselves
is will this be 2016 where Trump shot
ahead to a big lead early and just
maintained it or will this be like every
other election before it where people
rose and fall throughout the race I
don't think we know that yet yeah I also
think I mean Joe Biden spent eight years
as
as president to the most beloved
Democrat in the entire party Barack
Obama has a 95 percent approval rating
among Democrats and when people see
Biden they think he's the guy that not
only Obama picked but he supported
Obama's policies and Obama's presidency
lockstep for eight years and most
Democrats are very happy with Obama's
presidency there also had very happy
with the fact that he won twice then he
won twice right and I think we also have
learned we've said this before most
Democrats are not as ideological as you
would assume from reading Twitter which
is why also you have like people who say
Biden is their first choice a lot of
them say Bernie Sanders is their second
choice and vice versa people who Bernie
Sanders their first choice they say Joe
Biden's their second choice so that does
not fit well with the wars that rage on
Twitter every day yeah Biden is sort of
defanged
some of the loudest voices on Twitter at
least so far I think a lot of people
assume that you would they would surface
old quotes and votes and statements and
that that would immediately hurt him
among key constituencies in fact the
opposite occurred he got a six-point
some odd bounce from his announcement
until today so you know all this is
likely to change when these questions
are raised at debates or in paid
advertisements or you know routinely it
stops in early States but it is notable
yeah but I do think tell me - what you
said about celebrity is a very smart
point like people feel comfortable with
Joe Biden because they know Joe Biden
and they don't really know here's here's
the candidates they know right now they
know Joe Biden his name recognition is
like off the charts Bernie Sanders his
name recognition is approaching a
hundred percent as well and then the
next candidate that they know is
Elizabeth Warren because she's been in
the national spotlight
for a little bit too though her name ID
is not as high as Bernie or Biden but
it's up there but beyond those three
most democratic voters in the country
are not very familiar with Kamala Harris
or Cory Booker or better O'Rourke or P
Buddha judge or all these other
candidates a lot of the people that that
we talked to are people who are active
on Twitter who are paid close attention
politics of course they know all these
other kin
it's and with a lot of those people who
pay close attention the race is actually
closer yeah that's really interesting I
mean it's a little bit like like right
now we're at kind of a self-serve yogurt
place and like we know our flight we
know we know we like you know plain tart
yeah right
we like plain tart maybe with some gaff
chips in it you know we know that that's
something we've had before hate the
plain tired I love a plain talk my go-to
but now we're like you know we're like
you know what this is our time so we're
trying to look gay mayor trying a little
Vermont socialists we we kind of stuffed
our faces on Texas congressman and now
we're not sure if we're just sick of it
or actually we truly love it but we just
haven't tried it in a cone yet you know
the little weddings a try who are the
little white cups here I guess caucuses
I don't know
sure fill them up I also think there's a
difference in what kind of race it is in
2008 for example george w bush no matter
what happened was gonna be a distant
memory he was not gonna win again and so
a lot of democrats are open to okay
what's next for the party what's next
let's experiment let's maybe we'll take
a shot on this black guy named Barack
Hussein Obama yeah it was a state
senator before that I think in this race
Democrats are for good reason scared to
death of a second trump presidency and
and so I know we've been talking about
electability and you know we
electability is hard to measure but I
think it does explain gravitating
towards someone at least initially who
you know maybe you feel comfortable if
you don't if you're not totally sure
you're gonna be happy with some
complicated cheesecake flavor you just
fill your container with vanilla and you
walk out and you're like it may not be
the perfect thing but I know I'll eat
the whole cup cover it in cookie dough
but but no but also I do think that's
like you know I was thinking about you
know the polls about Hillary versus
Obama in 2008 and one of things that
happened among black voters was there
was a long period of time where Hillary
was leading oppaya why a huge margin
very similar to black voters and and
there was a kind of shift that happened
when all of a sudden people got a real
look at Barack Obama and they were like
this isn't just a fluke this isn't this
isn't a pie in the sky idea like we
believe in this person
and we think he can win now and once the
idea of him winning became a real
possibility all of a sudden people got
behind him and I think there's I don't
know what's gonna play out on the polls
but to your point about how fearful
people are I think that when I mean I
think it's actually an important moment
to look at polling that shows white
voters versus people of color because
right now I think a fair argument for
why Biden is leading is you see the
people who feel most threatened by the
Trump presidency and who were most
worried about Trump winning before he
won saying we want to go with the safe
that now other candidates can make the
same argument Brock Obama did and said
this electability argument isn't fair
I'm the electable one I'm the one who
can appeal to the people who Trump has
lost I'm the one who can appeal to the
broadest base of this party and by the
way I think one of the biggest
challenges Biden is gonna have is people
who say I'm the one who's gonna appeal
to young people who you need to knock on
doors and get out there but right now I
think there's a kind of Europe to your
point there's a kind of readout to
safety because the stakes are so hard
yeah and also you notice harrion of CNN
pointed this out that non-college
educated Democratic voters white black
and Latino are more likely right now to
be gravitating towards both Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders because they are not
paying as close attention to politics
and the ups and downs of the news cycle
and Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden or
people who they know now love it what
you said is you know Obama's support
among African Americans changed
dramatically once he won Iowa right the
key to winning South Carolina was
winning Iowa which we always which we
always plan the campaign is why do you
think so Tommy it you know his Biden's
lead in Iowa is only four points and we
actually haven't had an Iowa poll in a
little bit so you know it could either
go up or down but what what makes you
think it might be closer
um so Biden is never done well in Iowa
in 2008 Biden's in Iowa in 2008 Biden's
Iowa numbers never went above 6 percent
he finished fifth he didn't win a single
County so he did performed very poorly
and I was he has no staff he's no
organization in the state other
candidates have been there you know half
dozen times less they've been a bunch of
counties
I think that Iowa voters are likely to
remain undecided for a longer period of
time
- so there's not going to be as many low
information voters we're like yeah I'm
for Biden now I think they're gonna say
I don't know but I mean the interesting
thing to watch in Iowa is the number of
people who say a given candidate their
second choice and as well as their first
choice because in a field this big the
way caucus math works is you have to
meet a certain threshold to be viable
and be eligible to get delegates and
people below that threshold if you're
supporting a candidate that is enviable
you can then go to your second choice
and so it'll that's something to watch
and it's also part of the that you know
tactical considerations when you decide
whether to take a shot at the
front-runner or not yeah and I think the
fact that more candidates have spent
more time in the state of Iowa than any
other state shows that when voters get
to know people more get to know some of
these candidates they might think okay
well I started off knowing Joe Biden
knowing Bernie Sanders but you have been
seeing Elizabeth Warren a lot I really
like her haven't seen Carla Harris and I
like her like me who did it so I think
that's one dynamic at play um how does
his frontrunner status change the
dynamics of the race of the primary race
the fact that he has right now a
commanding lead what do you think even
that does to the other candidates
strategies I think it helps out Bernie
for a while I mean I think you're you're
a lot less worried about having people
take shots at you if you're sitting in
second place and you're sitting at first
yeah I was gonna say I think I actually
think it might hurt Bernie in this
crowded field because I think Bernie's
bet is okay he's got near-universal name
recognition and he's polling at about 20
percent a lot of these states and you
think oh that's not that high but in a
crowded field 20 percent could be enough
but that's only if the rest of the vote
is spread out fairly evenly among all of
the other candidates to the extent that
Biden is taking support away from Kamala
Harris better O'Rourke Pete Budaj and
the rest of them if Biden gets if
Biden's support gets too high then
Bernie's 20% isn't gonna get him yeah
but I mean that's assuming a static race
from now through the caucuses I'm saying
that in the near term
if you're ahead you're likely to get
shot at and if you're in second or third
place you or not
I mean I think that's beneficial I think
I'd I would bet that the dynamic in this
race is gonna change somewhat over time
and so I would like to not be the
front-runner right now yeah I think
that's I think that's a good point yeah
I'm not really sure I'm more I'm just
thinking like what what are the kind of
ideological implications for what we're
seeing right because you have the you
have Joe Biden who I think represents
whatever if Joe Biden who represents
Obama politics right and in some sense I
think will I expect to see him in some
places give to the kind of the moment
and shift to the left to kind of
recognize where the base of the party is
well at others trying to articulate a
message about appealing to people in
moderation right well which will drive
some people crazy then you have Bernie
and Elizabeth Warren staking out this
more kind of structural critique of the
demo just the Democratic Party but at
the economy in American politics and
then you have I think a mishmash of
other candidates who are in some sense
doing what Biden is doing while trying
to more appeal to the Bernie and Warren
wing of the party and so that the Bernie
really was rewarded in 2016 by a clean
ideological debate right Hillary Clinton
represents the establishment I represent
a left left change movement and now I
don't know what Bernie's arguing against
exactly in some ways he's won in some
ways with Biden he's not winning it's it
just puts him in a tough position and it
makes the ideological debate harder to
find now to your point it's not as
important to democratic voters but it is
important to me yeah you know well we've
said this before at the beginning right
which is the big question in 2016 was
was Bernie's vote a Pro Bernie how much
of Bernie's vote was a pro Verni Pro
Bernie vote and how much of it was an
anti Hillary vote in the Democratic
Party and if it was do some quick math
if it was a very Pro Bernie then he's in
a strong position but if if there were a
cohort of voters who decided to vote for
Bernie Sanders because they did not like
Hillary Clinton and now that they have a
bunch of other choices of candidates who
like namely Elizabeth Warren
who have similar policies to Bernie or
some of these other candidates who said
yeah yeah Bernie was right I'm for $15
minimum wage I'm for Medicare for all
and then you have this choice then it
becomes a little trickier for Bernie
there was a great moment Bernie had an
interview and they asked him you know
you know 2016 you represented what a lot
of people consider the fringe views of
the Democratic Party now all these years
now now just four years later you have
all these candidates kind of adopting
your worldview doesn't that mean you
don't necessarily need to be in this
race and he goes excuse me I can't do it
you can do it Tommy you know great boys
but if up why are they in the race yeah
and I think that's sort of the sticking
point for him like you know how much of
the vote was anti Hillary versus Pro
Bernie or how much of the vote was anti
Hillary versus Pro Bernie politics and
now Bernie politics are divided amongst
six or seven candidates mostly amongst
two but also trickling down through the
rest um Tommy you said something that I
totally agree with which is you know you
don't want to be it's or it's dangerous
to be the front-runner this early
because people talk started taking shots
at you the question for the field is who
is the who takes shots at Biden right
because you also know that in Iowa if
Bernie decides that his role in Iowa is
gonna be to start taking shots at Joe
Biden yep Iowans don't usually like that
that's the risk there's a real real real
I'm not going to say that many rills
that's the risk there's a real risk to
being seen as negative in Iowa Iowa
caucus-goers is notoriously historically
do not like negative politics before
January whatever the caucus is February
3rd this year I think yeah so yeah I
mean I would there there might be a
prisoner's dilemma just like we saw in
2016 where everyone's like who's gonna
attack Trump first could be Biden who's
gonna attack Biden first you know that
said Elizabeth Warren took a pretty
tough shot at Biden early on about
donations from lobbyists you know you
could see them starting to mix it up on
climate policy over the weekend so you
know it seems like they're itching to
have a substantive debate about policy
that could veer negative look at what
was that it is that a tragedy
is that I'm sorry is that a prisoner's
dilemma or is that a tragedy of the
Commons okay I leave it to the Internet
to the side
let's talk about how some of Biden's
opponents are handling this I do think
just to one more point about Bernie
Bernie's first comments about Biden that
could be construed as a contrast right
were I don't want to talk too much about
Joe Biden Joe Biden's a friend of mine
but he voted for NAFTA I voted for
against it he voted for the Iraq war I
voted against it I think that's by the
way totally fair yeah completely fair in
the Jeremy let's talk about how some of
the other opponents are talking about
him last week
reuters reported that the vice president
will be releasing a climate change
policy that might not be as ambitious as
the green New Deal one of his advisors
Heather zichal who we all know and
worked with in the Obama administration
said quote I respect where the activists
are coming from what we learned from the
Obama administration is unless we find
middle ground on these issues we risk
not having any policies now no details
of the plan have been released yet and
the Biden campaign says that Reuters
mischaracterize its policy but in
response to the story Bernie Sanders
said quote there is no middle ground on
climate policy aoc called the middle
ground comment quote a deal-breaker and
the sunrise movement said that Biden's
middle ground policy is quote a death
sentence for our generation what do you
think of the back-and-forth there guys I
think it's we we can wait till we see it
I have an opinion and by the way you
know maybe the critics are right I'm
tired of that and I am also very you
know I am I think Heather zichal
incredibly smart and incredibly and an
activist and an activist and forever and
she you know and she knows this issue
better than anyone I just want to I want
to see the plan I don't know I don't I
don't know how we can all reach such
stark conclusions without having seen it
yeah I mean I guess the my reaction to
the plan depends on what we think it is
so with the caveat again that we haven't
read the plan but a a so called middle
ground climate change policy probably
won't deal with the magnitude of the
problem and I and I would not love that
and I also don't think that Democrats
have made any progress on climate change
policy over the many years we've been
talking about it by trimming our sales
in advance in the hopes that Republicans
will meet us halfway we make progress by
winning elections and then doing things
now if it's a political strategy I think
the jury is still out I mean if Biden
thinks that
this is the best framing and the best
way to talk about climate to win an
election then they have to prove it but
you know the one thing again that we
know for sure is that the way you get
action on climate policy is by voting
for Democrats it's a binary choice
Republicans will do nothing if not make
it worse Republican Democrats will do
something so you will see I mean the
best thing the green New Deal proponents
did is they've completely changed the
left flank of the debate and they've
also forced every Democrat to say this
is the first thing you will do when you
get into office I don't think that was
true with Obama we did health care first
so I think they've really shifted the
way we prioritize climate well one of
the problems we had is we did a we
actually had a client we had a
cap-and-trade vote right around the same
time that health care was happening
right a bunch of Democrats in the house
walked the plank basically by taking
this vote and doing what they thought
were right and then they were and then
the Senate just left them all
hang in there yeah and because there was
a lot of red state Democrats who
wouldn't even go for a cap-and-trade
program which for those you don't know
cap-and-trade is like talk about green
New Deal is way less ambitious than the
green New Deal okay
and so we couldn't get a bunch of red
state Democrats to support that in the
Senate Democratic House members voted
for it and a lot of them lost their
election maybe it was that maybe it was
health care maybe it was just a bad
economy you know we can argue about that
but it two questions on every Democratic
policy in this primary is it big enough
and ambitious enough to meet the
magnitude of the challenge and do you
have a plan to get it done and that's
that could be non-ideological at times
right like is matter care for all
ambitious enough to meet the challenge
absolutely do you have a plan to get it
done well if you're not willing to get
rid of the filibuster know you don't
well you know and also the part of this
the ability to get something Big John on
Climate part of that may depend on
staking out a claim further to the left
and where you ultimately plan on being
because you want to have room to give to
some of those moderate Democrats right
so it's a little it's a little bit of a
non sequitur to say we want to propose
something more moderate because we want
something that we can get done maybe
part of what we're trying to do right
now especially in this primary is stake
out our vision stake out the truest
version the the most ambitious version
of what we believe in and then if we
have to give if we have to compromise
just to get something done that's
politics but I do think that part of the
criticism coming at Biden even before we
see the plan is not not a seating to
that mindset around Democrats which is I
think one of the things that the left
flank of the party has shown to be
effective I mean look
heyo see talks about a high marginal tax
rate and then the whole country's
talking about it for a few days and lo
and behold it's popular amongst
independents and moderates same thing
with Elizabeth Warren and her wealth tax
you stake out this ambitious position
and then all of a sudden you've made it
mainstream and maybe you don't
ultimately get there when the final
votes are tallied but you've actually
given moderates a way to win right by
saying look I made this less I made this
more conservative I made this more
moderate so I agree with that and I
think I think there's a difference
between the policies you proposed which
I agree with you love it should be very
ambitious because you as we learned in
the Obama administration you end up
giving a lot and the politics you use to
build support for it and I you know
credit the Sun rise movement for
incredible activism and putting this on
the national agenda I think when you
respond to a Reuters story that doesn't
have the detail planned with this is a
death sentence this would be a death
sentence for our generation you
potentially turn off people that you
need like I think there is a way to like
so jay Inslee criticized this report as
well and he said he praised the
obama-biden administration on climate
policy but said the times and science
have changed we simply cannot go back to
the past we need a bold climate plan for
the future I usually think if you're
running against Biden that's a fairly
effective message did you speak you
start by recognizing that a lot of
people in a Democratic Party most people
in a Democratic Party like what Barack
Obama and Joe Biden done but you said
you know what
times have changed the situation has
changed we need something better and I
go back to that I like the jay Inslee
said it from a scooter yeah I look I
think that I do look the the the
activist groups like the sunrise
movement I mean their job is to
criticize everything to the right of
what they want now I don't know that
accusing politician of mass generational
murder is the way to do it no you do
that after the white paper comes out
but I look I think the reality is what
these guys run on on climate policy is
important and it's important to try to
build a movement for policies you think
are going to be your key priorities when
you get there but what will happen when
the next president walks into the Oval
Office is you will figure out what is
doable you'll figure out what support
there is and we talked about the
filibuster a lot it's important it
doesn't matter if we don't win
the Senate yeah it's a we're we're a
long way away from giving a about
the filibuster I neither win elections
in in some states where we don't have
candidates yet well and that's exactly
right and that's another big problem
because like let's remember Arizona in
2018 Kyrsten Sinema is the senator
she is pretty conservative for a senator
she is like she is middle-of-the-road
centrist to you know look she did not
glom onto a lot of those positions a lot
of liberal positions so we do have now a
democrat areas out of Arizona but I bet
she's not gonna be on board with her big
ambitious green new dealing we're gonna
have to figure out what that means you
know we should pressure her
we should pressure other people like
this but as we pressure people we've got
to make space for them to sort of come
on board right like it has to be a mix
of pressure and also like okay come on
board now because I mean part of this is
if we don't address this issue it
doesn't matter what ice cream we pick
it's gonna melt there's another good
political argument for this from Julian
brave noise cat who's the director of
green New Deal strategy at data for
progress obviously a very lefty group he
said quote Biden appeals to white
middle-class suburban voters and that's
great but he's not doing so well among
young people we do have a policy out
there designed to build a new climate
coalition it's called the green new deal
and he needs to jump on board so that's
a very good argument I I think that like
I to me you know we can we can talk
about where the polls are now but
obviously everything depends on what
these candidates do in the next nine
months and to me what I I am looking for
not just like as a Twitter pundit but
like as a person is like I want to I
want to understand where the kind of
old-fashioned folks enos of Biden that
has come with I think some old fashioned
positions along the way meets the the
moment that we're in and in a way that's
not only good policy but also good
politics because to their point he is
his great challenge is going to be to
appeal to young people and it's not
going to be with memes
luckily I don't think they think that
it's gonna be with policy and to me it's
about college it's about healthcare and
it's about climate and among other
things so yeah I think that to me is
actually a really a really good sign for
Biden because sometimes Canada you know
sometimes candidates presented with a
problem they don't have to appeal to a
group of people and they don't have a
way to do it there's a clear path for
Joe Biden to may be cement this
nomination by adopting some pretty good
policy yeah what I what I want to know
from Joe Biden is does he recognize how
politics and power relations and
partisanship has shifted over the years
that he's been in politics even since
he's been in the Obama administration
because if he believes that
back-slapping Mitch McConnell is the way
to change this country and get
progressive policies passed I think he's
sorely mistaken and I worry about that I
want to see candidates and this is this
is about whether they can win and
whether they'll be good presidents it's
both an electability and a president
thing like do you not only just have a
plan to get things done to change things
but do you have a way to get that plan
pass and so and it better not include
like settlers of catan with Tom
cotton that's exactly right like and
like you said Tommy if we don't get the
Senate back and we're not even thinking
about the filibuster because we didn't
even make the Senate now what are you
gonna do okay because Republicans
probably still aren't going to
compromise with you so do you have
executive actions ready do you have
other things you can do ready are you
gonna focus on foreign Paul you know
what I'm saying like this how are you
gonna staff your administration you know
I mean there's there's a whole bunch of
things you can do to figure out a
strategy to get your plan pass and I
want to see that Biden and if I was if I
was Biden's opponents that's sort of
where I would go like have you have you
recognized and understood how politics
has changed in this era and so far
Donald Tom so one person who's taking
Biden quite seriously is Donald Trump he
said in an interview with Politico on
Friday that Biden is a front-runner and
at the other candidates in the primary
quote aren't registering with the public
meanwhile Trump's TV attorney Rudy
Giuliani was planning on going to
Ukraine in order to persuade the for
that foreign government to move forward
with investigations into the
origins of the Muller investigation as
well as business dealings between Joe
Biden's son and a Ukrainian oil company
he ultimately cancelled that
trip after the New York Times reported
it but Trump told POLITICO he thinks
it'd be appropriate for him to talk to
his own Attorney General about opening
an investigation into either Biden or
his son in Giuliani said it's fine for
Trump's team to meddle in a foreign
investigation what does this tell us
about what we can expect from Trump in
2020 and how do Democrats handle this
 I mean they're just gonna run the
dirtiest race I can possibly run
including using all of the levels of pot
levers of power that they have including
things that would normally be seen as
beyond the pale like flying to another
country to try to urge their law
enforcement to reopen an investigation
because it might damage someone you're
running against and then bragging about
it to the New York Times that was the
craziest article I've ever read in my
life like I I do sincerely wonder how
many martinis Rudy Giuliani had before
he took that call from the New York
Times because it was batshit crazy and
he canceled the trip I do I do
like the idea of Rudy Giuliani traveling
around the world trying to make trouble
because I do believe it will be
ineffective on the whole yeah I mean
what you know what the Stephen Miller
hair dye he used on his Fox appearance
over the weekend
oh that's gonna be a treat for me
absolutely reporting the before and
after there's Rudy with all of his very
few gray hairs and then the next but
Beck's seen fish Rudy with just
jet-black look here's the thing
Rudy is genuinely going through
something and he's doing it in front of
all of us and actually one of the things
that happens when you have someone like
Trump in office is that because he's
such a primitive kind of creature and
his in his habits he attracts people who
were really kind of tapping not this is
not a lot we don't have a lot of frontal
lobe decision-making going on right now
so you get a lot of real base and
it plays out on television but one other
part of this is you know it is
incredibly nefarious it is incredibly
dangerous this idea of investigating
your opponents but it's worth
remembering why this is happening and
one of the one of the base level risks
of Donald Trump from the very beginning
when you have someone who was so
fundamentally corrupt someone with so
many foreign entanglements so many with
so many someone with so many illicit
dealings over the years one of the only
strategies they can take to win is to
try to make the other person look just
as dirty whether it's true or not
whether you're latching
to sort of corrupt ish behavior as we've
seen in the past or just trying to
invent something out of whole cloth and
so because Donald Trump is so corrupt
the only way he can win is by making the
other person look so corrupt and that
requires doing things that further
corrupt the institutions of our of our
country and again it boils down to it
comes back to the Republicans who have
forgiven so much along the way to make
someone this low require so much
additional viciousness in order to win I
also believe that one of the reasons
they're starting this now during the
primary is because they know we have a
potentially divisive primary on our
hands among Democrats and so if you're
one of Joe Biden's opponents and you're
looking at Giuliani and Trump opening up
investigations into buying and thinking
maybe this is maybe this is gonna be
good for me I think every Democrat
should stand up and condemn this kind of
 because it's Joe Biden today it'll
be you tomorrow he's gonna do this too
if you do if you think that like this
you know Hillary Clinton like we've said
this before she had a long history and a
lot of baggage that she had to deal with
in this race but don't think for a
second that Donald Trump and all of his
goons and a giant conservative media
apparatus can paint any Democratic
candidate as a corrupt awful
because they'll do it to every single
one of them and so that when stories
like this come out every Democrat should
stand up and say that is up first
they came for Joe Biden right but but I
did not speak up because I was at 3% in
Iowa but no it's right you know because
I think I think part of the challenge we
have in 2016 is they use the foundation
and made up but then also used
little bits of truth to generate
incredibly explosive and unfair stories
whether it was emails or or you know
double dipping by members who have her
team and what-have-you and so but then
again you go look at that uranium one
story and it is basically fabricated out
of whole cloth and they have they will
still like this Ukraine story Benghazi
turned into a multi-year fiasco a
political fiasco because it was
expedient and for no other reason so I
mean hoarders are going to play
by the way we are gonna remodel they are
not our friends they are not on our team
they are trying to take people down left
and right because you know they they see
themselves as holding people in power
accountable regardless of party so we
should not expect reporters to be the
ones who stand up and say no this is
wrong so I think it's you know the club
how much of 20/20 is going to look
exactly like 2016 and let's just hope
it's just enough that we win and that is
right so I'm gonna be hopeful about okay
when we come back we will have someone
who is quite hopeful about the state of
politics senator Brian Schatz from
Hawaii
you
shots for joining us today and well what
did we think of Game of Thrones I love
it as a pin you give them your spoiler
buffer Euler buffer this is a spoiler
buffer you're driving turn the volume
down if you're on a bird scooter pull
over you're hitting pause means you jay
inslee yeah jay inslee take your ear pod
take your air pods out while you're
scooting around alright you ready
shut it off shut it off shut it off
Thrones I'm sad loved it
unbelievable look I love Game of Thrones
from the very beginning in fact I
remember a time we're sitting on my
couch at 13 bro 9 and turning to my
friend Jon Favreau and saying hey I got
something I think you should watch and
he's like what's this you but
I got up to watch it and you know how he
said it's all about the map can I just
show you a map and I said that's how you
get me to watch it and it worked it did
work you know what can what can be said
that hasn't heard he said online I would
direct you to my Twitter to understand
where I'm coming from
I I just believed they didn't have the
time and I and it makes me um you know I
have no joy in saying this they didn't
have the time to tell the story they
needed to tell and I just think um
that's a bummer it's a bummer tell me
you have that's I think it's a TV show
no and then everyone needs to calm the
 down
I don't want to calm down and yeah last
night I enjoyed watching coisas pretty
you know obvious likely transition to a
psychopath uh seeing the dragon mow down
all kinds of innocent civilians it got a
little tiresome I didn't need to see the
third burned child's charred body on the
on the ground but it was in service of a
broader point I think about power
corrupting absolutely uh you know I
don't know I it was a fun episode I
don't know how much more we needed about
Daenerys his turn that hadn't already
been there from the day she arrived at
Westeros she had wanted to just she
there's episode Episode two of season
seven she gets to Dragonstone and she
says and she and she's looking at the
board and she's got the three dragons
and she goes to Tyrion you know my
brother was here and he had three
dragons he would just be going after
King's Landing right now he would just
be burning it right now and Tyrion says
you don't want to be queen of the ashes
he says at first and then she looks at
him and she goes okay
and so the next time as she's meeting
with Lady Olenna and hilarious and and
all the rest of them and they're
plotting everything and they say burn
King's Landing to the ground and Tyrion
says what do you mean burn it to the
ground tens of thousands of people will
die all these innocent people will die
and hilarious Han says it's war that
happens all the time and Lady Olenna
looks at Daenerys and she said listen
she's like these people are like sheep
these Lords these people of Westeros
they only respond to fear you were a
dragon act like a dragon and and
Daenerys looks at her and it's sort of
like you can tell she's like oh I like
that advice but she'd just been
listening to Tyrion so she's like no no
I don't want to be queen of the ashes so
she listens to Tyrion she does what he
says
Tyrion has stupid plans causes her to
lose two dragons causes her to go north
for some I'm gonna I'm gonna
capture a white to show Searcy it's all
about negotiating with Searcy and
finally Daenerys is like what is trying
to negotiate what this woman got me I
mean that the whole in this explanation
is she could have flown her ass over to
the tower and torch Cersei and been done
with it and not killed literally every
person this is the problem right but
everything I want to send a
message these people will only like me
if they fear me because otherwise they
love Jon Snow and they're about to know
that Jon Snow is the true heir to the
throne they know everybody knows that if
the person who's not true to the throne
murders everybody in the city that's
that's how you get them on your side ah
tyrunt tyrunt does here look fear every
this is the problem everything you're
saying is true the broad strokes of her
transition are all there the problem is
I don't think they did the work to set
it up in that moment we are it called
like if you were what's what we have
needed you think I don't understand
after all these after all these years
we've built up these two characters
Cersei the super villain of this show
Daenerys who is a merciless ruthless
person who after one child dies locks up
her dragons for a year right someone who
contains both good and bad they set this
up for years and years and years we have
two episodes of conversation we have a
massive battle we have last week's
episode that I don't know what it did
and then we have this confrontation
Cersei is basically watching the episode
with us she's she's an she's sitting on
her couch you know turning on HBO go to
see what happens to King's Landing she
has absolutely nothing to do and then
Daenerys wins not challenged by Cersei
not pushed to be evil not not taken to
her extreme she wins the bells are
ringing and then looking up at the red
key by the way set up for four episodes
of a place where Cersei has surrounded
ourselves with human shields a place
where if Daenerys really wanted to do
what you're saying prove that she's
ruthless and instill fear could have
gone right to the red cape killed
everyone around Cersei and killed Cersei
which still would have resulted in this
debate or well I could sink this undoing
we're about to see of this person who
was too ruthless to be to be supported
by someone like John but instead she
looks up at the red cape after the
battle is won and then she kills
everybody I just don't buy how many
times his searcy tricked her how many
times has seriously played like she you
know for all Daenerys knew going right
to the red keep is exactly what
seriously wanted to do but all this I
think at some point she was just like
 this I have been so screwed by
my advisors by everyone else I'm gonna
burn this place to the ground because
that's how I know I can rule through
fear and that is and that is reading
into her facial expressions a bunch of
motivations and understandings mixed
together that may in together make sense
but aren't shown by the show and I know
it's not shown by the show because they
had to do something which I've never
seen a show do before which is in the
previously on in the final moments
before the episode begins they show you
a scene from last week in which it was
voices though they added voices from
years and years of the show and I
believe something that hasn't happened
yet maybe I'm not totally sure they
added voices behind her to make the
argument for what we're about to see
because they knew they hadn't
successfully done it through the actual
episodes they
everyone I knew everyone wouldn't
remember everything because people's
memories are like 2d they gave
her a motivation to put a motivation
behind her eyes which we had not seen
before and they just everyone loved
their fire and blood is her eye
family her family motto is firing
another episode they could've made her I
don't agree with either of you I just
think they made her look like she turned
crazy and the whole flip of the coin all
the family like you're either crazy or
not it's 50/50 they made her look insane
in those moments and then she heard the
bells and she went nuts but this is the
point no but like I guess it's all like
to your point love it
John thinks what he thinks I think what
I think neither is grounded in anything
that we learn from the show and this is
an interesting totally and think this is
my my problem because I I just think
they could have look I understand not
wanting to be in Iceland in making more
episodes and I understand being done
with the show but to me what I'm seeing
is basically characters in part I don't
even blame them and part I blame the
fact that we're outside of the books of
books that maybe never will be wrapped
up because it was too sweeping too big
too broad I mean Georgia or Martin is
like see you next Christmas eight
Christmases ago I think it's I think
it's unfair to say that this is all
about them wanting to finish early we
don't know like we like Tommy just said
it's sort of whatever you read into it
like that like good storytelling does
that sometimes like I don't I mean who
knows we could be right maybe they just
wanted to finish but like this could it
be exactly how they wanted to finish the
series I just I mean there's like these
characters rushed around the map well
bet yeah there's they're flying around
so many silly devices for sure
finally the confrontation between Euron
and Jamie we've all been dying to see
since he washed up on the shore by
coincidence
five seconds earlier that one yeah are
they fighting well to your point I would
have liked one more scene of Cersei
being evil or doing something I would've
liked to like one more scene of Cersei
for sure she is my scoots by the hound
she is so extraneous to her own undoing
that she's like this is what man is what
Danton said he's like um if you'll
excuse me I let me get by
I would have loved to have seen the
hound just bust out a sword in hacker
head off yeah it is so out of character
that he would wait and let Aria take
care of it or whatever the thinking was
REO PIPA Aria years and years she gets
within a hundred yards of her final
mission and she's like oh I think that
was totally within I heard I don't any
was totally earned what III actually
agree I agree it was earned I take back
what I said so I'll give you I'll give
you a Jamie and you're on meeting just
oh my what are you doing on this Beach
I'll give you that meeting I'll give you
seriously walking by the the hound for
sure I'm sorry let me try to get behind
good re you guys look like us I don't
wanna get away have a brother you know
give you that for sure I'm all in the
one on the Daenerys thing I think it was
I think it was well done but anyway
we'll see what happens when you know Sam
welds Harley's on the Iron Throne
I just the other thing too is I'm just
knocking out my hopes up anymore so this
is earlier but random Dothraki you guys
are gonna every time every every time I
think this final-season has a trick up
their sleeve a dead dove falls out so I
am bummed I'm just gonna admit it I
loved it but I will tell you I still my
prediction for how the series ends right
now I still believe in you to democracy
reigns yeah John's got the happy ending
yeah I really it's very I think I don't
think it was pretty happy to get Ono to
democracy reigns should not be taken as
a happy ending it should be taken is we
had to endure years of mass slaughter to
get to this point where we're sort of
gonna now if I can get by I'm actually
going really well over here in reality
you
