freak yourself okay welcome to pod save
America I'm Jon Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer
later in the pod we'll have an interview
with friend of the pod Adi Barkan who
traveled to DC this week to testify at
the very first congressional hearing on
Medicare for all but first we've got a
lot of news to talk about from William
Barr Senate testimony to a thrilling new
bipartisan infrastructure plan to the
Democrats prospects of taking back the
Senate in 2020 also be sure to check out
a very lively episode of POD saved world
where Tommy and Ben talked about the
escalating situation in Venezuela the
Trump administration's designation of
the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist
organization and whether the Russians
are using beluga whales as spies what I
hate to say Ben and Tommy walked out of
the studio yesterday after pod save the
world and inroads looks at mean he's
like you know I don't say this often but
it was a really good episode very very
[Laughter]
there was also a very cool new episode
of with friends like these last week
where Anna Marie Cox talked with author
Stephanie land about her experiences as
a maid and how those myths affect policy
and perceptions of low-income people
it's a great episode or with friends
like these so definitely check that out
all right let's get to the news Dan on
Tuesday well on Tuesday we learned that
Special Counsel Robert Muller wasn't too
happy with Attorney General William bars
characterization of Muller's report and
is now infamous for page letter on March
27th the special counsel wrote to the
Attorney General that bars letter quote
did not cap that bars letter quote did
not fully capture the context nature and
substance of Muller's work and that as a
result there is quote public confusion
that threatens to undermine public
confidence in the outcome of the
investigation
Muller urged bar to immediately release
the summaries his team had prepared and
followed up with a phone call to the
Attorney General on Wednesday in front
of the Senate bar called the letter
quote a little bit snitty during his
testimony to the Judiciary Committee dan
how significant is it that Muller wrote
this letter in the first place why did
he write it well it's it I think it's
very significant because I was listening
to Garrett Graff who's a reporter who
has covered Mulder as closely as anyone
over the years and Garrett with on CNN
last night he said he has read every
other public utterance that Muller has
made written spoken speeches etc and
with one exception this is the most
sternly worded angriest letter that
Muller has written the other one was
about the release of a suspect in the
Lockerbie Pan Am bombing which was sort
of a signature case that Muller had
worked on the one he cared less
passionately about so the fact that he
put this in writing at the huge deal
bill Barr is someone who weirdly I guess
once was a friend of Muller's he could
have easily called him but he put it in
writing for a reason which is so that
there he could document in real time
with you know essentially with a date
and time stamp on it his concerns about
what was happening so as so where we
could get to a moment like today where
people could look back as a decision is
this is like three months later he does
an interview or testifies in front of
Congress if anyone could ever get their
 together to make that happen and
says that it's we now know that in the
immediate aftermath when we were all
concerned about this Paul Muller was
also concerned about it validating our
concerns with both bars behavior and the
way in which the media acted as the
stenographer four bars cover-up of what
Muller actually found so I mean should
this letter have come out sooner was was
Muller played by bar and like what could
he have done to prevent bars
mischaracterization of his report
because I you know I heard a lot of
people yesterday say Muller's gotten
played and I think there's some truth to
that but I'm I was trying to think all
right what steps could Muller have taken
knowing that his perspective at the time
that he delivers the report to Barr is I
sort of respect this guy
this guy's a friend of mine now of
course at that point Muller should have
also known that bar wrote this you know
20-something page memo before we got the
job about why the president can't
obstruct justice so maybe there are a
few flags in Muller's mind here but what
what steps could he have taken to avoid
this do you think he could have released
this letter when it happened he could
spoken publicly what had happened he
shouldn't have waited weeks to court to
come out it has been two weeks since his
report came out it has been over a month
since the original bar letter and one of
the reasons that you know is people like
us and others were screaming about the
media coverage which so which took
everything Barr said as fact was we were
saying this like wait clear report wait
for the report report it what a lot of
people were saying was if Muller did not
agree with what Barr was saying we would
know but he but point in fact he didn't
agree with what Barr was saying but we
didn't know so Muller silence was taken
as validation of bars approach and I
think mothers approach here this speaks
a larger problem that I don't want to
say Democrats with Muller is not a
Democrat he is a Republican but even
more than that he is a nonpartisan
public servant but if you sort of divide
the world from the people who will do
whatever what Trump wants and people who
think Trump is the real danger of the
country our side is getting played left
and right because we refuse to
acknowledge that they break all the
rules
they stop over all the norms they will
do anything and everything to win and we
are playing by these mark she had
Queensberry rules and we're getting our
ass kicked left and right the way Muller
handled this is the way you handle it in
a normal situation but we are well
beyond normal here and this was
a loss he got he did get played we all
got played unless we'll talk about soon
the Democrats in the House on the
process of getting played right before
our eyes yeah Muller is an
institutionalist who is confronting
people who do not believe in
institutions and believe that they can
trample them at any moment and that is
sort of the fundamental mismatch here
you have people like Muller and law
enforcement who were you know like you
said nonpartisan who are sort of losing
this battle to preserve and defend our
institutions and then you have Democrats
who are also seemingly unwilling to play
hardball and and then you have Donald
Trump and a bunch of Republican lackeys
and Trump loyalists who were willing to
do anything and part of the reason they
do this is because they know no matter
what they do they will still get their
side covered fairly in the news and it
will be well not fairly miss obviously
but they'll still get they'll still get
it both sides out of it right
Democrats will do this and Republicans
will do this and so they're like well we
can do whatever we want because you know
people will still find fault with the
Democrats it's crazy it's so frustrating
if you've ever been involved in any sort
of competitive enterprises you know you
can't win if you adhere to the rules the
other side doesn't and then there is no
referee or umpire to penalize the other
side by for not adhering to the rules
it's just now I am NOT arguing we should
be like Trump we should be like bar but
we have to adjust our strategies to
recognize who Trump and bar are we have
to stop pretending that these
are normal times they are not this is we
are in a incredibly high-stakes
apocalyptic moment for American
democracy and it's it's like it's I have
been screaming mostly silently into the
void all morning and by that I mean
tweeting so when Barr appeared in front
of the Senate on April 10th Senator
Chris Van Hollen asked did Bob Muller
support your conclusion Barr said I
don't know whether Bob Muller supported
my conclusion during a hearing on April
9th charlie crist representative from
Florida asked bar about reports that
some members of Muller's team were quote
frustrated that bars letter quote does
not adequately or accurately portray the
report's findings
asked him if he knew what they were
referencing bar said no i don't i
suspect they probably wanted more put
out I suspect they probably wanted more
put out Dan did William bar lie to
Congress on multiple occasions yes he
did I think that and we now know Nancy
Pelosi think that because according to
reports today she said in a internal
democratic meeting that bar committed a
crime yeah and then the Attorney General
lied to Congress in order to help
provide political protection to the
president knighted States that is a
serious deal and should be
treated as such so let's talk about
yesterday's hearing at the Senate
Judiciary Committee where the Attorney
General offered no apologies no real
explanations to any of the questions
raised by Mahler's letter and pretty
much acted like he was Donald Trump's
personal lawyer suggesting that the
White House quote fully cooperated with
Muller's investigation even though
Muller specifically documents that the
president obstructed justice by trying
to end that investigation that's not
full cooperation that's the opposite of
full cooperation how many times did you
yell at the television screen during
bars testimony because Tommy and I were
watching yesterday in the office just
screaming I was yelling at bar I was
yelling at the Democrats I was yelling
at the Republicans I mean it was a
thoroughly exhausting experience and
were it not as I say Rose Gus or Komal
Harris at the end I might have just
driven off as a build earnest and stay
there forever that's what I was that's a
great segue one moment that stood out to
me as well was when Carla Harris got bar
to admit that he didn't review all the
underlying evidence in Muller's report
before he concluded in his letter that
quote the evidence developed during the
special counsels investigation is not
sufficient to establish that the
president committed an obstruction of
justice offense didn't look at the
evidence but the evidence is not
sufficient I mean Dan what other wants
what other moments besides that one
stood out to you during the course of
the testimony
I mean the whole thing was mind boggling
the things that bar said we're just
truly mind-boggling that someone would
actually say these things in public and
we can talk about how Bill Barr
establishment lyin that he is became
this way at some point but the most of
telling to me was Bill Barr the
eternities believed that a president can
take steps to stop an investigation into
that president if he or she believes
that they are being falsely accused now
let's just play with his logic puzzle
for one second if the president ends the
investigation no one will ever know
whether the accusations were false
therefore the president won't can end
any investigation they want whether
they're real or not because there can be
no consequences we can never know
whether the actual crime was committed
it is a wild position to take and it is
one that I would wait your job just just
just bear with me for second here I
would wager that if and when a Democrat
is president presuming that never
happens again
Barr and the Republicans will not hold
that position yeah you think I mean
here's the thing like it is obviously
absurd for the Attorney General of the
United States to have a legal theory
that he talks about publicly that the
president states is allowed to shut any
investigation down based on his own
personal belief just a leap of faith on
what he feels about the investigation
that's nuts
but Barr also repeatedly says there is
no underlying crime there was no
underlying crime now of course the
president who ends the investigation
doesn't know whether there's an
underlying crime committed by any of the
other people that were being
investigated like Michael Flynn like
Paul Manafort like any of the other
people but us even putting that aside
there was a underlying crime and
no one is talking about this the
president United States was ultimately
implicated in a federal crime he
committed a campaign felony with Michael
Cohen directed him to commit a campaign
felony that's not democrat saying that
that's federal prosecutors in
the Southern District of New York have
said that he's individual one and he was
an unindicted co-conspirator in that
crime
so yes there was a motive for Donald
Trump to shut down the investigation
because he was worried that the
investigation would uncover a crime it
was the crime II helped Michael Cullen
commit right before the election that
helped him cheat in order to win the
election by covering up the stormy
Daniels story I don't understand this I
feel like I'm crazy mom mother
says this in his report he anticipates
this argument from people from dobar in
the Trump world and says that even if he
was innocent of quote-unquote collisions
you know no collisions are I was going
to say innocent something like what it's
not innocent in anything even if
you cannot model to not prove an active
conspiracy between trumps and
such as dilettante son-in-law and the
Russian government he can still be
guilty of obstruction because the
president was very clearly worried about
how there are crimes and other
embarrassment and you can be guilty of
obstruction of justice if you try to
attract investigation prevent them from
uncovering other things even if those
other things aren't crying right even if
we even if you take away that the idea
that we already know that more Trump not
present United States he would have been
indicted in the campaign finance crimes
committed the D committed with Michael
Cohen input satisfied attend like that
didn't happen seems like everyone has
 done this you let him do that
then he is still a crime to try to stop
the investigation if you're worried the
investigation will uncover non criminal
but ultimately embarrassing details
about yourself people have done this to
forgive gotten in trouble legally over
time bites you tried to prevent
investigations that uncover adultery or
family secrets or other types of
embarrassing information you don't want
in the public and so yes he can very
well be guilty of obstruction of justice
Steven without a crime we like this is
like ask Martha Stewart who went
to jail for this very thing and so only
there was a high-profile example of a
celebrity from television who went down
for something like this someone who is
on the celebrity print and Apprentice in
fact
poll Celebrity Apprentice stars acute
stiff obstruction of justice committed
oppression addresses so this is all
looking back right I've got the the
tribes the crimes that Trump has
committed in the past and being held
accountable for but there was also
something that bar said in this hearing
that affects the future bar did not deny
did not deny the Trump continues to
pressure the Justice Department to
investigate his political enemies and
now we know why he did not deny that
because last night in The New York Times
we found out that Donald Trump the
president eight states has suggested to
the Attorney General that he investigate
Joe Biden so we are now already we are
already seeing that Trump has decided
because he is getting away with all of
the that he has done in the past
the things he did to win the election
the things he did to cover up what he
did to win the election now he's saying
 it I can use the Attorney General I
can use the Justice Department I can use
law enforcement to do whatever I want
and I'm going to investigate my
potential 2020 political opponent and
basically Barr didn't deny that that was
happening yesterday when he was under
oath he didn't rule by himself under the
withering questioning of Carla Harris I
mean how do you think that the Democrats
on the committee did obviously Carla
Harris was outstanding I mean this is I
know that she has done this for a living
and she's a prosecutor but still it was
even knowing all that it was an
outstanding performance watching her and
I urge everyone to go watch the video of
of Senator Harris drilling bar for a
couple minutes because it was quite
impressive what do you think about the
rest of the Democrats I mean this isn't
even really the fault of individual
Democrats it's just it was not great
like can there not be a meeting I know
I'll get in the room and they said here
are the subject areas that we've been
white to get to the bottom of why don't
you each take some I don't understand do
that like what's coordinated like I just
like that but the absence of that may
I'm sure that maybe probably did happen
but like what happened after that
meeting
curious about I ingest frustrated by the
like you have five minutes
well whatever it is to question the
Attorney General about his efforts to
cover up obstruction of justice crimes
and the president noted states well it
was serious things ever no one wants
your opening statement why would you
waste one second of your five minutes
speaking that meant it's not gonna be on
the news it is that like neither one's
going to print out the Congressional
Record and frame it send it to voters it
just makes me row steps the this is true
of Democrats and Republicans in the
House and the Senate or particularly the
Senate they're in love with hearing
themselves talk and that is the mistake
of that like it's not just become only
Harrison's better at this than all and
some people did better than others some
were very bad some refine some was good
but come Harrison give an opening
statement she basically said hello to
Attorney General bar and asked him a
 killer question she didn't know
when he was babbling and trying to delay
and doing this relatively clever trick
he does of pretending to not understand
the question or two by himself two
o'clock and by himself trying to come up
with a what he thinks to be a legally
okay but ultimately the misleading
answer does he wants to fight himself in
that ultimate gray area between truth
and crime he she just pushed and she was
like I had another question for you it's
just like she maximized her time that is
what we should do like that like that
like we should think that's the way to
do it we have been operating by the same
lawn model of hearings for as long as
I've been in politics I'm sure longer
than that just ask good questions
maximize your time don't give speeches
Dan are you is there something moving
and urine I keep hearing like a clicking
motion I don't know what it is oh yeah
yeah
sure say that just to be make sure
that's what it is okay um was it just
gonna say comely hair oh yeah no I
totally agree and it's not just the
opening statements either it's like
don't ask questions that you're asking
just for like a messaging purpose you
know like they'll be riffs like but mr.
Attorney General do you think it's okay
that the president committed all these
crimes you know it's like you're not
you're not trying to like have a
performance here you're actually trying
to get him to answer tough questions and
there's plenty of tough questions to ask
I mean commonly had only had five
minutes but she probably could have gone
on for 30 and elicited other damning
responses from William bar during that
time and I don't know that anyone else
really did that yeah wasn't great it was
hopefully we folks can and that I say
hopefully I'm not optimistic that people
can learn the lessons before Bob Waller
comes to the next hearing oh though
Lindsey Graham did suggest that Butler
may never come to the Senate so the
knows yeah well we're gettin to that
well we should we should note first that
Republicans on the committee spent their
time in questioning on your standard Fox
News conspiracies about Hillary Clinton
Peter struck Lisa Paige all their
favorite deep state all-stars their
strategy has been to argue that Muller's
investigation was actually a treasonous
crime perpetrated by Democrats what do
you think of that strategy it's smart
and like this is this is how Trump won
which is feed conspiracy theories to the
base and just throw so much around
that the folks in the middle say well
it's all confusing I don't know who's
right I don't have any really way of
finding out certainly the media is
incapable of telling me so I'm going to
default to my natural expectations which
is both sides are corrupt liars and when
the public thinks that both sides are
corrupt lawyers that inner stew the
advantage of the corrupt wire in the
race which happens to be trumped in the
Republicans in this case so this is this
was effective yesterday it was effective
2016 and it is what they're gonna do in
2020 and we're gonna have to figure out
how to how to fight it
yeah I mean they all know that they they
don't really want to waste their time
trying to defend Trump Trump's actions
Trump's crimes Trump's abuses of power
why would they defend that when they can
just go on the offensive and accuse the
other side of what they're being accused
of it's that simple
you know it's just that's that's sort of
how they roll so as you mentioned after
the hearing was over Lindsey Graham told
reporters he will not be calling on
Muller to testify saying quote I'm not
going to do this I'm I'm not I'm sorry
saying quote I'm not going to do anymore
enough already it's over a few hours
later William Barr cancelled his
testimony to the House Judiciary
Committee that was supposed to be held
today Thursday because he didn't want to
be questioned by lawyers Barr also
missed a deadline to deliver the full
unredacted Muller report to the
committee so Dan what's your reaction to
this and and what should Democrats do
next where do we all go from here
knowing that the Trump administration
has decided to obstruct the
congressional investigation into the
president's obstruction of justice and
other potential crimes basically they're
trying to obstruct all investigation
they're stonewalling
they don't want witnesses to testify
they're not turning over documents like
what a Democrats do from here I think we
should endeavor to find a non-political
bipartisan deal we can all work on
together to heal the wounds of division
in this country I mean but like does
this does this change your view on
impeachment or I mean I know your view
has no I don't want to your view has not
been hard and fast on impeachment but as
it is your view evolved at all or what
are you thinking in terms of the
impeachment process well let me let me
just back up and give you a non
depressingly sarcastic answer to your
question sir which is we have to use we
have to recognize the situation for what
it is it is a national crisis this is a
crisis of our democracy it is a
constitutional crisis there is no two
ways about it the president is using
every has co-opted every element of his
government
and his party to cover up crimes very
serious crimes and we have to respond to
such this is not a normal world right
the even the rules of Watergate do not
apply here and because we said this
before that if this Republican party was
in charge of the house in the Senate
when Nixon was when the new and
Watergate happened then Nixon would not
have left office he would not have been
impeached he would not have been he
would he never would have so he was hit
again Nixon would not have been forced
to resign from office he would have
served out his term and people in
Washington DC would be flying out of
Nixon Airport right now like we have to
recognize the danger he's clear and
present danger the Trump in this
Republican Party present to America and
so how do we respond to that
by what we have limited tools we have to
use all of them this idea that the house
is going to spend another two days
negotiating with Bill Maher over both
the release of the full wall and
providing access to the full model
report and his own testimony is
absurd they are trying to burn clock in
order to hope the country and and the
voting public turns their mind and turns
their eyes in another direction and so
the second bar sent his letter last
night saying he wasn't coming they
should have sent a subpoena the second
the clock ticked past the deadline the
for releasing the mole report they
should have filed a contempt citation we
have to do all the things I think the
next step for Democrats is to open and
Pietschmann hearing you know impeachment
inquiry into bar for two reasons one we
cannot we absolutely cannot let this
sort of behavior stand because as you
mentioned is really the Joe Biden bar
has refused to recuse himself from the
other investigation so he is the person
who will decide whether the u.s.
department of justice charges Trump
associates in terms inauguration and
Trump's businesses etc all of those
every one of those decision all the work
done by the addition Eric goes through
bill bar and I don't know about you but
I get a sense that he may not be on the
level and we know that the president the
president's attorney we Jelani and
Guevara are having conversations about
launching investigations into
political opponents for the purpose of
helping them when they'll actually like
this this cannot Stanley ask you
something about it doing in the context
of impeachment query inquiry would give
the Democrats more leverage to put
pressure on the Republicans and find out
more use legal means to find out more
about what is happening there and so I
think that is a neck and good first step
and the reason I would go that steps
first is for as much as we know Trump is
committed impeachable offenses we it
would make us great to impeach him and
we can have the debate that basically
you and me and Tommy and John and Brian
have all day long about when when and
why do a peach it's a moot point as long
as Democrats are divided on that issue
which they are both divided on publicly
the divider on the Congress so I think
that a you're going to get more
consensus around an impeachment into bar
why you continue to do the other
investigations and try to figure out
whether you get whether you can build a
unified front within the House of
Representative Democratic caucus and
house for incentives to impeach Trump
I am all for impeaching William bar for
sure I would like to see joint
impeachment proceedings that attempt to
impeach both William bar and Donald
Trump
look I whether the impeachment of Donald
Trump happens this month next month four
months from now I think there is no way
out of this at this point like we now
know that Donald Trump believes it is
okay to abuse his office in the
following ways he will shut down
investigations criminal investigations
into his own conduct he will open
criminal investigations into his
political opponents who try to challenge
him he abuses his power all the time
he uses his office to enrich himself he
tells Border Patrol agents down at the
border that they should break the law
and that if if judges try to stop them
they should just ignore judges because
they're under Donald Trump's command he
is basically promising that if he has
given four more years he will act even
more as an authoritarian as he is right
now this is going to happen
whether we impeach him or not right and
I also realize that we're not gonna get
the votes in the Senate from the
Republicans because they're gonna stand
by him but I do think impeachment
proceedings at the very least will focus
the country's attention on not just what
he's done that was laid out in the
Muller report but all of Donald Trump's
abuses of power and then we can message
this going into the impeachment
proceedings by saying like we don't
expect that Senate Republicans are
actually going to do the right thing put
country before party and vote to convict
Donald Trump but we at least want to put
them on record before 2020 as to whether
they think this behavior is acceptable
or not and then for however many months
the eyes of the nation will be on a
series of impeachment proceedings that
will highlight all the crimes that
Donald Trump is committed and then once
he is impeached by the House and
expectedly exonerated by the Senate he
will go into the election being a
president who was impeached for the
following behavior and everyone will
know what that behavior and conduct is
because it'll been all over the country
and voters will have that much more
information before they go to the poll
for me it's like impeachment may not
work I mean it's it's it's it's not
going to result in him getting removed
from office before 2020 but like you
just said we have to use every tool we
have because if we believe if we fully
believe and if Democrats fully believe
this who have been elected who were in
Congress right now if they believe that
this is a national emergency that Trump
represents a national emergency then we
have to start acting like it if
you don't believe he's a national
emergency then stop the rhetoric stop
the hyperbole and go about doing other
things but if you actually believe that
he has committed crimes and this is a
national emergency you have to do
everything in your power to act like it
and do something I I mean it's like yes
you're all right the challenge we have
is you go into impeachment with the
Democratic caucus oh I know have I never
kind of caucus to chew on but I think I
think they put pressure on that long
division within within Democrats which
there appears to be then it you can't
you can't go to war with divided troops
right like I
there was no less than a game of
storms and this is a that if you're and
currently are divided so there has to be
a profit to get where you want to go
there has to be a process to get
Democrats unite into it right you can't
rush that which is I think if I know
anything about Nancy Pelosi experience
here over the years it's but she gets
she has a process to get people where
she wants to go and make them think they
got their own their own and you can't
beat them into it and so yeah that I
think that is what I see to be the
underlying strategy behind your approach
which is we can't do it now because
large numbers of our caucus large
numbers I think this is a bad idea now
they probably that we can discuss
whether we've elected all the wrong
people or all of that but if that is the
facts on the ground that has to be
addressed before you can get where
you're going otherwise we will only read
stories about Democrats divided over
impeachment for a number of months until
the resolution fails so so I totally
agree with that I guess what I'm saying
is it's one of the reasons that a lot of
these House members are not on board
with impeachment yet is they think it is
not that important to the people who
elected them and so if you know if
you're out there and you believe it's
important to not just hold the president
accountable for his crimes but prevent
potential abuses of power that could
affect the 2020 election because he's
dead set on investigating his political
opponent during an election so he can
win a second election if you want to
prevent that if you think that's
important then it's time to reach out to
your members of Congress and tell them
that it's important because you know
it's nearly impossible to change the
minds of most elected Republicans it is
not impossible to change the minds of
most elected Democrats these are largely
reasonable people who listen to the
people who elected them who listen to
activists and now is the time to make
your voice heard because if as you say
Dan Nancy Pelosi is trying to get them
to that better place so that they're all
on on board together which I believe
they should be then you know you're
gonna help Nancy Pelosi do her job
by reaching out to her and to every
other Democrat in Congress and let them
know that this is important I just
sad to do this is sort of an aside we
talk about this every week until Trump
campus in 2020 election yeah probably
did you uh I sent that I know I sent
this around last night as I was
preparing for the pot I was just texting
everyone but as I was catching up on the
news did you see Hillary Clinton on
Rachel Maddow
I saw the clips of it afterwards
Hillary Clinton it was amazing she goes
through this whole scenario and she's
like basically what we're saying is in
the Mulla report it says Trump invited a
foreign power to interfere in the
election when he asked Russia for my
emails right she's like so now we're
saying that even though that's not a
crime technically a crime that it's that
it's okay that it's okay I'll do that
she's like so imagine imagine if a
Democratic candidate for president came
on TV just like this and said China it
would be very interesting if you went
after Donald Trump's tax returns and
publicized them imagine if that happened
it was and it was funny because she's
basically doing the the hypothetical
situation that she's talking about and
you're like oh god what if what if China
responds to Hillary Clinton doing that
but it very smartly points out the
absurdity of the situation right now
where we've now crossed the Rubicon into
presidential candidates of either party
can openly invite foreign powers to
interfere in our election to help to
help other candidates win I mean it's
crazy we just we can't let this stand
it says there's I mean over back in like
more normal types of politics and people
be like which show is more realistic
about life in the White House Western
politics and you know and we like the
smart answer is veep because it at least
highlights and in an absurd level the
absurdities of politics but we've
reached a new level where this is
actually a plotline update this is
exactly what is happening on the ground
out there it's it's parallel and then
look they wrote these episodes before
this started happening
that's pretty Sudan fortunately all of
this consternation over whether or not
to impeach our president hasn't prevent
Democrats sorry let me say that I am
well they unfortunately all this
consternation over whether or not to
impeach are criminally implicated
president
hasn't prevented Democrats from finding
ways to work with him isn't that nice
it's one of the most tired jokes on
Twitter but this week was actually
infrastructure week at the White House
where Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer met
with Donald Trump and agreed to work on
a two trillion dollar legislative
package for bridges highways broadband
water and power grid infrared
infrastructure dan why did this meeting
happen what was the Democratic strategy
in seeking a deal on infrastructure with
Donald Trump the year before his
reelection
this is one of the most bananas things
that I have ever seen happen in my life
and we just watched the bar hearing
later net if this meeting happened in
the midst of the efforts to pass the tax
cut or repeal the Affordable Care Act I
would have thought it was crazy
like just like why are we rewarding
Trump with dislike but doing it at a
time in which we there is an internal
debate within the Democratic Party and a
lot of in in the country about whether
this president is committed and
teachable offenses to then ride to the
White House sit down with him not talk
about his crime do legislative cost play
around a infrastructure deal that has
zero chance of passing and then heading
out to the microphones to announce the
deal I talked about how I said you're to
work with him it's insane
the intent is a stick in the eye of the
bait it is like it makes zero sense to
me I will offer the caveat that Nancy
Pelosi very rarely good things but I
think that turn out to be this stupidest
I think this is so it is possible that
there is some hidden strategy here that
is so deviously and secretly brand that
we cannot see it so I will hold out that
popular that's absent that this is nuts
just nuts so I completely agree with
that but I will offer four I'm sorry but
I will offer the most generous
interpretation of a potential strategy
from Nancy Pelosi just for the sake of
our listeners so show Donald Trump says
that he's you know is interested
infrastructure and Pelosi and Schumer
say okay
we're gonna go present our plan and it's
gonna be a plan basically they have said
they hit they laid out some they laid
out what they want in the plan what the
plant has to have right and they say
okay it has to be paid for with tax
increases you have to find tax increases
somewhere on and Democrats want them on
wealthy people too in order to pay for
infrastructure it has to include strong
labor protections has to include
investments in renewable energy so that
the infrastructure actually helps fight
climate change so we're gonna have all
these demands on infrastructure and then
Donald Trump is like I like at the
infrastructure deal and look I had an
infrastructure deal that I hated Gary
Cohen came up with it and it was
 and he's right it was because
it relied mostly on sort of like private
investment that was gonna materialize
out of nowhere when you actually need
real government spending to build roads
and bridges and the like so Donald Trump
in the meeting says sure yeah I like
your infrastructure plan so Pelosi is
probably thinking herself okay there's
no way in hell this ever passes the
Republican Senate that a bunch of
Republican senators are gonna go for tax
increases to pay for infrastructure
Mitch McConnell's never gonna let that
fly so then once it fails we can say
well Democrats tried to work with this
president on a two trillion dollar
infrastructure package because we're
actually focused not just on impeachment
but on creating jobs and this president
the Republican Party because they only
care about their wealthy donors and they
only care about the rich they let it
fail we're trying they're not so that
that to me I guess is the most generous
interpretation of what her strategy
might be yeah I like I know I can into
it based on years of watching Schumer
what his strategy is which is let's make
the Republicans in the Senate killed us
and we're running against a bunch of
Republican incumbents yeah I think like
last the Senate strategy team Democrats
at a particular comment this time
Republicans have here so if you can say
that Republican you know Jodie Ernst or
Tom Tillis or Cory Gardner opposed an
infrastructure deal in order to protect
tax cuts than right then like somehow
that that would be some sort of silver
bullet but that I think that is not
clever enough I have like this one of
those ideas that masquerades as clever
but just
is truly unclutter it's just it like
don't do this now this is the wrong time
disk Neverland trump was elected and any
time anyone did anything like even use
the words like president like hath
interior would yell at you and say
you're normalizing Trump yeah it was
sort of it was kind of dumb
it was a dumb argument but this is
actually Democrats normalizing Trump we
have just been delivered within the last
two weeks a 400-page report the details
in exquisite
we've just been delivered a four-page
report that lays out in exquisite detail
in effort to commit multiple crimes from
structure office to abuse power and your
next stop before you even decide that
you're gonna subpoena the actual report
is to have a meeting about cutting a
legislative deal that that to me is it's
just a mistake like if you're like there
is an element of you have to pay tribute
and manage relations with the base and
because the base is lookouts you elected
the base help deliver not in I'm sorry
the base help deliver of this Democratic
majority and part of the reason they did
that was you provide a check on Trump
now this doesn't mean that we should
never work with Trump use never do
anything but the timing of this makes
zero sense especially around something
that's not going to happen it cannot
happen Mitch McConnell has said it's not
going to happen it I mean it's just
there's nothing that we have seen in the
last two years let me cut last year's
the last twenty five years in politics
would suggest that this kiss can't
happen
so I don't know it makes no sense to me
it really doesn't I mean I look at this
infrastructure legislative cosplay like
I look like I look at the worry over
impeachment which is like sometimes you
just have to get your head out of the
polling data and just do what's right
and also do what seems like common sense
like the president has committed
obstruction of justice says the special
counsel he has now try and obstruct an
investigation into that he is abusing
his power left and right we are in a
national emergency we just have to act
like that it is not time to sit and have
meeting
about infrastructure there's not time to
sit and worry about whether we hold this
one in contempt or wait three days for
this subpoena or wait to do this or way
to do that like it is all happening
before our eyes and we either have to
act like that or just I don't know give
up because trying to like game out
everything in a political well people
are care about jobs and care health care
so we have to do this and this is a
messaging bill and we have to hold
Senate Republicans on this vote and that
like it you can it's good to have a
strategy it is good to pay attention to
public opinion I'm not saying that but
you can easily overthink this stuff and
I think the Democrats have clearly gone
in the direction of overthinking it at
this point I think the profits a lot of
people like you have to walk and chew
gum and so like yes investigate threads
but also do legislative stuff but what
that means is doing things like having a
medicare-for-all hearing or passing
bills to strengthen the ACA or passing
bills to repeal parts of the tax cut or
the the HR one the bill to do political
and electoral reform like that that's
the chewing gum part of this right the
chewing gum part it's not good to the
white house and I don't even know like I
don't have to extend the chewed gum
Chile metaphor anymore but don't do that
alright let's talk about 2020 but let's
talk about the Senate for once so
Democrats currently hold 47 Senate seats
and will have to defend Doug Jones's
seat in ultra conservative Alabama which
means that we probably need to flip for
Republican Senate seats in order to hold
a majority if we also hold the
presidency the top targets are Colorado
Arizona Maine North Carolina Iowa Texas
and Georgia in roughly that order though
you may disagree but the party needs
candidates first and some of the biggest
potential recruits are sitting this one
out
Stacey Abrams announced this week that
she'd be taking a pass on a run for the
Senate in Georgia against David Perdue
saying quote my responsibility is not
simply to run because the job is
available I need to run because I want
to do the job Dan before we even get to
Stacey Abrams how difficult do you think
taking back the Senate will be
it is possible then we can take them to
Senate but it's going to take a lot of
luck a lot of good work it's hard like
these are we have we're going to have to
pick up Senate seats in states that
Trump is almost certainly going to win
yeah and that is hard this is like our
path to have a good year is much harder
than the Republicans path last year they
where they will mostly then enough seats
in the states that Trump won by double
digits in some case some cases and we
have to win in either purple state very
purple states or likely red states and
that is hard it's possible but it is
hard yeah because you know that list I
just read you think okay Colorado
Arizona and Maine are three states you
know arizona's estate that Donald Trump
won in 2016 but of course Kyrsten Sinema
won statewide Senate race in 2018 so
potentially the Democrat in 2020 could
win Arizona and you think okay that gets
you three but also by the way Susan
Collins extremely popular in Maine
despite what Twitter and all the rest of
us think and so that's going to be a
tough one too but then even if you get
those three probably you need the fourth
and then you're looking at North
Carolina where it's going to be an
uphill climb obviously Barack Obama won
that state in 2008 but Democrats haven't
really done that well since Iowa another
state that we lost by double digits in
2016
Texas you know another one it's maybe
closer obviously better okay in 2018 but
you know in a presidential year all the
conservatives and all the grassroots
Republicans are coming out in that state
that's going to be hard to and same
thing with Georgia so it's tough those
that's it's a very tough map
what do you was so what do you make up
Stacey Abrams decision not to run there
there are few politicians that all of us
are positive are a lot more than Stacey
Abrams I think she is just unbelievable
she is exactly who should have been
governor of Georgia she would have made
a great senator from Georgia she would
make a great presidential candidate she
should be at
top of every vice presidential list she
is wonderful I is very important that
none of us we cannot we should not we
will not hold her to a different
standard than we held Beto or hooli in
Castro or anyone else any good people
who chose to run for president or do
something else instead of not to the
Senate the surgeries and if she is
reluctant to do it that is wise not to
do it because reluctant Senate
candidates are losing sanity kid it's a
hundred percent of the time totally
totally agree with that
I mean III think her explanation is is
perfect on this you know like I need to
run because I want to do the job not
just because the job is available like I
had to say I'm a little tired of people
on Twitter acting like they are Senate
strategists and they can just move
around candidates like they're pieces on
a chess board and just like put them in
races and that they're suddenly gonna
win you know like because look in in
2018 was better or roark at the top of
the list of the National Party trying to
recruit Senate candidates no he was
barely on the radar and suddenly comes
out of nowhere to almost win this race
there are probably other better or works
out there and Stacey Abrams is out there
in Georgia and Texas and some of these
states and am I worried about
recruitment yeah absolutely
but I do think in this day and age when
you know suddenly you can build up a
Twitter following you can raise money
online much easier like the idea that
the only recruitment strategy is Chuck
Schumer going around and reading resumes
and trying to get big names is sort of
silly to me and you know I saw Chris
Murphy made this point in a politico
story about this he said we sometimes
are way too obsessive about getting big
big-name recruits our big-name recruits
in previous cycles haven't done so hot
aka Phil Bredesen in Tennessee right
that was supposed to be the bright name
recruit we got Bredesen we got him to do
it we're gonna win Tennessee and he was
not a great candidate and lost by more
than way more than better O'Rourke and
more than most of the other candidates I
think it is important that we have good
candidates in it very very big named
candidates and good candidates are not
the same thing at all times very
different thing
and Chris murk is exactly right big-name
candidates and it's not just this past
cycles I mean I'm not sure another
candidate was winning Tennessee this
cycle so this is like Silverson probably
did better in bed generic democrat would
but whether it is Russ Feingold in
Wisconsin in 2016 or Evan Bayh or Chuck
Hagel we have rerun people many times
and they have not done well and it's in
part because it's hard to be the
candidate of change if you're the famous
longtime politician of the state you
know and usually too in seat incumbent
you have to be the candidate of change
not just the candidate of the
establishment of a different error so
the I think the other important thing to
recognize here is that the most
important factor that will determine
whether we take the center they're not
is not which candidates we recruit
although it's important that back in it
that's right like a backhanded chemist
but it is how well our presidential
candidate does yeah in 2008 when
Democrats won when Brock Obama won all
of the close Senate races tips in the
Democrats paper in 2012 when Bravo ran
for re-election all in one a very good
victory all of the Democratic I'm sorry
I'll try again in 2012 and Brock Obama
won a close reelection let me try that a
third time to be accurate in 2012 a
brock obama won reelection all of the
senate races including a safe obama did
not win like north dakota Indiana and
Missouri tip the Democrats favor in 2016
we lost the Pennsylvania and Wisconsin
Senate races that we very much should
have won and we wouldn't be in this
 mess right now how do we want
the seller couldn't lost those states
and so this is also sort of gets to the
absurdity of the infrastructure strategy
which is the best way to keep the house
or expand their House Majority the best
way to get defense majority is to run
the best campaign we can against Trump
is to make it as weak as possible now so
that we can defeat him later and that is
the only way to do it
and so yes we won't get in it yes I
think it's disappointing to some of
these candidates who decided not to run
but more than anything else is how Trump
how democratic nominee does that will
determine that's just the White House
but the other branches of government as
well yeah I heard that now to go through
the different states and the different
candidates we have it looks like in
Colorado there are a number of potential
challenges to Cory Gardner so it seems
like we are heading to a good place in
Colorado they'll probably be a primary
because it seems like there's gonna be a
couple of Democrats that might challenge
each other into challenge Gardner in
Arizona we have a very good recruit in
mark Kelly
so Arizona looks good in Maine you know
we need some good recruits against Susan
Collins it seems like Hannah Pingree who
was a former Speaker of the House in
Maine and I think the current speaker in
Maine as well I can't remember her name
I will figure it out might might
challenge Susan Collins so you know and
then maybe there'll be others as well I
think North Carolina is sort of
worrisome I haven't heard any names come
out of North Carolina
in Iowa we don't have a recruit for Joni
Ernst yet though JD Schulten has made
some noise who ran against Steve King as
a potential candidate in Texas we do
have a candidate now MJ Hegar who had
one of the best ads of the 2018 cycle
and almost knocked off an incumbent
there is now gonna run against John
Cornyn and it doesn't look like she's
gonna have a primary because Joaquin
Castro decided against running so now we
have a good candidate in Texas and then
in Georgia we need a candidate any
thoughts on that did I miss any I wanted
to add Kentucky to the list oh yeah now
I am a hundred percent acknowledging
that winning Kentucky in a presidential
year is challenging so there was a poll
out last week as Miss McConnell has an
18% approval rating he is less popular
than pond scum I promise I don't know
who to bet what the best candidate is I
know there were some efforts to talk
about Amy McGrath running I don't know
where that stands there might be other
people Matt Jones who's a very
interesting sports radio host there had
talked about running in the past in a
sort of really
proudly and bravely taking on McConnell
a lot over the last couple years whoever
it is I promise you this you have a shot
it's a long shopping at the shop at the
world is made up of people who have
taken long shots and I promise you you
will be very well funded because there
will be yes a real appetite so we'll
help who runs against Mitch Mitch
McConnell we will help and just and he
shouldn't get a free pass either
like his conduct is both pre Trump
during Trump like Mitch McConnell is the
he's an absolute all sees everything
that's terrible about America and he
that should there should be a debate
about that that should be held to
account he should not get to run around
the country free and clear in a
reelection ya know he's agreed that some
people were worried about like timing
just for perspective
Jackie Rosen who's now senator Nevada
and Kyrsten Sinema and Arizona they
announced their candidacies in July for
Rosen and September for cinema the year
before the election so yeah it's getting
close to the time where we want
candidates to announce that they're
running in the Senate but they probably
have a few more months to really firm
things up and and I'm sure yeah first
rumors work on is where the panic should
set in because you're on time to raise
the money bill they might need build the
organization and I mean if we could
people in now that was great even though
Beto did not win his being in that race
for essentially two years was to his
great advantage because I was able to
build the organization that he dealt in
that race yeah finally Colorado Senator
Michael Bennet announced on Thursday
that he's running for president he's the
21st candidate to join the race and the
seventh member of the Senate in just a
few weeks ago he shared that he'd been
diagnosed with prostate cancer and then
he'd get in the race if surgery went
well and he was healthy enough to do it
now he is healthy and fully in the race
Bennet's a former school superintendent
who's been in the Senate for the past
ten years he's got a moderate
legislative record and he was part of a
bipartisan group that tried to forge a
compromise on immigration he
acknowledged in an announcement video
today that quote you probably don't know
me because I don't do cable news every
night
which is a line that I love Dan what do
you think of what do you think of
Michael Bennett and
twenty-one candidates being in the race
I I find the bennett decision to be very
interesting because unlike some of the
other people who are running these
alonger these of it much obviously
longer shot races bennett is someone who
has not truven to be overly ambitious in
his time is that pretty to be in a hurry
to get somewhere else it's not someone
as he points out who is thirsty for
retweets and cable news hits he is an
incredibly thoughtful incredibly serious
senator I would bet that if you polled
you did a secret poll of Obama's inner
circle senior staff of the last decade
about who their favorite senator is
Harry Reid would be first and Michael
manna would be second yeah he's a very
thoughtful interesting guy so like I he
is not someone that I would believe
would just simply jump into this race
just for shits and giggles right like
he's like he's thought about this and
I'm cured like I did it like it's not
clear to me what his path is not clear
to me what his cases but he's thoughtful
about politics I am I'm actually I'm
interested in this just because of my
experience of Michael Bennett he's a
serious person and so just it's it's I'm
surprised by this but I'm curious about
it yeah Tommy and I sat down with him
during the healthcare battle when we
were in DC and we were interviewing a
bunch of folks around the first time
that they tried to repeal the ACA and I
find him like very thoughtful very smart
you know we had a disagreement because
he is talking about people who don't
want to get rid of the filibuster
Michael Bennett does not want to get rid
of the filibuster and I remember when we
talked to him he was making a case to us
that we have to be better than
Republicans we have to protect
institutions you know we shouldn't be
acting you know towards Supreme Court
justices like the Republicans have done
to America did to Merrick garland so I
think I probably have a lot of
substantive disagreements with him about
institutions and process and how to
strategize against a party that's become
radicalized but he makes good arguments
he's thoughtful he's fair
and so you know we'll see it's also by
the way another interesting part about
this choice is he's running against his
former boss who was just here at pod
save America the other day John
Hickenlooper he was John Hickenlooper
chief of staff and then went on to go be
you know Superintendent of Schools and
and then of course US Senator for the
last 10 years but talk about all the
different overlap in this primary among
these 21 candidates we now have two
candidates running who are both from
Colorado and one worked for the other
one I would say one thing just about the
21 that's running mm-hmm which is we
that when you say not you jon favreau
but you don't worry all you I guess say
there are 21 can that's running it
suggests it treats them all so we write
and I think it's very important to
separate the people who have announced
they're running for president and the
people who are actually running for
president
yeah and that is not - this is not
suggesting that some of these candidates
are on a vanity exercise or anything
like that but running for president to
be true candidate for president means
you have to be running serious well
organized well-funded efforts in the
first four primary states yeah
anything else is just a you're not you
see you can have a business process
right understand it but you're not
actually someone who is going to be
President and I do think in how we think
about this and discussed it at some
point there there's gonna be a line well
we're going to know who can actually
doing the real thing and who is not and
it's not fair that money impact I think
it's a growth flaw in our system but
especially in our grassroots online
donation world there is a relationship
between political support and financial
support that is at least closer than it
used to be so right now there's of that
21 less than half have shown any
indication of the ability to run a
serious presidential candidate to have
to actually have a plan to accumulate
the delegates you need to be the
Democratic nominee for president and I
think that's important to emphasize that
in use
as sort of dividing - we think about the
different candidates their kids who are
running serious campaigns are candidates
who are not yet running serious
campaigns but maybe have shown some
potential to do seven then they're
candidates who've been in the race for a
while who showed not now it's early but
it ain't that early yeah and I won't I
won't make you name names well we'll
hold off on that for a while
but I will ask like do you think in the
minds of some of these candidates who
maybe don't have real organizations in
those early states right now that
they're thinking well Trump didn't have
a big organization in these early States
he was sort of this gadfly when he first
got into the race albeit one with almost
universal name ID because everyone in
the country knows who Donald Trump is so
that's a huge difference between him and
some of these other candidates but you
know he didn't start with a big
organization he didn't have this like
real serious campaign staff he didn't
have like a real strategy at first and
then because he caught on via media
attention then he sort of backfilled the
campaign as he went on do you think
that's what a lot of these camps are
thinking like I could end up like Donald
Trump - yeah yes I think there is this
theory that if Donald Trump can win the
presidency anyway for the president says
no and that fuels some of this and there
is some truth to the idea that in the
internet social media age you could be
one viral moment away from leaping up to
a top tier yeah I mean like one viral
look at Mary Chain at least the
financial status of better or worse any
campaign and changed his life absent
that Colin Kaepernick clip it's not
clear that there that he would be
running for president right now right
yeah you know absent a very clever and
aggressive media strategy it would be
absurd that the mayor of South Bend
Indiana is in that top tier or top tier
ish or as we shown the ability to raise
the money at least to put together a
serious campaign and I do think that
we've also looked at the footage and
they say if he can find a way to hack
the system to get to the top tier then
why can't
small well or Tim Ryan or Michael
Bennett or Andrew Yang's it was found a
way to get into the debates while others
have not yet right so I think there is
some of that I think the Trump example
displays ignorance of how the Democratic
nomination process differs from the
Republican process yes in the democratic
process and we can have a debate about
whether the first date should be a
caucus and whether in that state should
be as white as Iowa is that is a very
certainty and should be had but as it
currently stands that is the first date
and the Democratic caucus process is a
massive organization challenge because
there's a viability threshold where a
candidate doesn't get to 15% in an
individual site then you have to be able
to get the like in a capacity to not
just know your first choice voters but
who to answer your second choice
the accumulation of Delegates post the
caucus of the county convention it is a
huge network the Republican caucus does
not operate that way the Democratic
caucus Democratic nomination process
proceeds through proportional allocation
of Delegates and votes which mean she
has to be much more sophisticated in how
you run your race it takes longer
Republicans have winner-take-all which
is how someone like Trump could win so
yes there is this meta truth that Trump
won he's a therefore any
 could be President or you
could sit there and let the MER say a
lot smarter than Trump liking and I'd be
President but it's just that both
ignores the incredibly unique
circumstances of Trump and who he is
because he wasn't some unknown person he
was a person with universal name ID he
was incredibly popular with Republican
base
in the 2012 election in the midst of his
birth or crusade he floated himself with
the presidential touch presidential
candidate and was pulling at the top of
the polls yeah so he's not is not a
story of an like political Horatio Alger
story of someone who came from nowhere
and someone who was at the top and then
what and so it's a bad example to
YouTube guy your own political strategy
because it's ignorant of how Trump one
is taking about the democratic process
works yeah and if Rand and no I agree
and I think if you're wondering who the
Democratic candidates
who are actually running real serious
races sort of like look at who has
serious Iowa staff a serious New
Hampshire staff who's like hired a lot
of field organizers and real staff in
those early states and you'll get a hint
of even if they're down in the polls or
up in the polls or whatever they at
least have the potential to really
capitalize on whatever media momentum
they may get along the way because they
actually have an organization on the
ground that can carry them to victory
okay when we come back we will have my
interview with Adi Barkan
you
