he is an Emmy Grammy Oscar and Tony
award-winning musician and the founder
of free America a campaign to transform
America's criminal justice system his
new song is preach and he's also
releasing a documentary series on
YouTube called can't just preach that
shares the stories of community leaders
and activists the first episode out now
features Sybrina Fulton the mother of
Trayvon Martin John Legend hello John
welcome back to pod save America good to
be back let's start with this you want
to make adding me a word for glory
yeah Lady gaga just won an Academy Award
for the song shallow yes have you
considered combining forces capturing
that magic and doing a duet with Bradley
Cooper a song called shallow glory
shallow glory that could be cool that'd
be fun you and you and you and Brad yeah
at the piano I was so impressed with
Brad's turn as a no as a as a singer you
know yeah I uh we were at a party
together and he was telling me that he
was going to do this film and I was like
oh you're gonna have someone sing for
you and he looked at me of course not
[Laughter]
he's impressive there's a few things you
can rely on more than how many actors
just want to be singers and how many
singers want to be actors I think is
more actors that want to be singers and
vice versa but I think most actors do
sing because you know there's musical
theater obviously and if you're in you
know drama club or whatever in high
school you're probably going to sing
some and so most actors really do saying
comedians to a lot of comedians sing
mm-hmm John I do not sing I hit puberty
and cried on stage during performance of
The Wizard of Oz oh that was it all
right all right so in your new song
preach you talked about turning off your
phone because it hurts your chest
hmm not literally it's all metaphor
metaphorically but I think a lot of
people feel addicted to their phones
right now and yet sure whether they're
getting a lot out of it do you feel that
way well I think it's back and forth
sometimes you're like really into it and
you want to catch up on the news you
want to listen to pot save America or
love it or leave it
sure and you know there's there's all
this information and entertainment on
your
and then also it's like sometimes you
you want to shut it off because there's
so much bad news and if if all the news
is being aggregated on these sites and
on social media it can feel like a
barrage it's probably not more bad news
than there was before but we just have a
place a place where we can concentrate
it all right and you know it just makes
you feel like everything's bad all the
time so you've actually gotten involved
in a pretty significant way around
issues like amendment 4 which was just a
big victory in Florida huge victory
restore voting rights to people
convicted of crimes yes and our next our
next video in our series of features
Desmond Mead and Desmond Mead was the
leader of that organization in Florida
rights restoration coalition that was
the main driver behind that amendment
happening it's such a huge victory I
think we shouldn't you know
underestimate how important that might
be for 2020 having 1.4 million more
eligible voters in the electorate in
Florida and they should have always been
there but I'm glad we made it so that
they're able to be there now what did
you learn from that victory as you're
continuing to do works around say you
know prosecutors and local district
offices well I think the bottom line I
think you guys learned it as you were
doing your work here in California
trying to flip the house and I think all
of us learned that you know we're in a
moment right now where we can take
advantage of the enthusiasm that we have
we can take advantage of the the
backlash to Trump's awfulness we can
take advantage of all these things and
really mobilize the electorate to make
some real change happen and as
frustrating as the news can be we have a
reason for optimism because a lot of
these things that we've fought for in
the last few years have actually won and
we see the differences we see the
differences when we watch these hearings
on television and we have a house that
will actually hold the White House
accountable that is a huge difference
and that's because of organizing that's
because of people running for office
that previously might not have that's
because of young people voting at higher
rates than they had in the past all
these things happened because we put in
the work and that makes me optimistic
so as much as we get frustrated by the
news as much as we get frustrated by you
know what seems like a complete
show in Washington we have to realize
that this work we're putting in is
actually paying off so what are you
watching right now you know you've been
trying to get people to pay attention to
district attorney races are there any
individual state or local prosecutor
races that you're really paying
attention to well I just did a
fundraiser for Kim Fox who's running for
re-election in Chicago she's running for
state's attorney in Chicago and she's
been doing a lot of work to hold the
office more accountable doing a lot more
work when it comes to data collection
and data analysis been really
interacting with activists in the
community to make sure they're being
held accountable so I think she's great
and we're gonna support her again and
then one of the things we're looking at
that's not a district attorneys race but
is important on a state and local level
is the criminal justice bill in New York
we've been speaking with lawmakers
they're trying to make sure they do the
right thing when it comes to bail reform
and other issues that I think will be
important for criminal defendants in New
York all right yeah you know you've
talked about being inspired by people
like Harry Belafonte and Paul Robeson I
think there's a lot of I think that that
musicians actors celebrities who get
involved in activism sometimes they get
a rep bad rap sometimes they deserve a
bad rap for not taking it seriously and
yet you or somebody who has established
your voice and establish some
credibility what have you learned about
that about being somebody who is first
primarily known as a performer trying to
sort of prove that you're not just doing
this on a lark that you're actually
trying to get involved and use your
platform to actually make change well I
think we have to be humble about what we
know and what we don't know and I think
we have to be really good at listening
to activists really good at listening to
people who are really affected by these
issues so I speak a lot with people who
were formerly incarcerated I speak a lot
with people who have been working in the
criminal justice reform area for a long
time and so I'm humble about what I know
and what I
no and I'm also really good about making
sure we uplift the people that are
really out there doing the work on the
ground and so I feel like my position as
someone who has Fame and has a platform
where a lot of people see what I post or
listen to what I sing or listen to what
I say I try to make sure I lift up other
people's voices when I have that
opportunity to do so so I think humility
is key when celebrities get involved in
these things as much as we are stars
we're famous we are heard by a lot of
people I think we have to make sure we
use our platform especially in these
issues where we're not experts we have
to use our platform to uplift the
experts so I want to talk about
something that to the news right now
you know you've said you have no reason
not to believe Michael Jackson's
accusers in the documentary that just
came out when we've grappled with the
work of living artists yeah like Woody
Allen like our Kelly you've been
outspoken about our Kelly and questions
around working with artists like that
and reaching artists credibly accused of
serious crimes you know we're now
talking about Michael Jackson who's gone
yeah and I think it now becomes a
question about the art itself and the
music itself yeah and it's hard I think
especially with Michael because his
music is irreplaceable it's not like
there's you know some other something
like that from that moment that captures
that moment in a way that Michaels music
does but I think every individual is
probably going to have to grapple with
it as a listener as a consumer as
someone who can decide whether or not to
play a certain song in their house or at
parties or whatever it is I think
everybody's going to have to decide on
their own what what's too much for them
and it's hard after you watch that
documentary it was it gave me a
nightmare the first night yeah I watched
it it was just like a really tough thing
to watch and hearing the the graphic
details of what they were alleging it
was just really difficult and and you
know I think everybody's gonna have to
decide whether that's too much for them
you know you this art exists yeah and it
was amazing and beautiful and it still
is music doesn't stop being amazing but
you know people have to decide whether
they could set
right them right it's it's you know I
think that that the consequences of
rewarding artists who have done bad
things gets swallowed up in this
conversation about the music itself yeah
Michael Jackson is gone yeah and exactly
so he won't profit from you streaming
his songs now right I mean his family
will but they it's not their fault he
did what he was alleged to do and so you
know people have to decide just how do
you feel right how does it make you feel
to listen to someone if you think they
might have done the things that they're
accused of how does it make you feel and
if it's still okay with you then you
know I think that's an acceptable thing
to think but you know it's gonna be
tough for some people I think right it's
almost at a certain point long from now
the music will just be the music people
won't know about Michael yes I read a
good article that said part of the
reason why people feel the need to
cancel these artists and mute these
artists is because they've gotten away
with it in the justice system right and
if we felt like they had faced any
consequences in the justice system I
think we wouldn't feel the need as much
to punish them on our own because you
know we would felt like they'd had some
accountability for their actions and so
the the reason why people feel the need
to mute people and cancel people and all
this stuff is because they feel like
this their only recourse because the
justice system has failed to hold them
accountable but it's also a practical
thing to write you don't want to give
money yeah someone here will turn around
and use that money to silence people and
her absolutely absolutely and if you're
giving their money or giving them more
power to like you said silence people
and to evade justice let's talk about
2020 you know we try to not be totally
distracted by it we're focusing on yeah
we're focusing on local district
attorney races we're focusing on making
sure we win the Senate we're doing all
of that good work mm-hmm preed
presuppose mm-hmm I I really haven't
decided and and I am open I'm like
really gonna pay attention to what
people are saying and I I genuinely care
about how people perform on the stage I
want to see them in debates I want to
see them deal with controversies
see them deal with their past record and
how they answer questions about that and
I'm not really going to predict how that
will turn out because I really don't
know I've supported some of these folks
were sent it before like Camilla and
Cory Booker and kirsten gillibrand and
and and you know several other folks
obviously I supported a Obama and Biden
and if Biden runs you know I will have
supported him in the past but you know I
want to see how these folks perform and
I I want someone to be progressive but I
want them to be a progressive that can
win and that can make an a an inspiring
appeal to the people and it can capture
the public imagination and all those
things that great candidates do and so
we'll see so a lot of these candidates
have been grappling with parts of their
past that are more conservative than
where the party is right now that's been
true of Gillibrand on issues like guns
and immigration it's been true of Booker
around Wall Street and masuo companies
it's true of common law and issues
around criminal justice reform it seems
to me a lot of what we're seeing right
now our candidates trying to prove
they're actually as progressive as their
platforms yeah and I think my advice to
all of them would be if you've done some
things in the past that you don't agree
with now just explain why yeah explain
why you were there then and explain how
you've evolved and I think people just
want you to be honest and they want you
to be reflective and they want you to be
inspiring and they want you to say what
you're gonna do now what are you gonna
do now what will you fight for now and I
think there's no there's no reason to
obfuscate or try to you know kind of lie
about you know what happened before just
be honest about where you were and be
honest about your progression since then
it's fine people change but we want you
to be authentic in in kind of discussing
what led you to change yeah so before we
let you go you tell us a little about
the documentaries that were coming out
yeah and and why people should be
interested in them so I think like we
were talking about before there there's
a
for us to be optimistic and there are
people out there doing great work that
you know as much as we get frustrated
with the news we can be happy about some
of these things and and see that change
can really happen and so we've been
making videos trying to highlight
examples of people out there making a
difference so that we can inspire more
people to do it and so the series is
called can't just preach and we in we
include several community leaders who
all of them has really have really
responded to tragedy
Sybrina Fulton of course responded to
Trayvon Martin being shot
Desmond Mead responding to his own
incarceration and and the pain he went
through during that time and addiction
and all the other things he was dealing
with by creating this florida rights
restoration coalition and and making
amazing change happen in florida and we
highlight several other people doing the
same thing and then we also connect our
viewers and our listeners to
opportunities for them to volunteer so
we partnered with VolunteerMatch to help
people say you know if i care about this
issue and want to get involved in my
community here's a way for me to do so
um last question mm-hmm
we took a photo together yes at a fancy
party yes and it did repeatedly omit it
out yes by the fake news the idea at
Vanity Fair when you saw that I had been
cropped out yeah how did you feel well
part of me felt your pain because all
you saw of me was the back of my head
and I felt bad you know that both of us
to jails who who are respected on both
sides absolutely and we were both really
omitted from the core of the photo and
we both deserve better than that and it
didn't reflect the joy of the
conversation that we had but I thought
that was the worst part of it was really
the joy yes that's the whole point of a
photo to capture the joy it was our
favorite conversation of the night it
was you know me yuda ray Ronan and
Chrissy and we had such a great
conversation and it was just a shame
that such tragedy had to come out of
that joy yeah
no it's true and it's a reminder that
like two steps forward one step back all
of these John Legend thank you so much
for being here the song is preached the
documentary series is can't just preach
check both out they're both fantastic
great to have you thank you John
you
