welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Jon Lovitz I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod you'll hear Lovitz interview
with ACLU attorney chase strange eyo
strange ayo stran jeah later in the pod
you'll hear Lovitz interview with ACLU
attorney chase Tran Gio about the Trump
administration's most recent attempt to
roll back civil rights protections for
transgender people but first we're gonna
talk about the president's siding with
the murders tyrant over his own advisors
and our allies his decision to use the
powers of the presidency to go after his
political enemies and all the latest
twenty20 news a light show light showed
rough times in America right now love it
yeah speaking of good times how was love
it or leave it
we had a fantastic lover to leave it you
should check out with nor Bay's a flint
who's an activist who works with we had
a great conversation with norbade a
flint megan Gale a Joel Kim booster is
one of my favorite shows actually you
know we could we talked about the
abortion bans have been passing but we
had one of the most interesting
conversations that I think we've had in
love to leave it in a long time so I
really recommend the episode plus it was
funny
not that part that part was very serious
but the parts after it we're funny and
actually even some jokes in that part so
check it out hate to say it's unusual of
it for you to have your laptop here in
the studio well I see that it's open to
your mentions well because I had it open
for my conversation with with Chase oh I
had questions look at you I had
questions for my interview god you're
always so prepared also check out the
latest episode of hysteria where Aaron
Ryan and the crew recorded a very
powerful and personal episode about the
human stakes of the newest assault on
reproductive rights definitely check it
out it's a very very powerful episode
you can also see here that here is my
notes for what I was gonna tell you
about love or leave it a really great
episode it says so right there right
there yeah I take notes got a prep you
mean notes on that I wanted to remind
myself all right
also please go subscribe to our brand
new crooked media podcast this land
which is already climbing the charts and
drops on Monday June 3rd it is a
riveting story about a pair of murders
and a Supreme Court case that will
decide the fate of half the
and in Oklahoma hosted by Rebecca Nagle
a Cherokee journalist and activist this
is gonna be fantastic sweeping the
charts please go subscribe subscribe now
subscribe while you're listening to this
podcast what are you waiting for beep
boop bop flying onboard things you can
do and finally today is the day you can
watch running with Beto on HBO
documentary about better O'Rourke's
a 2018 Senate campaign as well as all
the activists and volunteers who are
part of it it's fantastic what else what
else can we say about it that's it it's
about a moment about a moment in time
people reacting to the Trump presidency
how we're gonna take it back our
democracy yeah so go check it out check
it out on HBO we're very proud of it
all right let's get to the news during
his trip to Asia over the weekend Donald
Trump said that he sees things
differently than those who believe that
North Korea recently conducted missile
tests that violated a United Nations
resolution those people are include
japan's Prime Minister and Trump's own
national security adviser John Bolton
the president tweeted the following
quote North Korea fired off some small
weapons which disturbs some of my people
and others but not me some people than
others but not me
I have confidence the Chairman Kim will
keep his promise to me and I also smiled
when he called swampman Joe Biden in low
IQ individual and worse perhaps that's
sending me a signal chrissakes Tommy
before we get to the Biden stuff how
concerning are those test missiles and
what is North Korea up to here well so I
mean I don't know what Trump is seeing I
assume a radar sees every missile the
same way and these are ballistic
missiles according to his national
security adviser and shooting off a
ballistic missile is a violation of a
bunch of UN Security Council resolutions
so it's uh it is against international
law it is pretty scary if you live in
Japan or South Korea or anywhere where
you could be struck by one of these
missiles his team is trying to play it
down in this ongoing effort to
resuscitate a completely dead set of
negotiations with North Korea that's
been a
failure but I don't think you can really
smooth over that stuff with happy talk
and pretending you didn't see what is
right before your eyes which is a UN
Security Council resolution violation
and a missile test so it's just it's
ludicrous at this point what actions or
behavior have we gotten North Korea to
change it's the beginning of these
so-called negotiations there were some
swaps of remains of service members
killed in the Korean War I mean you know
there was the the saga the tragedy of
otto warmbier whose body was returned to
the United States but I mean basically
Kim has been enriching uranium and
making more nuclear weapons for about a
year and a half and and advancing his
missile program why do you think Trump
would side with Kim over all of our
allies and his own national security
team is he just that horny for a deal or
what what's going on here I mean he
ignores intelligence when he doesn't
like it it's a pattern and I think that
he knows that he if he dangles a attack
on Biden out there in the tweets even if
he spells his name wrong which is weird
we should just note that our president
can't spell the last vice president's
name that's troubling and incredibly the
least problematic part of the tweet yeah
but you know we can dangle out that
little cable catnip and he can play
assignment editor for a bunch of
journalists who then have to focus on
this stupid attack on Biden and distract
from the fact that the policy is failed
he's done he's this is a an area he
knows is fruitful in terms of getting
people to talk about what he said about
his opponents he knows that he doesn't
really care he does he he instinctively
knows that it's wrong to choose to side
with a tyrant over an American
politician but then he knows it also
gets some tons of apprehension so he's
done it before it's not the first time
he said you know I like this tyrant it
makes our Democrats look like yeah
just thinking back to an Obama like if
Obama had gone to Japan and there had
been a North Korean missile launch and
the Prime Minister offered one view of
what that meant and Obama offered
another it would be seen as a massive
rupture and a decades-old relationship
right it would be seen as like this
incredible moment in the history of our
two countries and Trump just kind of
Lies through it
and insults through it and you know I
don't know why he thinks it's great to
highlight North Korean propaganda
remember they called him a mentally
deranged US dotard yeah daughter died
long ago so you know it's it's really
weird and also it the follow-up to like
we know this was in some errant tweet
because Sarah Huckabee Sanders goes on
Meet the Press and and she says well you
know I think that Donald Trump and kim
jeong-hoon agree in their assessment of
Vice President Biden like how how
concerning should that be that the
president states is siding with a
murderous tyrant over a possible
political opponent and a former vice
president United States I mean it's a
lot less concerning the fact that the
negotiations with North Korea that are
designed to deal with their nuclear
weapons program have completely failed I
think that's the point that they can
dangle this stupid out there and
Chuck Todd a staff has to ask two or
three minutes about it and we liberals
get our backs up and we're like how dare
you side with Kim jong-un over Joe Biden
and you know his people don't care they
love when he attacks us they love when
he attacks Democratic politicians on
foreign soil like all the norms are gone
and broke in and I think we've all long
past moved on from you know any sort of
concern that he would hold up those
norms so I don't know I'm just like fed
up with the yeah I mean I guess
I'm I agree it's almost it's sort of
this is not new right we shouldn't be so
surprised like this is how Trump speaks
about his opponents I do think the
bigger issue is the fact that in his you
know permanent 1980s negotiation over
granite countertops he thinks buttering
up kim jeong-hoon is still the right
thing to do and the only path forward
you know in fairness to him there is no
obvious good negotiation yeah but enough
for that fairness like there is a better
way to run a set of negotiating on him
on this front I'm not being something
I'm just saying that like there's no
it's like what he could he could say
crate he could say incredibly critical
things about Kim jong-un he can continue
to say the most farcical and evil things
about Kim jong-un by comparing him to
Joe Biden we're still in the same bad
place we are with these negotiate when
you are able to split the president
States from his national security
advisors spread the split the US and
Japan in South Korea right like that is
how he's weakened our position in these
negotiations and my in my opinion that
is like the fundamental policy failure
that's not getting surfaced because he's
calling names it is so intense to go on
Twitter and just be like John Bolton's
an idiot yeah I mean North Korea Monday
called Bolton a war monger and a
defective human product so you know
there's a lot of lot of name-calling
broken clock about to say wait let's
hear these people out
how should Democrats handle these sorts
of attacks Tommy and and what kind of
case should the presidential candidates
be making against Trump on foreign
policy in a broader sense like is there
any is there any way to sort of connect
these dots of what happened with his
comments on North Korea and Biden over
the weekend to sort of other instances
yeah I mean I think that he hasn't
delivered on any of his promises you
know he said you would get us out of
wars in Afghanistan and he actually sent
more troops his his team ran this play
in Venezuela to support a q-and-a coup
and it is absolutely let me started that
against people yelled miiverse an coup I
his team ran this play in Venezuela to
put install one Guido as the president
and has completely failed he did this
big set of negotiations on North Korea
and they have completely failed to
achieve the directive so in all those
instances he hasn't lived up to his
promises and he seems to like spending
time with these dictators and tyrants
and not reaffirming alliances with
Europeans Japan South Korea all the
people who could actually help us
achieve the things were trying to do so
I do think we should be making a case on
foreign policy it's just it's not as
it's a little more complicated than just
pointing out that he's a climate denier
or like that he's a horrible human being
no look I I do think that last point but
he in foreign policy he puts his
personal relationships for political and
financial gain ahead of the country's
national security over and over again
right he signs with kim jeong-hoon when
he attacks you know a former vice
president United States he sides with
Vladimir Putin over the Intel community
when every piece of intelligence says
that that Putin sabotaged our election
and may do so again
he sounds with the south
when they murdered a Washington Post
journalist and has now decided to go
around Congress and sell weapons
directly to them so like time and time
again he keeps siding with these
murderous dictators because why
you know like envies them I guess envies
them and he sort of he wants the deal he
wants the personal relationship and it's
at the expense of our national security
over and over again and I feel like a
some Democratic candidate hopefully most
Democratic candidates can go out there
and sort of connect all these dots
together because I actually I haven't
heard anyone really do that yeah it's um
there's a there's a podcast called dr.
death in which a a insane narcissistic
surgeon is just going into people's
backs like attaching screws to the wrong
place making huge mistakes and then
sealing up and going I'm the best
surgeon in the world like basically that
is sort of a Donald Trump approach
negotiations like he he gets in there
he's like I'm the best I'm gonna
walk in there I'm gonna charm
the charm the missiles off of
this Kim Jong I'm gonna get those
missiles and then he's not gonna get him
he's a guy I mean question this
perception of Trump as opposing wars in
the Middle East was very beneficial to
him remember morning Dowd's column
Donald the Dove Hillary the hawk that
was a big seminal thing I was like you
know people thought that Hillary was
gonna get us into Wars Trump would get
us out the opposite has happened they
make that case it's really is we're
constantly paying for the mistakes there
2016 obviously will country and maybe
the planet will pay for them for the
rest of humanity's existence but but
there was a period of time where Trump
was a pro-gay dove yeah and here we are
as he is laying waste to rules
protecting trans people and pursuing
escalation in the Middle East and and in
and in South America and it's like well
it's just yeah it's just a betrayal of
the country too it's a betrayal of his
own country what he's doing with Putin
and MBs and kim jeong-hoon he is
betraying his country he hates Democrats
more than he wants to be tough on actual
murderous tyrants all around the world
that's how much he hates his political
enemies perceived political enemies in
opposition in this country
I also think that's actually it's
actually even giving him too much credit
to suggest that he hates it's actually I
think it's even more cynical than that
right it's he sees value and taking this
personal about personal value into all
of us and I think the question we should
be asking is actually less like can you
believe that Donald Trump said this can
you believe that once again he chose to
side with the dictator over Joe
Biden it's more how sad the state of the
Republican Party that ademma that an
American president can say something
like this about their opponents and
there's just no outrage nothing there's
either statements here and there yeah a
Republican congressman yeah have some
but now it's a kind of and in part
because they know that due to Fox News
and the sort of the way in which their
own base has been anesthetized
anesthetize that there's just no cost to
saying something like this and a lot of
cost to fighting back to against Trump
because it sorry I said again that
there's no cost for Trump to say
something like this and that there's
only cost to really saying the truth
about Donald Trump when he does attack
an American like this yeah it's all
about himself it's all short-term gain
all right so the president is now doing
more than just tweeting about the people
on his enemies list yeah on Thursday
Trump issued a directive granting
Attorney General William Bar the power
to unilaterally declassify any
government secrets held by our
intelligence agencies and law
enforcement so he can investigate
whether Robert Muller's investigation
was really just a deep state coup
started by the Obama administration cool
Tommy how unusual and dangerous is a
move like this so the declassification
memo is a big deal basically these the
the classification process and
declassification process is governed by
a series of executive orders and he
basically just sort of rewrote that on
the fly and inserted the Attorney
General above that process normally if
you're the head of the CIA you can
classify declassify things in grant
people access to that information
he just slotted the AG up on top and so
normally I wouldn't be reflexively
opposed to an effort to increase
transparency and declassify things
except for the fact that bill Barr is
running it and he has already shown
himself more than willing to cherry-pick
information to paint some deep state
fever dream of a conspiracy to take down
the president so they are clear
trying to bring Biden into this and
every way possible it seems very likely
that they'll look for like the next
iteration of the Peter struck text
messages where somebody says you know
Donald Trump's an idiot in some random
email and it was classified because some
one of the agencies and some of the FBI
and suddenly it's it's part of this
conspiracy you know web we're weaving
but it's it's like I I think that I I
want to just sort of calm down all the
people that are like humans will die you
know you just hear that too much the the
government cries wolf too much when
we're talking about classified
information but there have been reports
that the CIA at some source close to
Putin who helped us figure out that
Putin personally greenlit the the
election interference if that name gets
out there that guy is toast right so
there are real stakes to this this major
change and it's clearly politicized also
what does it mean for sort of Intel
officials and law enforcement officials
who are out there you know trying to get
this information yeah I mean look if I'm
another country you're looking mean even
looking at us like we're insane for like
years right but I mean if you're a
foreign intelligence service you're like
wait what you've changed the process to
make it easier to release this
information like why would we help you
why would we as a liaison intelligence
service provide you information it is
it's it's pretty transparently political
and politicizing intelligent information
yeah it really does seem like Barr is
becoming a more cific it I'm more
sophisticated it it really seems like
Barr is becoming a more sophisticated
version of Devin unis yes sort of
exactly colonel like imagine if imagine
if basically Devin unas is what would
happen if sort of William Barr was
walking near construction site in a
cinder block fell on his head like
that's what Devin is has been for a very
long time so now we're back to kind of
now now we have a real sophisticated at
the core of this is opposed to a
bumbling Twitter sewer so that is very
alarming but it you know it it reminds
me of Benghazi too in that you have to
step back and remember that it's forget
that forget the cut forget what look let
me say like this
on any level it is cynical and sinister
right the giving the giving bar this
power to declassify things it carries
grave risks it's clearly a partisan
effort all that is true but it's worth
remembering that the core supposition of
all of this is made up it's me I was
just gonna say like what really drives
me crazy about this is why we have to
continually relitigate why the Russia
investigation began let's do it one more
time okay just very quickly in July of
2016 we find out that Russia has stolen
emails and starts disseminating emails
from the Democrats and what happens an
australian diplomat says oh by the way i
was with the trump foreign policy aide
who told me that the russians told him
they have a bunch of damaging emails on
hillary clinton if you're the FBI and
you don't open an investigation because
of that you have really up and
not to mention what happens in this
apparent coup attempt there are two
simultaneous investigations going on one
of Hillary Clinton and one of Donald
Trump they keep the Donald Trump one a
secret till after he's President
of the United States while going on
television to tell us just how a close
to being a criminal Hillary Clinton was
so this great coup attempt by
Eric Holder and Samantha Power's really
shot the bet and also looked like spying
on the Trump campaign blah blah blah
blah let's talk about the spying it was
one person named Carter Page who
was known as a potential Russian asset
before he ever joined the campaign and
wasn't surveilled until after he left
the campaign and the application to
conduct surveillance on Carter page was
not some deep se plot it was approved by
multiple judges judges appointed by huge
on Republicans over ever again that was
it so if they were gonna do surveillance
on the Trump campaign they really
up by only picking Carter page anyway I
hope that we could get to the bottom of
the sexy text messages perhaps we should
be able to read them the text messages
that are the core of this that reveal of
this deep sigh pot is there any way we
might be able to get our hands on these
text messages the oh they're already
released they've already been released
there already was an investigation
there's a reasonable conversation to be
had about the FISA courts the foreign
telogen Surveillance Act courts this is
not this is nonsense it's a lot of real
conversations to be had and this is
Trump is also saying that he wants bar
to scrutinize the role the Australians
and the British government's played in
this process so he wants to go out he
wants to go after allies for trying to
help him prevent a Russian agent from
penetrating his campaign I mean it's
deeper than you think it goes deeper it
goes to the Australian yeah well the
ghost kangaroos they just hop around
then on top of that I mean we've never
even really mind the fact that Rudy
Guiliani was getting leaks from the FBI
right before the campaign and was was
talking on TV about that information so
whatever I mean you can think that this
is Barr just appeasing Trump and his
crazy tweets but it does seem like this
is a broader consistent strategy here
during a press conference on Thursday
NBC's Peter Alexander said to Trump sir
the Constitution says treason is
punishable by death you've accused your
adversaries of treason who specifically
are you accusing of treason without
missing a beat Trump says well I think a
number of people if you look at Comey if
you look at mccabe if you look at people
probably higher than that then wyoming
congresswoman liz cheney said in an
interview on ABC on sunday that the
Moller investigation quote could well be
treason former Trump Lackey Corey
Lewandowski says in an interview quote I
think we're going to see that Biden is
behind the steel dossier that James
Comey Andy McCabe struck and Paige will
be on trial for the crimes they
committed against the Fourth Amendment
and against this president should we
take this literally seriously or both
you know it's um it's not the first time
a reporter has given Trump the
opportunity to say something truly
insane and I'm like TM up so he says
like all right you want me to say the
most crazy thing I'm in I'll say
it I'll say whatever you want treason
yeah kill him kill them all
so I you know I I was thinking about
this today because we really do feel
like we're in this in-between space sort
of there is the harbinger of the next
step in American debt like in in in the
devolution of our politics like we are
hinting at show trials we are hinting at
charges like this we are like tilting
toward it and we also know that one of
the reasons some of the more
heinous anti-american norm violations
that Trump sought like arresting his
opponents and pursuing his opponents
were only stopped because people around
Trump weren't willing to do it so I
don't think anyone knows the answer and
on the one hand I don't want to say now
is the time to ring the alarm
you know Trump's about to put people on
trial for treason but at the same time I
think it's silly to pretend that Trump
doesn't mean what he says you know I'm
like up two minds about it we got it's
got a real way more republic vibe to it
I mean this is intense serious stuff and
I would be great if you know when I
 Liz Cheney says a word like
treason that the entire interview stops
in pauses and focus on nothing but that
word for the duration given that is a
capital offense where you can lose your
life for treasonous activity I mean it's
it's a big word that Democrats shouldn't
throw around none of us should throw
around it's it's a significant charge
also even in the best case scenario
where this is all just bluster from
Trump and his goons fascism for the
camera it is it is very difficult to see
the consequences the exact consequences
of where this may lead right like let's
not forget that a month before the
midterm election there was a man a trump
supporter who sent pipe bombs to
leading Democrats yeah
when Trump is at a rally and starts
talking about treason and the crowd
starts saying lock them up and he says
the Attorney General is gonna his eyes
on to it don't worry he's gonna look at
it what do you think that starts telling
people when they hear that the president
itíd state starts to saying to them that
Obama administration officials law
enforcement officials Intel officials
have committed treason against this
country what does that do to people who
were already a bit unstable can't unring
that fascist bail no yeah it's um and
it's also to remind of that look at Liz
Cheney was Donald Trump before Donald
Trump came along she's somebody who for
years said yet you know what she said
you know whose side are they on about
Democrats for a long time she like
basically view Democrats as being
disloyal to the country she was the one
who led the charge against the Ground
Zero mosque as they called it at the
time you know her political action
committee basically accused several
Justice Department lawyers of al-qaeda
sympathies remember that so you know
it's worth remembering that this drain
of vile kind of attack has been with the
Republican Party for a very very long
time and the only it's um they're
inviting they're inviting everyone to
follow the logical conclusion of what
they're saying and maybe they'll do it
for real or maybe they just want the
points but but it's awful yeah and I
also say the media has a responsibility
here as well because what happens when
bill bar drops his big report his
investigation into the origins the res
investigations a week before the
election or on the eve of the Democratic
convention or when it turns out to be
entirely focused on Joe Biden for no
good reason when it exactly clearly
Biden's being worked into this
conversation because they could
currently view him as the biggest threat
to Donald Trump right and and how and
how seriously does the media take this
because they didn't do a great job with
the Devin Nunez released the memo
 they didn't do a great job with
the struck and Lisa page text messages
that came out they all treated it as big
 breaking news locusts serious
and they do a great job with the
four-page barman a horrible job with the
bar memo so so when are we gonna learn
that like whatever comes out of Bill
Bars office about the origins of the
rest investigation should be treated
like a press release from the
Trump campaign and no more serious I
think the real big story and big
takeaway is that the office of the
Attorney General has been just
fundamentally tainted and it's it's not
going to be fixed until we have a new
president United States and it's some
things it's hard to grapple with it's a
political arm of the Trump campaign
that's what the Attorney General's
that's what the Department of Justice at
the highest levels is right now you know
and Brian boiler I'm Kirk accom made
this point and I think it's worth making
look I you know he's been one of the
people ringing the bell the Bell Bank
being banging the drum bells and drums
saying that we that that the only
logical step for Democrats to take is
impeachment and without impeachment
you're left open to these sort of
specious investigations by bar etc and I
think that that is a debate worth having
but even apart from that Democrats in
Congress need a plan to counteract what
bar eventually does and they need to be
ready with the the fuller story when bar
inevitably releases some completely
one-sided document accusing
Democrats of malfeasance based on a
totally unfair reading of intelligence
that they have access to that members of
Congress have access to and I will say
it's another argument for pursuing
impeachment proceedings because
impeachment proceedings may be the one
way to wrestle the megaphone away from
Donald Trump and Bill Barr and focus the
country's attention on exactly what
they're doing because right now it's
pretty hard to get that megaphone and
the investigations aren't doing it
because they're being stonewalled and
the Democrats don't have a single
message on this and like you said
everyone's everyone's out there banging
their own drum bringing their own bells
but there's no focused attention on
exactly what's happening right now
and whether whether they pursue
impeachment proceedings or not this is
gonna happen the Trump campaign and Bill
Barr gonna run their play no matter what
so we can either you know look at it and
yell at it or we can try to focus
everyone's attention on exactly what's
happening it's quite an amazing thing to
watch as they run the exact same
playbook with actually some of the same
accusations and allegations but just
cross out the names like Clinton or
Obama and just put the name Biden in mhm
and just say it and say it and say it
until it's just one of two viewpoints
which the steel does nice thing is that
is the funniest thing right like like by
the time the steel dossier was released
right it was like in the middle of the
2016 campaign Joe Biden looked like he
was gonna go retire from public life
good right literally from horrific
tragedy had nothing to do it's literally
just putting his name and steel dossier
in the same sentence there's nothing
else to get with it it is lazy but it is
the kind of thing that gets picked up
you got Rudy Giuliani running around
Kiev with a microphone with
Oakland you got Rudy Giuliani running
around Kiev with him with a magnifying
glass looking for clue yes
dusting for prints under his doorknobs
Watson Watson oh I'm sorry
I'm talking to a glass of scotch
alright let's talk about the 2020
Democratic primary which the president
has decided to get involved in beyond
just insults and nicknames that lead to
entire New York Times stories I can't on
Monday night he tweeted anyone
associated with the 1994 crime bill he's
he's really concerned about the crime
bill now this is just out of the blue on
Monday night
anyone associated with the 1994 crime
bill will
have a chance of being elected in
particular African Americans will not be
able to vote for you Joe Biden was so
heavily involved in passing that bill I
on the other hand was responsible for
criminal justice reform which helped fix
the crime bill what's Trump trying to do
your guy it's so it's actually very
subtle and hard to suss out it's it
seems to be for some people he is uh
trying to depress Democratic turnout
yeah I met he's just trying to Canino he
sees an attack from the left on Joe
Biden about the crime bill and he loves
to just dive into whatever stream of you
know fighting he sees out there it's so
cynical and so obvious yeah well and I
should say too because the reaction from
some folks on the left has been well
this is an example of you know why we
shouldn't nominate Biden because the the
further left we nominate someone the
harder it's gonna be for Trump to try to
divide the party and attack that person
from the left uh you know vote for her
of you want in the primary scrutinize
everyone's records in the primary for
sure if they had a bad vote in the past
talk about their bad vote but don't for
a second think that Donald Trump won't
be able to successfully do this to any
one of the Democratic candidates who
become the nominee he will find
something with every single one in this
case
Bernie also voted for the crash in
addition to Joe Biden so he could do
that with him he could find something
with Elizabeth Warren he could find
something with better or work he finds
on the people who did it he will find
something with all of them his purpose
and the primary is to try to divide
Democrats against each other and we
shouldn't let him do that the fight
should be among ourselves we shouldn't
let Donald Trump do it for us yeah we
have to see a bad faith attack for what
it is and just call it out I mean look
there's a there's an important debate to
be had about the crime bill yeah about
sure incarceration in the role it did or
did not play that's a worthy discussion
don't let Trump kickstart it yeah I mean
Trump tried to execute innocent black
teenagers because they were black and he
wanted the headlines so yeah but some
eyes on the prize well he's trying to do
he's trying to be the assignment editor
for the primary yeah that's a whole list
word he is um oh my god he is the
world's assignment editor
yellow planet elected him the
public editor
The Times got rid of their public editor
and the world replaced them with Donald
 Trump he's the true I'm freaking
out all he has to do is and you know
look we can debate whether it's some
brilliant strategy on his part or just
like he saw something on the crawl of
Fox and Friends and decided to tweet
right like who knows it could be both
but when he does something like this
now everyone uknown everyone's gonna be
jumping in talking about what he wants
us to talk about yeah it's like it's
like um if your goal is to ruin a carpet
it doesn't matter what you pour on it it
doesn't make it you know what is a
terrible analogy leave it interested in
where that was going it was basically
like oh he chose he chose chocolate
oh he's chose red wine what a gene he
thinks he has a record on criminal
justice reform because they passed a
bill that did just the absolute bare
minimum in terms of addressing some
federal sentencing problems which the
administration is now dragging their
feet on implementing yeah I mean to make
it worse states prove up preside over
the bulk of the criminal justice system
but whatever a longer discussion for
another day yeah
so while this was going on a Washington
Post piece over the weekend reported
that unlike most of his Democratic
rivals Biden took Memorial Day weekend
off and hasn't been campaigning as much
or doing as many interviews as the other
candidates what do you think the
strategy is here from the Biden campaign
and and what do you guys make of it I
don't know I mean I I think it's always
dangerous to run a campaign in which you
are trying to avoid avoid being seen to
avoid losing whatever kind of
frontrunner status you have at the same
time which basically in the piece
Hillary Clinton's former campaign
manager Robby Mook admits right and and
yet it's also early and you know I I
know we live in a torn a permanent
campaign I would not be surprised to see
a sudden ramped up of Joe Biden's
activities and see him everywhere all
the time as we get closer so I'm not
totally sold on the thesis yeah I don't
think I don't think Biden's trying to
run a Rose Garden strategy right I mean
it's it's Memorial Day I think that it's
just after
Memorial Day I think is safe to say that
the election has officially kicked off
isn't it funny to think we used to say
that the election started after Labor
Day yeah that's crazy
that's not true at all anymore I mean I
don't think there's really a lot of
value to doing a limited schedule of
campaign events I think you need to be
out there you need to meet people you
need to talk to voters take questions
you get better at it you know it's just
the kinis the reps yeah I mean I think
there could be thinking within the Biden
campaign that the more you put him out
you know he's he's the front-runner he
his name identification is almost a
hundred percent every single person
knows who Joe Biden is they have an
opinion of him
and the more you put him out there the
more he's answering questions the
greater the risk there is for him to
 up say something that gets him into
trouble crazy because Joe Biden is
 famously that's like he just sort
of is a machine so there there is that
concern but I also think when you're
running in this primary against you know
there's 23 candidates running and
obviously also Biden's gonna get
questions about you know his age does he
have the energy to do the whole that
kind stuff I would be running everywhere
all the time making sure that I'm
fighting for every single vote and like
you said love it he that very well could
be the case in the next couple months it
is early he's only been raised
for a month but it's something too I
actually think the more to me the more I
expect that that's what will happen I
don't know if he'll campaign as hard as
some of the others who are just trying
if I can get there get up in the numbers
before any votes are cast but I think
the more interesting question I have is
what share of events is it going to be
where he just comes up to them comes up
to the microphone delivers a prepared
speech and leaves whether that's fund
raisers are public events versus how
often he takes questions I would not be
surprised to find a strategy that says
you know what we're gonna stick to kind
of hitting our points and we're gonna
avoid taking questions which i think is
a you know a choice I don't I don't know
if it's a good one but I can see why
they would make it yeah I mean I just
maybe the pieces just overstated I don't
think that any campaign would run a four
corners offense and in June that does
that's not a no one would think that
sitting sceptile strategy it's probably
the truth that he's doing a ton of
fundraising events and there's just I
think he's letting the press pool into
them but he's not taking question
at them they probably realize that
they're gonna need a lot of money like
you gotta imagine mayor Pete is gonna
put up a huge number of this quarter
like Bernie Sanders gonna put up a huge
number this quarter there's a lot of
people that are gonna allow folks with
their fundraising and in Biden it Biden
wants to be the front-runner he can't
deliver a number that gets doubled or
tripled by someone else do you think it
matters how many campaign events these
candidates these candidates do and how
hard they're campaigning like the the
piece notes that since he announced a
month ago buttons done 11 events Beddoes
done 44 Warren's done 27 Bernie's done
17 do you think it makes it makes a
difference whether you're running around
that much matters in Iowa probably
matters in New Hampshire some the early
states because you're meeting literally
meeting people are gonna caucus for you
and you're getting their information and
then later organizing them and turning
them into volunteers and whatever yeah I
do think a lot of the campaign has run
through the media these days at least
more so than before yeah I would say two
things one it does it's also just given
how much of how much Iowa revolves not
just around support but like deep
support and being in front of people is
really important but and also just one
other point too about answering
questions at fundraisers it's also worth
remembering that as if you're if a
democratic politician is going to make a
gaffe you would be smart to bet it
happened in a fund raiser always oh
again and again and again so I can see
why especially Indian religion
deplorable or go down the list picture
the crowd the crazier the conversation
it's it's it's a one-to-one that's easy
math yeah it's true San Francisco and
Los Angeles fundraisers yeah whoo let me
tell you stay the hell out of the
questions some of the questions you're
getting in those fundraisers yeah where
should they lead you down a path um it's
the way like my jade egg to be covered
by my insurance it's also it is what
leads politicians to become sociologists
when they can be politicians right like
you're supposed to be there advocating
on behalf of people talking about issues
but super rich donors tend to want
analysis and pundit REE about the race
and so they lure the
politicians into offering punditry and
analysis about the race and when you are
offering hundreds poetry an analysis and
you're talking about how voters think
you sound like you're a
anthropologist and you get yourself in
trouble it's true it's because it's I
think the biggest difference right
there's a lot of differences between a
sorry there's a lot of differences but
there's a lot of differences between a
fundraiser and a public event but one of
them one of the big ones is big big
events with donors are events with
people who care about politics but don't
have as much of a personal stake in it
often and so for them it's hey I don't
understand what's happening to the
country I don't understand these issues
I don't understand what's important to
people because what's important to me is
the aesthetics of politics and a lot of
identity issues because that's what I
see and that's what I care about so yeah
I think that some of them have real
stakes and of course certainly what's
not usually economic right now that I
mean so the flip side of this is all the
other candidates without Joe Biden's
name ID who were trying to break through
the New York Times TV critic James
Poniewozik wrote a great piece over the
weekend it was sort of started about the
bet Oh doc but it got into Democrats
trying to fight for media attention writ
large and he basically says that all
these democratic candidates face two big
challenges one is to figure out what
entices news producers to show their
clips and what lers voters scrolling
their phones to hit play the second
related to the first is to implicitly
argue how they in a general election
would seize attention from a president
who can restrain bidets news lineup by
tweeting a mean nickname before
breakfast it was really smart by the way
what do you guys think about that and
what Democratic candidates have been
doing a good job meeting those two
challenges in your opinion hmm I think
this piece was spot-on I think every
Democrat from the ones running to the
people in leadership in Congress have
failed to pull the microwave from Donald
Trump and it's just it's something we
have not figured out yet I think each of
them I think several candidates have
succeeded in different ways I will say I
think a signal moment for me was when a
OC was talking about raising the top
marginal tax rate and Elizabeth Warren
was talking about her wealth tax those
both happened at around
same time and all of a sudden it was
part of the national conversation it was
a question for people at a panel in
Davos it was something that all of a
sudden was being pulled and showing that
actually not just Democrats but
Republicans independents supported
policies like that so Elizabeth Warren I
think has successfully used policy as a
way to get the microphone away from
Donald Trump I think mayor Pete has
successfully used his contrasts with
Donald Trump and his decision to go on
Fox News at least to have a moment where
we're talking about what Mayor Pete said
about Fox News some of the lines he's
used about his service versus Donald
Trump service have broken through so I
think there's like a few examples like
that that showed that there are still
ways to grab the microphone without
having to sound like him yeah and and I
think that's the most difficult balance
because I think one of the toughest
challenges on any Democratic campaign
and it was when we were on campaigns and
it must be infinitely harder now in this
media age is you wake up every day and
you say how are we gonna make news today
how are we gonna break through and
there's a few traditional ways of doing
that one is we're gonna roll out a new
policy and you're right elizabeth warren
has been has excelled at that partly
because her policies it's not just she's
putting out random policies every day
they are ambitious policies they are all
of a piece they're all about sort of
economic inequality and the rules being
broken in the system and there's such a
speed at which she's putting them out
too right so she's been too good on the
policy the other way but she's also
found other ways to do it too which is
saying that she's not gonna do a Fox
News townhall right like she's found
certain ways to do that and I think
mayor Pete has done that too he really
hasn't done it with policy at all but
he's done it by you know he's very he's
excels at sort of like democratic under
trees Punda tree strategy what's wrong
with the party what could we be doing
better and that usually can make news as
well
yeah I mean and then I think the other
the other way to do it is just showing
enthusiasm and big crowd events right
think of commas first event which we got
20,000 people in Oakland or Bernie's
rallies where he's gotten you know tens
of thousands of people in some big
cities I mean I think unfortunately the
way you make news in a campaign often is
by attacking your opponent and right now
that would be Democrat on Democrat and
violence and that's not something we
really want to see it does depress the
hell out of me to wake up and see the
New York Times published an article in
quotes
that is just a them regurgitating all
the nicknames Trump has given to his
various opponents and friends and then
people are asking Trump what's your
Arabs re people are asking Biden what's
your nickname for trumpet on he's like
I'm gonna call him a clown I just think
like that is one an indication that the
press has not learned any sort of lesson
about how not to cover someone who
treats politics like a sport for dumb
people and to like I don't think that we
should have a nickname for Trump we
should not call him clown or khandaan or
some stupid thing we should make a case
that is a little more substance than
that disagree I think de Blasio really
cracked it with Condon yeah that's a
reed that's a way that's a good example
of trying to get in the news interacting
with Trump in a way that doesn't go so
well no because I do think it's a
balance right like I think the
candidates who treat Trump as someone
who doesn't even exist tend to fall out
of the news cycle because they're sort
of run their own campaign they're
talking about their own policies but
you've said it you gotta get into the
new cycle somehow you've got to be
reacting to what's happening that day
without looking like you're too reactive
I know it sounds silly but there's a
balance there well I think that's as you
look what mayor Pete I think has done
for a while that's really successful is
actually a lot of the moments in which
he's broken through to me our moments
where he's talking about Trump and
talking about how to talk about Trump
it's interesting like that I think that
that that there's such a fascination on
the part of journalists and also people
who pay attention to politics who spread
stories on Twitter and that began as
Twitter as you know along with Trump as
the assignment and therefore politics
that's a fascination for people how do
you talk about Trump and mayor Pete
often waxes incredibly eloquently and in
a sophisticated and new way about what
the way he thinks about Trump I remember
when he talked about he talked about
nicknames and punching back at Trump and
what he said was in a strange way when
you talk about going toe to toe with
Trump and successfully beating him
you're actually playing by his rules and
in some sense seeking his approval which
was a completely novel at least public
you know in terms of the public
conversation way to think about Donald
Trump but I think was one of the first
moments people decided to give him like
an extra hard look yeah I do think when
when Trump
you know does things like he did over
the weekend with the Biden tweet or the
North Korea thing you've got to figure
out a way to talk about that without
minimizing it without trying to just
reduce it to a hashtag game or an attack
back on Donald Trump but try to bring it
to a bigger plane I like a little bit
like you've got you've got to be big
while still responding to what happened
I do think that's really hard because I
do I do think one of the challenges has
been that there's been a lot of you know
I joke about it whether it's you know
people tweeting like they're writing the
Federalist Papers or everybody crossing
the delaware there's been a lot of how
dare you sir this country was strong
before you and it'll be strong after you
and I think I'm very tired of that I
don't know I don't know if other people
are tired of it but I think that there
has been a it's we keep it's it's not
crying wolf because he really is coming
and grabbing the sheep but now we but
now like there's like only a couple
sheep left and we need another way to
sound the alarm you have to be able to
capture the urgency at the moment yeah
yeah you have to and you're right you
can maybe tone down the language so it
doesn't sound like you're Crossing the
Delaware all the time but if you don't
if you don't rise to that level if if
your view of the moment is hashtag con
dong that is small compared to what's
happening right now so like you don't
want to be eye rolling but at the same
time you want to be big and let people
know that this is urgent
yeah but I mean look at the Trump doing
what he did to Biden over the weekend
was a perfect opportunity for everyone
to jump in and talk about his failed
foreign policy record yes the the
Congressional Research Service has a
report out today that shows that the
Republican tax law that passed did
essentially nothing for the economy
literally every single candidate should
jump on that because that will help us
drive a message to the entire country
not just Democratic primary voters that
President Trump is not in it for you
he's there for his big rich fat cat
donors and corporate friends etc it's
like we need to be jumping on those
moments not occasionally every single
time they emerge and the key there that
requires you to be incredibly nimble and
to rip up your plans for the day if
something else happens please stop
tweeting stump speech quotes everyone
will definitely but sometimes you might
have a big rollout for a big policy and
you're all ready to do it and if Trump
says something and that's the news and
that's an opportunity to really show
what you're made of and
you know why you should be president you
got to kind of rip everything up and you
know like don't don't be don't go off
your strategy you should stick with your
strategy but sometimes you're gonna have
to change your tactics last-minute yeah
I do also think we're in this period
right now where we're talking a lot
about Trump Trump's role in the
administration Trump's role in our
politics Trump's role visa vie Congress
impeachment the inherent powers vested
in Congress versus the executive what
will happen with Bill Barr what will
happen with these classifications and I
do think we are looking to our
presidential candidates to find ways to
move us back to to health care move us
back to the economy move us back to tell
to to the corporate tax cut even as we
are pushing because we are pushing
Congress to focus on impeachment to
focus on the crimes and corruption of
the administration but we also need to
make sure that there's this other flank
of people finding ways to make news
around the issues that are going to
drive a lot of people to the polls okay
when we come back you'll hear Lovitz
interview with ACLU attorney chase
Strang geo
you
that did look like hell on earth but
could you imagine these people deserve
more locked up in a conference
room with a diet coke I'll nut
bar who's watching how cool he is he
vote Fox and Friends and finding things
to get mad about all trip well just sort
of you you put your cut you put your
chair and recline you glanced up that
 mug is staring down at you those
trips are awful for a variety of reasons
I hope it turned it is like that for all
those never that is troubling
Fox and Friends over and over that is
the best punishment it's lying around
Air Force One forever with Donald Rogers
only thinking you're about to land and I
was like nope we're refueling in the air
refueling we're refueling again
you
