let's talk about Howard Schultz we're
gonna talk about it we're gonna talk
about it
yes we must must we no of course we
don't have to I want to all right here's
the thing I like Starbucks I genuinely
like it I know it's not cool I know it's
not local I know they burn the beans but
they burn the beans all right Mario
Batali cool it unbelievable
you know Gardens out there but they
burned the beans like you give a
like you're swilling it and spitting it
into a bucket you
they burned the beans I like it all
right no matter where I go in the
country I can get exactly the same thing
the amount of caffeine it takes to bring
a horse back from the dead and I like
Howard Schultz I mean not as much as I
used to not as much as I did literally a
week ago but as a as an executive
Starbucks has done some pretty
interesting things over many many years
he gave health care to full-time and
part-time employees when a lot of other
companies said the middle class when we
rip it to pieces while Walmart
was hollowing out the Midwest Starbucks
was hiring refugees making it their
mission to hire veterans they were doing
college programs across the country
Starbucks has shown more civic
mindedness than most companies that's
Howard Schultz's achievement that's part
of his case a legitimate case for him to
be president for him to mount a campaign
the thing is the only place for him to
mount that campaign is in the Democratic
primaries and for him to decide to take
his ball and go home is
disgusting
so far to me Howard Schultz is acting
like a restaurant patron marching into
the kitchen to tell the chef that his
gazpacho is cold he launched his
campaign by saying that we need a
positive kind of politics the end of
revenge politics to bring us together
and what are positive what is his
positive form of politics to bring
people together
it is calling Democratic healthcare
proposals on American it's attacking
Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris and
it's having as far as I can tell not a
single positive policy proposal or even
anything of a kind of an argument for
why he ought to be president he has been
doing press for a week now and I have
not heard a substantive argument of
anyone in this room heard a substantive
argument from Howard Schultz as to why
he ought to be President it stands in
such contrast to what the other
Democrats have been doing and I mean
across the political spectrum Howard
Schultz is out there saying there's no
room for him in the Democratic primary
yet his argument in Michael Bloomberg's
argument virtually indistinguishable but
Michael Bloomberg by the way Howard
Schultz is making Michael Bloomberg look
like a Saint
it takes a it takes a lot to say why
won't Howard Schultz show the humility
and lack of ego of Mike Bloomberg
because Mike Bloomberg has more money
than Howard Schultz does all right but
but he's been responsible he clearly
wants to be President and thinks he
should be President but he's looked at
the data thought about it responsibly
not putting himself first and said you
know what I have two choices here I can
run as a Democrat or I can stay on the
outside and try to help the Democrat win
because I am NOT gonna risk the country
to satisfy my desire to run for
president no matter what happens I'm not
gonna use my money to avoid the
persuasion and ordinary course of
campaigning that every other person has
put themselves through P Budaj
mayor of South Bend Indiana he is he has
shown more sense of purpose and mission
and clear hard work and deep thought
into his campaign that Howard Schultz
says has has in the past week he he went
out there and said yeah I'm a mayor but
here's the reason why a mayor should be
present it maybe makes more sense than a
senator here's why it's important that a
young person
wrong here's what we did in South Bend
Indiana here's what I care about here's
what I'm fighting for here's why it
matters that a veteran and an openly gay
person mounted campaign for president
and the reason he has to do that it
because he doesn't have billions of
dollars to skip all the hard
work neither does Kamala Harris neither
does Elizabeth Warren neither does
Kirsten Gillibrand neither does who in
Castro not none of them - except for
Mike Bloomberg who again is a saint put
your ego aside like Mike Bloomberg don't
make it all about you like Mike
Bloomberg
well we un-fuckin'-believable
you know there's been this I think very
small debate about what is what is a
billionaire represents should there even
be billionaires and I'm not really
interested in that debate but the one
thing that is true is that okay is that
one consequence of the fact that we've
allowed so much wealth to accrue to the
hands of so few is that they have a lot
of power they do they have a lot of
power and Howard Schultz doesn't have to
listen to any of us he really doesn't he
can do whatever the he wants he can
run he can get his name on every ballot
he has the money to do it he can skip
this whole debate he doesn't need to
read my open letter hope he does and I
bet he has and he can pay a Democrat in
a Republican to push around a
poll and come up with a new soundbite
every day to push back he can have us he
can have a spokesperson go out there and
say all of this consternation must mean
he's really resonating they can use PR
tactics to get themselves over the hump
of this terrible catastrophic PR week
that he's had but show us some respect
show some respect for your fellow
Americans who don't have the power that
you have who can't use their money to
avoid a conversation show us some
respect at the respect of listening
there you can you claim you care you
claim you're doing this for some silent
majority and the only policy you've come
out against is once supported by a
majority of Democrats Republicans and
independents which is higher taxes on
the wealthy you claim you're doing this
because you love this country but you're
not doing anything to show us that you
care what anyone in this country thinks
and so you know
I don't know how you convince someone
who doesn't need to listen to listen I
don't know but you know I like Starbucks
I have it most mornings I will on all
likely likelihood continue to do so he's
the ex-ceo won't make a big difference
but I will tell you until he actually
decides to listen and stop tried to stop
trying to spin his way out of this the
only hot cup of blonde I'm interested in
is running barrel okay
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
