welcome back to pot save the world Ben
Rhodes is back back in studio in studio
not in a hotel and although you know I
must've been kind of poignant Anais
seeing Jim Baker yes of all this
emotional turmoil with with George HW
Bush passing away Jim Baker was Bush's
Secretary of State chief of staff best
friend
I'm the days in Texas so his passing was
probably very tough on him
yeah interesting we when I got there I
saw Obama and he had just seen George HW
Bush oh really so he is like yeah I got
into town and went right to visit the
guy and yeah so you got to say basically
goodbye to him he always let you know
George Jeb Bush was always very nice to
Obama not many Republicans were and so
they were you know he was always very
gracious to him and so it was a
fortuitous opportunity for him to drop
by and say goodbye essentially yeah well
that's a perfect segue to the first
thing I want to ask you because I think
it's fair to say that George HW Bush was
the most experienced person who ever
took the office of the presidency he ran
the CIA was our envoy to the he was
ambassador to the UN using our envoy to
China as the vice president yeah he's a
member of Congress though that you know
I meant more back then I guess yeah so
you know he gets credit for managing the
fall of the Soviet Union the unification
of Germany for driving Saddam Hussein
out of Kuwait you worked for Baker Baker
former Secretary of State live you're
saying we've both heard Obama talk about
how much he liked George HW Bush and was
impressed by his leadership specifically
the way he led the national security
team yeah in his foreign policy what did
you make of his record generally well
you know if you asked Obama which recent
president he admired the most in terms
of their foreign policy he would always
say George HW Bush you know I think
basically anybody post John F Kennedy
right that's what Obama would say you
know I think if you look at the way in
which he led number one he always put
alliances and international institutions
at the center of what he did which is
almost a stunning thing
given how much his son did not do that
given how much Donald Trump scorns
alliances but essentially you know even
when he pursued the golf war he made
sure that that was a UN Security Council
sanctioned effort he built this
coalition with dozens of countries his
approach to the end of the Cold War was
one that was very much focused on how do
you strengthen international
institutions like the United Nations and
NATO he was pretty aggressive in
pursuing israeli-palestinian peace
you know convening the Madrid conference
that helped lead to the peace deal
between Israel and Jordan
so multilateralism alliances were the
center of his approach to the world he
also didn't kind of beat his chest and
gloat you know this kind of Republican
approach to foreign policy that makes it
kind of this you know you humiliate
other countries it
he didn't spike the football in the Cold
War you know he he he understood that it
would be destabilizing essentially if he
was trying to grind the Russians nose
into the ground that they were so the
soft landing was not you know
preordained and I said Fred Obama say
many times some of the best things you
do as president or the outcomes that
don't happen and so it seems inevitable
right that the peaceful break of the
Soviet Union happened but it wasn't
inevitable and part of the reason why is
that George Bush was he had a very deft
touch in dealing with Gorbachev and
dealing with the newly independent
Soviet republics so that's all to the
good I think you know as we have to
acknowledge that nobody's record is
perfect despite the high geographies we
see you know I think the biggest stain
in terms of his foreign policy legacy
kind of predated his presidency was
iran-contra and his involvement in that
and then ultimately the pardons he
issued for the people involved in
iran-contra which you know contests to
this day because it's a potential
predicate for what Trump may do yeah I'm
gonna dig into all of that
it is funny too we don't do a very good
job in this country I think with putting
ourselves back in the shoes of the
leaders at the time but you know a
reunified Germany wasn't necessarily
gonna be a great thing I think the
kay the French they were understandably
a little worried given world war one
world war two but he managed that
process pretty deathly yeah and that's
why you see you know Angela Merkel
flying all the way across the world to
go to this funeral you know the Germans
recognize that you know he he was an
advocate for the peaceful unification of
Germany at a time when yeah that that
was you know not a foregone conclusion
yeah so you mentioned Israel it is
really interesting to look back at
George HW yeah she's polish on Israel he
used to do battle with the right-wing
Israeli government on settlements in the
West Bank he even went as far as to urge
Congress not to give Israel billions of
dollars in loan guarantees he fought as
you said hard for a two-state solution
and when his administration thought the
Israelis weren't being serious enough
about engaging in peace talks Jim Baker
famously said the White House phone
number is two oh two four five six one
four one four when you're serious about
this call us yes I mean fast forward to
2016 support for a two-state solution
was dropped from the GOP platform before
Bush before Trump even was elected yeah
yeah I mean it was interesting Jim Baker
you know became kind of this boogeyman
with a pack and you know he's been
called an anti-semite you know just
because he pursued you know I think a
balanced view that there needs to be
two-state solution and it was willing to
apply some amount of pressure on Israel
you know mild you know the you know
restricting loan guarantees is not the
same as kind of cutting off all
assistance but you know they were
willing you know it's funny
Obama was called you know anti Israel
and anti-semite for much much milder
things than what George HW Bush and Jim
Baker did so it is an interesting signal
as to how far politics have moved to the
right on on issues related to Israel in
both the Republican Party and in Israel
itself right where you know I think
there was there were governments under
get sucker beam who were willing to work
with the United States it was focused on
promoting peace so you know Bush's
passing highlights a lot of how things
have changed in the last two decades one
of them is that an even-handed approach
to the israeli-palestinian issue and
Israeli conflict that seeks to promote
peace used to be kind of in the
mainstream of the Republican Party and
what establishment figures like Bush 41
and Baker stood for that would be nobody
in Congress would take that position to
a Republican nobody and the Republican
nominee would ever take those positions
so the party has just moved along with
you now in Israel all the way to the
right and in Netanyahu was one of those
people that Baker clash was back in the
day when he was kind of a young
up-and-comer in Israeli politics so you
know what we are truly in a different
world and that's because of the
rightward drift of politics in Israel
and on the politics of Israel in the
United States there with the exception
of Trump I think it's a bipartisan thing
to have clashed with beefiness yes
probably dislike him yes you mentioned
around Contra too so yeah the
iran-contra affair happened when he was
the vice president but it's very much
worth and that I mentioned the quick and
dirty version is that 1985 Reagan's NSC
approved the sale of missiles to Iran in
the hopes that it would secure the
release of US hostages being held in
Lebanon by Shiite terrorist groups this
was during a period of time when we were
sending our diplomats around the globe
saying don't sell arms to Iran lecturing
other countries but we were secretly
doing it a portion of the proceeds of
that arms sale was diverted by Reagan's
NSC and given to the Contras we're an
anti-communist guerrilla group fighting
the Sandinista government in Nicaragua
which was socialist leftist yeah this
violated explicitly the Boland Amendment
which banned direct or indirect US
military support to the Contras Oh
big-time illegal yeah in 92 fast-forward
several years when bush was president on
his way out the door he pardoned several
iran-contra defendants including Caspar
Weinberger Elliott Abrams others and so
you know there's a few pieces of this
thing like there's the pardon element
which really prevented any real
accountability including for himself yes
because they were in the process of
trying to get his notes to figure out
what he knew and when but bigger picture
it was part of a bunch of policies the
u.s. was supporting at the time in the
80s of propping up fascists and giving
money for death squads in Central
America so you know we talked a little
bit about this last week but not great
can we just Tommy do like episode
72 in the Benghazi hypocrisy yes please
the bought what sold weapons to
Iran to launder money to death squad
like it is insane that that ever
happened like it's one of the things
you're on contra just sounds like
something that maybe you heard about
once when you peel back the layers of
what was happening and these are like
the most senior people at the NSC
involved in these meetings right
thinking about like well we're gonna
deal with the Iranian Revolutionary
Government right like in pretty soon
after Khomeini overthrew the Shah we're
gonna deal with these people so that we
can launder money against the law
because Congress has blocked us from
doing this to some death squads in
Central America imagine being in the
meeting when that came up someone had
that idea I mean okay so just put that
aside for a second and and then actually
when you look at this you know Bush 41
you know I think it's - two of the
things that people rightly criticized
you one is in you guys probably dealt
with some PSA but like the the
bare-knuckle politics that he would farm
out right there Willie Horton stuff but
on the other thing is sometimes the the
club' loyalty that people admire rise it
has a dark side you know when you're you
know he was at the RNC around Watergate
you know he was at the CIA you know when
you know they're kind of coming out of
the church here's church coming years
but then on a Ron contra he pardons all
these guys it matters to him because if
the Weinberger trial went forward right
because they were prosecuting Weinberger
Bush's diary he kept a diary apparently
when he's vice president could have been
you know put forward as evidence and and
I think the widely held belief is it
would have demonstrated that Bush was in
some of these meetings right the and
it's not uncommon as you know for the
vice president's times to chair or
participate in NSC meetings and that the
trail was living up to bush and so he
pardons all these guys and part of what
he does is that you know gets the heat
off of him the prosecutor is long
complained that Bush essentially averted
accountability for what he did and I
just say like it's pretty remarkable to
hear those names I mean Ollie north is
now the head of the NRA Elliott Abrams
went on to serve in a very senior deputy
national security visor role under
Bush's son you know it's kind of one of
the leading Republican voices on foreign
policy so these guys really got pass for
some pretty extreme political activity
and and so again I think that the the
darker side of the legacy on iran-contra
is it's the same thing that frankly
Bush's son did not do for Scooter Libby
right did we just take care of our own
even when they do you know pretty
illegal terrible and and I do think
that it's worth people taking another
look at iran-contra and unpacking that
because it does speak to a view of you
know if we're Republicans we can do
whatever the hell we want you know we
can break the law we can funnel arms
against Congress's will to death squads
you know we can be hypocrites and deal
with the Iranians if Democrats so much
as you know invite some talking points
we don't like we're gonna investigate
them for four years I think a Ron contra
is a case study and how they think the
rules don't apply to them and and that's
a thread that you can draw through the
Iraq war intelligence you know all the
way to today yeah I mean in our day the
the NSC gone wild was when people are
being micromanage educated that yeah yes
selling arms through another country and
funneling them to a terrorist group by
the way if you're listening and you are
like what the hell is Iran Contra there
is an incredible book called the
nightingale song which is by a
journalist named Robert Tim Burke which
tracks this Naval Academy graduating
class of like 1968 which is a lot of
people you mentioned who were involved
in iran-contra bud McFarlane Jim Webb
who became a Democratic senator from
Virginia and their time in Vietnam and
how it later informed some of the things
they did in iran-contra it's one of the
best books I've ever read so and and you
know just one more thing on this is like
it wasn't like some fringe set of
characters and issues right these were
like the inside players and these were
the preeminent foreign policy issues at
the time you know the fight against
communism Central America Iran getting
the hostages released so this is like
manure to get our minds around how much
this was at the center
the Reagan White House the Reagan annecy
in how you know the the Democrats were
pretty judicious and how they went about
investigating it they didn't wasn't a
gotcha thing it was like let's pull the
thread up and get these facts and Bush
did kind of just take an eraser and wipe
the chalkboard clean here at the end of
his presidency so as long as we're
talking about intelligence and
politicizing intelligence there was some
breaking news today which was after the
Trump White House initially refused to
allow it
CIA director Gina Hass well finally gave
a classified briefing to some select
members of the Senate about the murder
of Saudi journalist Jamal khashoggi
senators emerge from that meeting
totally convinced that the Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman or MBS ordered
Khashoggi execution Senator Lindsey
Graham said that while there was no
smoking gun there was quote a smoking
saw well sound by him referring to how
he was dismembered bob Corker said quote
if the crown prince went in front of a
jury he would be convicted in 30 minutes
that stands in a pretty stark contrast
to trump who still claims the see I
didn't conclusively show that MBS was
involved and it seems to go further than
whatever spin secretary mattis and
secretary Pompeo offered to the full
Senate last week when they briefed so
what the hell happens next it seems like
an enormous deal it's an enormous
scandal I mean you know basically what
we now know is that NBS orders the
brutal murder of this journalist in a
third country and and we knew about it
you know the CIA clearly had information
if you read the reports right no
surprise to anyone one of the reasons
Tommy some of us were so confident and
asserting that like we must have known
this is because anybody you know I don't
think it reveals anything to say that
anybody knows works in US government
knows it like the Saudis are a country
where we might have a pretty good idea
what's going on based on our
intelligence collection right so that
whole time the reason this matters for a
number number one that whole time trump
was saying well we don't know what
happened this could have been rogue
killers Trump is probably sitting on
information that said M yes did this so
again I know we get used to the lies
from him on everything but for him to be
sitting on
information from the CIA that says the
Saudis brutally murdered this guy an MBS
director did and he's out there lying
and venting cover stories and singing my
damn real killers that is astonishing to
begin with right then second he
basically puts out that wackadoodle
statement saying you know America first
and I don't really care whether he did
it or not we're gonna be all in on Saudi
Arabia you know at the same time he
sends up Jim mattis who you know we used
to always hear these hey geography's
about Jim mattis being the grown-up in
the room and you know in in Mike Pompeo
who was supposed to kind of restore the
State Department's position to basically
lie to Congress I mean if you look
Pompeo is up there saying well you know
there's no direct reporting of NBS being
responsible and Jim Madison there's no
smoking gun for EM yes being responsible
they said that to Congress and they said
that publicly and and now we hear from
actually Gina Haspel via these senators
that that's totally lie that the CIA
actually does have indications that NBS
is responsible to be even more specific
I mean the the Wall Street Journal
reported that the CIA intercepted eleven
messages that Mohammed bin Salman sent
to an advisor who we know oversaw the
hit squad yeah at the time that they
were murdering him yeah and so it seems
like as smoking a gun as you will ever
find
yeah the CIA's not Sherlock Holmes like
they don't necessarily like you know
dusts fingerprints at the site of the
scene they collect intelligence and if
they have intercepts that show he's
literally talking to the guy who's
carrying out the operation that's as
ironclad as a CI can get and saying this
guy did it
so let's be very clear about what
happened Mike Pompeo lied to Congress
and this isn't a man who spent four
years investigating Benghazi who thought
the Trey Gowdy's Benghazi report wasn't
partisan enough so he would a Minority
Report to register some additional
attacks on Hillary Clinton a lot of that
had to do with whether we mislead people
he literally stands up on the most
prominent issue in the world today and
lies to Congress's face about it right
there need to be consequences like we
can't just accept this as normal that
the president states can lie about this
then you can send the Secretary of State
and secretary defends up there to lie
about it
while he's coddling MBS he's acting
essentially as his defense attorney to
try to cover this murder up that that
that's bad for every interest United
States has are whether we care about
freedom the press whether we care about
Saudi Arabia's out-of-control foreign
policy and Yemen our standing in the
world all this is suffering because of
this macquaire Trump has been bought and
bought and paid for by the Saudis so I
think the Democratic House needs to get
this information out in front of
Congress and out to the public if the CI
has this assessment I don't know why it
has to be classified they don't have to
put out intercepts as the Journal
reports they can put out that they think
the MDS is responsible the we put out
public assessments all the time and I
think the Democrats should insist on
airing this facts and should insist on
some accountability for these Trump
officials who have been lying about yeah
Chris Murphy I saw tweeted today that we
over classify everything and that we
shall put out as much as we can about
what we know when we knew it I you know
I would love to see Adam Schiff hold
hearings and maybe they're classified
hearings at first but they could figure
out what was in the PDB president's
daily briefing the most highly
classified intelligence product in the
world and went yeah and lay that down on
a calendar against his public statements
if we can figure out if he was lying or
not and they hopefully can figure out
what if any investment he or Jared
Kushner have in Saudi Arabia because
that definitely seems relevant there's
no there's no other explanation yeah I
mean Trump's numbers of arms sales that
he keeps putting out we know our lives
they've never bunked over and over again
so it's got to be something else yeah
and you know what this is like that kind
of assessment was probably pretty widely
circulated oh yeah you probably would
have gotten that as NSE spokesperson and
what I was like cool
binders but but you know what I love the
did they did the Defense Intelligence
yeah pictures of missiles and show you
what you you know after you left I think
there was a budget cut because it went
from being on that glossy paper to being
kind of stapled it was kind of a sad
America and declined moment the Defense
Intelligence I just no writer the glossy
sorry intelligent products were so fun
but anyway back to this I mean I I think
that there's got to be some sunlight on
this thing and again it has huge
ramifications for our foreign policy
because he you know MBS could have been
on the ropes
he's might've decided to make a change
and not have this kind of you know
murderous dictator in charge yeah but
Trump basically gave him a lifeline and
we need to know why when you know why
Trump is lying to us about it when you
do and why people like Mike Pompeo think
that they go up in lie in front of
Congress yeah so one good piece of news
the g20 just happened a few major things
out of that first is that Mohammed bin
Salman MBS was treated like a pariah
yeah some of the videos are coming yeah
all right no one would talk to him there
he's like this nerd standing like
waiting for everyone be the guy waiting
the lunch table it's exactly McCrone
wouldn't was like rome wouldn't sit down
with his balcony who's good that's a
good thing I found it disconcerting and
odd that the Russians had just attacked
a couple Ukrainian vessels and had was
like still holding their sailors hostage
yeah that was not at all the focus of
the g20 that's the kind of international
forum where you should pressure them on
this stuff lastly the White House came
out of the meeting claiming the Trump
and Chinese President Xi Jinping had
essentially hit pause on the trade war
that they would us would suspend adding
tariffs on Chinese goods for 90 days you
know fast forward two days it's not at
all clear what was actually agreed to
Larry Kudlow said that China would buy
more US agricultural products and autos
and couldn't explain how or why or you
know how that would work with the WTO
rules so the stock market jumps 400
points when they first announced this
today Tuesday it's down 750 points the
dowel yeah so this is like roiling
markets things are a mess this trade war
is ongoing so you know not great yeah
tariffs man i here's what i think is
happening you know I actually think I
know what is happening here which is I
always feel somewhat nervous and
suggesting I haven't understanding what
Trump is thinking what's going to bite
us
so this trade war that he started with
China without thinking through you know
he's been ratcheting it up and it's
begun to put some real strains on the
global economy right the Chinese economy
might be slowing down inflation could go
up here right because part of what
happens when you put tariffs on things
is prices go up and that can drive up
inflation and that can help
to an economic slowdown right so there
are a number of different factors where
Trump's trade war with China could be
accelerating the potential for a
recession here and he was scheduled to
put in place a pretty dramatic and
draconian additional round of tariffs on
January first what I five percent twenty
five percent the Chinese would surely
feel that they needed to respond and so
this risk of there being a recession
would go up with each escalation of the
trade war so the people around Trump
replies saying him hey look the one
thing that will guarantee that you are
not reelect 'add is a recession right
like those thirty five percent of the
people that we always talk about they
always vote for Trump no matter what no
they always vote for him so long as like
they can just vote on their racism
because they're not worried about the
economy going off a cliff like if we
really start seeing an economic downturn
here
I think he's toast so on the one hand
he's got some advisors saying you gotta
figure out a way to just do what you
done after like declare victory I say
say the crisis is over and I won and get
an off-ramp and then he's got some
hardliners who actually want the trade
war with China and they deeply believe
in taking this all the way and and
trying to break the Chinese essentially
and Trump actually is one of those
people like he's one of the only things
that he's been consistent on his whole
life is these protections trade
attitudes and I think we are seeing the
schizophrenia play out you know I think
Trump understood that he had to say for
the sake of markets and mistake of the
economy yeah we got some deal and he was
doing the play of I won you know and I
got these concessions but there was
nothing there underneath it because they
didn't really make a deal they made a
deal to not escalate and to talk about
it and that's such a Chinese thing the
Chinese love that set up a process set
up like 20 bureaucrats come talk to 20
of our bureaucrats and you just kind of
string it along and so that's clear what
the Chinese want to do in the Trump
people don't seem to know what the deal
is that they're trying to sell here yeah
right and so that's why we're caught in
this ambiguous place where there wasn't
really any deal the deal was to not
escalate further and to talk about it
the Trump people need to sell something
though so they're trying to sell
different pieces of what they want
nobody can understand what's going on
here and again at a certain point the
Trump people are time to choose are we
going to risk
sending the economy over a cliff because
we're so invested in this trade board
China or we gonna put some lipstick on a
pig and say well because the Chinese
agreed to buy few more products in these
sectors even though they didn't really
address our concerns like we won this
big victory like you did a NAFTA and I
think I think it'll probably be the
latter
but who knows yeah there's just massive
massive political risk to our economy
economic risk yeah I don't think that
people have priced into the market it's
not really full they really haven't it's
because people didn't think that the
United States would kind of shoot itself
in the face yeah like these like our
economy's going well like you know
getting tough with China makes sense but
these kind of across-the-board things
that have already heard you know
billions of dollars out of American
industries like jobs lost like
potentially responsibility for those GM
plant closings right this is a
ramification and I think a lot of the
stuff that Trump does where it's so
difficult about dealing with Trump is
the consequence is particular in foreign
policy they don't become apparent right
away but they're gonna become apparent
like all these chickens are gonna come
home to roost for what he's doing and
we're starting to see them that happened
on trade it's gonna happen on more and
more things right and and the kind of
real-world consequences of this reality
show presidency are just beginning to
kind of come on board and you see that
in Mohamed Salman's killing of khashoggi
you see that in you know GM plant
closures you know you see that in the
the fraying essentially of US alliances
and it's just gonna get worse this is
all because he's got a trade adviser
named Peter Navarro that Jared Kushner
found cause he googled like book on
China yeah yeah Amazon and that's how
they hire the guy literally true the
other striking thing out of the g20 was
that the 19 of the 20 leaders put out a
joint statement renewing their
commitment to the Paris climate Accords
and we were the only nation that didn't
sign it now obviously no surprise yeah
but I'm pulled out of it as of last week
said he doesn't think climate change is
real but it you know it is maybe as
glaring example of our isolation on the
world stages you could think of yeah and
like how are you gonna explain this and
like I mean how do we explain it now I
don't know but 10 or 20 years from now
when like the has really hit the
fan
at Gordon California look at these with
fires getting worse every year like
we've talked about the consequence of
climate change to be able to have
someone come back in time from 20 years
from now and look at the fact that the
United States of America literally had a
president who denied that climate change
existed the only country in the world I
mean there's not 20 of g20 we're the
only country in the world that's on the
Paris agreement you know despite all the
evidence that is hitting us in the face
about this I mean this is the the most
morally catastrophic thing that mac'n
fronted with today and I do think if
Democrats running for president in 2020
you know just because we're on pot save
the world here climate change is the
leading national security issue facing
our country it will be for the next 50
years it's time to start framing climate
changes the national security issue for
a lot of reasons including the fact that
we're spending almost a trillion dollars
on defense budget if you actually
allocated money based on what actual
threats are risking we should be
spending a trunk of that on climate
mitigation and clean energy yeah just to
button up something from last week I
mean we briefly talked about the yellow
vest protests in France over the game
attacks and and I guess today this
morning president McCrone blinked and
walked back and said he's going to
suspend the tax though increase that was
slated for January for at least six
months so you know I don't I'm not
saying these things are related but
tough politics on these decisions
yeah and we're not giving him any cover
wouldn't work no denying the existence
of climate change over here well and
that's one of those that Trump did that
piss me off that you know is when he
denying climate change he said well the
Chinese pollute their environment and
it's drifting over here or something
but again he's giving a pass to the
Chinese Indians all these other
countries who we need to do more because
they're just pointing at us and say well
the Americans are falling behind on
their targets so at a time when we need
everybody be doing more on climate he's
giving people an excuse to do less you
were totally right that this protest got
worse for McCrone worse than I thought
but again it's because you know if he's
the only one doing some of these steps
it seems like climate change is this
kind of elitist concern and not a
concern that is going to affect everyday
people it gets harder for political
leaders to take hard decisions and you
know a guy like McCrone he's not gonna
be able to do that alone no sure not so
later in the show
Kelly max-min and I are gonna talk about
Elizabeth Warren's foreign policy speech
but but more broadly I mean it is the
season yeah for everyone to go out and
give their big framing speech because
some advisor says you need to look like
a commander-in-chief if you were
advising Kamala Harris or better or or
core you know any of the many people who
might run for president what would you
want to hear from them on the trailer
what's what's new and different and how
would you frame it I think what will be
interesting is who can come up with a
message that doesn't just sound like I'm
giving my commander-in-chief speech so I
can clear some DC blob threshold right
and so that for people from the Council
on Foreign Relations can put out
statements saying that they welcome my
reaffirmation of the us-saudi strategic
partnership morning Joe today is the
speech I gave yeah I mean I I think what
you what will be very interesting is who
can find the way to connect the energy
of the activists who won the Congress
for us in 2018 and translate that into
foreign policy positions in other words
like what is a way to make people who
feel like they're excited about a
foreign policy platform I think who can
be bold and saying and laying out how
they're gonna end these wars right we're
gonna get out of Afghanistan and and no
we're not gonna half get out we're gonna
get out of Afghanistan it's it's it's
been 20 people are fighting there who
were born after the war started like
it's time to bring that war to an end
it's time to terminate our support for
the Saudi born Yemen it's time to end
our armed sells to Saudi Arabia it's
time to rethink our entire approach to
the militarization of our foreign policy
across the Middle East it's time for a
new authorization for the use of
military force so that we're not in this
endless war rooted in a law that was
passed in 2002 right so I think one
piece of this is being unapologetic and
having a vision
we're gonna wind down the wars I think a
second thing is is looking at the
defense budget right which by the way
Democrats have been terrified to talk
about every election cycle right Trump
attacked his own budget on Twitter like
two days well even you know he's figured
out that it's too high but it's I mean
I'll just give you one statistic we were
gonna spend up to a trillion dollars
modernizing our nuclear weapons
infrastructure over the next decade
that's the same we shouldn't be spending
anywhere near that and again what if you
took that money and spent on climate
change and and you know what make the
argument just just make the argument we
don't need all these these these Cold
War era bombers that we're still
building we don't need to develop a new
ICBM right we need to be preparing for
the threat of climate change catastrophe
right and so somebody's speaking to
reallocating our priorities and comes
the defense budget and focusing on
national security but let's focus on our
actual actual national security threats
and that's got to deal with a serious
challenge from climate change if you
were you know I'm not a big management
consultant guy but if you were to come
down from you know outer space and look
at what are the threats facing United
States and what do you spend money on we
spend money to fight wars that we're not
gonna fight and we don't spend money you
prepare for the thing that is gonna
cause conflict and mass migration and
and in huge national security challenges
so that's the second piece of this is
our budget our priorities how do we deal
with climate I think someone who can
articulate what it means for America to
promote democracy again and connect the
fact that we have to get our democracy
know at home right so getting getting
rid of voter suppression like assuring
the right to vote in this country is
connected to preventing Russian
interference in our election and having
better cybersecurity around our
elections and combating disinformation
in our societies and dealing with the
tech companies because it's a national
security risk that you have foreign
powers undermining our democracy so
someone who can tell a story about
strengthen our democracy at home and
then promoting democratic values abroad
and standing up to the saudi arabia's of
the world and standing up to putin again
and once again trying to rally other
countries for the things that we care
about right so we could go down a whole
list of other issues but I think
somebody who can find that that energy
that people feel about you know we want
to focus on the right priorities the
things that we actually care about we
want to
store our democracy we want to have
America stand for something again in the
world someone who can can touch that
cord and not just check the boxes I
think will be someone who can make their
foreign policy message resonate and you
know we did that in o8 but a lot of that
was around the Iraq war but it's also
around diplomacy with Iran right
remember like in you and I was like
remember at first people thought that
was a mistake in anything a winner cuz
it was authentic that's how I've been
think about to what is so the the there
was a debate where Obama said that he
would talk without preconditions to all
kinds of bad people and bad places North
Korea Iran Cuba and that was treated not
just by the Republican Party but by
Washington DC is the craziest thing ever
spoken yeah and by the way it worked out
fine for Obama Hillary Clinton
implemented those policies yeah Donald
Trump has continued them so here we are
I'm wondering like what is that what
does that moment gonna be what does that
issue maybe it's unknowable but I
certainly I would want to be doing
exactly what you're talking about which
is how do we get people to give a
about foreign policies most of the time
they don't iraq made it easy for us but
you know you need to organize around an
issue and get people inspired by
something yeah and i don't you know
we'll be interesting you know people
care about the wars they care about
sacrificing our moral authority they
care about our democracy they care about
climate change they I think the budget
the defense budget is like this kind of
thing that did somebody could have a
moment on right because you know half
the candidates want to sound like well I
think we should spend even more you know
give give the generals everything they
need you know and somebody standing up
and calling on that because
that's what Obama did on the diplomacy
with Iran is he's called it's
like guys who tried not talking to them
and they keep advancing their nuclear
program and people in Iowa appreciated
that he was telling the truth right so I
think whoever can find a moment where
they call on some of these you
know prescribed foreign policy positions
I think that would be a good moment for
you me too
well I think we're about out of time but
in a minute we'll go to the interview
with Kelly and I'm very excited to
preview the next week the former US
ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro oh man
a longtime friend of ours when the NSC
is going to be here in Los Angeles in
studio with us so we get to ask him all
about Bibi getting indicted yeah his
experience when he left the
you know the cocoon of the NSC to go
spread his wings abroad yeah and all
kind of other yeah dan like every
time for like four years was the man
that Bibi would call him to chew out
when Obama does it go Bibi didn't have
the guts often the you know it always
call Obama right so he just kinda I
think poor Dan take a lot of meds but
you Dan spoke we didn't talk him to the
next time but he became this kind of
mini celebrity in Israel because he
spoke perfect Hebrew and even though he
you know was controversial issues on
Iran and stuff he would always talk to
these really people directly in the
language they understood so I'll be fun
he's also just he's a good dude
impossibly nice guy yeah the nicest guy
uh Ben yeah Ben's fun
yeah you talk to you guys next week yeah
you
