people fell for the tinder one what was
the sender one that they were gonna have
height verification see it seems like
they some of them work Tommy yeah those
are funny ones yeah all right what's
this
welcome to pod save not a good start
welcome to pod save America I'm Jon
Favreau I'm Jon Lovett Tommy Vitor later
on the pod you'll hear Lovitz interview
with Planned Parenthood president dr.
Lena Wynn about the latest legal
assaults on women's health we're also
going to talk about Trump's post
collusion presidency and all the latest
twenty20 Democratic primary rules that
hurts we're in a post collusion universe
colors are brighter love it how was the
show this week we had a emergency show
we had a surprise love it or leave it to
cover the Muller news with Emily Heller
Jamil Smith and Mitra jeuhjori we had a
great time we had breaking down the bar
book report check it out really really
great episode Tommy you got anything to
say about pod save the world yes we
talked about brexit we talked about the
fighting in Gaza we talked about the
claim that Isis has been defeated and
then a longer conversation about the
need to get rid of a nuclear weapon so
two names a lot pot save-the-world
chock-a-block with policy brexit that's
all happening right it's through the
gift shop it's a rolling disaster it
sounds like it also there's a few
tickets left to our New England shows
come see us pod save America go to a
cricut.com slash events and you can
scoop up those last few tickets to
Boston and in Concord Boston's going
Concord is going they're almost gone all
right let's get to the news we have been
told that the clouds have lifted over
Donald Trump's White House that his
presidency has been reset
due to the fact that he hasn't been
charged as a Russian co-conspirator so
let's see what the American people are
saying according to a new NBC news/wall
Street Journal poll 40 percent say they
do not believe Trump has been cleared
and 1/3 of Americans say they're not
sure if Trump has been cleared of
wrongdoing only 29 percent say that he's
been totally cleared that includes
nearly half of independence who aren't
sure if that he's been cleared of
wrongdoing and about a quarter of both
Democrats and Republicans a Washington
Post poll found
only 32% say Trump has been exonerated
on obstruction while the public is
evenly split on whether Trump committed
wrongdoing in terms of Russian
interference in a CNN poll last week a
majority 56% says the president and his
campaign have not been exonerated of
collusion but that what they've heard a
read about the report shows collusion
cannot be proven also the 43 percent who
say the president has been exonerated is
about the same as the 42 percent who
said that in an earlier CNN poll that
Trump's campaign did include with
Russians suggesting that the summary
letter released last Sunday did little
if anything to move public opinion on
this matter
Trump's approval rating also has not
really moved guys what do these numbers
tell you so I think there's a reason to
be cautious one thing that is also true
about polls like this is it does take
time polls are lagging indicators they
take it takes time for the information
to move through like the sort of first
level of people paying attention very
closely all the way to people that
aren't paying attention at all that said
I think it does sort of reflect the way
the coverage the way the coverage played
out because of the bar letter right
there there was a the the coverage was
really about you know was the president
vindicated on collusion maybe was the
president vindicated on obstruction
absolutely not right I think it's a fair
reading of the kind of 30,000 foot view
of the coverage but I mean it was most
interesting that the public opinion is
accurate according to the information
out there right right and the other
thing about it too is it like these are
polls taken at a very strange moment
that will only exist for between two and
three weeks between the bar between
finding out that Muller is done and
seeing some actual text by Muller and we
don't know exactly what we'll see or
when we'll see it but we are in a kind
of liminal phase of the ball of the
Muller report so I think it's
interesting I think it speaks to the
importance of the fight we're having
right now about keeping the focus on
getting the actual document and it
speaks to the fact that as of right now
it's playing out as you'd expect Muller
purgatory yeah yeah I think the most
important title hold on I think the most
important number in these polls is that
eighty percent of the country wants the
full report to be released that's the
key here so we need to keep him a hammer
on that it's also a reminder of how hard
it is to get something to break through
like across the country this is still
mostly a DC story there's a bunch of
people who really aren't sure so the the
the bar book blurb the news of it broke
along partisan lines and I like that
should no longer surprise us on
literally any issue and it's gonna take
a lot for Democrats to break Trump's
stranglehold on his bases understanding
of any issue because he has a right-wing
media apparatus at ass disposal all day
every day called Fox News and then all
the that's worse to the right of it
and so our goal has to be to get full
access to the molar report and then
continue with additional oversight to
figure out like what salient details are
in there what things we should be
talking about and in general because the
numbers they're gonna move right it's
lagging indicator it's gonna take some
time but it's good to know that the
early panic that the shitty shitty first
reports that said he was exonerated
didn't totally penetrate yeah I mean if
you watched Fox News if that's how you
get your information or you get your
information from right-wing media you
think he's exonerated and everything's
wonderful if you watch CNN MSNBC the
network's if you read the New York Times
The Washington Post you probably come
away with the more nuanced few or these
numbers also say that since there's a
lot of Americans who aren't sure that
this isn't an issue that is really
breaking through yet so maybe they watch
this in the background but this is not
what people are thinking about every day
of their lives yeah I mean it's worth
remembering right like people who pay
attention closely like us were awaiting
not only the Muller report but aware of
someone named Bill Barr and his
involvement his previous views right
like there are a lot of people who never
heard of Bill Bar right you don't
necessarily know who the Attorney
General the United States is it's not
someone he's not someone that's been
very prominent he was just concerned
star yet he's not listen that he's a
let's call Bill Barr what he is a rising
star not really does his duet with Trump
on stage at the big event finally get
his due
so someone you've never heard of has a
report that's a mixed bag like I don't
know what you take away from it but if
you're but it certainly makes sense that
you wouldn't be totally sure yeah I
think Tommy's poor point is important
here which is like and that that what
these numbers should tell Democrats is
forge ahead with doing whatever is
necessary to get this report and there's
a report this
morning Monday morning that Democrats
are preparing to subpoena the full
report the evidence the underlying
evidence in trying to get all the goods
so they have they have wheeled out the
subpoena cannon subpoena
yeah yeah they uh they've lit the fuse
laws they like you know Nadler is hand
with a little spark above the fuse
waiting to light it yeah I mean one of
the other polls if he was ABC Wall
Street Journal 50 hours our ABC
Washington Post 51% said the findings
made no difference in their vote that's
significant but also interestingly 54%
say Congress should not begin
impeachment hearing so I'm clearly
Pelosi has known this for a long time a
lot of more moderate members have known
this so you know all data points to be
aware of but not necessarily let us
drive our actions yeah you got a wonder
who the voters are there I'm sorry you
got to wonder who the voters are out
there who are thinking of themselves
like you know I was so so on Trump I'm
not sure how I'm gonna vote in 2020 sort
of waiting to see how deep this
collusion or obstruction really is well
you know it actually that's a good point
too because like I think as we get
further away from the weekend of
insanity attempt title you sort of
sorted okay what what actually happened
and I think what actually happened is
the molar report didn't fundamentally
change the dynamic in the country now it
could have right had he produced
something it still may still may right
depending on what's in the actual report
but the fact that as of right now like
we haven't seen there weren't new
indictments there wasn't any new
revelation at least in the bar memo it
kind of means that where we are is at a
status quo ante what's the status quo
ante most Americans don't like Donald
Trump most Americans aren't planning to
reelect Donald Trump most Americans are
very suspicious of Donald Trump in his
criminality right like I sort of we're
kind of left where we were before this
where we start it right it didn't help
us too much but as of right now based on
these polls and what we've seen so
marked so far didn't hurt us either and
didn't Republicans have not broken ranks
in any way shape or form nor would you
expect them to based on what we've read
so far but I mean a lot of people have
drawn the comparison between this report
and in the broader issue with
iran-contra and the way Republicans just
hunker down and battled it out and
didn't give a about that headlines
until they ultimately pardoned all the
wrongdoers I thought that wasn't
interesting yeah
Jamelle Bouie I think yeah and yet as we
look ahead towards 2020 we remember that
in 2016 a significant chunk of Americans
voted for Donald Trump even though they
highly disapproved of him yeah there was
a there was a poll there warning sign
there was a poll that I think uh that um
Meet the Press put out that said
basically like above 50% of Americans
are very uncomfortable voting to reelect
Donald Trump and I wanted to just quote
and be like but they're gonna do it
anyway you know it's like there is still
that that that possibility that's always
worth keeping in mind so now that
Trump's presidency has been reset he's
trying something brand new demagoguing
immigrants after mocking asylum seekers
as part of a quote big fat con job
during a speech last week the president
is now threatening to deal with
increased border crossings by closing
the us-mexico border completely and
cutting off assistance to three Central
American countries where the migrants
and asylum seekers are coming from what
would it mean to completely close the
border
well Mexico is our third largest trading
partner so it would be incredibly
disruptive a half a million people half
a million people legally cross the
us-mexico border every day via Texas
ports of entry alone there's six hundred
eleven billion dollars would be in
cross-border trade last year so I mean
that's just them and that's just the
coke so okay so the economic impact
would be massive I mean like if a
thousand trucks worth of produce and
meats just rot and go bad you don't get
that back it also you know it also come
again with all things Trump it
completely misses the problem which is
an increased number of asylum seekers
right well that that's the key there
right I mean what he's talking about is
shutting down ports of entry where
people and goods come in legally and
that doesn't stop migrants because
what's happening is the migrants are
turning themselves in to Border Patrol
agents many of them as soon as they
cross the border and even where the
words there's fencing in wall the
fencing happens a little bit inland from
the actual border so all they have to do
is step across the border talk to the
Border Patrol agent and say I'm seeking
asylum and by law they have to they can
apply for asylum and Trump has tried to
overturn that or say that they can't do
that and the courts have already
told him he can't do that so this would
not do anything but create an economic
crisis I mean trade specialists say that
the economic consequences of a complete
shutdown would be immediate and severe
with automakers and American farmers
among the first to feel the pain great
so like I mean every everyone thinks
this is crazy but again like you know
people thought that like sending
American troops to the border was also
crazy that you know trying to build a
wall when you didn't get a wall passed
through Congress was crazy and then he
keeps doing these things anyway yeah I
mean he's also threatened to do this
before and hasn't done it but he's also
threatened to do this before and has
sort of tested out brief shutdowns um
you know to the point about I think it's
you know he's again he's a raptor he's
testing defenses but with the it's worth
stopping on this idea of him saying
these asylum seekers are faking it it's
all a con job right because obviously
it's inhumane and despicable but it's
but why is he doing that and it's about
sending a signal to his people to say
don't feel compassionate like fight that
urge to feel compassion and it speaks to
I think what has made his immigration
policy not just you know vicious but
also unpopular and unworkable that like
he's fighting against not only practical
matters like trade he's also fighting
against the compassion even of his own
people he's trying to convince millions
of people that follow him closely that
are his base like when you see these
images you don't have to feel like don't
feel don't well and you know the White
House pointed to a Washington Post piece
where they said some asylum seekers have
been coached right or some some migrants
have been coached to pretend to be
asylum seekers right but what he does to
his base is say this is all of them
right pour in a vast vast majority are
escaping violence are escaping brutality
are trying to get here you know is I
mean they're they're in 2015 Doctors
Without Borders did a survey this was
when Donald Trump was still a little Fox
and Friends fever dream and right and
they found then that 39 percent of
northern triangle migrants so Guatemala
Honduras El Salvador left home because
of threats of physical harm right so
that's an enormous reason why there's
migration and now the other piece of the
puzzle here is he wants to cut off all
assistance to those countries so money
designed to improve the situation on the
ground create job training community
policing like basic infrastructure
to keep people safe and there is
evidence that these programs actually
reduce violence which reduces
immigration so like I think you have to
step back and say okay why are we doing
two things that are either
self-defeating or just stupid one he's
an idiot and he's cruel I think that's
always an option or two he wants the
crisis to get worse yeah he wants to run
on this crisis he wants press attention
to focus on drastic actions no matter
how dumb or self-defeating it might be
and that's what is gonna be his campaign
for in perpetuity and we saw it with the
caravan we saw it 2018 we saw it 2016 so
like I think we need to go on offense as
soon as humanly possible and like the
press needs to figure out how to cover
stupid like this yeah we all know
is not actually gonna improve the
problem well as you point out I mean
this is obviously the issue that Trump
keeps coming back to it's the issue he
spends the most time on in his stump
there's gonna be a new Caravan or two
every month between now and the election
how much should Democrats engage on this
and what should they say Tommy you made
a point the other day when we were
talking about this that one thing
Democrats could start saying is that you
know Trump just he hasn't fixed the
problem like it's a broken immigration
system and he's made it worse he acts
like you gotta let our elected yesterday
and then in some point we need to say
you've been president for two plus years
and you have failed you have failed to
deal with the immigration problem things
have gotten worse you can't control the
border the one thing you promised you
would do to build a wall to stop illegal
immigration you have failed that you are
a failure as a president on this matter
and on all others so we need a new
approach and my I think that this will
probably be a tough sell but you know
you lay out a night a program where you
work with countries to stop undocumented
migration before it starts by making
them more safe so some of the funding
and assistance we talked about we
stopped talking with the stupid wall but
we actually produced like technology and
other smart border fencing to deal with
the problem and then you know you
probably make a big values point about
family separation in leading with our
values in being a nation of immigrants
and like I don't know that that would
work foreign aid is not an easy sell
it's not a popular program but if you're
telling people we're either going to
spend half a billion dollars on a wall
in the middle of the desert that you can
get over with a ladder or half a billion
dollars in countries to try to make it
so people don't want to leave them maybe
you can make that argument I don't know
some people are trying I know better
works try and Castro is trying
so but we need to go on offense about
this like yeah I can't sit back and just
say no wall no offense and let him
hammer us until Election Day yeah I
think the point that Democrats don't
make enough is we always say that his
immigration policy is cruel which it is
but it's also dumped right it doesn't
work you know right what's your
inhumanity gotten us right you know you
you rewrite children from their parents
to try to dissuade people from coming
they're still coming you pretend you're
building a wall but you don't yeah you
act as though you're changing the rules
and making it harder to be here you've
unleashed ice to make life miserable
attempt to introduce even greater kind
of mercurial threats like just sort of
you know unrelenting unpredictable
threats into the lives of undocumented
people who we told to come here to get
the jobs that were waiting for them and
yet border crossings are up you know
asylum claims are you know they're down
you they're not at a record level if
they once were but they're up like these
are the you know you claim that our
humanity was was we couldn't we had too
much humanity at the border and what is
human Humanity gotten us it's made
everything worse so even though Trump
won as an immigration demagogue in 2016
part of his appeal was also this faux
populism where he pretended that he was
gonna break with the Republican Party on
economics he did do that on trade he
didn't do it anywhere else
he gave rich people a tax cut he tried
to take away people's health care and it
went very badly for his party in the
2018 midterms and yet over the last few
weeks
Trump's administration has renewed their
assault on the Affordable Care Act which
they want to eliminate and they have
released a budget that proposes massive
cuts to Medicare Medicaid social
security disability insurance meals on
wheels and famously last week
the special olympics republican
strategist and some republican
politicians are reportedly very nervous
about the strategy should they be and
and what does it say the trump ended up
backtracking on the special olympics
cuts and the cuts to Great Lakes
restoration and also saying that now he
wants to be the party of health care he
loves deeply how much money how much
money do you make is a Republican
consultant to tell Republican all the
politicians that you're nervous about
cutting the Special Olympics was that
five grand a month what do you get what
do you get to tell people not to cut the
Special Olympics I think I think the
Special Olympics Plus health care plus
all the other stuff
Mike Murphy looked all of it who's a
Republican
Consultants said we are diving into the
woods I like this is the message we used
against Mitt Romney this is the Paul
Ryan freedom caucus tea party vision of
the Republican Party Mick Mulvaney is in
there doing whatever the hell he wants
because Trump doesn't know anything
about budgets or policy beyond what he
sees on Fox and Friends and so I do
think like they have handed us a gift
with these crazy crazy proposals wasn't
just stepping back for a minute like not
to dump on the press today but I also
don't get how Trump gets away with
telling reporters that he's
contradicting his own staff like Betsy
DeVos works for you you run the
Department of Education you don't you
own this man you don't get to blame
her especially when she's out there back
rounding the press saying that actually
Mulvaney in the White House pushed to
zero out the Special Olympics for the
third year in a row right of course I
like it's many things like obviously I
had no idea I'm very much not connected
to the running of my own government I've
handed out basically everything TV
appearances Mick Mulvaney noted a noted
straight-up right-wing nut who I put in
charge of basically three branches of my
administration this is like a this is
like a baseline yeah that we give him
like it's like oh well obviously he's
not connected to the running with
government because he doesn't know that
like we as if that's okay can you
imagine if one of the departments I mean
you know this always just happened in
the White House Obama used to say like
some actually I remember he said that
Bob Gates once gave him advice and said
as president if there is someone
anywhere in the federal government in
any agency and they up it's your
fault of course that's just the way it
is and the idea that because it's like
Betsy DeVos over in the Department of
Education which is you point out it
wasn't even because it was Mick
Mulvaney in his own white house pressing
for is crazy
but I think like this is Democrats
should be talking about these cuts every
single day every presidential candidate
it should be part of their message they
should all be saying it we should be
running ads about this we should
be running digital ads we should be all
over Facebook about this where have you
gone liberal super PACs
I mean our nation turns its where's
where's Danny Paquette his I got a lot
of eggs in the Dan's fight for super PAC
bass yelling at the Thursday PUD and
looking and we were saying this on
Thursday to answers Dan we have been
everyone like you know Democrats need to
propose what they're for and not just
run against Trump and stuff like that
yes to a point but these budget cuts I
am Telling You are politically deadly
for the Republican Party and for Donald
Trump it is as you said to me it is how
we won an election against Mitt Romney
when Barack Obama's approval rating was
in the mid-40s and the economy wasn't
back yet in 2012 we talked about his
plan to cut Medicare we talked about his
tax cuts we talked about the fact that
he was a rich guy who wanted to keep
cutting taxes for rich people and not
everyone else it is the way that
Democrats can win elections and we have
to start talking about it another little
hobbyhorse on this like over the weekend
Mulvaney was out on a lot of shows and
they were again getting asked about
their efforts to completely do away with
the Affordable Care Act and what it
would mean for people with pre-existing
conditions and on one show Jake Tapper
pressed Mulvaney on this point and
really went after him but on ABC he was
allowed to say oh no no we're gonna take
care of people with pre-existing
conditions and that there was no
rebuttal to that I mean the point is not
we're not arguing that somewhere along
the way they won't put in writing oh yes
we'll be great everyone with
pre-existing conditions will be taken
care of the point is that you will be
allowed to jack up rates to completely
unaffordable levels if you have a
pre-existing condition insurance
companies will be allowed to and so like
my guess I'm just getting at the the
press needs to get more sophisticated
about these really important policy
points and not let Mick Mulvaney spew
propaganda on ABC News this week well
it's also you know they um this is what
they tried to do in 2018 and and I think
mostly not effective although I think
Claire McCaskill should still be a
senator if not for the fact that I think
Holly had some success in sort of
muddying the waters here like they come
out for lawsuits that would just get
ready for it okay all right there's no
replace right just a lawsuit it would
get rid of it so the previous case the
pre-existing condition protections are
gone 20 million people lose their care
all the problems right and then they say
but but I'm not forgetting rid of
pre-existing conditions I'm for this
policy a policy not in any bill not nope
nope no possibility of it being passed
recently and the Republicans have played
that game for a long time I mean it's
part of the reason why they weren't able
to pass something when John McCain gave
his famous thumbs down they were all for
repeal they could not rally behind a
replacement but don't don't but don't
worry that replacement will be magic it
will manage to get all the Republican
votes you need while doing nothing bad
everything good yeah it's uh it's not
great but it's it's an issue the
Democrat should be talking about every
day it's shocking that Donald Trump is
making like I like I'm sitting like
Donald Trump's going around like how
many different times can you touch this
part of the stove you know I think it's
hard to get in Donald Trump's head but
um I think he saw what happened in 2018
he saw how health care has bedeviled him
and much like we talked about
immigration and say Democrats can't just
avoid this issue because it's a tough
issue he's looking at health care and
saying I've actually just got it I've
got to engage because they're gonna talk
about it all the time I guess but that
wouldn't lead me to then change my
position on defending the lawsuit and
making it as easy as possible for us to
attack him on them no I mean what would
what he's betting on is is what Lovett
was just saying is that he's gonna go
around offering a magical plan that for
sure there's an alternative without
being without being able to give any
details about the plan whatsoever
because it doesn't exist yeah of
course but he made that he made that
harder for himself he did resist well
the order the order is crazy right you
would presumably say we're working on a
plan it's gonna be a really great plan
before well I mean imagine this imagine
Donald Trump saying the Affordable Care
Act is the law of the land but it
doesn't go far enough and what I want to
do is improve it right like then that
that's that's like a politically smart
thing to do can't because the fracking
Republican Party don't wanna do that
well of course the bogan party doesn't
want it you look at like Graham Cassady
right which was the which was one of the
Obama Obamacare alternatives right and
like they graham Cassidy there is no
overlapping there's no overlap in the
Venn diagram between practical
Republican proposals that wouldn't make
things worse and votes for a Republican
pros also the only kind of version you
can get is a graham Cassidy that is kind
of devolve in health care to the states
while also doing draconian cate-cate
while also doing draconian cuts to
public health spending right they can't
seem to find a way to pass something
Republican that doesn't make life worse
for millions of Americans
yeah that's cuz they don't really
believe the government should be
involved in health care um all right
let's talk about 2020 on Friday
former Nevada Assemblywoman Lucy Flores
said that before an event during her
2014 campaign for lieutenant governor
Vice President Joe Biden came up behind
her touched her in
planted a quote big slow kiss on the
back of her head in a written statement
on Sunday Biden said that even though
he's made quote expressions of affection
over the years he didn't believe he
acted inappropriately but quote we have
arrived at an important time when women
feel they can and should relate their
experiences and men should pay attention
and I will in response
here's what Flores said to MSNBC's Casey
hunt on Sunday quote for the record I
don't believe it was a bad intention I'm
not in any way suggesting that I felt
sexually assaulted or sexually harassed
I felt invaded I felt there was a
violation of my personal space and it's
dismissed as if it's just Biden being
Biden no big deal it is a big deal so is
it a big deal and how should Biden
handle this yeah I mean it's I think the
answer should have been I'm sorry you
know
start with that I mean you know it's if
someone came up to me and kissed my head
or sniffed my hair I would feel like
that was creepy too and I would want to
know why that happened
and would prefer an apology to that
statement that was kind of tortured so
yeah it's it's uncomfortable but it's
also just the power dynamics the biggest
piece of this I mean if the Vice
President of the United States makes you
feel uncomfortable in any way you're in
a really awkward awful position you know
because what are you gonna do you feel
like you make a scene in the moment are
you gonna rebuke him because obviously
you know people are already attacking
her for just saying what happened so
yeah I think if I were Biden I would
have been more apologetic I would have
try to call her and reach out and
apologize and sincerely but you know
it's it's a tough story to read yeah you
know first of all I think the way Flores
has laid this out like I just have a lot
of respect for her honesty and her
integrity and and her care and saying
here is why I'm doing this here is why I
think it's really important and I think
she's right and I and you know she was
made to feel uncomfortable and I think
for Joe Biden who is a touchy guy right
with men and with women I think he would
look back and say I was affectionate
with people my entire career and no one
said anything
I didn't know I was making people
uncomfortable I never thought there was
anything wrong with it but one of the
things we're doing now is realizing that
actually people didn't know they could
say something and maybe they couldn't
because you were more powerful because
you were famous and you learned a bad
lesson over a long period of time in
which you treated people in a way that
made them feel uncomfortable not with
bad intentions as even flora says but
with a lack of an understanding about
the boundaries that weren't drawn for
you that you didn't know you were
supposed to draw that you should have
drawn and that we're drawing now and I
think a deeper a deeper issue here it is
about the way powerful men treated women
and invaded their space and treated them
differently than they treated men that
is a generational divide that is
something we're grappling with right now
it is a big question for him to grapple
with as he embarks as a presidential
campaign and I think it's probably this
conversation was inevitable and I think
that the way Flores has laid this out
puts a really important question to Joe
Biden and he has to answer it yeah I
mean I think two things can be
completely true one is that he is an
affectionate guy who is unusually touchy
to both men and women and has been over
the years and had come no bad intentions
and that like you said never thought he
did anything wrong that can completely
be true it can also be very true and it
is that Lucy Flores felt uncomfortable
and invaded because of that power
dynamic and because he did that and like
I don't I don't see how hard it is if
you're Joe Biden to like like you said
if someone came up and told me that I
would just call her apologize to her
apologize publicly don't issue a written
statement go to an interview you know
speak about it yourself and and that's
it that's all you know that's all you
can do and say that you're learning and
but then give a full-throated apology I
don't quite get the statements that sort
of elide the actual apology and like
edge right up to it but don't actually
say it like just you know people do
things that are wrong you say you're
sorry yeah I assume that part of it is
that he has to get there and I think he
has to learn and understand this and
it's probably quite difficult right you
he's been in public life for a very very
long time and now he's being confronted
with this question about the way he's
behaved for a very long time and not
just with
with Lucy Flores right this is a quality
that I think not something forget
thinking that there was something wrong
with it he took pride in that he made
people feel welcome that he was
affectionate that he was loving toward
people and learning that that may have
been making people uncomfortable and you
didn't know is probably a really
difficult thing that doesn't mean he
doesn't owe an explanation certainly if
he wants to be president knighted say
it's been it--and I do think there's
this we are in a period of transition as
as I think everybody would recognize and
and it really is about it's about seeing
it's about seeing women as equal and I
think part of that is by is recognizing
that even being affectionate with a
woman who you don't know and in a way
that you think is being nice is treating
someone differently than you would treat
a man and and and I do think that that
is part of it and something we have to
grapple with and it does come with you
come with the fact that he is an older
person who is from an older generation I
was gonna say the other thing we're
dealing with here is the culture has
changed very rapidly in a very short
period of time and if you are younger if
you pay closer attention to these
stories if you follow politics he
follows me if you follow have you
followed this sort of cultural change
you are more likely to empathize with it
to understand it to change your views I
know there's gonna there's a lot of
people in our party not just you know in
our party and older people too who
probably look at this and say I don't
get it
I don't understand what what's wrong
here you know and and I see people
already online being like oh this is
like a political attack and what about
Trump and stuff like that's like no no
let's just it's it's okay if you you
know if you don't understand this but
like be open to the fact that this is a
cultural change that we're having with
that women like Lucy Flores do not come
forward easily to talk about this stuff
and that when they do it is because it
was real and it bothered them and if
there was a power dynamic at play and
just you know and and and people like
Joe Biden can learn and they can grow
from this it is possible right and you
know we've talked about this before but
you know across there's this question
like oh do we need a new generation is
it okay that older people that have been
around for a very long time like Joe
Biden like Bernie Sanders
that are that have been in politics long
time is it do we need a new voice and to
me what I've always come back to is it's
that the age itself though the amount of
time they've been around doesn't matter
what matters is do they sound like
someone that's been around forever do
they sound like somebody who doesn't
understand what a new generation wants
to hear and I think somebody can you
grow and learn from your ex right so all
this comes after a series of stories
about how Biden didn't do enough to
protect or backup and eat a hill during
the Clarence Thomas hearings that he
chaired meaning he didn't speak up when
the Republicans on the committee were
attacking and insulting her and he
didn't allow three witnesses to testify
who she says could have backed up her
claims of sexual harassment
there were also stories the last few
weeks about Biden's evolution on
abortion he's now a strong supporter
though as a Catholic he wasn't always in
the 70s and 80s how much should all of
this matter if he decides to run so I
mean there's there's I think what sort
of become conventional wisdom that Biden
is just not where the party is on a lot
of issues and that he will be harmed by
increased scrutiny of past policy
positions on abortion rights the crime
bill probably Iraq and you could
probably name a whole bunch more issues
you are starting to see some good
reporting digging into all these areas
and there's probably some truth to the
conventional wisdom that this is gonna
be raised he's gonna have to deal with
it he's gonna the contextualized it
there's also the reality that Biden is
still leading almost every poll and not
all these policy positions are secret so
it's it's hard for me to tell now how
much of this is driven by actual voter
sentiment versus you know the thought in
in Washington as we wait for him to
announce so the broader point you made
earlier I mean there's also a question
of how much forgiveness you get from
voters for evolving over time I don't
think we know that answer yet Twitter is
not forgiving news reports are not often
forgiving but but voters can be so Biden
is in this period where he is trying to
decide if he's going to get into the
race clearly a rival whether it's a
democrat democrat or a republican is
landing some punches on him in advance
of that decision to try to prevent him
from running so and I'm not saying that
about the floors piece in any way shape
or form I'm talking about these deep
dives into his policy that feel very
research driven and
are important pieces like this is what
the vetting process is this what it
means for ntral president yeah I mean
just just to understand the dynamic
that's happening in the party right now
is there was a lot of people again these
are voters who they might be able to
voters they might be more moderate
voters there might be voters who don't
pay as close attention to politics as we
all do and they are seeing Joe Biden as
the very popular vice president who was
vice president for eight years and they
liked him a lot and they still liked him
a lot
and then they see these stories and it's
sort of like oh wait a minute
he was like beloved for eight years I
don't understand you know and so they
don't it's not computing with a lot of
people yet and I'm not to say not to say
that this is right or wrong or whatever
but I'm saying that's just the dynamic
at play right now in the party and the
question is whether that dynamic change
is once he gets into the race and more
people raise these questions about his
record or whether people's views of him
are sort of set because they have known
him so well for eight years I mean like
you said we love you talked about the
poll about like people being comfortable
electing Trump whatever if you look at
the Democrats people are most
comfortable and excited of all the
candidates about Joe Biden it's not just
name ID at this point yeah I think
that's right look it can change of
course it contain you know the primary
is about choosing the person you want to
be president based on whether they can
based on your beliefs about who could be
Trump and what they'll do once they're
in office as all candidates have to do
they have to explain how their record
comports with what they plan to do when
they're president he has some he has to
explain his of all evolution on these
issues he has to explain what he's
learned since they needed he'll hearings
by the way but he but but he also has a
he can also put that in the context of
having passed the violence against women
that right having elevated women uh
throughout his time in public life so as
always it's going to require nuance it's
not a simple story even you know you
have to you have to set Biden's change
on some very important issues his
mistakes on some very important issues
he has to tell a story about his career
and about why it leads to him being the
right choice for this moment and that
involves the good he's done in the past
that involves the mistakes he's done in
the past and of always convincing people
that where he is right now is where the
party is and and that he understands
this moment
the kind of energy and enthusiasm and
hunger for a different kind of politics
from Democratic voters I also think just
brass tacks people are voting right now
on electability right like that that is
the thing you hear over and over again I
want someone who's gonna be Trump so
there's a very good chance that people
are going to look at his past record and
think if you're the candidate who can be
Trump they will give you a pass on
having evolved on an issue that may be
very important to them even over time
well on the tricky thing there is so
many voters are defining electability in
so many different ways totally which we
don't know all right let's talk about
betta or Rourke who formerly kicked off
his presidential campaign on Saturday
holding rallies in El Paso Houston and
Austin that turned out about 30,000
people across the three events here's
the lead of Politico quote O'Rourke cast
himself as a crusader against moneyed
interests that he said have corrupted
America's democracy and a president he
accused of capitalizing on the politics
of fear and division he offered his home
city of El Paso and the bipartisan
coalition he built in Texas as a
contrast to Trump's vision and ticked
off a number of policies including debt
free college Medicare for America a $15
minimum wage ending cash bail legalizing
weed and expunging criminal records and
new Voting Rights Act and automatic
voter registration guys what'd you think
of the kick off and what is what is
betos strategy here
what is his what is his bet in this race
I mean I think it was good to for him
for his campaign is good to have an
announcement that was fundamentally
about policy and the contrast between
him and Trump that is much better than
the early stories that we're all
spinning out of whatever Vanity Fair
reported or you know what not
I thought the El Paso event looked cool
the three events in one day shows how
frenetic the pace of his campaign is it
showed that he can get a big crowd it
shows that he can fire people up I his
his style to me comes off as a guy who
just sprinted to catch a train that's
that's he's always like kind of out of
breath he's kind of intense and a bit
Yeley I think he would be served well to
slow down a bit talk more yeah less but
I mean that's a middling criticism you
know like I think that there I think
that this was a pretty good weekend for
him and the message of going after
concentrated wealth and power and
lobbyists who are distorting DC is one
you've heard from a lot of people
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie had been way
out in front on this
but clearly you know this is something
he has a record on as well yeah I just
wanna it is a small criticism but I just
want to as a as a speechwriter and
someone who's gone through people with
speech delivery I want to make this
point you know Hillary Clinton dealt
with a ton of sexism in 2016 but there
was a time where a lot of people were
saying she shouted too much and people
were saying that that was you know a
sexist criticism bitter or work shreds
too much - yeah and you know whose
delivery is really really strong Kamala
Harris and Elizabeth Warren for
different reasons Kamala Harris projects
a lot of strength in her delivery
Elizabeth Warren projects a lot of
warmth because she tells stories and I
do think just just a speech writing
thing when you're delivering a speech
there is value in modulating your tone
between like yelling all the time and
getting intense and in quieter story
Charlie Pierce who's a really funny
reporter described it as a long run-on
sentence well which was now that was and
that was an Obama thing Obama would do
like paragraphs that were like what what
since long yeah but again he was another
one who learned to sort of you quiet
down sometimes and then you go out so
speech delivery is is a thing yeah I was
just an aside no III do think it's good
that I think it was a recognition of the
need to be specific on policy I'd still
think you know these are you know he's
sort of laying out a set of proposals
right though he's he's laying out a set
of policy positions that say okay here's
where I'm at right but it isn't sort of
a an agenda that he's setting which is
fine right he's at the beginning of his
campaign but you know look we've said
this about every look lunches matter but
they also don't matter like now he goes
and he campaigns and the you know the
launch cots that gets him some attention
that attention fades the memory of the
launch fades and now he hits the ground
so we've run out like we've done through
so many of these announcements and kind
of you get to the same place at the end
of every single one which is I liked it
where Democrats and was a well put
together right that's been - as I said
like I've loved every announcement video
and before every candidate for five
minutes and now they go and they hit the
ground they hit the gun-running and they
see what happens when they talk to
people well look and I think the this
announcement versus how he kicked off
which was you know going just going to
Iowa not really giving a set speech and
having that very fair peace out is a
lesson is a
Ghosn on controlling your own narrative
yeah there's a reason that you do a set
piece and you have a message in control
a narrative because you want to get your
message out and you don't want to let
the press this was a lot this was also a
lot stronger than the video like this is
for sure was much stronger his secret
weapon in this campaign is being
unemployed he can go to Iowa for seven
days at a time and never leave and there
there is some real power and value in
that like that guy's gonna get to all 99
counties in Iowa before July but you
know I saw that he was doing I think a
six County day or six townhall day it's
okay to do five like you're gonna get
burned out and you're gonna make
mistakes when you're fatigued and also
stop driving the car bet oh oh
no more driving the car everyone who's
in that car is unsafe if you're
exhausted driving the car stop driving
the car such as cuz he's got it he's
like distracted he's on the phone he's
eating makes racing cause it's not
good all right finally Elizabeth Warren
and Amy Klobuchar are called for
breaking up big agriculture monopolies
through stronger antitrust laws and
forcement during a multi-candidate forum
on rural issues in Iowa on Saturday
Warren rolled out her agriculture policy
last week in Klobuchar I made her first
policy announcement of the sorry
Klobuchar made her first policy
announcement of the campaign last
Thursday a 1 trillion dollar
infrastructure plan that she said would
be her top legislative priority as
president Tom II since you spent a lot
of time in Iowa as press secretary how
important is are these agricultural
policy proposals to Iowa voters and what
do you think about like Warren and
clover char's plans and you know what
you've heard in the past from voters I
think that this is very smart from
Warren to target corporate consolidation
and the Monsanto's of the world they
have these big agro businesses JD
Shelton who is the guy who took on Steve
King the neo-nazi white supremacist guy
and and Iowa the congressman he thinks
he told us this when we were hanging out
that the best way to reach rural voters
is to talk about these issues because
despite being a farm state there are
like miles and miles of counties where
you can't find fresh produce so he
thinks that this is a real bridge issue
to to you know reach people I think is
really interesting that Warren I'm sorry
I think it's interesting that Klobuchar
did this big infrastructure plan it's
something we desperately need she would
know that better than anyone from
Minnesota where there was a literal
Ridge that collapse you know like a
decade ago and nothing has changed since
so I'd like these are both very smart
policies I'm also always fascinated and
we've been asking candidates about this
to hear what their first yeah what
they'll do as president first knowing
that you only get like one or two shots
in that first term to do something big
and clover charge really the first one
who's basically put a jobs plan at the
center
I guess if someone I don't haven't heard
anyone yet say the green your deal is
there first thing that would obviously
count as a jobs plan to but it is
interesting and it's not look the the
infrastructure plan she put together is
along the lines of what Obama proposed
you got the infrastructure bank you got
some public funding you're leveraging
some private funding and all that kind
of stuff but it is yeah it's interesting
that that's her first big her first big
move there yeah yeah Elizabeth Warren
talking about breaking up big AG that
isn't that is my that's my I that is
just I could just eat that all day it's
interesting though I think it's also
interesting that Klobuchar I went there
too because she's a more moderate
candidate but on this issue
you know she was she was in lockstep
with Warren
yeah it's also worth keeping him on to
that like even in in part because of
corporate consolidation even in a state
like Iowa even in a farming State the
actual benefits of breaking up big AG
don't accrue to that many people but to
me it also is a signal about your
willingness to take on the powers that
be in the parts of the country where
people see it every day even if it may
not directly impact their lives so I
think it's really important and I'm you
know look at it's something that I see
is something that should be more central
to democratic Pollock's politics
generally and I just have been really
heartened by the fact that Elizabeth
Warren has been willing over and over
again to get to be first to saying we
need to take on consolidation and tack
me to take on consolidation in
agriculture and I'm glad she's doing it
I think it's really important Warren's
just running a really smart Iowa
strategy yeah that's another reminder
right like I started interrupts that you
know like she's taking every selfie
she's taking every question but she's
going to rural counties in rolling out
AG policies and that's the physical
location where you're actually going to
get questions about this from the media
while the you know internet the national
media that's following you day to day is
gonna ask about fundraising number well
with that that is a perfect segue my
last question on all of this there's
been a lot of debate over the last few
weeks about how the volume of media
coverage doesn't always match up with
volume of policy proposals some of these
candidates are putting out particularly
Elizabeth Warren you know we've all been
on campaigns and now we sort of covered
this stuff too what do you guys think of
that dynamic what are some of the
explanations so first of all I don't
think it's that clear-cut I would argue
that one of the strengths Elizabeth
Warren has had in the early parts of
this campaign is her ability to drive
the conversation and draw attention
because of policy you know her
conversations on tech policies on AG her
wealth tax these are all things to me
that have managed to break through and
it is a reminder that even now basically
there have been two ways for Democrats
to wrest control of the microphone away
from Republicans Donald Trump one has
been massive protest in the event of
inhumane policies and the other has been
bold policy has managed to break through
so that's I think exciting at the same
time it is one of the great challenges
that we that that political coverage is
so personality based and politics based
and that means in order to bake through
on policy you do have to go big and be
bold and find creative and innovative
ways to reach people I'd also say it is
quite likely that her conversations
around policy during her events are
doing her a lot of good even if there
may not be as many write-ups of it
because ultimately she is going to try
to touch as many human beings in Iowa as
possible and having a full arsenal of
bold interesting policies that people
will rally behind that shows what she
cares about wears very well over time
yes yeah I mean look it's very hard to
get covered on policy Barack Obama we
remember we held this rural issue forum
at a farm in Iowa and it was supposed to
be at all these AG issues and he said
something like have you seen the price
of arugula lately and it was the only
thing that was played on Fox no one
cared about his detailed policy yeah you
always get hammered on some silly thing
by the national news and it sucks it's
incredibly frustrating but I think like
Lovett was saying like Warren has done a
very impressive job of forcing them to
cover her substance because she's
disciplined she's smart and she's
rolling it out in this vacuum when no
one else is I think it will pay a
dividend to her it might not show up in
the poll tomorrow or the next day but
long-term the conventional wisdom about
Warren is that she has the best policy
that's a good place to be yeah I would
I would say this is a dynamic that is
specific to the early part of the race
and you were just saying this love it
when we're talking about betta like so
far everyone has gotten press attention
when they do their sort of announcement
whether it's exploratory or their videos
or whatever and then they have all
smartly followed up with an official
announcement and then they get the
second bite at the Apple and we've
basically done that with every candidate
we've talked about their rollout and
then their official kickoff working on
us and then the other way you get you
get press attention is with announcing
policies and every time elizabeth warren
has an ounce of policies there's some
coverage there's more print coverage
than there is TV because TVs even more
focused on personalities and
and then when you're in a campaign so
after you've done your kickoff and after
you've put out your policies then you
all sit around you're like how else
are we gonna get covered yep and what
the media covers is a conflict which is
unfortunate and and in a primary most
candidates stay away from conflict until
the end when they start beating each
other up a little bit
they cover controversy so if something
bad happens to you cover that yeah I'll
do the best thing you do is announce a
new policy while falling off a stage
flip in a bank will go WN hurt in sex
and then you fall backwards yeah it may
cover things like you know fundraising
numbers and new polls and so I mean we
know how this is and so in then it's so
it's now incumbent upon campaigns to
find creative interesting ways to break
through the clutter and I think both of
you made this point that's really smart
some of that is some of that people will
never see who are just paying attention
to national media because all these
candidates now are running individual
campaigns in Iowa and New Hampshire and
South Carolina for right now where they
are trying to break through locally with
as many voters as possible and the
strength they have in breaking through
may not be apparent in the national
media or the national polls for quite
some time right it certainly wasn't in a
way and we're talking about the
substance of Klobuchar and Warren's
announcements in Iowa now and I know
like the local AP wire and the local
news did but the sound bites I saw on
cable coming out of it was them getting
asked about Biden right that is a
perfectly legitimate question yeah they
should be asked about that but that's
what broke through and that's and that's
and that is a dynamic that has existed
forever it is arguably worse now
Android gets worse every year I would
but but that's that's the way camp just
I could just because I think there's a
lot of people who are paying attention
to politics really closely for the very
first time and if you see someone like
Elizabeth Warren throwing out a whole
bunch of policy proposals and then you
see the media covering you know Trump's
latest gaffe and you know asking
everyone at the Forum about by it and
you're like what the but this is a
dynamic that is existed in media
coverage for quite some time it is
shitty I would also though I would argue
to though that like the media seeking
conflict is maybe is not rooted in a
noble motive but actually if if it's a
it provides an opportunity to account to
draw contrasts with each other in a way
that are fair you know sort of
intellectually honest and I think that
that can be a good thing to like
conflict and and media is trying to stir
up contrast to me isn't inherently mad
it's often bad because tends to be about
surface issues or about going after
Trump or what happened originality
driven but but I you know some of the
worst moments in 2008 I think were
driven by personality based disputes and
part of it too is you know it's like
they're part of the reason they get
personal is they gets at the end is
because they're looking ways to break
through part of it is because they're
tired and they're sick of each other and
part of it is real a lot of their
policies become pretty similar yeah and
the policy differences between these
candidates end up being somewhat small
and so therefore you have to magnify
those differences and the media helps
magnify them when you actually get into
a debate with each other and that that
is coming right I mean one of the
biggest debates in 2008 between Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama was over the
individual mandate a policy that that
became a kind of central part of the
health care debate a policy he
ultimately adopted it was then thrown
out say it turns out she was
substantively right and he was
politically right right but but it was
elevated to this big dispute in part
because John Edwards Hillary Clinton
Barack Obama's health care plans looked
very similar because it was a
broad-based Democratic consensus okay
okay when we come back we will have
Lovitz interview with Planned
Parenthood's dr. Lena Wynn
you
