he represents us right here in
California's 28th congressional district
and he is the chair of the House
Intelligence Committee please welcome
back congressman Adam Schiff so let's
start with this recently a lot of
Republicans on the Intelligence
Committee have been calling for your
resignation anything to say to them now
yes read the report look it's been a sad
fact on our committee now for a year and
a half with my ranking member mr. Nunez
that basically when the White House says
jump I'm not talking about the cow here
because that would get applause I'm sure
when the president says jump he says how
high
and it was choreographed by the White
House before that committee meeting a
couple weeks ago this was their
stratagem and it's a disservice to our
committee in the Congress but it is what
it is so let's talk about this report
obviously there's a lot to unpack
there's a lot still redacted did
anything really surprise you today when
you saw the details of the document you
know it wasn't really so much that
surprised me we knew about many of the
interactions between the Trump campaign
and the Russians we knew certainly about
some of the acts of obstruction what the
report did was go into granular detail
about these in a way that we hadn't seen
before and new instances of misconduct
but you know the top line is this is
three to four hundred pages of damning
conduct by the president ID States and
people around him multiple lies and
falsehoods the urging of other people to
lie on his behalf elicit contacts
between his campaign and the Russians
the Russians efforts to interfere in our
elections in a massive way the
president's efforts to obstruct that
investigation
among those hundreds of pages there is
not a single page that reflects well on
the President of the United States and
that is not a cause for exoneration
vindication or anything like it it is a
cause for condemnation
and I'll tell you if I were on the part
of your show where you do the wheel of
rant clothes but sure yeah what I would
be ranting about at the moment is our
Attorney General who I think terribly
misled the country repeatedly there were
as we suspected summaries of Muller's
work in Muller's own words that this
Attorney General chose not to use he
chose instead to tell a false narrative
that the president wanted to put out
there and I think he views himself sadly
as the president's personal lawyer not
as the Attorney General of the United
States so now that we have the report is
is there any justification for having
released that four-page summary that
isn't political that isn't partisan on
behalf of the president there's no
justification whatsoever if the Attorney
General acting in good conscience wanted
to release a summary so that the country
wouldn't have to wait for whatever
redactions to take place he could have
released Muller's summary in fact when
you look at Muller's summaries in the
report there are very few redactions
from the summaries so there was no
reason to do that except for the fact
that Barr wanted to do two things he
wanted to please the boss by pushing out
this false narrative of no collusion no
obstruction and second he wanted to
arrogate to himself before people read
the report that it was his job to decide
that the evidence of obstruction could
not result in a prosecution of the
president when it's clear that the
report itself believed that those kind
of decisions about what should follow
from the president's many acts of
obstruction were to be left to Congress
not to bill bar so do you think that
bill Barr deserves I mean do you believe
he should resign do you believe that if
he doesn't resign he deserves to face an
impeachment inquiry of his own I don't
know what the consequences should be for
four-bar I do know this and I said this
ever since his confirmation hearing
there is no way that this man should
have been confirmed for the job in the
first place
and
and you know for that reason I think
when they write this chapter of history
some of the most damning language will
be reserved not just for Donald Trump
but for the Republicans in Congress who
refused to stand up to this deeply
unethical immoral human being in the
Oval Office that barcode auditioned for
the job by writing that 19 page legal
diatribe and that a Senate any Senate
would confirm someone with such an
obvious bias against the investigation
without demanding his recusal is
inexcusable and you know the only people
who the report reflects on in a positive
way at all and who woulda thunk it are
the people who refused to do the
president's bidding and one of them
happened to be Bars predecessor jeff
Sessions who refused to ignore the
advice of Ethics lawyers it's not
interesting that in this document no it
is fascinating that Jeff Sessions seems
to be you know it's it's a low standard
but one of the only people inside of
this institution with an eye on what his
actual genuine responsibilities are no
that's very true
look Barr when he was asked during his
confirmation will you seek the advice of
Ethics lawyers will you follow the
advice his answer was no Jeff Sessions
at least had the standing and backbone
to say I'm not gonna ignore what the
ethics lawyers are telling me yeah it's
you know that when Johnny Carson
interviewed a journalist who've been
covering the Nixon investigations and
what that journalist said was in all the
documents and all the tapes there's
never a point at any point that anyone
says this is wrong that what we're doing
is wrong and we have a 400 page document
and there is literally no place anywhere
unless I missed it where anyone raises a
moral objection the only there do seem
to be moments when someone says I can't
do that I'll get in trouble but there
seems to be no one at any point in this
process around collusion or obstruction
where someone's that hold on this isn't
the right thing to do unfortunately
that's exactly right in all of these
contexts these approaches made by the
Russians this hostile foreign power and
probably the most graphic of course is
that involving this secret meeting at
the
tower in New York where the Russians
offered dirt on Hillary Clinton as part
of what they described as the Russian
government effort to help the Trump
campaign what is the Trump campaign
reaction not absolutely not not we're
gonna report you to the FBI
it's Don Jr saying if it's what you say
it is I'd love it and that's that's the
attitude that permeates this whole
report which is hey if you're gonna help
us through social media by pushing out
you know device of content or through
hacking dumping operation whatever we
would love it
now Mahler concluded that's no crime
maybe it should be but it concluded
that's no crime but it is so unethical
and immoral and unpatriotic that all of
us on both sides of the aisle should
condemn it I also it was pretty
fascinating to see Don jr. today
basically take a victory lap because the
report concludes that he was too stupid
to realize he was committing criminal
offenses so let's talk about obstruction
you know Muller talks a lot about well
he talks a lot about the role of
Congress in this report you only
Appelbaum in the Atlantic described the
report as an impeachment referral laying
out not only a ton of evidence for
obstruction but also the legal basis for
placing the responsibility in Congress's
hands do you agree with that description
of this report I agree that what Muller
did was provide all the documentation
all the evidence that he accumulated on
these for example ten instances of
obstruction of justice and submitted to
Congress and say basically I'm not
allowed to indictment if I were able to
make that judgment
I could not conclude that a crime didn't
occur here but I'm not allowed to make
that judgment and here's another area
where Bill Barmes led the country in
suggesting that that factor that you
couldn't indict a sitting president
wasn't something the Special Counsel was
considering that was foremost in his
consideration
instead Muller said that there are
remedies for a president who either
violates the law or is unfit for office
and it's the Congress and so this
evidence needs to go to the Congress and
also by the way this evidence needs to
be preserved
so that when the president is out of
office the Justice Department consider
can consider indicted him then so your
colleague Steny Hoyer said earlier today
based on what we have seen today going
forward on impeachment is not worthwhile
at this point very frankly there is an
election in 18 months and the American
people will make a judgement
since then he has walked that back and
said he wants to see the full report and
he believes all options should be on the
table you told a man whose name is Wolf
Blitzer
impossibly but you said this about
impeachment the evidence would have to
be quite overwhelming and demonstrable
and such that it would generate
bipartisan support for the idea that it
renders the president unfit for office
and this is something we talked about
back in February on this stage something
you've written about there's a phrase in
there that's doing a lot of work you say
and such that but what is the what if
the evidence is overwhelming but that
still doesn't create the bipartisan
support
well it's problem because it means that
members of Congress won't do their
constitutional duty that they view their
job as not defending our institutions
whether it's the co-equal branches of
government or the freedom of the press
but rather as acting as an extension of
Rudy Giuliani and that's a problem and
that's a serious problem we've had all
along I don't think we take anything off
the table and I think it is
insupportable for the Justice Department
to simultaneously take the position you
can't indict a sitting president but
unless you begin in a Peach Pit
proceeding we're not going to show you
the grand jury material that would help
you determine whether you should bring
an impeachment proceeding I think this
is why the grand jury secrecy rules have
a provision that says preliminary to
such a proceeding you can provide this
information to Congress so we're gonna
get that information we're to go after
that information and we should reserve
judgment until we see all the evidence
about what the right remedy is but on
this question of the bipartisan basis of
impeachment doesn't it beg the question
because in the same way that you're
saying you can't have the information
from the grand jury until you pursue
impeachment but you don't want to pursue
and preach until you have the
information isn't one of the ways that
we make an impeachment inquiry
bipartisan by making the case by saying
here's why we believe Donald Trump ought
to be impeached because despite despite
our
sadness at the truth of it he clearly
committed obstruction of justice and
therefore we want to get to the bottom
it through this inquiry isn't isn't
saying from the start that we can't
pursue impeachment till bipartisan till
it's bipartisan kind of giving up before
you've begun it doesn't mean just
because you want to see the evidence
before you initiate an impeachment
proceeding doesn't mean that you're not
doing investigative work we are in my
committee and the Judiciary Committee in
the Oversight Committee we are
continuing our investigations and that
may very well produce quite in addition
to what Bob Muller did the evidence
necessary to take additional steps like
impeachment we shouldn't prejudge it but
the fact that we don't begin with an
impeachment proceeding doesn't mean
we're not doing the hard spade work of
making the information public so that we
can see whether there's a bipartisan
consensus that this means the president
is unfit for office so that work goes on
and and you know add to that the model
report looked at essentially two or
three things that looked at the social
media operation looked at the hacking
and dumping operation it looked at the
illicit contacts between the Russians
and the Trump campaign it did not for
the most part follow the money and that
is what we're determined to do on the
Intelligence Committee and the financial
services committee there's no discussion
of whether the Russians were laundering
money through the Trump Organization and
this is leverage that the Russians are
applying over the president United
States and indeed one of the points that
Muller makes in his report is that
simultaneously to the criminal
investigation there was an ongoing
counterintelligence investigation to
determine whether the President or
others around him were acting wittingly
or unwittingly as agents of a foreign
power so we need to get that evidence as
Muller points out that some of that
evidence is not even included in the
report and that also will be important
for us to determine what consequences
are necessary to protect the country so
and I appreciate that I appreciate that
there is a vast amount we still don't
know that there's a lot of evidence that
could change people's minds a lot of
evidence of criminality we have no idea
about yet that the mobile investigation
was limited in scope but on obstruction
right Richard Nixon one of the articles
of impeachment against Richard Nixon was
obstruction of justice Bill Clinton was
impeached by Republican
on perjury and obstruction of justice we
have an a tremendous amount of evidence
of obstruction of justice it is hard to
imagine there being more evidence that
would change the mind of someone who is
currently saying that there's nothing
there they look at this report and they
say there's nothing there if the
standard is that impeachment has to be
bipartisan and only one party believes
in the rule of law doesn't that mean the
rule of law only applies to one party it
does mean that the system is broken that
our democracy is very much at risk the
fact that there is no longer any john
mccain that there's no baker of this
generation to go to the president and
say essentially your conduct is so
unbecoming of a president knighted
States demonstrating such on fitness for
office that unless you leave we're gonna
have to remove you there is no one of
backbone willing to stand up to this
president and yes that means that the
democracy is trembling because we don't
have that kind of check and balance I
mean the Republicans in Congress Mitch
McConnell Kevin McCarthy won't even
defend Congress's most important power
the power of the purse what hope is
there that they'll do the right thing
visa vie the other areas in which the
president states is violating our system
of checks and balances so yes it does
mean the system is broken but I don't
take the view that if you build it they
will come I think we need to continue
the investigative work we have to hope
that we can win over our GOP colleagues
to see their duty rather than their
party and if they don't there isn't much
of a remedy except the ballot box
Democrats in the house can impeach
Donald Trump based on the evidence we
have right now III don't know about you
I'm someone who read the report today
you're UC classified information you've
been you've been deep in this
investigation you read the report today
do you believe based on what we know
right now that Donald Trump committed
obstruction of justice I do and I
believe for quite some time that he is
unfit for office and do you believe that
obstruction of justice is an impeachable
offense obstruction of justice is
and a Pietschmann no offense and a peach
evil offense the question at the moment
is is there any hope of a conviction or
are we just advocating putting the
present through the trial in the house
is the trial in a bit self valuable
worthwhile enough even if there's no
prospect of conviction now maybe it's my
training as a prosecutor but as a
prosecutor our view was always unless
you believed you could get a conviction
you didn't try the case even if you felt
the defendant was guilty and I I think
that what an impeachment proceeding
would mean if we if we bring it about
prematurely before we see all the
evidence before we determine whether we
have a plausible case with our
colleagues in the Senate is that it
means all of the rest of our agenda our
efforts to create better paying jobs for
people on a higher income our efforts to
expand healthcare all of that is pushed
aside and that's a huge sacrifice at the
end of the day I think what's going to
matter most of people in 2020 is what
we're doing to improve the quality of
people's lives and I don't think we can
ever lose sight of that when when Robert
Miller testifies what are you interested
in asking him about well I'm you know in
our committee and I think we will differ
from the Judiciary Committee in this the
Judiciary Committee is going to be
predominantly concerned with the
obstruction of justice issues we are
going to be concerned with what we have
been focused on in our committee from
the very beginning which is this
investigation began in order to look to
whether the President and people around
him were compromised by a foreign power
and taking actions that were against the
interest of the United States because
they were compromised now that
compromise could be the laundering of
money by the Russians it could have been
Moscow Trump Tower the president nine
states while deceiving the country
during the campaign was seeking to make
the most lucrative deal of his life in
Moscow and one that required the
approval of the Kremlin the same Kremlin
in which he was praising Vladimir Putin
at the time that is deeply compromising
if there is other compromise either by
the Gulf states the Kushner family
seeking fine
in Seng and that accounts for why the
president criticized the crown prince
even involving even when it involves the
murder of a US person khashoggi if the
reason he can criticize anybody but
apparently Putin and Kim jong-un and the
crown prince is because he still wants
to build this tower in Moscow then we
need to know it we need to expose it we
need to take legislative steps to
protect the country one final question
Burger King is testing an impossible
burger an impossible whopper a
vegetarian I believe vegan whopper I
know that you are a vegan are you
excited about this it's currently being
tested in st. Louis is there legislation
you can introduce to have that testing
period move to vegan places like LA you
know this is a very serious question the
others were not so much serious but this
one really is and you may not recall
that the last time I was on your show I
did my rant about vegan burgers that are
served on a non vegan bun so the
question is does Burger King use a non
vegan bun because if they don't I'm
going to be pissed and and and hopefully
there will be a bipartisan basis to get
to the bottom of that Chairman Adam
Schiff thank you so much proud to be
represented by you every day thank you
for being here
[Applause]
[Music]
