I really believe we are now at the point
where we have to start an impeachment
inquiry I don't say that lightly I mean
I think we have taken every possible
step that we can we've issued subpoenas
we've called for witnesses the president
has issued blanket executive privilege
over the Moller report he has refused he
has said I'm not providing you know
meeting any of your subpoena requests
I'm not providing any of the witnesses
we'll see what happens we're supposed to
have done McGann in front of us on
Tuesday let's see if he really comes
let's see if Muller really comes but you
know when you have a president that says
I'm not going to respect the authority
of a co-equal branch and really were
first because we're Article one just say
then I think that is the difference
between a dictatorship and a democracy
if you if you have a president who
thinks he's King and isn't accountable
to anybody and is above the law that is
not that is absolutely not acceptable
and it matters to the pocketbooks and
the lives of everyday Americans it's not
I don't think it's something that's out
there you know it means that if he
strips health care away from people does
unlawful things uses the office of the
presidency to get in all kinds of bribes
from foreign governments it means
there's no accountability over him at
all and it means that Americans will
suffer and so it is a serious
undermining of our constitutional
foundations and I don't take it lightly
but I do think we are at that point
