it's my favorite joke welcome to pod
save America live Q&A here at the studio
sorry we're late
I had to run an errand tell me have a
delivery coming to is my wife's called
me 30 minutes for the live stream and
said there's a table coming to our house
so I went and met the table and then it
was the wrong table
so that sucks that's how you roll that's
how things work here that's being 38
welcome okay wow we're starting out
strong questions yeah well today's
livestream is debate themed because
tonight's the first night of the first
primary debate so they're happening live
tonight tomorrow in Miami 9 p.m. Eastern
6 p.m. Pacific you can watch on NBC
MSNBC Telemundo and also on youtube.com
slash crooked media with us we're gonna
have real time analysis lots of quips
jokes lots of jokes that aren't ready
for primetime but gets sent anyway
Travis look into you it's gonna be great
it's gonna be great yeah yeah Travis's
new bid is he won't talk during the live
stream
why is that I don't know you want to
clean did bhaijaan love it probably all
right so it's in tonight's debate we
have Elizabeth Warren better Aurora Cory
Booker Amy Klobuchar who Leon Castro jay
Inslee bill de blasio Tim Ryan Tulsi
Gabbard and John Delaney just half the
field
that's just tonight it's not even half
for anymore I'm sorry tomorrow we got
Joe Biden Bernie Sanders Carla Harris
Pete booter Josh kirsten gillibrand
Michael Bennett Andrew yang Marianne
Williamson John Hickenlooper and Eric
swallow
and that leaves Steve Bullock Seth
Moulton Mike Revell when mesm and Joe
Sestak who did not make the cut no they
did not
yeah so we had some or the DNC had some
requirements to get on the stage and
they divided them up by separating
candidates into groups by those polling
2% and above and those who were not and
then randomly dividing that's how we
ended up with four of the top five
candidates in the polls on night two and
then Elizabeth Warren as also being in
the top five is the only one in night
one it's a little bit different than the
last primary debates we saw
Republicans with a really crowded field
where they just did like the top ten and
then the JV debate yeah exactly so going
into tonight what do we know about these
candidates and their chances of success
so far yeah I mean look you've got this
top-tier I think that is Biden Sanders
war and Buddha judge our we got Pete in
there for the because he's got some real
strengthens early state polls probably
more so than national polls but early
state polls matter more and then in
comal harris I would put in there it's
rounding out the time yeah I would too
rounding out the top one and then so for
all them like look for a Joe Biden he's
just trying to get through this thing
yeah he was just kidding we're getting
too many he's got a flak jacket on yeah
duck and cover
he's the front-runner he wants to seem
cool calm collected presidential like
he's not worried about all the attacks
against him but also when people if
people level attacks against him he
doesn't want to have them go unanswered
he obviously doesn't want if I can make
a mistake say something stupid celebrate
segregationists whatever a lot of love
tripwires I think Bernie Sanders being
on the debate stage with Joe Biden and
without Elizabeth Warren there is gonna
want to take the opportunity to remind
people or to make the case mm-hmm that
he is the lefty alternative to Joe Biden
yeah supported the Iraq war I did
there's gonna be that
he's basically telling that was a Bernie
impression Bernie's basically
telegraphed already that he's gonna take
on that he's gonna take on Biden Warren
has an interesting task ahead of her
because she doesn't have any these
people on stage I think if I was
Elizabeth Warren my plan would be to
just talk more about my plans this is
what got her to where she is I wouldn't
think a lot about the other candidates
in the race I wouldn't draw a lot of
contrast with everyone else I would just
talk about answer every question talk
about the issues talk about big
structural reform and that's about it
she's gonna put the system on trial yes
Tommy I think she is I mean what's your
game but serious you know I don't know
if you know this but one of my last
questions when I interviewed that
ork was what he thought about the debate
process yeah
and bet O'Rourke is a very nice person
who's like genuinely like humble and and
won't say mean things usually but he you
could tell he does not love it it was
pretty pissed about it so horrible I
don't I don't know what I would have
done to make it better
necessarily besides maybe increase the
threshold a little bit to keep out some
more candidates but it's gonna be hard
to break through tonight I mean we'll
see what happens
someone could walk on that stage and
decide to just go crazy on another
candidate on Biden hello oh yeah you
never know someone could make a gaffe
that is just disqualifying you could
have a Marco Rubio talking point robot
machine moment where he just unravels on
stage it's a lot of things that could
happen but I don't know hopefully the
moderators will find a way to draw out
some sort of contrast because the
problem everyone's having right now is
there's a lot of good choices maybe some
great choices but they want to know how
to separate them out yeah totally I
think also going into tonight looking at
the crooked media poll that we did with
chains research is pretty helpful to to
figure out like just to get a lay of
land and see where other people's heads
mm-hmm
so we talked to 935 Democratic voters in
Iowa New Hampshire South Carolina early
States yeah and the top lines of our
poll found that Biden was pulling at 29%
Sanders at 24 in 19 boo to judge 14
Harris 5 bet oh and Booker at 3 and
everybody else was at 1% or below yeah
and then were there any findings that
you guys found particularly interesting
I know we also saw how that changed a
little bit
among voters who had a higher candidate
awareness were there any things that you
think will be interesting for those
viewers going into tonight yeah I mean I
thought that what you just mentioned
Priyanka that as you the voters who are
paying close attention closest attention
to the primary who know most about the
candidates Elizabeth Warren's and lead
with those voters and p-goon a judge
Rises a little bit as is Komal Harris
and Biden and Bernie both sort of fall a
little bit which could say something
about
the fact that you know maybe Biden and
Bernie's poll numbers are propped up at
least a little bit by the fact that they
have near-universal name recognition and
so tonight is a big moment for
candidates who you know candidates to
speak to voters who maybe aren't paying
attention as closely so if you're
elizabeth warren you've been saying the
same thing everywhere you went in every
event all the time but there's gonna be
a whole bunch of new people tuning in
tonight that probably weren't tuning
into your Town Hall or anything else and
you know you want to make a big
impression on those people Warren is the
most popular second choice candidate
yeah which is a really good place to be
right now
in the middle in Iowa right yeah it's a
big deal in Iowa in case the person had
to use not viable but it just means
everybody likes you everyone's given you
a look you're in consideration like at
this poll showed a lot of strength for
her so the other thing that I think it
also showed demographic strength for her
so Biden tends to do Biden won 62% of
the african-american vote in that poll
just crushing among black voters Biden
tends to do well with older voters
Bernie tends to do well with younger
voters Pete tends to do well with
exclusively white voters Warren has
probably the most balanced group of
demographics of any of the top
candidates she's pulling from age wise
education wise race wise almost evenly
so that's an interesting thing too cool
okay so so the first set of debates
there are 12 of these I think a million
sees yeah so how important is the first
round of debates what should be should
these will this change things
I think it's an unanswerable question
until they're over which is the Dodge
but is true like if someone implodes on
stage they were very important if
someone gets a ton of momentum out of it
was very important there's a very
there's a decent chance that like some
folks will watch tonight some folks will
watch tomorrow it won't materially
change things you know get one under
their belts we'll move on to the next
one in the next one and by the third or
fourth you'd be like oh my god another
debate the thing I'm a little worried
about is the 2016 Republican debates
were wildly entertaining cuz psychopath
Donald Trump would go in there and be
like e Rand Paul you have shitty
hair I've got
face and we were all like hahaha this
guy will never be President but it's fun
to see you know like a kamikaze pilot
you know crashing around into these
people these will not be that the
Democratic debates they'll be
substantive they'll probably be more
collegial they'll probably be focused on
issues that people actually care about
and not like hand-sized and all the dumb
stuff that the Republicans discuss so I
just I don't want them the ratings to be
bad and then the media to say oh whoa as
Democrats once again they're boring
they're screwed they'll never rest the
microphone away from Trump as they
continue to cover every dumb Trump tweet
and you know take the bait from him I
agree with you that that the exact
question is fundamentally unanswerable
with the exception of I think it is a
very important debate for all of these
one-percenters because it's at least
it's a it's a huge opportunity because I
think if you're jay inslee if you're
playing Castro if you're some of these
folks who may not make the next debate
threshold in September or I guess you'll
make the second debate for sure but you
might not make the third one in
September this could be your last chance
you know yeah for sure
so for some of the top candidates it
could be me it could matter a lot it
could not we don't know but for some of
the the lowest polling candidates this
is a big deal you don't you don't shy on
here you're not going to show you can't
go in there and be boring you know and
or or try to you rattle off some
stupid zinger Bill DeBlasio the
worst singer of the cycle was Eric's
wah-wah mmm
what was it I'm bullish without the bowl
or something horrendous well we need to
we need to be bold without the ball
crickets nothing looks wah-wah just
crushing you seem like a good guy don't
ever say that again
I hope he says it tonight yeah Sam you
might be alone on that one thanks okay
um so I don't think there's a specific
debate topic tonight
what do we think is gonna come up
there's a ton policy-wise there's also a
ton of things going on in the news there
have been gaffes and statements that
candidates have made in the past that
people are thinking might come up again
what do you expect to hear specifically
there's three categories in the
moderators Minds if I was the moderator
sitting down trying to figure out these
questions the one though first category
is like you just said what's in the news
right now so you can imagine a lot on
Trump family separation border crisis
Iran impeachment all the stuff that's
been in the news this week and last week
is game right the second category is
like candidate gaffes or contrast
between candidates any kind of fight
that can dates have had so you can
imagine that Joe Biden's comments about
segregationist senators will come up you
can imagine that Pete Buddha judges
issues with the police shooting in South
Bend will come up all of these things
you know if there's contrast between
candidates over an issue if they've had
different policies that sort of conflict
with each other you can imagine the
moderators will bring though though
though that up to try to get their
candidates to debate with each other and
then most importantly the final category
is policy issues because in the back of
the moderators Minds they're you know
they're gonna get attacked by all of us
like should I pass by this boring stuff
like hey Miami is sinking so maybe we'll
talk about climate day Wilbert yeah that
would be good I would for a fact for
sure they'll bring up climate change and
health care in my immigration yeah and
my great hopefully worse foreign policy
I think I think Iran well sure yeah that
happens that yells reboot I think those
are the big ones and then you know they
always try to do some kind of question
or two questions that are something
stupid off the wall what's your biggest
weakness
yes I'm sure like that seems like not a
fun spot to be in to moderate this type
of it's okay this is a question from me
do you guys have any advice for what we
should be watching for at home or how we
should evaluate candidates because
think in large part you kind of left
your own devices or if you're watching
on TV you kind of stick around
afterwards to see like what pundits are
saying on cable and that sucks
so like what do you do if you want to
make sense of this yourself what should
you be looking for good question one
turn its crooked media love you I mean I
think there's probably a couple things
like one you want to watch for
discussions of policies you particularly
care about and make sure that you're
hearing what you want to hear on those
fronts too you want to imagine the
person that you're supporting going head
to head with Donald Trump in a similar
debate venue you know like I don't want
to name any candidate name so I'll get
in trouble but imagine them you know
arguing it on issue or lobbying attack
you can samel Trump like see if it feels
right see if they're good at it that
will be another piece of it and then I
don't know maybe what else tithing look
there's twenty three twenty four
candidates running for the nomination
right now that is a lot of
candidates and I think if you have not
decided who you really like yet or even
if you're leaning towards someone but
haven't definitely decided and you're
looking at these debates you should ask
yourself like who really set themselves
apart from the field who has a very
clear rationale for why they should be
president why they can be Donald Trump
what they're gonna do in office and how
they're gonna do it I mean these are the
questions that we've been focused on
when the candidates have been here in
the studio and I think you look you you
the the important question on the minds
of every Democrat is gonna be who can be
Donald Trump for sure because that is
very difficult to assess you should also
think about I know it's quaint who's
really gonna make a good president and
being a good president is yes it's about
having policies and plans it's also
about having even more importantly
sometimes a plan to implement those
policies and plans figure out how to get
them passed and there's a demeanor right
you do want someone in office who is
cool calm and collected and is not going
to fly off the handle or scream
at Maria Bartiromo
yeah nothing or worry about this or seem
inexperienced
seem like they don't know what they're
doing or seem like they're not large
enough for the job right like you you
want all those qualities in a president
yeah no Bowl just bold bold without the
bull I can be bold without the look the
look to the side they look bum me out
bum me out all right
how does debate performance translate
into primary and then general election
success is it important for candidates
at this stage and in this setting to try
to appeal to the largest possible
audience or to speak to the base like
what should people go into this trying
to do mm-hmm that's a great question
because you know I think the impulse for
every single candidate up there is gonna
be to speak exclusively to the base but
you know a lot of swing voters a lot of
people who haven't ever voted before who
may have very liberal progressive values
still will be watching and I think you
want to make sure that whatever your
message is in the primary debates it's
also your message in the general
election this idea that you can say one
thing in the primary because you're
trying to win the base over and then you
have it to be more moderate in the
general it's sort of like an old hand
 consultant piece of advice and
things that used to happen in in media
age where you know if things were a
little more segmented than they are now
I think these days whatever you're gonna
say in that debate stage make sure you
feel comfortable saying it next to
Donald Trump and when you're in a
general election they'd be my advice
sounds like good advice all right so
this is a you question who are you guys
most looking forward to hearing at these
debates and are there any candidates
that you're dreading hearing from or you
think will flop I don't want to answer
this question well not whether any
you're looking forward to hearing from
or one oh my god I'm looking here I'm
looking forward to hearing from all the
so we're all the frontrunners just
because it's it's cool that they're all
gonna be on stage together at least in
the second debate at the same time right
I mean I think figuring out how Bernie
Biden Kamala and
Pete are all gonna interact with each
other or if they do or what that's gonna
sound like to me is pretty fascinating
for night - I'm just sick of
preseason let's kick the ball off yeah
let's start this thing let's go
I also hope like tonight's debate is
interesting because you got Elizabeth
Warren up there you got Beto and Booker
and Klobuchar who are all pretty serious
people serious people but also not
that's not like bomb throwers right like
they're not gonna be up there trap I
don't think gonna be trying to mix it up
with each other or Warren so I'm
wondering how those four because those
are sort of the four frontrunners in the
in tonight's debate like how they're
gonna interact and what's that going to
look like or is it just gonna be a very
collegial affair where they're all just
nice to each other yeah who knows
alright so in your experience what does
prepping for a debate look like and what
memories if you have any from working
with Obama from that first presidential
primary debate stand out to you guys you
make a lot of big binders everybody
pretends to read them no I mean I think
they'll prep a bunch of things I'll prep
lines to use they'll prep an opening
statement that they'll memorize a
closing statement that you'll memorize
you know key answers on major issues
retorts two things you might get
attacked on well you have tense or like
nine stand ins as every other candidate
that you're gonna be out there yeah I
don't know that I would do that many
stand ins because like you probably
don't need to but um it does make it
more complicated I mean some of these
campaigns won't have enough staffers to
fill the standings you do i I don't
think so I did a few I did some of the
debate prep in the primary for Obama he
 hated it hated hated debate prep
and I think the first one I was in was
the debate prep before the Iowa debate
in August from her that debate block
though after the high for him know the
one where he had just Obama had just
been to the State Fair uh I remember the
fair yeah we're like it was a very thick
there's a debate like two days later uh
yeah I remember that he had that line
where because he was in the it was an
Iowa poll that showed him in the lead
for once
and they all started attacking Obama and
he was given the line I prepared for
this debate because I rode the bumper
cars yeah State Fair with Malia and
Sasha bumper I remember the bumper cars
that was a glass and they went up on the
thing that just like shoots you up in
the air it was fun come back down and
then we did the count of the corn
kernels for the straw poll anyway but um
so what I remember when we first started
prepping Obama for these debates
you know we'd ask him a question and he
would as a normal human being does
answer the question by just sort of
reciting his answer but he'd sort of in
his like legal ask sort of way build up
to the conclusion give all kinds of
support him and everyone have to tell
him like that's not how you answer a
question a debate in a debate you only
have 60 seconds and so you start with
your main message you have a few
supporting points and then you end with
a closing message that reflects the
opening message and he's just like well
that's not the real way to answer a
question that's like a robot's way of
answering are we talking more like
America sorry that's what a debate is
it's not really a conversation nor is it
a debate nor is it a opportunity for you
to speak like a normal human being it's
the way for you to spit out a
soundbite and get your message out in 60
seconds and he did not like it no and he
was not great at it sometimes got better
he was better in the general election at
least in a way than he wasn't a lot of
the primary ones because you really in a
primary there's a bunch of people on
stage and there's a premium on standing
out and getting notice the one thing
that can happen in these giant
 debates is if someone really
screws up they're gonna be a pile-on
like there was one debate maybe in
Philly where Hillary kind of took both
sides of an issue about giving
undocumented immigrants driver's
licenses and Chris Dodd was like she
just changed her mind she just changed
her mind that Edwards chimed in and
everyone like pout like piled on and it
it it can look really bad in the moment
well either for both sides that can look
bad but it looked very bad for Hillary
in that moment it was the basically the
beginning of the early beginning of the
end yeah I wouldn't come for like a year
and a half later but it was the first
time someone landed a blow on Hillary
Clinton's campaign and it was Chris Dodd
/ driver's licenses for I've documented
a good
do you think these things should have
live audiences like do you think there's
a benefit there No okay I think it's
terrible
you can pack the house people cheer they
boo they jeer it completely impacts how
you view something at home when you hear
other people reaction to it no one wants
to admit that that you are impacted as a
viewer by hearing someone applaud or not
but it's just human nature yeah and it's
just a terrible way to have a debate to
have an audience where people are
hooting and hollering and yeah ready say
something smart John yeah right see
exactly like that like that helps oh he
would laugh tracks that's what that's
called
sir do you think they would ever get rid
of audiences that we good there's a few
where they do right yeah some debates
don't have audiences there was someone
there was one in Iowa towards the very
end I think that didn't have an audience
I remember was like in a radio studio or
something and memories just gone or they
just tell them at the beginning do not
clap do not make any noise yeah but they
never people never follow those rules
hmm interesting okay so going back to
our poll results we found that 86% of
respondents were planning on using these
debates or thought that these debates
would be at least somewhat - very
important in helping them make up their
minds about who to vote for in the
primary 32% of the people said it was
very important so it looks like these
people will be tuning in trying to watch
and that's cool good doing some things
yeah
so are there any issues or questions
that you think will showcase the biggest
differences between candidates during
any of these debates
I think the second night or even the
first night - but especially the second
night healthcare code I mean like if I
was in Bernie Sanders campaign I would
be thinking about you know bringing up
the fact that I came up with Medicare
for all legislation in the Senate that
all these other candidates signed on to
and now some of them aren't talking
about it as much yeah I mean I would
also be ready for a big debate about
socialism versus capitalism yeah and I
don't know that that's a winner for him
but it will almost undoubtedly come up I
would expect jay Inslee to talk about
his climate plan the first night when he
gets a chance to
most detailed and ambitious and maybe
draw some contrast with people's plans
who are less so yeah I would expect
Michael Bennett to talk about why he's
not Hickenlooper just kidding I like
them both are great
welcome Colorado how can looper be
wearing a nametag so he can get past
security that was a bummer brutal yeah I
bet I bet or I wonder if Facebook
regulating Facebook and breaking up tech
company is going them up the first night
because obviously Elizabeth Warren's
been pretty forward on that and breaking
up tech companies and I think I think
like Cory Booker said he didn't like her
plan and there was a little yeah there
was a little it's one of the few things
he doesn't radically love is breaking up
tech companies you can see that coming
out I think immigration there could be
some contrast this has been a sort of
frustrating for me in the primary
because like say what you want about
Julian Castro's like relative chances of
winning but he came out early with a
super progressive big bold immigration
plan and it was not treated by the blue
checkmark refs on Twitter as like a
relevant piece of the debate or
something that they're really factoring
in we're all debating who's the real
progressive so hopefully that will get
some time I yes I'm gonna second that
because we say a lot of wonderful things
about Elizabeth Warren on this program
and obviously we like her very much but
I think a lot of reporters have done a
sort of shitty job on when like when
Elizabeth Warren announces something and
it's not first like they'd forget that
all these other candidates had done it
first like the framing of de Castro's
immigration thing yesterday and it was
like all over the news
he did it and I remember like I
interviewed Komal Harris two days after
he did it and she's like oh I hadn't
heard that he announced a plan yet and I
couldn't blame her for it because it
didn't get any coverage you know like
you heard of here on pot save America
John it's yeah right well we try to you
know make sure everyone gets their due
but there are a lot of people have a lot
of people have come up with some pretty
interesting plans on issues other than
economics and yeah they should get their
due cool and so looking back at our
polling numbers we have about seven
people in our specific poll who are
above pulling above one percent everyone
else
out of these 20 candidates who are gonna
be here tonight and the others the five
others who aren't we're not so do you
think it's possible that these people
who are polling at 1% or under will drop
out before Iowa if I don't get any
traction at the debates what was like a
timetable that we should expect or can
we expect to see people it's hard to
predict but you're gonna run on the
money I think a lot of money to run a
campaign I think if you don't make these
fall debates where they've up the
threshold to 2% in a hundred and thirty
thousand donors I think I think there's
a good case for those people to drop out
before Iowa for sure so you also don't
want to totally humiliate yourself like
some people do the way the Iowa caucus
the whole other conversation the way the
Iowa caucuses work is you need to hit a
pretty significant threshold in every
single precinct to get any delegates yes
so it is very easy to throw up bagels
left and right in the state and just
look like a loser I could see like it
being down to six seven eight candidates
by Iowa that'd be nice is it realistic
that any of the candidates who drop out
relatively soon could still run for
Congress or run for other offices if
they wanted to I don't know I mean would
depend if someone else is already on the
ballot and running or how hard it is to
get yourself in the prime just these are
very circumstantial so well some of it
is so there's two different categories
here one is if it's your own seat right
like I saw somewhere that Eric's wawel
has to decide whether he wants to run
for his own
have a seat again so there's all that
there's the other category that everyone
talks about on Twitter which is like
better should run for Senate Steve
Bullock should run for Senate
Hickenlooper Bennet should run for
Senate in those cases but no it's not
realistic but it was not gonna run for
Senate MJ Hegar is running in Texas
she's a great candidate like in it there
may even be some others that run in
Texas too so that's just not gonna
happen
it's definitely not gonna happen in
Colorado because for Bennett or
Hickenlooper because there's like four
or five candidates running in them right
Mary got great candidates and call it in
Colorado so everyone should stop talking
about that and worrying about it the
only one where you'd like Steve Bullock
probably could win the
Senate seat Montana if he decided to but
he just really doesn't want he doesn't
want to be in the Senate doesn't he like
being governor Montana wants to isn't it
does not want to be in the US Senate so
you can't at some point you can't make
someone Senate does suck you know Wow
the application content you come here
for anyways
Madison wants to know if you guys are
all gonna be watching the debates
together if we're sure I do right here
and you can watch us watch the debates
watch on us watch them if the whole crew
is gonna be here Kirk you media Dan's
gonna be watching from San Francisco
he'll be here tomorrow night what a
debate newsletters order I think we
should do a group food order yeah
wait how do you did are you yeah I've
been influencing the food order don't
worry you're an influencer a little bit
a little bit can you share with the
people I kind of wanted like taco balls
taco boy I like it I like a taco bowl
right yeah not like Trump Tower taggable
snow like a little I'm it's fine Aaron I
want a regular taco I do regular tacos I
think it's like a I think there are
options like I'm gonna order taco bull
people get salad with a taco is burrito
at whatever all right cool anyways what
are your snack recommendations fair
debate like what's a good during yeah
like what's a good stress snack so what
two hours from 9:00 to 11:00 Eastern or
6 to 8 Pacific remember what Hillary was
kind of late coming back out cuz I think
she's like Brenda the bathroom but yeah
so that'll probably happen someone's
gonna have to pee it'll be hilarious
snacks since I'll be here I'll be eating
cashews cheez-its
love walk into the closet to get some
cheez-its snack closet protein bar yeah
those are gross though
you know you slap protein on the
label and for marketing and you think
it's better for you it's just I think
there are better bars out there and I'm
happy to sidebar about this way we could
we'll talk about a zone we'll talk we'll
dock bar converse you know watch party
though if people did that
I chose nachos nachos oh yeah not just
beat me some seven-layer dip you know
when I think of campaigns I think about
the Iowa campaign office where random
volunteers would just bring in like
potluck of the most unhealthy you
could find so it'd be like cupcakes an
entire pie it's always always every
second layer dip pizza wings but heavy
Oh buffalo wings anyway lots ideas
anyways this is the last question what
debate drinking game should I play ask
Kendall
I mean how drunk do you want to get
walid tweeted a funny thing yeah tweeted
a Dems in disarray bingo card which you
should take a look at I feel like if you
really want to get drunk drink every
time someone says Trump drink every time
someone says middle class drink every
time some one percenter
complains about their time and didn't
get enough time that's a good point
these candidates you look like such a
loser if you complain about the
moderators not coming here you are such
a whiny baby
yeah I'd love to have entered a more
fulsome way which is not gonna get my
the word I was falling asleep over here
no I was still on the stage here I am
don't do that don't do that you look
baby also like don't be very careful
attempting humor mmm very careful right
a lot of these Canada to pride
themselves on dad jokes and really dad
jokes just code for a not funny joke
right so like just because your daughter
laughs doesn't mean you're fun if
something's funny in the moment you know
say so or maybe make it like in a funny
aside any aside is good or get a laugh
track
forget the left don't come up with your
canned line that is funny nope hear that
everybody
none of that you hear me all right sweet
any parting words before we go best of
luck yeah debaters mix it up be
interesting people goal your goal is not
to be boring and to get through it your
goal is to distinguish yourself yeah so
try yes I couldn't agree more memorable
don't say things that
people on that debate stage could easily
say be bold be best be a tall but no BS
Wow
and with that that's our stream and
we're out
[Music]
[Laughter]
you
