now it's time for a game called okay
stop roll the clip and the panel can say
okay stop at any point to comment buckle
up
Howard Schultz no we're gonna do it
you know why we're gonna do it Howard
Schultz decides he's gonna actually do
this and run we're gonna ignore him all
right we're gonna try to push him aside
we have a chance now to convince this
dope to get the out of this race
and top not take the country down so
we're gonna talk about how he's messing
this up and making a fool of himself
till he gets the message
every barista I tell them Howard Schultz
a man so rich he can't be embarrassed
showed up for CNN's Town Hall and let's
just say he truly spoken sentences roll
the clip the far left is now suggesting
Medicare for all
that is a 32 trillion dollar number and
then and just like the issue I brought
up before about making all the buildings
in America energy free in terms of clean
energy
does anyone here really understand that
Medicare for all also means that you
will lose the choice of your doctor and
your private insurance company okay so I
just even if this guy doesn't run he is
gonna he is just gonna spend his time
talking about health care talking about
energy talking about the budget by just
using right wing talking points and and
you know what he's got a he's got
Democrat advisors and he's got
Republican advisors all I hear is
someone who has spent a lifetime
claiming to be a Democrat going on
television and attacking Democrats and
attacking liberals and saying things
like Medicare for all is unrealistic
doing anything about climate change like
the green New Deal is unrealistic I
don't like them
know that so that would disrupt the
entire system
it'll cost 32 trillion dollars there's
no doubt that once again the healthcare
crisis has been with us for a long time
the other issue is I um do rich people
know that they can just go away like he
can live on an island where he cannot
have Medicare for all and do whatever he
wants he could like ago and we
wouldn't know like the world is his
Starbucks oyster we would have been
skipping into the sunset going oh my god
I love frappuccinos and yet he wants to
I just don't understand I also you know
he's a smart man
you see I I don't know
you thought long and hard about it
before this I believed he was a smart
person I think it's a very hard job
running several thousand Starbucks is at
once you know I that would be I mean
look if you told me tomorrow I'm in
charge of all the Starbucks's I'm gonna
full panic I am in a panic and I
am very much hoping that a lot of the
processes and systems that he put in
place will work for a while while I
learned the ropes I'm thinking every
store every store needs coffee every
single one every day new coffee coming
in the right amount of coffee
send them too much they got nowhere to
put it don't send them enough you got a
Starbucks running out of coffee huge
 problem yeah then then on top of
that all right now if you got the coffee
worked out every single one needs an
even number of sous vide egg butts
[Laughter]
and that's the other thing you gotta
learn just learning all the terms they
got so many different kinds of breakfast
sandwiches and they all got a logistical
process of making all those eggs and by
the way those two be tech bites
I think the first ingredient is cottage
cheese so then you figured out how to
make gosh the fact that I supported the
affordable care act it covered 20
million people who did not have good
insurance but premiums have gone up
double since the Affordable Care Act so
now we got to go back in and fix the
Affordable Care Act and bring premiums
down competition will do that
okay stop oh oh that's it that was an
idea what what do you mean competition
will do that he doesn't really know we
don't know because he hasn't thought
very deeply buddy what he wants to do he
is running he is running because of all
the things he wants to stop in fact one
of the things he has been signaling is
that he will not run if the Democrats
nominated centrist which is just another
way of saying I am holding the
Democratic Party hostage to my personal
beliefs that if you don't go along with
the kind of person I like because I'm a
billionaire I will run and even though
you know crooked media put out a report
by Joel Benison who was an Obama
pollster a really smart pollster and he
gave he gave Howard Schultz the benefit
of the doubt right he said all right
let's say let's say you do really really
well all right and I'm gonna take away
states where the Democrats won by a
bunch I'm going to take away states
where Republicans won by a bunch and I'm
gonna say you do really really well in
all the states that are closed right all
the states where you can come up the
middle for people at home listening I
made a gesture he can't do it under the
most generous of sub of estimations and
the most liberal of vote tallies he
cannot get to 270 electoral votes but
what he can do is reelect Donald
Trump and so now he's standing out there
saying that he's a positive guy and he's
against revenge politics but it's pretty
clear that the only thing that motivates
him is making sure Democrats aren't for
a few policies that he personally
doesn't like for reasons he doesn't
fully understand but can I ask a
logic
salad fairy salad can I ask a legitimate
question do is it possible and I'm
really asking this it that he could
leach more billionaire sick of ants off
of the right than off of the left I
think the problem is he is not he is
talking about a socially liberal
fiscally served conservative agenda
there is no constituency for that
liberals don't want that and
conservatives don't want that he is not
doing anything to appeal to the right
all he is doing is attacking the left
he's not making a you haven't seen him
outline any conservative thinks he is
outlining a centrist agenda that's
somewhere on the spectrum between joe
Manchin and and honestly somewhere
between joe Manchin and Barack Obama
right that's what he's outlining so he's
outlining something that doesn't appeal
to conservatives while trying to drag
the Democratic Party to the right and
trying to attack Democratic ideas that
that is what he has spent his time doing
but how at the end of this will here
won't he can he come away with it and be
like I think people really like me you
know like this is like the this is the
unpopularity contest of the ages I think
that there is clearly no limit to what
he can convince himself about himself
and it's way it's what rich guys will do
I mean in middle school there is a kid
nobody liked him but he had a big-screen
TV and he had Breakfast Club and we went
in his house and we watched it
the far right we move now the question
is how yeah good question okay stop
listen the MVP okay asking the questions
that we all want answers okay I don't
know who that is who is that it's poppy
Harlow god dammit is your poppy her name
over no you remember okay a great name
definitely uh Howard Schultz name that
he could talk to I'll talk to a puppy
and a Buffy and no one else
as somebody who move up in a very
diverse background as a young face we
want to see the photos okay I wanna see
the street you grew up on and all of
your neighbors photos before I buy into
that Howie and would we know is that
like he likes that he's one of those
guys who likes to say I can ruop you
know in the projects right and like
projects is the word right that we use
that as race that usually means poor
black folks but he grew up a bunch of
poor white folks yeah he's like there
was an Irish family there was an Italian
fan oh yeah I think that there maybe was
a Ukrainian second generation that it's
led something I rolled a hoop down the
street I took a hoop and a stick and
then I made everybody by weird coffee
forever the project I didn't see color
as a young boy honestly don't see color
now stop
so I'll start and then I'll let you off
in it I think you should finish we just
need you
[Music]
any time a white person sighs that they
don't see color I just I put on this
voice right here because they just don't
understand because what you're singing
and you don't see me and I've got a lot
of colors on today right and I'm just
confused that we're still using that in
2019 you're potentially possibly running
for president of the United States like
it just seems stupid at this point so he
has walked this back as they say and
good for him
Congrats to the again a crack team
around Howard Schultz shepherding this
PR juggernaut to its logical conclusion
which is Dancing with the Stars but I'll
tell you what my honest reaction was to
this and again it goes to travels
incisive question earlier is he because
that is a schmuck schmuck says that not
a not a leader of men an executive a
Titan of of super dudes of Silicon
Valley in Seattle wherever the coffee
headquarters is that's what a schmuck
says that's what Michael Scott says this
is a schmuck and you know what Howard
Schultz I don't want to call you a
schmuck all right
I don't like that you put me in this
position
[Music]
