as we got in his Tesla and he was just
just going no just like is in the
pastures he like I'm in a car with is
this like la yeah it always is crazy me
when people drive crazy in LA because
you have to stop fast it just it if
you're on even on a highway it's crazy
so I'm always blown away by that yeah we
were also like in a really windy like
road area so here just be like people
like just like wow you died like off a
cliff with seal and a Tesla or because
it's seal you die and like everyone kind
of like we have to remember that you
also died yeah I mean it could go a
number yeah I gained something yeah yeah
I could start you know whole campaign
around my music and Buddy Holly yeah
exactly
consciously the music died yeah what
we're seeing like clay cooking up yeah
it was it was cool though I mean he was
just very like he the way he talks in
the way he just like kind of like goes
about his his life he's just like always
a mystery almost which it's just like
you know he like he like he doesn't
really write on his phone he writes on a
pen and he like will come back and then
come go go to it and come back oh - he's
like very like methodical with this
process but also a little ATG alright
yeah I love diagnosing see Lewis is
plotting a break-in the seals there at
this office
[Music]
