welcome to pod save America I'm Jon
Favreau Oh me next time Tommy Vitor I'm
John Lovett
on today's pod we are thrilled to
finally have in studio the host of the
Rachel Maddow Show on MSNBC and the
author of the new book blowout which
we're going to talk about a little later
Rachel Maddow is here how are you guys
so exciting it's very exciting to be I
can't believe this is real and it's
really happening musically and upset you
imagine in your mind when you're
dreaming some sort of dystopian future
which you find yourself with people you
recognize talking I mean what's wrong
with ours What's Wrong nothing's wrong
it's perfect it was dystopian about it
now it's a dystopian future I imagined
for myself in which I'm sitting here
talking with three smart guys who I
admire and that I completely lose the
power of speech and make a complete
idiot out of myself we do have a lot of
impeachment in 2020 news to cover
tonight but a few housekeeping notes
Tommy tell us about this week's pod save
the world oh yeah that show yeah we
talked about President Trump leaving our
cursed allies hung out to dry in Syria
and things have only gotten worse and
since we try to understand what our guys
were doing there what the US mission was
and what's likely to happen and then we
also talked about the NBA's fight with
China and what it could mean for the
broader business community as
authoritarian countries try to tell us
what free speech means check it out cool
future also a little plug for the 2019
elections that are coming up in a month
Democrats have a chance to make big
gains in Kentucky Louisiana and
Mississippi and Virginia where we need
to flip just four seats to win the
legislature and the chance to draw fair
congressional districts in 2021
head to vote save America calm or you
can donate to our gerrymandering
fund and find volunteer opportunities in
these states some right from the comfort
of your home so check them out all right
let's get to the news on Tuesday evening
White House Counsel Pat cephalonia
announced in an eight-page screed that
President Trump is directing his
administration to obstruct Congress's
impeachment inquiry they were refused to
comply with any and all subpoenas for
testimony and documents which is against
the law there were a few pretty angry
responses from members of Congress with
regard to this kind of obstruction and I
do think we have a few
Eclipse go for it
article three of impeachment against
Richard Nixon the article was based on
the idea that Richard Nixon as president
failed to comply with subpoenas of
Congress Congress was going through its
oversight function to provide oversight
of the president when asked for
information Richard Nixon chose not to
comply and the Congress back in that
time said you're taking impeachment away
from us you're becoming the judge and
jury it is not your job to tell us what
we need it is your job to comply with
the things we need to provide oversight
over you the day Richard Nixon failed
answer that subpoena is the day that he
was subject to impeachment because he
took the power from Congress over the
impeachment process away from Congress
and he became the judge and jury and I
think we have I think we have one more
what a principled leader so eloquently
stated he's really good
he crams the notion that you can
withhold information and documents from
Congress no matter whether you're the
party in power or not in power is wrong
respect for the rule of law must mean
something irrespective of the
vicissitudes a political cycle too big
word do you guys remember when I was
coming to sit down here for the first
time I said I don't know like if you
have interference issues is it okay if I
have my phone with me because I have a
couple of things that the reason I
wanted to have my phone with me is
because I saved that clip always have
clips looked at at the beginning but I
saw those two this morning I was like
these are very Matt OS so obviously that
was Trump's good pal Lindsey Graham and
his brand new lawyer trey Gowdy Rachel
what do you make of the White House's
rationale for this decision to obstruct
which is basically that the impeachment
inquiry is illegitimate and
unconstitutional because House Democrats
haven't taken a formal vote to launch
the inquiry and you know there's a whole
bunch of complaints about they haven't
provided the president of due process
well it's interesting to me as a matter
of political strategy because they're
saying
impeach this impeachment doesn't exist
this impeachment is is unconstitutional
which is amazing because impeachments
literally in the Constitution I mean
yeah right there weirdly it's the same
word even after all this time so it's
it's it's obviously an out-there
argument but to specifically say this
impeachment isn't real unless you do X
and then X is a totally doable thing I
mean like Nancy Malusi could hold a vote
in the house and all the Democrats could
vote unanimously for impeachment right i
+ justin amash right or whoever and even
you know even if they needed a few
democrats to vote no or vote absent or
be washing their hair that day or
something they could still afford to do
it because they have plenty of democrats
on the record in favor of impeachment so
I don't think Pelosi should do it
because I don't think she should let
trump dictate what she does but if
that's the threshold that's the only
thing that would make this a real
impeachment okay they could have that
tomorrow it seems like an odd thing for
them to send super odd I mean do we
think that it's interesting the your
explanation is that pull those he
shouldn't let trump dictate what she
does I think it's a good point I wonder
if they should do it just to call their
bluff like or I guess I'm wondering that
I'm also wondering why Pelosi is not
hasn't done it so far it to me it might
be because there's a couple members
still on the fence what do you say it's
interesting I think there's two things
one with every passing day
impeachment votes get easier for
Democrats and harder for Republicans I
don't think that's lost on anyone making
this argument the second piece of this
is you're starting to see rumblings of
demands that Republicans get subpoena
power as part of this and I'm sorry I'm
sorry but until you have proven
yourselves responsible enough for
subpoena power last time you had it it
didn't go so well last time last time
you promised you would not eat that
ice-cream sandwich until after dinner
and it was gone so I you know it's funny
we'll talk about it as well but you know
Lindsey Graham suggesting Rudy come to
the Senate the Republican calling for
the
vote in the house I find myself thinking
I don't see what the problem is but I'm
not evil so I'm not able to totally wrap
my head around all the possibilities
yeah I also think that Nancy Pelosi has
a really good read on how to play Trump
yes I mean I don't think she does
everything right and I don't think that
she's you know like a master of the
house in a way that is too hard for us
to understand but I do often feel like
she knows how to get his goat yeah and
she knows what not to rise to and so her
not wanting to take this vote is
obviously within her power I mean the
house gets to decide its own rules and
if their rules are it's an impeachment
when we say it's an impeachment and not
it's not dependent on whether we take a
holdout then that's within her power but
I'm I guess that's why to me the more
interesting thing is not what Pelosi is
doing but why this crazy letter from Pat
Salone set that as such an important
threshold as if that is something that
could never happen yeah I mean I read
this this letter as just a flailing
political statement and I don't think
that the White House counsel's office
touches thing I think dime-store peggy
noonan Stephen Miller probably wrote
this crazy because that that's
what they do with that guy on the fax
like first of all Marco Rubio Marco
Rubio's a former counsel that you know
paragon of virtue said the letter was a
direct assault on the very legitimacy of
Congress's oversight power so that's
what Republicans think about this letter
but regarding their specific concerns
like one I believe the vote during
Nixon's impeachment came months and
months from now right so like the
argument that this needs to happen first
before they're gathering the facts I
mean what the house is doing is
preparing an indictment and then the
trial will be in the Senate the idea
that that you know that they need to
vote immediately is ridiculous and also
this subpoena ish
our issue is a bit of a red herring
because my understanding is in previous
instances yes you can give the minority
party subpoena power but the full
committee then votes on it
so the the majority has a de facto veto
on minority party subpoenas anyway so
it's like sure like you were saying
earlier set up these very easy to meet
standards for the Democrats that we can
either match or not but I do think
you're right that ultimately Pelosi
should dictate this based on our own
political instincts and not based on
whatever trumps use the highest
authority that gets to this
what happens here no matter what the
White House bill does so the White House
sort of gave up the game on this because
they held a briefing with reporters
after this letter came out and one
reporters like okay well what would it
take for the White House to change its
mind and actually cooperate and the
senior administration official said a
full halt to all subpoenas requests for
testimony for documents everything else
so it's like basically they're saying
they're conditioned for cooperating and
an impeachment inquiry is to end
so I guess why do we think that Trump
chose this strategy of obstructing
Congress like what is the political
strategy behind the White House's
decision to say we are going to war
we're going to pretend this is
unconstitutional and we're just going to
fight the transcript he did it he might
as well be video of him shooting someone
for Auliya I think I think it doesn't
have to be more complicated than what we
know plus what we don't is far worse
than what we know plus blocking the
investigation yeah right they think that
going down for obstruction is well then
it's just another process crime we can
get past that and what they're most
afraid of is the truth coming out well
but the the the process crime here
however that gets adjudicated even if
they left all the obstruction out yeah
the crime of contacting another
government and asking for help against a
political opponent done and dusted you
know they're not going to get out we are
that's already done already confessed
dude they gave us the evidence it's done
president Trump then did it again on TV
in case we missed it the first time so
that part the idea that they're trying
to constrain this so that he only gets
done for obstruction and not for some
other thing or that they're trying to
fight that one article of impeachment
because that one worries them more than
the other one that's a sure bet I mean
dude it's a sure bet I don't I don't
think there is any strategy here I think
this is whack-a-mole I think this is
like stop stop yeah we were talking we
were talking about watching a program we
loved called the Rachel Maddow Show
before this recording and we were saying
we were we were noting that okay now
this story breaks that it look
like Tillerson may have been asked by
trump to call DOJ to intercede in a
specific investigation an investigation
he personally cares virtually nothing
about maybe all of it boiling down to if
this is what he's doing on a
semi-regular basis and think about all
the calls all the interventions all the
illegal ruminating and questions and
wondering if he could get away with
things that might that could pile up if
the dam were to ever do that burst I was
saying cuz of the story like whether
Trump did this at Rudy's behest or he
did it for Iran right like what is Trump
give a about this guy for Yeah
right like Trump only gives a about
himself right he does everything out of
his own personal self-interest
so if he's that worried about getting
off some guy who you know was laundering
money with the Iranians like what else
is he doing for stuff that actually
means something to imagine the kind of
stuff that he has been pulling hey Rex
right now you're known as the Secretary
of State who got fired while on the
toilet why don't you go out and known as
the only guy who left this White House
and told the truth well this is an
interesting part of this because that's
my speech listeners I'm sorry I just
have to say I am sick of this shaming of
Rex Tillerson for the crime of doing
what we all do it's not his fault John
Kelly called him while he was on the
John alright that's not why is Rex and
why is that embarrassing every single
person in this room
oops sorry to bolt stands in this
section of the conversation I'm gonna
not come down between you and this one
because it may implicate me in future
crimes i I just I think one of the
things that's really interesting about
this Rex Tillerson story coming out
right now is that it happened in 2017
yeah and it happened to Rex in front of
three other people and then it happened
to John Kelly like he was in like
Tillerson took this to John Kelly
according to Bloomberg News and said hey
the president just asked me to do
something illegal and illegal thing he
asked me to do which is a crime in case
you don't know what illegal means I'm
not gonna do that crime okay John and so
that's a couple of years ago now it's
just come out why is that come out
presumably because in the impeachment
inquiry we're starting to shake loose
information about the president's
behavior that Friday night late night
Washington Post story with all of those
quotes about the President on the phone
with foreign leaders including him
telling Teresa May that Russia wasn't
behind the scruples attempted
assassination crazy crazy all of this
crazy why is that coming out now it's
coming out now because witnesses are
coming forward transcripts are being
released depositions are being taken the
president's behavior is being described
and it is shaking either the conscience
or the self-preservation instincts of
people who know stuff well this is why I
think this thing could be bigger than I
even imagined right because I thought
you know if we ever do get around to
impeaching him the Republicans in the
Senate are going to protect him no
matter what or it's gonna happen before
the year is over and then by you know
June of 2020 we're all gonna have
forgotten about the impeachment thing
right but if it was just Ukraine and
they rushed a really quick vote on it
and that was that that'd be one thing
and they tried to obstruct everything
else but hearing about this Bloomberg
story about Tillerson and all the other
stuff that's coming out if this plays
out so that all of these people keep
coming forward and there are new stories
and new developments over and over again
for the next couple months I think it
really could build to something very
very bad why do we know about the fact
that they move we just found out from
the whistleblower that they moved the
records of his problematic foreign
leader calls into the standalone covert
action server and then immediately we
started getting all this information
about what's on all those calls yes like
I would like to visit that vault it's
not great when you fire someone like Rex
Tillerson and you humiliate him or you
or Rick Perry just happens to leave the
administration after we all just read a
transcript where the president commits a
crime by trading foreign assistance for
dirt on his political rival and then
Trump immediately blames Rick Perry like
these are not people who are gonna go to
the mattresses for you and not tell
their stories if they're called an
impeachment agree are you Rachel are you
surprised I'm surprised we talked a lot
about what impeachment might unlock that
that was our it was our kind of argument
right if we do this
pursue this impeachment it'll-it'll give
more power to Congress and we'll be able
to get more out of the administration
but I I did not believe it would be this
transformative have you been surprised
by just how much is shaken loose and
just roughly what two and a half three
weeks yes the pace of it is remarkable
and because we're getting all this
information about stuff that happened
previously it does sort of make you feel
like it was like swelling and ready to
burst and then somebody finally took the
first pinprick there and it's all
starting to come and so I don't know
again like I don't know how many stories
there are like this with Rex Tillerson
but I do know that Rex Tillerson in
December told Bob Schieffer that it was
multiple times that the president asked
him to do something illegal I don't know
if this is one of those if there's
others I don't know how much Rex
Tillerson is talking I don't know how
much brick Perry's gonna talk once he
leaves I don't know how much jeopardy
other former Trump administration
officials including cabinet officials
feel like they might be in from this
process yeah I mean see I think it's
what I think the Pompeo thing and the
bar thing are both really interesting
too because one thing to talk about
their bad apps and to see them defending
the president I mean to see Pompeo
talking about the Kurds like they don't
deserve our alliance anymore I mean it
just it's incredible
but do they fear for themselves in terms
of potential prosecution or impeachment
or some other sort of you know shaming
or country or consequence that might
motivate their own behavior other than
just mean even be able to look at
themselves in the mirror and that's an
empirical question that I don't I mean I
don't know what the Democrats are gonna
do on cabinet officials is everything
with Pompeo specifically forget the bar
the Barry forget you know the high
threshold of doing of worrying about his
you know
criminal liability he seemed to be
always someone like a nikki Haley who
believed he could escape with his
credibility intact and it seems as if
he's I don't know if he's let go of that
dream where he is unaware that that
dream is slowly slipping from his haters
Pompeyo Pompeyo thinks he's going to be
President yeah and I guess that's why he
wants to he wants to keep the the Trump
base to quote George HW Bush Pompeyo was
benefit the benefit T of the soft
bigotry of low expectations right like
he was the only person you could speak
in complete sentences on a Sunday show
it was not seen as like a crazy eye
you log like John Bolton but then
Pompeii OHS problem now is when you
learn that Gordon Sandland is the one
negotiating with Ukraine and you dig
into that for 30 seconds and you realize
that he only got that job the US
ambassador the European Union because he
cut a million dollar check to Donald
Trump's inauguration using four
anonymous LLC's you start to wonder and
then you do some googling and you
realize that Ukraine is not in the EU so
why is this guy banging around
negotiating like military aid to them
right so like Pompey's got to worry
about the incompetence of the layer
right below him I also think the
Democrats should rope in bill bar into
these impeachment proceedings and
possibly impeach him as well because
what bill bars are doing flying around
the world meeting with all kinds of
foreign officials to basically improve a
bunch of right-wing conspiracy theories
by also investigating our own
intelligence agencies our own law
enforcement just so he can basically
backtrack to try to prove this
conspiracy theory or multiple conspiracy
theories is crazy and people should I
just feel like we need the truth about
that you know like people shouldn't know
what the Attorney General that's an
independent investigator is a respected
prosecutor who would never allow for any
political pressure well I don't worry
about criminal referrals coming from
that too like it's it's it you know we
can say that he's running around doing
is like Carmen Sandiego investigation
there is going all around the world but
you know when they come out with
criminal referrals at the end in the
middle of an election it's gonna be very
using the Justice Department for stuff
like that is the end that's right and
we're getting there we are we already we
already know that when the
whistleblowers complaint ends up at the
deal at DOJ they're like stuff in a bag
did anyone watch the 51 minute Glenn
Beck video that Trump's campaign manager
tweeted out that sort of gets at the
root of what they think the conspiracy
is like a DNC consultant is the one who
basically hatched the whole Russia
conspiracy yeah I had a lot of free time
on Saturday it is Glenn Glenn Beck was
look looks like a coked-up Colonel
Sanders and he needs not one
but two gigantic chalkboards to walk you
through this
and he's like grabbing photos of faces
it's bringing them from one chalkboard
to another and slapping them down it is
it's kind of worth five minutes he's
back into the game the thing that I'm
mesmerized by here is like I could get
51 minutes of going back well the thing
to know about Glenn is when he was
trying to be the principal conservative
he had to fire like a fifth of his staff
at staff at the blaze so now so but is
the idea either
mr. Beck or the implication it was it
parse Cal who do tweeted it and do we
think what bar in Durham is doing is not
just trying to rope Ukraine into some
sort of blame for 2016 in election
interference specifically aren't they
trying to make it so that Russia didn't
do it yeah so that the Kremlin
didn't run an op on our 2016 election
the IRA instead the internet research
agency that didn't happen the DNC hack
was not them and they were blamed by
somebody with a grudge against them no
they were they were framed by the barely
stable country they invaded you could
right yeah that's the belief in agency
staff and the DIA one person that did
Hillary Clinton's campaign and the DNC
were somehow working with Ukraine during
the 2016 election to first screw over
mana for of course is a criminal
they said they set him up and then
installed him exactly so they exposed
Paul mana for its crimes which I guess
is it which they created and I don't
know where it actually goes from there
but it goes too is that they stole their
own documents and use them to sabotage
Hillary Clinton's nominating convention
and her campaign in order to make Russia
look bad so that Trump would be elected
and Russia would look that winning Trump
winning just ruins all these conspiracy
theories like all these people had all
this stuff they were trying to take down
Trump but they all decide to be very
quiet we only like about the one
investigation and it was the one onto
Hillary Clinton they are very very the
deep state is phenomenally bad at making
Hillary Clinton president as evidence
by our nightmare current but is this
part of the thesis that that Hillary was
orchestrating a campaign that would
result on purpose in her losing because
that is the real knife in the back to
the that is that is some some of the
conspiracies are that the more the
lower-level conspiracies are just you
know yeah Russia meddled in the election
and maybe the Trump campaign encouraged
and welcomed it but the Democrats were
working with Ukraine too there was a
little meddling there it's back to the
like yeah you know we're corrupt but
you're corrupt too yeah and everyone and
that's what they're really that's all
they need which is like trademark Putin
exactly like the world is corrupt we're
trapped right so Lindsey Graham said he
wants Rudy to testify before the Senate
Judiciary Committee and that he plans to
ask his Republican Senate colleagues to
sign a letter stating that they don't
believe the transcript of the phone call
constitutes an impeachable offense
Lindsey Graham up to here I mean first
of all I don't think he's getting a lot
of signature I don't think he's getting
a ton of signatures on that letter
because there's this ape rising number
of Republican senators who are saying
nothing right now which is probably a
bad sign for Donald Trump or at least
not a great sign but the rudy thing
makes me think they are gearing up to
try to put on a show that is very loud
and confusing and they're trying to drag
everyone into process arguments just to
you know here's my question is there
something I don't understand about Rudy
Giuliani and Lindsey Graham that anyone
could come to the conclusion that an
open hearing with Rudy Giuliani in which
Democrats will have time to ask him
questions well we're down to the benefit
of anyone associated or affiliated with
Rudy Giuliani I mean am I missing
something
am I crazy I would have said that about
the Corey Lewandowski hearing you know
and then you know somehow that went off
the rails but even that even that you
know yeah it was a it was a it was a big
mess but first of all I would say this I
think Corey Lewandowski is still a
better witness than Rudy Giuliani and
there were still 30 tough minutes with
the staff attorney in which Corey Corey
Lewandowski confirmed a bunch of
that ended up being a big part of the
stories that followed I guess is there
any way that Rudy Giuliani testifying
before the Senate could be scoped
to prevent Democrats from asking
questions that would reveal the inner
workings of Rudy Giuliani's you've met
Dennis you've met Senate Democrats right
[Laughter]
you go to you go to you go to
impeachment with the Congress you have I
mean I think that clearly they are
trying to put on a show a Rudy Giuliani
show I mean there's a reason Giuliani
goes on TV all the time it's not cuz
he's great on TV it's because Rudy
Giuliani on TV is a spectacle that makes
it seem like something Crazy's happening
and I can't possibly understand this
anymore look at that guy I mean now that
that chaos itself is enough just that
kinetic nonsense
yeah but in terms of asking Republican
senators to agree in writing and pledge
the way they will vote before the trial
or the trial I mean that's a I mean it's
for one thing the problem with Lindsey
Graham doing that is it gives Republican
senators their it gives away their best
way to avoid commenting on this right I
think we've had one or two senators
already say listen if this comes to the
Senate I will effectively be a juror in
this case and so I don't want to say
anything that might prejudge all say
that unless Lindsey Graham tells them
all to sign a pledge saying we're not
[Laughter]
still that he doesn't think the
president really asked a foreign country
for help with by admix it's a joke he
thinks it's a joke certainly the China
piece he said he thought so
what CNN reported that actually one of
the things in the vault is that Trump
didn't just do this on the South Lawn he
did it in private in a conversation with
President Xi yes doesn't that take away
that it was a joke no not even that
report the next day Trump tweeted I
asked China to investigate not because
of politics but because of corruption so
he tweet he's like hey Marco in case you
were mistaken I was not kidding none of
you are familiar enough
with the avant-garde stylings of Andy
Kaufman this is a long-term kind of
piece that's a bit so let's like what
what can Democrats what are the
Democrats options now that the White
House is all in on obstructing
everything in Congress what are the
legal options and then what is a what is
a good political strategy to make these
and can they make the impeachment
hearings successful with the Trump
administration completely obstructing
Congress one option they have is that
they could just impeach him I mean you
don't yes the obstruction stuff should
arguably be an article of impeachment it
sounds like they're building quite a
case there they're also about to get all
of the or a bunch of the stuff that was
collected during the Moller
investigation that goes toward
obstruction you know things like asking
Comey to interfere with the Justice
Department and the Flynn investigation
so that that could all be added there
but even if they don't want to touch the
obstruction stuff they could in peach
him right away just on the asking for
foreign interference stuff the
substantive matter that sparked the
investigation spark to the proceedings
in the first place they could just do
that whenever they want yeah they can go
to court right but that's gonna take a
long time go to court to try to compel
come the penis just to compel the
subpoenas I mean obviously this goes
this would I'll probably end up at the
Supreme Court if the White House fought
this if the White House is gonna say
we're not going to cooperate with
anything and then Vegas they could sue
to enforce the subpoenas yeah I mean the
sort of frustrating thing here is you
know one of the arguments we always
heard from people who were
pro-impeachment way earlier than now was
that impeachment would make winning
these court battles easier faster would
then force them to come forward and like
I think it was probably always the case
that that was not true
especially when Trump is guilty we've
read the thing we know he's guilty like
he's gonna fight this thing and make it
about process the entire way so I think
that ship is just gonna proceed with
what he has at a normal pace yeah it was
interesting I saw shifted interview with
greg sargent the other day yesterday I
think and he said that he believes he's
like look at this if the courts know
there's gonna be a trial on the Senate I
cannot imagine
a court in this land that won't give us
the evidence we need to conduct this
trial whether it's from Muller or
whether it's from anywhere else seems to
think that not only will he get the
evidence but he'll get it in a timely
fashion for a Senate and Pietschmann
barrel Howell is forcing that to happen
right away with the Muller stuff now
right right I mean it's it's moving the
the Constitution says the house shall
have the sole power of impeachment and
the Senate shall have the sole power to
try all impeachments rightly it couldn't
be more clear that it's a congressional
prerogative and that they need to supply
this evidence if your argument is we
refuse to give you the information you
need to hold impeachment proceedings I
mean that it just what's the purpose of
having a Pietschmann to begin with I
feel like the the thing that I'm that I
feel like is potentially on the horizon
that I'm really worried about and I
don't know what to how to think about it
is like reading that transcript from the
barrel howell hearing this week and you
know the one where she says wow you
really are arguing something quite
extreme here I mean they're arguing
Watergate was argued you're arguing to
me that Watergate was wrongly decided
that the the material collected and that
grand jury investigation shouldn't have
been given to the house for the purposes
of their impeach 8 to 0 case right yes
and so to see how arguing that and then
the brave Justice Department lawyers
saying yes your honor I don't think it's
that extreme like it's just very awkward
but it made me made me start thinking
about the prospect that the Justice
Department under William bar as some of
these things do go through court and
there's a bunch of things that are
already in court the Justice Department
has been representing the president
essentially as his personal lawyer
through all of these things they're
taking a side on everything they're
losing all of these cases and they'll
all take a while but they'll all
eventually resolve and they'll resolve
with court orders and under Bill Barr do
we believe that the Justice Department
might not comply with court orders an
actual constitutional or it's a unless
it's a is that true it's a
constitutional it's a constitutional
crisis if we fail to remove Donald Trump
right I mean these are the reason I
think you you pursue every legal right
of that constitutional crisis should
resolve in favor of impeaching the
person that's precipitated the
constitutional right that you know
it's a constitutional crisis the
constitutional crisis to me doesn't
exist when Donald Trump flouts a
subpoena the constitutional crisis
exists when Republicans in the Senate
refused to obey their sort of
constitutional responsibilities for the
sake of party and failed to punish the
president for his obvious crime so that
is the crisis that's not I mean the
definition of the constitute I mean a
constitutional crisis would be the
court's ruling against rum and in him
ignoring the congressional subpoena yep
impeachment is a political decision I
get what you're saying but it's not
matter I mean cause newsroom crisis is a
crisis the Constitution cannot resolve
to me and to me a Constitution crisis
that it will be unresolved if the
president is a criminal and it is
obvious and he is flouting both the
judiciary and the Congress and the
Congress won't act because they put
party over their prerogatives as
representatives of the legislative
branch that to me is the ultimate crisis
I think it's very very bad it is a
crisis that the president refuses to
obey court orders but to me that is the
moment we will have been that is the
Rubicon to me I I think I'm going Tommy
on this and that I think that when you
have elected officials behaving badly
and refusing to acknowledge their
responsibilities as Patriots and
citizens that's bad but you solved that
by voting them out and so you still have
one other option to play if the Justice
Department itself which is in charge of
enforcing the law and prosecuting crimes
refuses to acknowledge the authority of
the u.s. of the United States Court
system I'd honestly don't know what to
do I mean Congress could impeach bill
bar there Congress could impeach the
president for overseeing an
administration that is behaving this way
and it's really bad if the Republicans
decide that's not worth impeaching them
on but there's there's no fix right
there's no way to make the I mean the
courts don't have an army right the
courts don't have any way to get their
way other than by having their authority
respect this is like the Andrew Johnson
impeachment yeah I mean look we I think
we're arguing over the semantics of the
phrase constitutional crisis I agree
that it is a terrible terrible dangerous
way to me the the
the assumption is we knew from the from
the get-go that the that that the courts
would not have troops right that's you
know there that is their weakness that
is why they rely on Congress to execute
it that is why Congress has the power of
impeachment to enforce what happens in
the core I just think it's baked into
the system that we might have an
administration that fails to honor what
the courts do and may even fail to honor
what the the Congress does and that's
why we have this impeaching power to
exist for this very moment
I just think that the thing that I worry
about the most is the Justice Department
the Justice Department bringing
political prosecutions against the
president's enemies in order to score
political points for the president or to
clear his enemies off the board I worry
about the Justice Department kibosh inge
not only other forms of investigating
the president or potential crimes by the
president other people in the
administration but submarining them so
that nobody ever finds out about them I
mean it is really lucky basically that
we found out about the whistle blowers
complaint about the Ukraine call so it's
only because of the Inspector General of
the intelligence community appointed by
Trump who decided that he was going to
do the right thing here despite the fact
that he had been completely
outmaneuvered he just bluntly threw
himself on it and said no I'm bringing
this to Congress and I'm gonna I mean
the the the that's the normal thing
somebody should do it counts as heroism
in this moment but had he not done that
we never would have known about the
complaint the whistleblower would have
been in severe danger it is a shocking
it is a shocking realization the degree
to which we have needed heroic acts on
find out I would say my surprises to the
point by the Justice Department if
there's that there haven't been more
whistleblowers or people coming forth
who are career people at the Justice
Department because they have had a rough
run yeah between Jeff Sessions and now
bill Barr
yeah and that is my work too because so
far we've seen bill Barr you know abused
all kinds of power to protect Donald
Trump but we haven't seen as much of the
prosecuting his enemies and going after
his enemies the one who's doing that is
Mike Pompeo with reopening me your mail
investigation at the State Department
and that is something that I almost feel
like I want to put that in its own
folder and carry that so but that's
that's a really big deal that they're
doing that and the way they are pursuing
it as best as I understand is that
they're basically blackballing
all senior state Department officials
who had any
eunuch Asians with Hillary Clinton while
she was Secretary of State by saying oh
listen we've retro actively classified
your emails from that time as now
looking to us like they're classified
and therefore you've got a security ding
against you and your record and you can
never be employed in the State
Department ever again no matter who's
president it is disgraceful like they're
retro actively classifying a bunch of
emails that maybe could have been
classified at the confidential level as
a way to punish these people meanwhile
our US ambassador to the European Union
and our like a special representative
for Ukraine and the Ambassador are
texting about trumps phone calls
with foreign leaders military aid to
Ukraine like things the Russians would
desperately want to know that should
have been classified that at a minimum
that business should be conducted on
State Department equipment so that there
is oversight so that you can FOIA it
right not on not on iMessage which is
like whatever you know the hypocrisy is
yeah all right one other piece of news
we should mention is Turkey's invasion
of northeastern Syria which began today
after Donald Trump made the decision
last Sunday to abandon our Kurdish
allies in the region and gave President
Erdogan of Turkey the greenlight Tommy I
know you guys talked about all this on
POD save the world but can you tell us
why Trump's decision was so reckless
here I mean basically what he did was he
told Prime Minister I'm sorry basically
what he did is he told President air21
that he has the green light to conduct a
military operation into northern Syria
and the problem with that is Trump has
tried to frame this as oh we're handing
over the fight against Isis to the Turks
they own it now they'll manage it for us
everything will be fine
when in reality what everyone wants to
do is roll in there and clear the Syrian
democratic forces out of the area the
Syrian democratic forces are the folks
who have been on the ground doing the
really brutal combat against Isis this
whole time they're the ones who cleared
the way got us to rock we're fighting
house to house they lost
I think 11,000 guys in this fight as men
and women there there are men and women
out on the frontlines fighting every
single day I think like six Americans
were killed during this time so they've
like shoulder the brunt of this but
air21 views the curve
who were part of the SDF as related to
the PKK which is a group within Turkey
that's been fighting for an autonomous
Kurdistan for a long time he views them
as a terrorist group so he wants to kill
these Kurdish fighters who have been our
closest allies who had been working hand
in glove with over several years to take
out Isis and so the reports as we were
walking in here to record is that the
Turks are bombing towns where there are
Christians and Kurds and others living
and are going to start killing these
guys and like at best this is going to
be ethnic cleansing where they pushed
them into a small part of northern Syria
at worst it could be a massacre why do
we think that Trump did this I mean
there's something clearly that every
time Trump talks to erdowan whatever or
Diwan asks Trump for he gets instantly
with Trump not consulting at anybody
consulting with anybody obviously the US
military would be rapidly against this I
think most other people working in
national security even Trump folks
working in national security would be
against this I've never heard anybody
argue for this we should pull out and
let their Dewan do what he wants to our
allies yeah
so either what did what did Ortolan have
to say to trump to get him to agree to
this what does Trump see as being in
this for him I mean as Wendy Sherman was
arguing tonight on my show to the extent
that Trump wants to be able to say for
political purposes I'm getting all our
boys home that's not even what this nice
so why say yes to this I cannot fathom
an explanation to your point right he's
not he's trying to say oh I'm bringing
these 150 guys home who were there maybe
in the way of air to one's operation
they're not going anywhere
they're getting they're driving to a
different location in Syria so they're
not in the line of fire they're not
coming home I mean I don't have an
answer you work he's a NATO ally he's
it's the only NATO ally he's nice to is
the one run by this like is Lammas
authoritarian leader maybe they get
along I don't get it it was interesting
I saw I think Newsweek had the NSC
official say that Trump got rolld yeah
on the phone call which is you know it's
sort of a simple explanation and not as
nefarious but one that sort of fits
Donald Trump we
gets in a call with the world leader
about something else and all the sunny
asking for something and he's like yeah
sure that's fine okay no way I get to
bring my troops home yeah great that's
that's good politically for me we should
bring troops on at least I can say that
yeah yeah you can see him right there
the one's a prickly and I'm sure
he got on there and lectured him for 40
minutes and said we will take the fight
to Isis we will take this fight over
ourselves you send your guys home we got
this covered you don't spend money and
he's like sure but that makes it even
that makes sense to me as a rational
course of events if the end result is
that Trump actually is bringing
everybody bringing everybody all US
forces home from Syria and he's not and
the argument that he's having to make
now including on Twitter is about how
the US forces are out of the way and
this the Kurds didn't help us at
Normandy yeah in World War two and so
they're not that good I mean I just I
don't I feel like this is something
where the thing we understand about the
president is that he does stuff that's
good for him
yeah there's no way in which this looks
good for him and therefore I believe
there's something else going on here
that he's been leveraged into either by
air21 or by some other force at work
that we're not seeing directly
yeah I think well we know he has
business interests I mean this is the
great struggle for understanding a
congenital liar with multiple different
vectors of corruption and influence on
on him at all times we don't know if it
is financial interest we don't know if
it's simply him misunderstanding his own
interest yeah being rolled in a call we
don't know if there's not some other
other other form of influence or
interests that we don't yet know about
we just we go into this well the only
thing we know for sure is that his
explanations will not be true it's so
funny like because he's the president
United States we were forced to like
take his statements at face value and
evaluate them and try to figure out what
he's thinking a month ago this dude was
drawing with a sharpie on a
weather map to tell us that a hurricane
was going someplace we all knew wouldn't
right so it's like we're already in
la-la land with him the thing that's
crazy there is a massive Republican
backlash to this decision yes he's
getting criticized in ways he's never
ever criticized and it's not just that
this he's not stopping
the Turks from taking this military
operation he apparently invited air21 to
the White House on November 13th
so like the you is going to get
rubbed in the faces of the lindsey
graham's of the world all over again
with a state visit not a state visit but
a head of state visit to the white well
this is what happens with him all the
time though right like once he makes the
decision and then he gets criticized for
it now he's set he's backed into a
corner and now he's going but not on go
down he's walked this back like three
times but he's but just to talk about
the Normandy thing today now that like
he's going to keep fighting for his
explanation he just tweeted like you
know he tweeted his video of him talking
about it tonight he said this is a
different take for me look I have a
different take on this one I gave a
green light to uh they are they are
walking it back I mean remember the last
time you talked to Irwin was when he
announced that all US troops are coming
out of coming out that's how we lost
mattis and how he lost brett mcgurk who
was the envoy to the fight against Isis
and the he did change that like there's
still US troops in Syria I mean part of
I think what we have to think about
tonight is that what the Turks are doing
right now with the cooperation of the
Russians is potentially starting and I
think genocide campaign in that part of
the country where there are a lot of
people not just the who aren't only
important to us because they were our
allies and have been for five years
against Isis that should be important to
us even if we freaking hate them right
and
the small number of US troops who are
there right now are themselves in a new
kind of danger that they've never been
in before in terms of not having the
support of the US government and also
they're at grave risk from our former
allies who they've been working
alongside for five years having real
reason to turn on them if they decide to
think about it that way and so to have
US forces they're deeply sympathetic
with the Kurds while the Kurds are being
attacked and potentially massacred them
being under rules of engagement that are
having not supposed to have them
fighting in a frontline way having them
newly in danger having no sense about
what's going to happen next I mean just
just the perspective of American
soldiers in Syria right now is almost
unfathomably dark yeah yeah and I don't
I mean I am I am conscious of the fact
that Russia has wanted US troops out of
Syria because it sees Syria as its
playground
on the very beginning I am weirded out
by the fact that our Diwan Eric Turkey
and Turkey and Russia are on different
sides of the Syrian civil war right they
have different and they have different
interests there but when air21 starts
this thing today he get puts out the
statement saying I want to thank Russia
for its constructive attitude in this
matter and they're working together on
this that is that's just it's bad really
bad yeah we really are confronted right
now it's you know you it does become
something you're anesthetized to a
little bit but that just put the you
know there's incredible corruption
there's criminality but the fundamental
unfitness of the man the kind of
brokenness of his ability to reason and
process and make decisions in a rational
and cogent and thoughtful way with
discipline the absence of that ability
is in and of itself a reason he can and
he should no longer be president his
behavior itself is an impeachable
offense well he pissed off a lot of his
jurors with the turkey move as well so
yeah well he's gonna try to move it to a
different venue we've convened a juror
and st. jury in st. Petersburg Lindsey
Graham's 18 holes away from never
knowing who the Kurds were so alright
let's talk about 2020 we learned today
that Facebook has denied Joe Biden's
request to remove a false trump ad from
its platform that other media outlets
like CNN have already refused to run
Facebook's response to the Biden
campaign follows it's very recent policy
change which allows politicians to run
ads that have been already debunked by
independent nonpartisan fact checkers a
decision that was also heavily
criticized by Elizabeth Warren on
Tuesday or and also noted that the
decision came shortly after Mark
Zuckerberg met with Donald Trump in
called Warren's campaign an existential
threat to Facebook just last week the
Trump campaign spent $700,000 in a week
on Facebook ads far out spending anyone
else on Facebook so facebook says that
their decision is grounded in their
fundamental belief and free expression
respect for the democratic process and
the belief that in mature democracy is
with a free press political speech is
already arguably the most scrutinized
speech there is oh yeah what do we think
about that reasoning from Facebook I
don't think it's good I don't think it's
very smart you know you uh there's a you
shouldn't propagate
misinformation and put lies in front of
millions of people to make money
billions I mean I guess they would say
look and we should say it's not just
Facebook that's done this the ad is on
YouTube it's on Twitter Fox ran it as
well and five million views on Facebook
already yeah so it's out there yeah and
and you know and Twitter and YouTube
were basically saying the same thing I
guess from their perspective their
argument would be how are we how do we
fact check this right like so you know
we've had you know the Washington Post
right Glenn Kessler the Washington Post
the fact checker there he's given Obama
four Pinocchios on stuff and we've
freaked out about it right and we said
that's totally wrong this is correct
he's you know imagine if we had an ad
like that then we put a lot of money
behind and we thought it was right we
thought the fact check was wrong and
then Facebook took them all down so I
guess that how how do how do these
platforms actually conduct fact-checking
in a fair way that makes them same way
every major network does it like figure
out a process and stick to it like CNN
rejected the and clearly did it Facebook
has like 10x the market cap of Facebook
surely they could find the resources to
figure this out and by the way like they
are just so constipated on all things
politics right like if they get beat up
by the right and then they get beat up
by the left and they're terrified of
being called partisan so the end what
gets sacrificed is accuracy so my advice
to them would be stop running political
ads a drop in the bucket it's a drop in
the bucket exact you don't want the
headache it get rid of them that's
exactly it and I mean I had this fantasy
that there was that that Facebook would
recognize that it is powerless before
its own failure that it can't fix this
problem and no matter even if they did
want to try to fix it they can't get
there they can't think themselves or
engineer themselves out of this and so
we'll have a moratorium and all
political advertising for a month before
the election right even just that but
they should just get rid of it entirely
in like seemed Nick Clegg a former
deputy prime minister of the UK waving
the white flag on like their ability to
adjudicate facts when I saw depressed I
was like Nick Clegg
isn't that the name of the former I
didn't know that was the same guy but
now he works for a Facebook wait wait
this is new to me Nick Clegg works for
face everyone who's arguing everybody we
need to run fake disproven yeah push
that Nick Clegg because of America like
because because free speech because we
love democracy and so therefore we need
to take money to run this poison that we
know is false really I just don't know
that they have really learned any
lessons like I know they've invested a
lot of time and resources and people at
what happened in 2016 in their role in
2016 but for Mark Zuckerberg to meet
with Donald Trump change this policy to
make an exception for political ads on
fact-checking and then even though it
was leaked audio talk and his company
meeting about like elana it was
Elizabeth Warren's policy is an
existential threat to the company and
I'm gonna go to the mat like doesn't he
have doesn't he have a responsibility to
be a neutral arbiter at the very least
in 2012 a fake neutral aren't you
worried about what you look like right
now right that's what I don't understand
like what Zuckerberg is doing there I
gotta say like if I ran Facebook and one
candidate had said I'm gonna break up
Facebook I would probably view that as
an existential change to the company or
right or right as to the company and I
think that he was sort of being honest
about what any CEO in that situation
would believe now whether it's smart to
say in a in a meeting with ten people or
in all hands that's going to get
recorded that's another matter
while also making radical decisions
about how you're going to handle
political speech affecting that
politician it's not just any company
right if he's if he's if he's CEO of
some company that you know Warren says
I'm gonna tax a lot or regulate or
whatever it that's one thing but he also
has a role I don't think he has fully a
partly he hasn't recognizes because he
doesn't think Facebook is a media
company he thinks it's a technology
company right like everyone at Facebook
is supposed to say we're not a media
company no matter what you ask them
they're not they are a media company
right and they won't recognize that so I
don't think he fully recognizes his very
important role in his company's
important role in the 2020 election
no matter what that's why you can't be
saying things like that about people's
plaid this is Facebook this is what they
do I'm sorry it's not our policy it's
not our policy we'll eventually
apologized for it and change our policy
and recognize that we're wrong but we're
not there yet that content that there's
sort of just this pattern with Facebook
again and again and again they've
pursued bigness at all cost without
regard for safety and the bigness itself
becomes an excuse the scale of Facebook
itself becomes an excuse for their
inability to solve the problems that
they created by achieving such scale I
don't you know look don't run political
ads run political ads to me before you
even get to them being forced to not
have them at all how about you accept
that there are gray areas there's also
black and white you may get some get
them wrong sometimes and face a little
blowback but that doesn't justify
allowing your platform to be a vehicle
for misinformation and lies and
deception that already once changed an
American election a few years ago do we
know what proportion of their ad revenue
is political ads or do we have a
guesstimate I don't I don't have to top
my head but I would suspect it is like a
percent of a percent yeah I would be my
guess and so I don't know I mean I don't
know how these things get fixed I mean
Trump is spending a lot yeah I mean he
is their biggest of all the political
candidates but given the market
capitalization of rice even if he's
gonna spend a billion dollars on ads
which he's not going to do if they were
all on Facebook like I'm not sure that
would make if Facebook made 40 billion
in 2017 yeah definitely not that much so
literally if Trump was going to spend a
billion dollars on Facebook ads it would
be it would be a little bit of a
rounding error for them yeah it just I
mean I don't know I don't know that much
about this part of the world and I don't
know that much about the advertising
chewing and froing I do know that this
is not a swap meet in which people are
sending this information back and forth
amongst themselves with no interface
from Facebook when people want to buy
these ads they send money to Facebook
and Facebook says thank you we're going
to cash your check we're gonna take that
money and thereby allow you to put this
thing on our platform and when they take
that gatekeeper role for the purposes of
taking money they then put themselves in
the position where they have to have
some sort of opinion
you just can't I don't know there's just
been his responsibility has never been
something Facebook has been particularly
interested in at no point in its
evolution as a company has it ever been
willing to accept the responsibility
that it has earned by becoming such an
ever-present part of our lives it's just
we're not I'm you know we're not a media
company we're a platform okay okay but
look what you're at forms yeah ads don't
really matter that much except for the
companies that buy ads on our platform
it's like we believe that advertising
works because it's our entire business
model it's a great little advertising
doesn't really have that much money it's
the greatest advertising tool in the
history of mankind their revenue for the
12 months ending in June 30 of 2019 was
sixty-two billion dollars I think they
always move a little slow they always
move with half-measures like if I had an
inkling of a sense that the ethnic
cleansing was happening in Burma because
of my platform I would have cut off
access to the platform in the country
you know I mean it's like go big guys do
something important and maybe you'll get
criticized but at least you'll have
addressed the problem Rachel before we
go I do want to talk about your new book
you're very kind
it's called blow out corrupted democracy
rogue state Russia and the richest most
destructive industry on earth it's a
very happy topic it's about how Russia's
reliance on the oil and gas industry is
critical to explaining why they
interfered in the 2016 election I know
you said that you did not start thinking
that you would write this kind of book
so how did you start and then how did
you end up where you ended up I started
because I am proudly and
unapologetically totally obsessed with
Russia and I get it bring on the hate I
got it
bring it I love it you make me bigger
and stronger but you brought a lot of
red string with you today Kerry we spent
like a year and a half on it the part of
it that I felt like I was really stuck
on is that I didn't understand why it
made sense for Russia to attack us in
that way not not only to try to
influence our election but to use those
weird MacGyver II tactics right like
it's the gun oleg our guy who's got a
saint-petersburg
with people who makes a fake social
media that we're gonna use that and then
competing military intelligence hacker
groups going for the DNC and then
inventing gusoff er 2.0 to post all this
stuff in comics and like what what is
this this is a strange tactic why would
a country use this as its tactic so it's
interested in that and why would they
take such a risk I mean if they believed
like everybody else believed that
Hillary Clinton was likely to win the
election I know that they wanted to
weaken her ability to govern they wanted
to undermine her as a president those
last-minute text exchange or Twitter
exchanges between Julian Assange and Don
jr. he was trying to make sure that they
would contest the election results and
not concede once Hillary won yeah you
know they wanted to they wanted to
foment as much chaos as they could an
upset around but like if they thought
Hillary was gonna win Hillary was
already a Russia hawk so imagine what
Hillary would have could have done to
them getting into office knowing that
Russia just interfered in our election
to try to stop that from happening yeah
right you'd think that they might be
like that's a big risk that they were
taking against really really bad odds
and so why was it worth it for them to
do that and I came to realize that both
of those things came from the same place
which is desperation and John McCain has
made this argument President Obama made
this argument Vice President Biden all
made this argument that the best way to
understand Russia was through their
weakness and in particular their
economic weakness but I didn't really
get how economically weak they were
until I realized that they or economy is
a pogo stick it's only got one thing
which is oil and gas which it turns out
is a terrible thing to build your
economy on yeah it gives you a bad
government it ruins all other efforts to
build a diversified economy around it
and in Russia's case their oil and gas
sector has been so looted by Putin to do
the kind of things that he wants to do
with it to use it as a weapon
essentially because he doesn't have any
other forms of power to project that
they suck even at pumping their own oil
and gas and so they really need western
oil majors to come help them and they
can't get that as long as they're
sanctioned because of their bad behavior
are you a big resource curse yeah
hereand yeah can you tell us what that
if the resource curse is an academic
idea that's been around forever which is
basically that if you have resources in
your country that are to be extracted
and sold in an international as an
international commodity that seems
awesome you're gonna get revenue for
that but it has a knock-on effect
there's this paradoxical effect where it
tends to shrink your economy overall and
give you bad governance and result in
increased poverty and worse quality of
life for everybody in your country and
that's because whatever this
remunerative extractive industry that
comes in they tend to capture the elites
and the government officials who can
make it happen those people get
corrupted and co-opted by that industry
they get all the money and all they
would do for the rest of their lives is
make sure that they and their offspring
stay in power forever to stay clamped on
this financial asset umm how deeper the
connections between Russian oil and gas
interests and the Trump administration I
know you uh-hmm
well I mean Russia this is why I'm
obsessed with Rex Tillerson right so I
mean here's the timeline right Russia is
born living on a sea of oil and gas
they've got tons of oil and gas they're
easy oil and gas kind of starts to run
out and they start to need to be able to
tap modern technology to get at their
reserves they have nothing else in their
economy they need to keep pumping oil
and gas they start making moon eyes at
their resources that are in the Arctic
and the Russian Arctic and the Keirsey
they have no way to pump it themselves
they do a half trillion dollar deal with
Exxon and Rex Tillerson is willing to do
it all these other Western majors have
gone in and tried to do deals with
Russia and they've just gotten chewed up
and spit out including like Western oil
officials Western oil execs like getting
poisoned in Moscow like and you know
good oil companies in Russia get seized
and their owners get put in jail and I
mean it's a disaster but Rex
figures it out is willing to do it he
gets a medal a freaking medal from Putin
yeah right and then they're about to
start drilling in the Arctic and Putin
can't control himself can't keep it in
his pants and he has to go invade
Ukraine and the u.s. Institute's
sanctions and they're actively drilling
in the Charis
when the sanctions kick in in 2014 and
Exxon is like give us just a few more
days we just needed what we just I know
I know we've been sanctioned and we're
supposed to stop doing this but we're
really worried about the seabirds we
need to make sure we environmentally
clean up our area we're not all because
they're trying to they're trying to
spread that well they're trying to get
to the oil and ultimately like on the
last day the Obama administration will
allow them to be there they do hit oil
and then they have to shut it down
I mean Rosneft goes back to it
themselves with Exxon and I'm able to
get there they're so freakin incompetent
they can't drill the water they can't
draw the oil out of that well themselves
they need Exxon to do it and they can't
get excellent to do it because of u.s.
foreign policy and then Russia throws
this curveball into the middle of our
election in 2015 and 2016 and they
install they helped install Donald Trump
as president and Donald Trump when
looking around for somebody to put in
charge of u.s. foreign policy has never
met Rex Tillerson that yeah does not
particularly like it when he meets him
and Rex Tillerson shows up having never
ever worked anywhere in his life other
than at Exxon Mobil shows up for a
meeting he doesn't know what it's out
what it's about has never met Trump
before walks out as Secretary of State
it's like okay so that can't really have
happened did it you know and then he
sets about dismantling the State
Department and the Trump administration
sets about doing everything they can to
try to relieve those sanctions on Russia
what's happening with that that that oil
right now sitting there they can't do
anything about it I mean the Russian oil
and gas industry is terrible I mean
natural gas is an even bigger deal for
them than oil the gas problem when
Alexei Miller took over gas problem when
Putin installed him it was there were
that company was worth like 360 billion
dollars because they've got a ton of
natural gas in under his leadership
under Alexei Miller it's now gone down
to being like sixty billion dollars look
they've lost more than like 300 billion
dollars in value but Alexa Miller is
still in charge because he's doing what
he needs to do which is that enriching
Putin and everybody who Putin needs
enriched with that stuff they don't even
try to make themselves into good
companies he did
however make himself a palace which is
called Miller Hoff Miller is so not a
Russian name know that he's created
Miller Hoth which is a palace for
himself he's still gonna be in charge of
Gazprom forever their country their
companies just sucks
sounds like a Milwaukee beer house so in
a world that is moving away from fossil
fuels because of climate change what is
what did you find out about like what's
the long game here for Russia if they're
still trying to squeeze everything they
can out of their oil and gas industry if
I could ask Putin one question like if I
could ever get a Putin interview I'm not
waiting on it if I could that would be
the question that I'm asking like what's
going to be Russia's number-one export
in 25 years because you don't have
anything talk about desperation yes and
so the as the world turns away from oil
and gas because we have to part of the
reason I wanted to write the book is
that I feel like we ought to get our
heads around not just what the
environmental consequences of that will
be and not just thinking about it in
terms of the political consequences of
jobs in America moving from one sector
to another and retraining and all that
stuff think about it in terms of the
international geopolitical influence
because the oil and gas industry is
propping up a whole bunch of really
terrible governments all around the
world and if they lose their markets our
market share and their power then
countries are gonna change systems of
government are going to change
I think the boundaries of countries will
change yeah in countries that have built
themselves on a single entity in their
economy that is oil and gas will find
themselves absolutely off the cliff
coming up one question about another
project you did which was bagman one of
my we love we love back we're bag man is
one of the best podcasts ever made
everyone should check it out to it
it's about our former upstanding
virtuous vice president Spiro Agnew
wonderful human being
what with like it you described it as
Watergate adjacent right now that we're
in this impeachment proceeding what did
you learn about impeachment from doing
that story and about I don't know you
talked earlier about how if not for this
brave whistleblower or a brave IG kind
of doing their job we would be in a very
different place you you had some
characters in the podcast who are very
similar yeah I mean I feel like if Spiro
Agnew's ghost is here to help us at this
time for a price which you need to pay
in a manila envelope in his office in
the White House there's a couple of
things I mean one in a very literal
sense I learned how fuzzy the Justice
Department policies are on criminally
indicted a vice-president to the extent
that president Pence president Trump is
trying to make sure that we don't have
president Pence and is trying to make
sure that Mike Pence is implicated here
I mean his lawyers we're arguing in the
mizar's case that just went against him
in federal court in New York they
explicitly brought up out of nowhere by
the way this immunity argument we're
making we're explicit about the fact
that the vice president doesn't get this
immunity the judge was like why are you
saying we will no Donald Trump believed
he's in real trouble when he throws his
arms around Mike Pence and just some of
that is and actually there was some
dynamics like that between Nixon and
Agnew back in 73 and 74 or 73 when Agnew
at one point begged to be impeached
because he thought that he would survive
in Pietschmann and this would this would
bring Republican partisans to his cause
and it would excite the base of this
kind of argument you know from
Republicans now and he thought that if
he was being impeached that might
persuade the Justice Department to drop
their indictment of him and Nixon was
very much against that because he
thought if Agnew got impeached he wasn't
sure that he would survive and Agnew
being removed from office Nixon thought
was actually bad for him because
Democrats hated Agnew more than they
hated Nixon and said they would worry if
they took Nixon out first that they'd
end up with the president Agnew and
that's terrible he also didn't want to
get the wheels of impeachment going
because he thought once they took out a
cue ball they'd be ready to go and a
little warm-up a little stretch so that
dynamic between Presidents and vice
presidents is I think really important
but the big lesson of bagman is that bag
man is that the Justice Department has
to be good
has to have people in it who are
upstanding and who are patriots and who
don't do partisan things for bad reasons
and Elliot Richardson is a frickin hero
yeah and we can't count on their being
heroes although sometimes you find them
in unexpected places the there is
there's no bill bars no Elliot
Richardson but to the extent that the
the Agnew story told us anything it was
that the Constitution doesn't crumble in
the face of bad men doing bad things the
Constitution only crumbles when we can't
fix that and that's the question that
we're facing right now we're gonna have
to end there because we've had all these
really depressing stories and that was
so hopeful I was so good at the end so I
think that's just a place to leave it
Rachel Rachel thank you so much for
doing this thanks for having me we got
Rachel bye everyone
you
