welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor
later in the pod you'll hear Tommy's
interview with CNN's Maeve Reston who
was in Oakland for Carla Harris's
campaign launch this weekend there's
also quite a bit of news to get through
today from Donald Trump bending the knee
to Nancy Pelosi to Roger stones
indictment to former Starbucks CEO
Howard Schultz's flirtation with running
for president as an independent cut
runneth over with frothy milky news why
I brought my Dunkin Donuts yeah yeah
yeah good for you you we're on tour
we're going on tour pod save America
love it or leave it and pod save the
people are hitting the road in the weeks
and months ahead you can check out our
tour dates and buy tickets at cricut.com
slash events and if we're coming to your
town it's best to get in on things early
so for pod save America fans in Boston
DC and Los Angeles especially that means
you will be doing the Greek theater
right here in LA towards the end of the
summer which is very cool lover leave
it's gonna be in New York City so yeah
very exciting
yeah okay on Friday President Trump
finally agreed to end his ill-fated
shutdown and he started over wall
funding with no wall funding the
government will now be open for three
weeks while negotiations continue over
funding for border security Trump is
already warning that he's willing to
shut the government down again if he
doesn't get what he wants or declare a
federal emergency to start building the
wall on his own guys why did Trump cave
what what happened because he had no
hand to play he never did and it became
clear when all the Republicans in the
Senate started to cave on him I mean
that's truly I think it is that simple
all the Republicans there was reports of
a shouting match in the Republican
caucus meeting and then six Republicans
voted for the Democratic bill in the
Senate to reopen the government he had
nowhere to go
basically Mitch McConnell I was driving
the car and Donald Trump was in a baby
seat next to him playing with little
plastic wheel and honking the horn and
Mitch McConnell was like you're driving
buddy what is that like it'd be buck and
they're driving you know they're driving
down the street and you want to go here
you want to drive
into this ditch okay we'll go into the
ditch and he really led on pretend he
was steering for a long time but then
finally it was time to go to the grocery
store unpopular Wall unpopular shut down
unpopular president doesn't add up to a
very good hand it's so funny like the
Washington Post poll had him at 58%
disapproval in that same poll 53 percent
blamed Trump and congressional
Republicans and in an NPR Marist Poll 57
percent of the country said they plan to
vote against him those are not those are
catastrophic numbers right I don't think
that the press are sort of appropriately
contextualizes what that means for a
president seeking re-election that is a
catastrophic defeat of course he had the
cave of course yeah I mean the lowest
approval ratings that President Obama
saw were like in the in the like mid to
low 40s during the debt ceiling crisis
at which time the Republicans also had
you know ratings in the tank too and
that was like for three weeks
Trump is big Donald Trump has basically
been stuck at like in the early in the
in sorry in the low 40s he's been still
has been stealing since he's become
president and then they're shut down and
every once in a while he dips into the
high 30s and this is basically what
happened in the shutdown yeah and he
also started losing some of the
Republican base which never usually
happens and I think the other thing they
faced were they sorry and I think the
other thing that he faced was Democrats
were completely unified and Trump got
this he was complaining in a meeting why
are they so loyal Democrats which is so
funny and look there was a lot of people
that started protesting the air traffic
controllers they were unions are
protested so I think that the reason
that some of these Senate Republicans
started to cave in started to get
worried was you know they had federal
workers in their states not just
Democrats not just liberals who started
protesting and telling them that like
they were sick of not getting
paid so just in terms of where the White
House went wrong I just wonder how much
time great question John Reid a
Washington Post headline from last week
quote master negotiator or nonentity
kushner thrusts himself into middle of
shutdown talks and this is from today's
Washington Post Trump cast about for
blame and pointed fingers at his staff
including Kushner for failing to resolve
the impasse
to AIDS guys what happened to the master
negotiator Jared Kushner it's for Middle
East peace two government shutdowns it's
really amazing it's a good lesson never
hire someone you can't fire yeah you
just and here he's been he's been
wandering around that building for the
better part of two years he's taken on
every mammoth unsolvable problem the
country has and he's left them in worse
shape one by one you know he likes I
mean he's fresh off criminal justice
reform passing he thinks now he's a
genius even though you know most of the
coalition for that bill was set up by
other people other senators other
politicians other activists like it
almost the only reason it didn't pass
before Donald Trump was president is
because Jeff Sessions stopped it right
there was a coalition for this long
before Jared Kushner came along yeah I
mean the only quote you really need to
remember about Jared Kushner is from
Donald Trump when he said apparently
Jared has become an expert on
immigration in the last 48 hours he said
that to a big oval office meeting and
like I think listeners to this show or
followers of me on Twitter know that I
don't like Jared I think he's annoying
and he sucks at his job but you know
it's fun to remind him that he sucks
because he's such a little putt who like
fell up or do everything in life but it
is also a reminder that having a
dilettante who has never done anything
in life doing life their death
negotiations over government funding or
pretending he understands Middle East
peace is a dangerous thing to do like
you have an idiot who's completely
miscalculating and this wasn't the first
time
I mean Jovanka has never been a
moderating force they've been just
morons bungling their way through the
administration like Jared thought firing
Flint would end the Russia probe we
learned that from Chris Christie over
the weekend he thought that Democrats
would be happy when Trump fired Comey
that didn't turn out very well he
thought it was a good idea to march into
the Moscow embassy and establish a
back-channel with his buddies in in
Russia so like he's an idiot he's idiot
Jared Jared in Ivanka's politics or the
type of politics that probably Howard
Schultz has in mind it's like you wonder
what the basis for like moderate social
liberalism when it's convenient and then
that's like New York Dylan's Jerry
there have politics they don't Jared
Kushner and Ivanka Trump do not have a
coherent political ideology they are you
know they are like the characters and
the great gatsby sort of bump but you
know bumbling through their existence
making mistakes not caring who they hurt
not caring about any of it
you only you know they're their source
of feedback is I've assumed cocktail
parties each other friends and advisers
who will never tell them the truth so
you know these are just two wealthy
children who have never faced a
challenge yeah John Kelly was right
there they've been playing government
all along and and John mentioned before
like the fact that he thinks that it's
success of the criminal justice reform
which is something Democrats want means
you can get them to agree to wall
funding is crazy like he sincerely
thinks that there's this grand bargain
on the table meanwhile the White House
is setting up meetings with Trump in
Ginny Thomas Clarence Thomas's wife
where they scream at him for a while for
not being mean enough to immigrants or
transgender people or hiring enough of
their cronies like I like that they're
setting themselves up her disaster over
it's also crazy like one of these pieces
that was either the poster the time said
you know in meetings Jared was holding
up Stephen Miller as oh he's much softer
than his reputation you know he's a he's
a really thoughtful guy and immigration
Stephen Miller who you know in cliff
Sims new book former White House aide
this out said at one point Miller said I
don't care if another refugee ever steps
and steps foot into the United States
Stephen Miller is actually a kind of
more decent person once you get to know
him Stephen Miller looks up from a
deer's carcass his face covered in blood
what their misunderstanding of Nancy
Pelosi is just so absolute and
fundamental that I don't know I don't
know how it's possible like they thought
that Pelosi was gonna have a hard time
on her left for not paying for a wall
that is bonkers I mean I I get him
trying to mess around with Joe Manchin
but like again he called Joe Manchin and
was like keep an eye on the speech
tonight it's gonna change everything in
terms of the political dynamic and then
it was a gigantic flop so I don't know
man the Emperor is no close like I kid I
get why it's possible it's because they
are stuck in this you know Fox News
right-wing media bubble where like they
think that you know Democrats are gonna
cave and that Democrats are gonna want
wall funding they're gonna bring people
to their side like they just they don't
hear any other opinions
like what do you do what do you do when
when at the center of everything that
you've built your life around is an
unsolvable problem this immovable huge
mistake at the center of all of it you
you know play around the margins and try
to pretend it's not happening you fill
your days with meetings and
conversations somewhat loosely tied to
reality while all the while the central
problem doesn't go away
all these people are playing white house
pretending I mean there's a reason every
time they give a big speech they gather
around the Oval Office desk and take a
photo like tourists there's a reason and
the reason is deep down they all know
they have no business being there that
it's not actually real that it will
always have an asterisk and so but what
do you do in that circumstance they have
to get out of bed they have to check
their emails have to respond to those
emails and so on and on it goes until we
can get them the out of there
absolutely it could be your last day of
all the politically damaging things
Trump has done to himself and the
Republican Party which is already as we
said made him a uniquely unpopular
president where does the shutdown rank
how bad is this I think we don't know
but I think it's very bad I think it is
very bad the longest partial shutdown in
history the pointlessness of it the
cruelty of it the damage of it people
will remember it will his base clearly
has left a mark we're you know this is
the beginning of the 20/20 campaign this
is you know we have we have Democratic
candidates giving big speeches and this
is the president's kickoff yeah the
president's kickoff to was 2020 2020
reelection was caving to Nancy Pelosi
after shutting down the government for
no reason for five weeks every political
problem can be fixed you know especially
if there's an exit event but I mean he
is a 63% disapproval rating with
independent voters that is really bad
and the solution that he's found to the
problem with independent voters is
creating a similar problem on the far
far right with the Ann Coulter's and
worse of the world who now are going to
call him a wimp and a loser for not
getting wall funding until the day he
dies so he's he's stuck in this
political place where I guess he's gonna
fight for wall funding for ever despite
the cool
your political dynamic that it doesn't
help him yeah I think that's a great
point I want to talk about that I mean
also the CBO the Congressional Budget
Office nonpartisan they came out this
morning said the shutdown cost the
economy eleven billion dollars three
billion dollars which is a permanent
loss they projected growth will slow
from two point three percent
sorry they projected growth will slow to
two point three percent from three point
one percent and in 2020 they're
projecting the growth will decline to
one point seven percent that's when the
president is running for re-election so
and I think like you said Tommy it's
this the shutdown it pissed off workers
a pissed off liberals it pissed off
moderates and and independents who think
like government is always broken and
doesn't work and is dysfunctional it
pissed off his base for once because he
didn't actually get the wall and Coulter
tweeted on Friday good news for a George
Herbert Walker Bush as of today he is no
longer the biggest wimp ever to serve as
president United States on Bill Maher
she said you know I expected the
president to keep his promise
I wonder how widespread that is among
the base yeah I think that's I think
it's interesting I think we'll see I
think I think one question is over the
next year is it possible for Donald
Trump's numbers to get below the high
30s or low 40s and start dipping into
that you know into the the swampy cold
waters of george w bush is lowest
approval ratings like it's obviously
where he belongs but will he get there I
think that depends on losing some of his
own people and I also think you know
this fight is important and will last
but in part that depends on what happens
next you know one of the reasons Donald
Trump ended up in this mess is he he
tried to behave the same way he would
have behaved if Democrats didn't control
a branch of the government
he kind of did his blustery thing and
try to get something through now he had
he couldn't do that during the first two
years of total republic control control
but he used the exact same tactic went
harder at it and it left him worse off
and so I think the big question is will
there be any kind of adjustment in how
they try to negotiate with Congress on
this next funding bill and the and the
other funding bills to come because I
think that will determine the lasting
impact of this shutdown and this kind of
governing is
what happens now he's already said he's
he's basically issued the exact same
threats we're heading into the exact
same conversation how is this gonna look
different yeah I mean that's you know
Mulvaney's on TV saying he's gonna do
the wall with or without Congress for
some reason that's reporting saying that
Trump thinks he can still get wall money
from Democrats what do we think is more
likely another shutdown on February 15th
Trump declaring a national emergency and
getting in trying to get his money that
way or some kind of a deal I mean I
think predicting what Trump will do is I
can't do it because he's irrational but
I you know it is clear that he is
reeling from the criticism he is not
used to being savaged on fox news from
right-wing creeps like Ann Coulter etc
so there
they have to continue to posture and say
that he might shut it down again because
that's the only leverage they think they
have I can't imagine any scenario where
Mitch McConnell would let that happen
members so I think that leaves you a
national emergency now when you get to a
national emergency Marco Rubio says it's
a bad precedent senator roy blunt from
missouri said he opposed it on fox news
sunday gigantic jackass Lindsey Graham
is now for it but I assume he's for it
as a way to just get past the government
shutdown talk so that seems like the
path to me but again it's not a success
you just get bogged down in litigation
and remember there's basically two big
reasons for Trump's base and Republicans
to be opposed to a national emergency
declaration number one is what if a
Democrat does that in the future you
know national emergency cuz the climate
change Greenway deal I'm gonna spend all
this money but number two is it just
might not work and actually get the wall
built because immediately there's going
to be a lawsuit against it someone's
gonna file and it's gonna be held up in
court much like drop out Trump's
promised to and the daca program and
deport all the dreamers right which is
had been held up in court and and
litigation ever since he made the
announcement and basically the same
thing could probably and may probably
happen if he does a national emergency
around the wall right but it's me like I
said we've said this before it's
tailor-made for Trump right where he
gets to have a big announcement on
February 15 national emergency the base
cheers again and then everyone forgets
in three months from now that the wall
has been built at all it's not autocrat
in the streets failed
look in the sheets well that that is
what that is his go kill someone needs
to go back through all of our pods and
find out all of your iterations you know
we're sometimes it's hard to it's easy
to forget that America has actual
problems outside of trying to get
through these like very small debates
I mean we're you know is a deal possible
yes there have been several immigration
deals on the table for two years it's
actually Donald Trump who has walked
away from the ones that were palatable
to Democrats so I think another question
would be also alright if a deal is on
the table if we are going to talk about
border security funding which Democrats
are gonna be open to they always are
what are we gonna get we're gonna ask
for are we gonna actually try to use our
our newfound leverage and power to try
to get through something for the
dreamers or what are we gonna get in
exchange for this border wall funding
because the answer is nothing
right because Trump told The Wall Street
Journal I I don't want to deal with
dreamers we should take care of that and
separately yeah but like we won't accept
less than 5.7 billion and he won't trade
while funding for a broader immigration
reforms right but but right but then
then it turns back to Democrats and say
all right Mitch McConnell cannot allow
another shutdown like what are we
willing to fight for what are we going
to push for that's all I mean yeah so
another question is it time to end the
possibility of shutdowns for good some
members of Congress are angry enough
about the damage of recent shutdowns
that they're pushing measures to keep
them from ever happening again the list
of sponsors for a bill backed by Rob
Portman Republican from Ohio is growing
Mark Warner from Virginia is offering a
proposal called the his Tommy talked
about last week the stop shutdowns
transferring they a necessary pain and
inflicting damage in the coming year act
what's that - stop stupidity act
nailed it boom rested great Nancy Pelosi
has also said in the past few days that
she might push a bill on the house side
soon what do you think about this
Nancy's act is called I'll kill your
family get the guns out the mantle no
you know no more debt ceiling do you
know no more
fund our priorities are will shut down
the government it's completely
unnecessary if you if you don't believe
your proposals are popular enough
or reasonable enough to get through a
normal course of debate over how to fund
the government than using the government
as leverages using the government itself
as leverage does not make that more
appealing yeah this is not how the
system was designed the founders were
not sitting around thinking let's hold
each other hostage all the time and and
like the economic data you mentioned
some of what we lost will never get back
we will lose points in GDP but that's
also true for like the gathering of
scientific data about climate change for
example like you will you you never have
a chance to get back data that you could
only gather that day like there's real
problems here yeah I will say like I was
looking into this and there's one note
of caution on this so basically the way
this bill would work is you know if you
couldn't reach an agreement it would
automatically fund everything at the
prior year's levels and then to spur
resolution funding would be reduced by
one percent after 120 days of no
agreement is reached and by one percent
more every 90 days that's bad the the
chief economist on the Budget Committee
he works for Bernie Sanders wrote a blog
post this morning that said it's
actually very bad for Democrats because
as you continue to fund everything at
last year's levels
it basically means cuts because you
don't keep up with population growth and
so for democratic priorities for food
stamps for education funding for all
this stuff they just keep getting cut
and cut and cut about it's worth
remembering too that we we played a game
like this in the past where we set this
deadline to negotiate in good faith
under the Obama administration and if we
fail to hit that deadline sequester
sequester would kick in and the be
drastic cuts to both defense and to the
domestic discretionary spending outside
of the defense that was sort of the both
sides had someone to lose Democrats were
injured you know Republicans don't want
to see defense cost remember cuts I want
to see domestic cuts and guess what we
blew through that deadline like
like an Arizona Wildcat I know they do
that they're just kidding Arizona
I honestly only know Wildcat from the
movie speed I was searching for a school
it is nothing personal of its speed
comes a hey there Wildcat Department
boiler for the film speed I I agree
there was a camera on the bus the the
draconian bill
to prevent government shutdowns can't
deliver by default Republicans something
that they want it's just less spending
it has to actually be indexed to either
inflation or population growth or
something make them how about it goes up
by 20 percent every year yeah all right
let's talk about Who Framed Roger stone
on Friday federal agents arrested stone
at his Florida home for seven criminal
counts including obstruction making
false statements witness tampering most
of the charges had to do with stone
lying or covering up or threatening
others to lie and cover up his contacts
with WikiLeaks about the emails and
documents that Russian government stole
from Hillary Clinton and the Democrats
guys what's new in this indictment that
we didn't know before
so we'll get will get that I just want
to talk about two sort of bigger picture
things that I feel like are getting lost
a little bit one Roger stone is not some
fringe weirdo he is Donald Trump's
closest aide he's probably his lawn he
certainly is longest-serving aid so I
think that people dismiss him in a sort
of a clown or a buffoon who's on the
fringe of politics like he's the guy who
is the architect of of trumpism and I
think once again the stone saga raises
for me the question of why I lie about
these things if there was no Krupp
there's not necessarily a crime in
contacting WikiLeaks if you think it's a
news gathering organization so why say
that some guy named Randy credit Co was
your connection to WikiLeaks instead of
jerome corsi why create a crime and lie
to Congress when there wasn't one that
we know of and the only answer I can
come up with is that there was something
there trying to hide in the same way
general Flynn was trying to hide
something about his totally actually
kind of boring contacts with the Russian
government well katie mcfarland like all
of them are lying about this issue over
and over and over again i mean there's a
clue in the indictment
right and this to me is the most
interesting piece of it where it says
someone inside the trump campaign was it
was it was directed to reach out to
Roger stone to find out more about what
wiki listen today senior Trump campaign
official was directed to contact stone
about information WikiLeaks might have
had on Hillary Clinton the date on that
is of course in July of 2016 so who the
senior Trump campaign official is we do
not know some speculation that it could
be Rick Gates because he is a
cooperating witness at this point
so then your question would be who would
direct who had the power to direct rick
gates who was like deputy campaign
manager well possibly Paul Manafort who
was campaign manager at the time though
since they've already charged mana for
why wouldn't you name him or call him
individual one or something like that
and if it's not manna for it then it's
Donald Trump Donald Trump Jovanka
someone like that this is a good example
of not just the passive voice but the
passive-aggressive
I think this indictment tells us for
sure that the campaign wanted to know
how WikiLeaks releases could damage
Hillary Clinton for sure and of course
we already know that they wanted dirt
from the Russian government on the
Clinton campaign because they all took
that meeting in early June this is now
the campaign asking stone okay
we know that WikiLeaks is gonna put out
dirt that the Russian government stole
they knew that at the time because it
was publicized at that time right that
Russia hacked the DNC so they knew that
a foreign government was trying to
launder stolen material to hurt their
opponent through WikiLeaks and they were
asking Roger stone go find out where it
is when it's coming all that kind of
stuff and Roger was flailing to make it
happen I mean he emailed jerome corsi
and told him to get to asan she emailed
a guy named Ted Malek who tried to get
him to go see Assange I mean they were
this wasn't something he undertook
lightly didn't just fire off an email
though like info at wikileaks.org like
he made a real good faith effort and
later he told Sam Nunn Berg his former
aide and guy he sort of raised
politically what's the word I'm looking
for
mentored he mentored that he had dinner
with Julian Assange and he later said
that was a joke cuz that's a thing we
always joke allies make up dinners when
I email you guys I pretended I dinner
with somebody so that it's like a weird
concerted effort to get to these people
yeah and so I think you know stones that
over the weekend that his indictment I'm
sorry so don't sit over the weekend that
quote this indictment is thin as piss on
a rock and that his text messages have
been mischaracterized that one's really
great that one's really great because
they are so hard to mischaracterize
they are so explicit and direct I mean
the dog you know chris Christie himself
said on ABC sorry Chris Cruz himself
said it to George Stephanopoulos this
weekend you know they've got all these
emails and text messages that he create
created to tell a pretty clear story and
think it's gonna be very difficult for a
jury to listen to that and conclude that
it wasn't what he was trying to do and
worth remembering that before Chris
Christie was a famous political oath he
was a prosecutor yeah and he thinks that
the indictment actually is very very
damning I wanted to go back to Tommy's
first question though which is why all
the lying right because I only I think
there's only two explanations one they
are trying to cover up something worse
or two they are just so stupid that they
wanted to lie because they thought that
getting caught you know sorry they
wanted to lie because exposing that
there was some contact with Russians
would be politically devastating to
Trump right and so they were so stupid
they figured why not lie because the
political fallout of this could be
really bad for the president we want to
protect him even though it's not illegal
I mean I'm just I'm just throwing that
out there's the other possibility like I
don't think that's right but I guess
that could be it I buy that I buy that
for some of the other dum-dums but Roger
stone is a Nixon tattoo on his back
right you know he is familiar with what
happens when you lie during the course
of an investigation like this yeah I
mean just to break it down right there's
two reasons somebody would try to lie in
this way one would be to protect
themselves or you know protect
themselves and their loved ones the
other would be to protect Donald Trump
and I think it's still an open question
for some of these indictments as to
whether or not these were people purely
lying to protect themselves and their
involvement in crimes or were they lying
to protect Donald Trump either his
reputation or the fact that he was
involved himself yeah I mean just some
of the text messages to this this is
what stone texted credit Co till I quote
stone wallet plead the fifth anything to
save the plan other exchanges according
to the indictment stone told person to
that person to should do a Frank
Pentangeli before H psi before the House
Intelligence Committee in order to avoid
contradicting stones testimony a
reference to a character in The
Godfather Part two who would plan to
testify testify against the Corleone
family but was pressured to deny any
recollection of key events anything to
save the plan question reflect
what's the plan I don't know but man did
these people love using their fingers to
type incriminating things on permanent
records over and over again so I think
the other big question here Moeller has
already charged the Russian hackers and
Russian intelligence with a conspiracy
to defraud the United States the
question now is what are the possible
reasons that Muller hasn't charged stone
man afford you know Flynn any of these
folks any of the Trump folks is part of
that conspiracy is he waiting or is this
all we're gonna get it's that's a really
obvious job but there's sort of evidence
on both sides yeah we don't know I mean
one of the things I think that should
make us all a bit cautious is the fact
that the last thing that Rudy Giuliani
and his sort of adult appearances he
kind of comes back to something which is
like what's the crime conspiracy to hack
and and it's and it's a very specific
turn of phrase because the Russians they
were hacking Republicans they were
hacking Democrats they were having
people are a long time a lot of the
things they released they had for some
time and so you know if the Russians
already had it it's not like Roger stone
conspired to hack anybody conspired to
steal anything
he was just aware of something
participating in the release of that
information and that is an important
distinction then again as we also know
Donald Trump went on television and said
can you please do me a favor and get her
emails and they tried getting those
emails that very night so there's sort
of an even but even that's not
necessarily a crime no no that's not but
it is if somebody participated now if
someone's aware of it and participating
in the ongoing stealing and hacking of
Democrats yeah I thought the New York
Times laid this out really well there's
if there was a piece over the weekend
like what's a crime what's not a crime
they basically said you know if if the
Trump campaign officials coordinated
with Assange on the timing and content
of the document releases in an effort to
maximize the damage of the Clinton
campaign that might qualify but so far
Muller has offered no evidence of that
so it's like Trump was if Trump in the
campaign were aware that the documents
were gonna be done even if they asked
like when is it gonna happen we're just
sort of interested but that's not
necessarily a crime but if they actually
said like oh if you do it here this
might help and and there is some
evidence that it was getting close to it
when they were like
stone is basically saying like oh the
campaign should start talking about how
sick Hillary Clinton and Brighton are
because that's gonna be a subject of the
of the dump Jerome Corsi who is a
birther scumbag right-wing journalists I
guess in the loosest sense the word
emailed stone saying he knew of Assange
his plans and that he had two more
document dumps basically and he said
would not hurt to start suggesting the
Hillary's older memories bad he's had a
stroke which is this sort of weird focus
on medical issues which they kind of did
later do and especially after she
fainted at the 9/11 event yeah but you
know that sort of language and that
interaction does speak to coordination
yeah and so you know why hasn't Muller
charged it yet
Mimi Roca who's a former sdn why she
said there's three possible reasons one
Muller wants to charge everyone at once
and he's not ready yet to charging stone
with that would trigger discovery on the
evidence around the conspiracy and maybe
he doesn't want that evidence public yet
and he doesn't want the other side to
see that yet because they could be
indicted themselves and also you know
pointed out that two search warrants
were executed when they indicted stone
both of his house and his apartment in
Manhattan and so Muller wants to get
more evidence first right or the other
one is and some people are raising this
that Moeller just you know to prove a
conspiracy you need to prove a
conspiracy beyond a reasonable doubt and
molars cautious and he wants to prove
the crimes that he can prove which are
all these cover up crimes and he doesn't
yet have the evidence and may not have
the evidence to prove a conspiracy
against the United States beyond a
reasonable doubt for these drunk people
and I think that you we should just look
at what that is right let's take let's
call that the worst case scenario what
we were describing then is a a
embarrassing morally reprehensible
vaguely but unprovable illegal effort to
subvert American democracy so
embarrassing and wrong wrong and
humiliating that a group of people then
spent the next year of their lives lying
and obstructing justice and committing
crimes to cover it up still not great
exactly very very bad still not great
yeah it it should be enough yes I mean
should be enough we don't know much but
one person who knows a hell of a lot
more than we do is John Brennan is a
director
who now now tweets like he is Crossing
the Delaware
matter Stinson so he said on one of the
shows that I expect there would be a
significant number of indictments and a
significant number of names that will be
familiar to you all he thinks that the
shoes are yet to drop are going to be
the ones that are going to be the most
profound and that it will hit people at
the top of the organization so I don't
know what John knows John doesn't know
anything in terms of classified
information since he left the United
States government but an Trump took his
with clearance away to be a dick that's
right quite a statement from brand
though I saw that it was just like a
headline in the hill and I'm like okay
we'll be familiar to most American we
are we are accustomed to statements like
this from people like James clapper and
people like John Brennan because they
have felt they need to talk this way
since Donald Trump became president but
these are people who who take so
seriously not getting ahead of the facts
who takes so seriously being circumspect
and not doing anything to go beyond what
they could reasonably convey that is
like what that is what they try to do
yeah but even I will go back to Lovitz
point just before we move on like even
if Brennan is wrong like I I do worry
that if Muller ends this whole
investigation with a whole bunch of
crimes about covering up lies and
obstruction all that kind of stuff that
the prey but but nothing else on
conspiracy that's connected to actual
Trump campaign officials or
administration officials then the press
is gonna be all like you know Don
Trump's gonna declare victory no
collusion the right wing is gonna say
that the conservative me is going to do
that and the mainstream press is gonna
be like yeah I know it was all just a
bunch of processed crimes it's like we
have laid out here yeah that the the the
Trump campaign knew there was a
conspiracy on behalf of the Russian
government to interfere with our
election to elect them president and not
only agreed to like wanted that to
happen and sought it out but then like
agreed to participate let it have these
are the same Republicans who impeached
Bill Clinton for the same set of
processed crimes and the underlying
cover-up the thing Bill Clinton was
trying to cover up was not an
international conspiracy to
fundamentally corrupt American democracy
it was a gross abuse of power and a
 like the
we've been through this before several
times these are important and crimes
that we need to take seriously everyone
believes that I just Paul Manafort
forwarded internal polling data to a
Russian Intel guy I mean like Donald
Trump was begging WikiLeaks so I think
that the evidentiary case is gonna be
there for something more nefarious than
what we currently know certainly the
political cases there for a human being
leading our country who is shockingly
unfit on uncountable number of levels to
lead the country I'm a stood next to
Vladimir Putin in front of the world and
took his side over the American
intelligence community on whether or not
he interfered in our election that's all
that's basic forget about anything else
that was I mean that's all you need to
know look Muller is he's got a big chunk
of marble and like Michelangelo he
doesn't carve it from the out in he
carves a perfect hand and then he carves
a perfect foot then he carves a perfect
arm you know yep done will we see this
whole statue in beautiful model be
gorgeous all right talk about 2020 the
New York Times published a piece this
weekend about how Trump's team is
getting nervous about a potential
primary fight oh really
yeah yeah especially after the shutdown
dragged down his poll numbers even among
Republicans according to the piece quote
mr. Trump according to close associates
appears without a plan for mounting a
strong campaign in 2020 or for
persuading the majority of Americans who
view him negatively to give him another
chance the article mentions potential
Republican opponents like Maryland
governor Larry Hogan former Ohio
Governor John Kasich former Arizona
Senator Jeff Flake aloud fart noise I
don't know guys if you were political
consultants would you advise one of
these candidates to challenge Donald
Trump yes run all of you please all of
you run and primary him and attack him
and and try not to suck at it this bad
this time that said I think this is
gonna get maybe built up into a possible
hurdle for Donald Trump that doesn't
really exist if you look at the way
primaries work and the hold he has on
his base and that therefore it will
ultimately be spoken of as a win somehow
that he didn't get primary does a
sitting president United States which
should be a matter of course so I don't
know there's no appetite for Jeff Flake
no appetite for John Kasich really but
maybe if they go out and they really
hammer
day after day after day it will harm him
yeah I think we don't know
you know Tim Miller wrote a great piece
about this and why he thought it was
important and I thought the argument he
made is the right one which is Tommy's
right politically it's a long shot but
so was Donald Trump becoming president
and the real case to be made for an
alternative to Donald Trump in the
Republican Party is a moral one that all
these people that have claimed over the
years that this is not who should
represent republicanism and who have
failed to stand up for it enough if they
claim that there should be an
alternative well someone has to
be it Yeah right if someone doesn't
stand up and be it if someone if the
Republican Party was a healthy political
party if it was a healthy political
movement we wouldn't be having this
conversation there would be multiple
conservatives standing up and saying why
not me I should do it I want to do it
the question would not be is anyone
gonna be tough enough to stand up Donald
Trump the question would be are there
gonna be too many too many people
willing to try to fight against this guy
who obviously is morally and and and and
personally unfit to be President but
that's not happening and so if these so
they are in the situation where their
movement has failed the base has been
enamored of Donald Trump by right-wing
propaganda and the question is if
someone despite all those headwinds
willing to do the right thing and I
think so far we don't know yeah and look
Tim's point is he's he wants to save
that version of the Republican Party
that even if it's a longshot this person
might lose they should try anyway
because it's the morally right thing to
do right so that that's good but I
actually think the most effective
primary to Donald Trump would come from
his base from the right I think like Ann
Coulter running for president or targa
right and saying you promised all these
things you promised a wall you promised
us from set and you didn't deliver for
the base that's actually far more
dangerous to him I think then some
Republican mainstream Republican or some
Republican moderate and look
historically challenges from the base of
your own party are more dangerous than a
challenge from you know a more centrist
part of the yeah I mean Jimmy Carter was
Sweatt and Ted Kennedy a lot more than
he was then like Pete's coffee
CEO or whatever the hell you're in it I
mean look I don't mean to be dismissive
of these efforts I don't think they're
gonna be effective in any way for
exactly the dynamic you talked about
which is he has a hold on 30% of the
country that is absolute at this point
and that's going to make it really
to win a primary consent but they should
attack him but they should go into this
full-speed don't go in with some high
road message about how you're gonna
unite the country bla bla bla your goal
here is to damage him politically so
that he is not the next president yeah
be eyes wide open and also to understand
that this dynamic that John's pointing
out is absolutely right which is the
base wants someone even more to the
right than Donald Trump that problem
will not be solved in this election but
if someone does give voice to that
version of republicanism it will be
there understand example after this kind
of republicanism gets that come up and
sit deserves and once you know it will
take wide-scale Republican defeat to
force the reckoning the Republican Party
needs that's what we said before the
2016 election that's what we said since
that reckoning will not be brought about
by a primary challenge but it will offer
an example for when that reckoning comes
so we talked a lot about Donald Trump's
challenges as a candidate
let's have what his strengths what
strengths does Donald Trump bring to the
2020 race well according to some of the
MOG dead-enders he is playing chess the
rest of us are just playing checkers so
he is a master he's a master genius
political mean his honestly his real
strengths are that he continues to
dominate the news cycle all day every
day no and I have that as a big one yeah
media attention well in like even even
the dynamic that just occurred and
though in the wall shut down fight like
it the press
ended up trying to meet in the middle of
the debate despite the fact that he was
like I will gladly own the shutdown
despite the fact that it was clear that
he was trying to extract a unilateral
concession from Democrats while offering
nothing he it was treated as a both
sides issue so that the frustrating
dynamic that we've all screamed about
for two years for years is still there
yeah we still live in this crazy
political environment and media
environment where there's the standard
we're all held to and as the standard
Trump is held to and that continues to
be true and that continues to be an
advantage for him you know he is
rewarded for you know not throwing up on
himself yeah where other politicians
would have to say produce a cogent
argument I think the other strengths he
brings is
he's gonna have a fuckload of money yeah
he's gonna raise a lot of money he's
going to have all the Republican super
PACs behind him throwing in a lot of
money too and he is very good at
demonizing opponents he's not very good
at coming up with a positive message for
himself but he is very good at
demonizing whoever runs against him and
he will use that money to try to destroy
the Democratic candidate in every way
possible and make that candidate
accessible to American people he is not
trying to win he is merely trying to
make sure that the Democrat loses and
that's what he did in 2016 and he's
gonna try that again and so and and one
other thing that could help Trump a
third party challenger on Sunday
former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz let
the world know that he's seriously
consider running for president as an
independent candidate in 2020 he said in
a 60 Minutes interview we're living at a
most fragile time not only the fact that
this president is not qualified to be
the president but the fact that both
parties are consistently not doing
what's necessary on behalf of the
American people blah blah blah blah
according to the news reports Schultz
has hired a number of people already to
advise him on this potential project
including Steve Schmidt John McCain's
campaign manager in 2008 has noted in
recent piece by The Washington Post
Schultz has signaled a willingness to
break with Democratic orthodoxy we have
to go after entitlements he said in the
CNBC interview after announcing his
retirement last year he also dismissed
as false promises the proposals for a
single-payer health care guaranteed
federal jobs that have become popular on
the Left saying they were fiscally
unworkable guys how much should a
Schultz candidacy scare the out of
us I'm not really there yet I'm still in
the place of he has not said he's going
to run as an independent I think it's
all of our jobs to make sure that he
doesn't actually make that decision it's
extremely foolish and dangerous and
selfish and narcissistic and not
evidence-based I'm there's a piece about
you when you hear this as a pond cricket
calm where I sort of walk through what I
was thinking about it because it made me
so angry I had to write an article all
right which is not something I like to
do what do you think about this thing I
mean hopefully it'll turn out to be
nothing if he wants to run as a Democrat
welcome yes go for it have at it but
running is a third party there are just
reams and reams and reams of data that
show he is more likely to peel off anti
combin disaffected Republican voters and
the sort of middle ground that we need
to be Trump and to do that at a time
when Trump's disapproval is at a
historic high and we have the best
possible chance of sending his ass back
to New York is unconscionable it is
immoral it is disgraceful arrogant
stupid thing to do because you were able
to peddle expensive lattes for decades
and think that you are somehow the
businessman Savior that we've all heard
about for decades and we got with Donald
Trump and that hasn't turned out too
well yeah I mean look it's it's very
hard to predict what's going to happen
with a specific set of candidates in a
race but you know we do have some
evidence Howard Wolfson who's advising
Michael Bloomberg another billionaire
who's thought about running for
president in the past tweeted last night
you know I have seen enough data over
many years to know that anyone running
for POTUS as an independent
will split the anti-incumbent anti-trump
vote Bloomberg himself said something
similar this morning I mean here's we
have to understand go back to 2016 in
Michigan Wisconsin Pennsylvania in
Florida the states that all basically
decide the election if both Gary Judd
sorry Gary Johnson and Jill Stein when a
larger share of the vote and the
percentage that Hillary lost by tronto
Trump won Michigan by 0.3% Pennsylvania
by 0.7 Wisconsin by 0.7 Florida by 1.2
so it's like you could I mean we can
talk about how horrid Shultz has no real
constituency in this country for you
know fiscal conservatism and social
liberalism right which would surprise a
lot of listeners perhaps because you
know the constituency for that is on
Wall Street you know maybe in Silicon
Valley maybe in parts of Los Angeles but
even if he doesn't even if he only pulls
2% 3% 4% and it could be devastating to
the Democratic nominee in a close race
right there is there is no coalition for
him to win but there is a coalition for
to destroy the country the yeah and just
you know but let's not even go to like I
think the political argument is good but
so is the policy argument you Schultz
you but you're a lifelong Democrat and I
watch your sixty minutes interview and
you're you asked about tax policy you
say the Democratic position immigration
climate you say the same thing health
you say that you think there should be
universal health care but you think the
Democratic proposals for things like
Medicare for all are too expensive
that's that's the primary debate we're
about to have a nationwide
state-by-state context in which that
contest in which that is going to be the
subject of the debate you say that the
fiscal that Boat neither party neither
parties take fiscal responsibility
seriously that the 21 trillion dollar
national debt is one of the biggest
challenges is the biggest challenge we
face okay first of all I point out that
it's under Democratic presidents in
which we've actually achieved fiscal
responsibility that there is a fiscally
responsible party in this country and
it's the one you belong to but also if
you believe that that's important if you
believe that Democrats are wrong on that
get in the fight get in the fight you
are what you we've said this for a long
time if you believe that your voice is
missing in democratic politics you can
be a Democratic candidate and have your
chance to make your case but somehow you
believe that a you're the you're the
right person to become president but B
your argument is not persuasive enough
to compel the millions of people who
will ultimately choose a non Trump
candidate that your argument is correct
and so I'm just sort of at a loss and
honestly it's the same kind of egotism
and I alone can fix it attitude that led
Trump to become Trump and you have the
money to do it and you can hire the
consultants to do it but you're not
actually doing the hard work of putting
your skin and time in the game and the
only reason you are in a position to do
that is because you have billions of
dollars and shame on you yeah I mean
Mike Bloomberg actually ran a city right
so he has some experience that will lead
me to believe that he might be good at
becoming president I'm not endorsing him
I don't want it to run but again like
just the CEO becoming president is an
experiment that hasn't worked Howard
Schultz might be a wonderful man and by
all accounts he's but kind and nice and
has done good things but you know his
main position is is that we need to get
rid of our debt by slashing entitlement
programs to balance the budget that's
not just the right of Democrats that's
to the right of Donald Trump there's no
there's no audience for that policy
position and I also would I would argue
that it ignores a lot of what we learned
in the last couple decades about how we
should be prioritizing things in this
country because the the austerity versus
spending debate has kind of played out
in the favor of spending more and
stimulus and and investing in our
country and not slashing taxes
for corporations in the wealthiest
people which by the way there was a
story in Reuters today that said that
there was barely any capital expenditure
for businesses as a result of the tax
cut almost none yeah I mean there's just
there's no substantive reason why Howard
Schultz couldn't run as a Democrat which
is unfair because you know for all the
 that some people give Bernie
Sanders about being an independent and
yet running in the Democratic primary
at least Bernie Sanders is running in
the Democratic primary and not as an
independent which would everything
up and pulling us all left Mike
Bloomberg same thing Mike Bloomberg
looked at what would what it would be
like to run as an independent realized
he could hurt the Democratic candidates
cause and thus help elect Trump and so
Mike Bloomberg said all right are you me
they're running as a Democrat or not at
all these two people bring centers in
Mike Bloomberg on very different ends of
the spectrum are both thinking yeah we
could both run in the Democratic primary
and we'll just see if if anyone likes
our ideas Howard Schultz thinks that he
doesn't have to do that that he gets to
just run on his own as an independent
and do it that way even if it means
hurting the Democratic and helping to
relight Trump and that's that's just a
 awful thing to do and one last
thing I'd say I don't know if Steve
Schmidt is currently still advising
schulter what he's what he's advising
them so I don't want to jump to
conclusions yet but Steve Schmidt who
has been all over MSNBC for the last
couple years talking about how important
it is to defeat Donald Trump he knows
better for sure even if Howard Schultz
doesn't and so whether he's advising him
now whether he advised him in the past
Steve talked to him tell him this is a
bad idea come on in come on you know and
we're we're giving you the benefit out
please all right because it would be
such a shame to find out that you're
joining of the resistance was an
entirely was just a giant ruse for you
to go on television and preen and seem
moral only to join the one campaign that
could help return the presidency to
Donald Trump so much for giving the
benefit I don't even know if I'm right
or wrong but anyway yeah that should
happen okay when we come back we'll hear
Tommy's interview with CNN's may have
Reston about Kamala Harris's launch
you
