on the pod today we have Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer how are you today
well fighting the fight it's good to be
with you good to hear your voices
senator what was it like in the room
yesterday before the the president
stormed out and were you able to get
your hands on a Butterfinger yes he
brought the candies the problem is that
our workers need paychecks candy does
not solve this problem but he was he was
agitated he was all you know you could
see when he walked in the room he didn't
want to be there he actually admitted he
said I don't want to be here my staff
made me be here and you know as I've
said before negotiating with President
Trump is like negotiating with jello he
states mistruths regularly he'll say one
thing that contradicts something he said
two minutes earlier he tries to talk
over people and not listen it's it's a
surreal experience being there with them
senator is there I mean given the way
that everything has gone to date in
these you know quote-unquote
negotiations with Trump is there any
possible deal that you could see that
would open the government up short of
the Republicans just folding well he has
been so adamant first about his five
point seven billion dollar wall and were
totally opposed to any wall at all as
Nancy made clear yesterday and we've
made clear over and over again there's a
lot of talk you know well let's do
something on border security for daca or
for immigration the problem has been
there done that
every time that we try to do this and he
initially says well he would be for it
the ingre Hamm's and the Coulter's and
the Limbaugh's beat him up and call him
amnesty Donald or this Donald or that
Donald and he backs off he's done it
three times already and so I don't think
that that is a fruitful way to go I
think we're just gonna have to stay firm
and you know you're seeing a good nice
number of Senate Republicans real
that the government ought to open the
American people seem to be on our side
it's quite decisively I saw a one poll
that said 25 percent only 25 percent of
Americans believe that Trump should shut
down the government to get his wall that
means he's losing about a third of his
base if you assume it's about 35 percent
so I think if we hang tough we can win
this do you see any scenario where
Republicans in Congress might override
Trump's potential veto to reopen the
government well you know initially
McConnell put on the floor this was then
more than 30 days it expires February
8th so it's about 30 days now and it got
unanimous support my guess is if you
went inside the heads of our 53
Republican senators probably about 40
would say we ought to open up the
government to negotiate they know this
is a loser for them but as the past has
shown they're just so afraid to buck
Donald Trump given his success at
backing candidates and Republican
primaries that even though they know
it's bad for the country even though
they know it's bad for their party they
sort of stick with him but there has
been an erosion every day you'll hear
one or two Republicans say that we ought
to open up the government and then
negotiate I think the number who have
done it publicly is five or six and
there are three or four more who have
said it privately so I think it's moving
in our direction even with the
Republicans senator this morning
President Trump sent a pretty clear
signal that he is willing to invoke a
national emergency to a get as well and
be maybe find a way out of this mess
he's found himself in what's your
reaction to that idea and also how would
Senate Democrats respond if Trump were
to go that path okay I'd say two things
here first he can talk about it I don't
believe that it is legally sustainable
there was a really good opted which I
would commend to your readers by
professor Ackerman
from you know law school which I think
made it pretty clear that it will of
course be challenged in court the minute
he should do it by all kinds of
different people you know standing is an
issue here so the more suits the better
and so I think legally it would be
blocked but you know Nancy and I have
talked about it and we work very closely
together as you know and we'd look at
any legislative way to stop it as well
are you committed to holding up all
Senate business until the shutdown ends
well as you know we held up that first
bill which was called s1 they're gonna
make us vote on it again this afternoon
but we had a honey you know close to
every Democratic senator on the floor of
the Senate at 10:30 this morning where
both Ben Cardin and Chris van Holland
asked that McConnell put on the floor
the six bills that would open up the
government the 68 cabinet departments
that are not homeland security and then
a separate bill that would open up
homeland security and they blocked it
and we have said hey we will go forward
on this bill if you let us have a vote
on opening up the government which I'm
sure would pass and pass overwhelmingly
because then a lot of these Republicans
I mentioned who were scared of Trump
would be smoked out and we're gonna
we're gonna look at every bill that
comes forward very critically and we're
gonna you know look at each bill and
decide what the right course is we're
continuing to stay strong on s1 here all
right are you surprised by Senator
McConnell's
essential absence from all of this sort
of deciding that he was gonna abdicate
all of us authority to Trump well you
know he sort of in the past has bragged
that he's the expert at avoiding
shutdowns that he's the great negotiator
to avoid shutdowns and now he's ducking
at the beat when the house was
Republican made you know he said well we
have to get President Trump to sign him
but two things have happened since then
the first is the house is Democrat
so they'll pass bills to open up the
government and which was much harder but
second in the Senate we actually passed
a proposal unanimously not a single
Republican dissented that would require
the government to stay open so I think
his arguments don't make much sense and
I said to him on the floor you know he
was objecting to us bringing up the open
up the government bills and I said
leader McConnell I have three words for
you open the government and then I said
it's in your hands and he had nothing to
say he knows he stuck he stuck because
his party is divided with more of them
still sticking with Trump than the
number who have come with us I also
think he's looking home at politics in
Kentucky and you may remember six years
ago he had a pretty tough primary from a
someone who was to the right of him and
at somebody so he I think he knows
better I'd say that but I think at the
same time he's very reluctant to move
forward we need a bunch more Republican
senators and I would urge your listeners
particularly if they have a Republican
senator in their home states to email to
tweet to call to write it's
heartbreaking to see what he's doing i
and you asked about the meeting with him
one of the reasons Nancy and I go to
these meetings is to speak the truth
he's in sort of this bubble you can see
it with the staff around him no one
tells him what's going on the truth so
he likes to brag everyone's you know
everyone the all these workers are for
shutting down the government for the
wall and I told him I told him I said
you know there are states there counties
in upstate New York that you carried in
2016 and then I carried let me tell you
what's happening farmers are really
angry about your shutdown mr. president
because they can't get their their
farmer loan their farm loans and they
have to get them out because they need
money for planting I said people you
know veterans and others can't get
mortgages I told him the story of a fire
dispatcher actually who just bought a
house his wife is pregnant
they're being kicked out of their
present accommodations in a month or two
but because FHA can't sign the statement
they've nowhere to go and I said don't
don't be under the illusion that people
like what you're doing they don't it's
very bad for you should have seen his
face he doesn't hear things like that
yeah so you know that's he's not winning
this fight and I don't think any part of
the country
so obviously the border is more secure
more militarized than at any time in
history you've said that you know if the
president is willing to open up the
government you you would be willing to
negotiate on border security what if any
additional security do you believe we
need our position is pretty clear we're
for doing basically what we did last
year which is one point 375 for no wall
but for ways to improve border security
drones sensors things at the port of
entry that can detect drugs and fentanyl
and all these other bad terrible things
that are coming in so we're willing to
do border security but we don't believe
the wall is the way to go and our
position which has United our caucus and
the house caucus is go with last year's
proposal which got Democratic and
Republican support and that's what we
proposed set of Schumer thank you for
joining us we appreciate you giving us
the time
you
