Trump met with Hungarian President
Viktor Orban at the White House we
talked a bit about Orban last week and
the way he's unwinding democracy and
Hungary are really strangling it but
things actually went worse than expected
I think Trump told Orban and I quote
you're respected all over Europe
probably like me a little bit
controversial but that's okay
you've done a good job and you've kept
your country safe Trump's ambassador to
Hungary told the Atlantic quote I can
tell you knowing the president for a
good 25 or 30 years that he would love
to have the situation that Viktor Orban
has but he doesn't Wow then that quote
tells you all you need to know about
Trump he Trump thinks that strangling a
democracy to death makes you respected
and one of his best friend says he loved
nothing more to be a dictator no
surprise this dude is is getting a foot
rub in the Oval all that sube the truest
thing at Trump unbelievable again I
think it's worth Vermont Viktor Orban
this is not a close call no this guy is
an authoritarian he's a liberal he's
kind of neo-fascist he is said about
ending democracy and hungry like taking
control of the media people are not
permitted to get information that
doesn't flow through Viktor orb√°n's
media and most of hungry he is packed
the judiciary he's rigged elections he's
basically taken steps to turn this into
an authoritarian system this is like I
this is really nuts like this is
like you know it's in the early 30s and
like FDR's like you know what I got a
great depression going on and I got all
kinds of home but it's it's
time to have Mussolini to the White
House yeah you know and and and having
 Mussolini in the White House and
being like you know what I really admire
those black shirts you wear you know
you're really tough on the immigrants
like you know what people may say bad
things about you but like you really you
know she showed it to those Ethiopians
like that's what this guy is well you
read he's the tip of the spear of the
 fascist revival in Europe a
place where this brand of politics leads
to very dark places and Trump is like
yeah this is great
like this is the leader I want to lift
up of all the Europeans I want to have
here I'm not gonna have Angela Merkel or
Emmanuel macron or people who run big
important countries and are democracies
on
have this like thug you know
because he doesn't like George Soros
like into the White House and talk about
what an upstanding guy is this is Nate
this is insane or bond said we must
state that we do not want to be diverse
we do not want our own color traditions
in national culture to be mixed with
those of others he's a white nationalist
color traditions like what this isn't
subtle I did not settle it off a lot of
economic anxiety in that in that quote I
mean and I guess like people say you
know I was having a conversation the
reporter today about taking this kind of
meeting and they're like well you know
Obama did you know took meetings with
the Saudis and oh yes and like that's
fair but you know no it's not fair but
like well here's the point I tried to
make to them it's sometimes you meet
with that actors and you push them on
the things that are doing but it's not
just that you this is their there I'm so
angry about this because yes you
sometimes read unsavory actors but yeah
for one of two purposes one if you are
swallowing hard because you have some
foreign policy interests right so
Americans have been uncomfortable to
Saudi relationship for some time but it
felt like we had to meet with them right
because they've supplied the oil for the
global converse or because yeah
something like that right or you know we
don't like China's human rights record
but like we've got deal with the
Chinese but hungry yeah there's no this
is my this is my point is like there's
not a trip we talk about these trade
offs in American foreign policy it's not
like we need the Hungarians to maintain
the global economy no offensive
Hungarian listeners of the pod-like
there's no trade off here right so then
the only other reason you'd move
something like this yeah is the press
and be like hey release these
journalists or like I really don't like
what during civil society and Trump is
meeting with the guy to encourage what
he's doing on those things right so it's
the opposite that rights taking notes
envy so so to me this you can't shrug
this off of like well Americans always
engaged unsavory people they tend to
only have to engage them when they
absolutely must because there's some
other overriding interest or because
yeah they want to press them on those
things but he's meeting the guy to give
him a big foot rub and to give an
attaboy for the things he's doing it's
also worth noting for the the nerds out
there that the European parliamentary
elections are coming up in like a couple
weeks and everybody in Europe has been
watching this for months because they're
worried where these far-right parties
like a like a strong block in the
European Parliament they can like
basically grind the EU to a halt so
meeting with or bond on the eve of these
elections is sending a message somebody
probably not Trump but somebody around
Trump who shares his like neo-fascist
impulses is smart enough to be like well
the time to have our bond is is before
these that's exactly right and in mind
you this is also a times I think
reported this over the weekend that just
two weeks before these European
parliamentary elections there's a whole
bunch of Russian linked accounts and
far-right groups spreading
disinformation about you know more
democratic or left-leaning
candidates so you know the the Steve
been in Russia world view is coming
together again in a way that supports
fascism and far-right parties yeah and
people need to understand that this is
like the defining issue of our time
right because these people are either
going to win or they're not and and
Trump is showing all of his cards about
which side of this debate he's on he's
on the decide on the side of the people
who were trying to roll back democracy
um last thing I wanted to raise which is
a fun one
not really but it's notable so the New
York Times belugas to the Queen the
Blues of the Queen the The Times over
the weekend
finally wrote the piece that I feel like
you and I have been talking about for
months and months and months yeah which
is that all the big swings Trump has
taken on foreign policy let's say that's
Iran North Korea and Venezuela are
failing and they're not only failing but
all three of those actors feel
emboldened to tell him to go
himself
yeah no you have the Iranians saying
we're actually going to restart some
kinds of enrichment the Venezuelans you
know Maduro is essentially mocking Trump
and the coup failed and then North Korea
is firing missiles into air on a daily
or hourly basis that if Iran fired would
lead to a military strike so you know I
don't know where each of these issues is
gonna go they kind of feel like they are
driven by Trump's individual need for
good headlines about each issue and how
he and how he gets there is different
but it's you know it was nice to see
someone finally put that all together
yeah I don't know you know if David
Sanger is in front of the pod you know
but I mean part of the reason why we
keep coming back to these issues is that
this has been unfolding before eyes for
some time
you can now see all the consequences
Maduro sitting there giving us a finger
North Koreans firing up missiles or
means preparing to restart their their
enrichment program and that's been
building for some time and the two
problems are for whatever reason the
media hasn't really held him to account
on this to be fair maybe because they're
pulled in a million different drugs and
Democrats don't like to talk about
foreign policy because like they you
know they want to talk about health care
they want to focus on kind of core
bread-and-butter issues so actually
there's just not a lot out there and not
a lot of content out there that is
highlighting that this is not working
the presumption in American foreign
policy circles and certainly how the
media covers foreign policies it like
there's tough policies and then there's
less tough problems but like the point
here and toughness is equated with you
know blustery and pulling out of
agreements and this is highlighting the
fact that those policies these regimes
have sized up Trump and they're like
sure he can pop off but like you know we
can tell the off right and and just
do our thing and Maduro is not not
leaving and the North Koreans aren't
giving up the nuclear weapons and the UA
nians aren't capitulating and there's no
evidence to suggest that if Trump keeps
doing what he's doing they will somehow
of course and I do think that it's
really important that Democrats are
other voices civil society and hopefully
the media is more rigorous in holding
Tom to account I do want to say I've
been pleased by some of the reporters
who went along with the kind of kim
jeong-hoon show you can tell they're a
little pissed about it you know you know
I've seen these people I won't name any
names but like I've seen them kind of be
like well he said that his personal
relationship with Kim would deliver and
this is proof that it hasn't and that's
good like there's now a track record and
there's a record of things that Trump
has said that we're gonna happen that
are happening and people need to keep
pointing that out
you
