welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod we'll be digging into the first
of a series of polls that crooked media
is doing in partnership with our friends
at change research we're calling it
polar coaster 2020 very exciting stuff
but first we've got quite a bit of news
to talk about from new sanctions on Iran
to the humanitarian disaster on our
border to a rape allegation against the
president who not not great stuff
welcome back love it good to be back
John a few quick notes before we get to
all that Dan mentioned last pot at the
paperback version of his book yes we
still can is out and available you
should know that for the next two weeks
he's gonna donate a portion of the
proceeds for every copy purchase to
righy says which is helping immigrant
families and children who've been
detained new episode of this land is out
called the treaty fantastic episode big
one yet I would argue yeah it digs into
Rebecca's family and treaties and Andrew
Jackson and all kinds of really
fascinating history so go check that out
right now this land podcast com also the
first Democratic presidential debates
are scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday
this week will be clip we'll be putting
out a pod covering both of them on
Friday morning dan has come in to LA to
join us for that
finally another installment of our
presidential candidate interview series
is dropping on Thursday my interview
with Montana Governor Steve Bullock that
I did last week when he was here at
crooked whoo all right let's get to the
news since our last podcast the
president called off a military strike
against Iran with ten minutes to spare
initiated new cyber attacks against
around and announced new economic
sanctions against the country's top
leaders Trump acknowledges on Twitter
Friday that quote we were cocked and
loaded you know he's always cocked go on
John but he made the last-minute
decision to call off the strike after
finding out from military leaders that
it would likely kill around 150 Iranians
according to the New York Times Trump
was also persuaded by Fox News hosts
National Security Advisor Tucker Carlson
who had been arguing the going to war
with Iran would hurt his chances for
re-election cool Tommy
broke on Friday what what was your
initial reaction to this news
Thursday night Thursday night I'm sorry
I had really fun breaking news alert
that says we almost went to right we
were all texting about Thursday night
genuine fear and I've remained pretty
pretty freaked out by the risk of
escalation I mean I think what's missing
from the debate still is a conversation
about the possible worst-case scenarios
that could arise from a war with Iran so
so people know they can use proxy forces
and militia groups in Yemen Afghanistan
Iraq Lebanon Syria they could attack US
personnel our partners and allies in the
region they have ballistic missiles that
can target our bases and ships in the
region or Israel they can wreak havoc in
the Strait of Hormuz they could target
Saudi oil infrastructure and drive up
oil prices so in other words like things
could get very serious very quickly much
as the escalating tension between two
dogs but so I'll pick up here but you
know you're not hearing that discussed
you were hearing glib from
people like Tom cotton who said war with
Iran would be two strikes the first
strike in the last strike cool Tom
Brett Stevens the New York Times says
sink their Navy like it's that easy and
there won't be any sort of response so
it's the same Iraq war proponents making
the same arguments with absolutely no
humility about how absolutely up
and wrong they were last time and also
about how incompetent this White House
it's like would you trust these guys to
manage a war I would not so again like
remember when Obama said that our option
was negotiate a deal with Iran or war
and all the neo cons were so oh they're
so upset
oh well here we are folks and this is
this is deadly serious and Trump is
escalating the war of awards this
morning yeah this is one of those
examples where I think you know Donald
Trump being in the White House is
obviously awful and scary but this is
something that neoconservatives
war mongers like john bolton have
basically wanted to do for some time
they basically wanted to get us to this
place right yeah but what was your uh
you you were on vacation what happened
when you heard this news did you just
you think about maybe not coming back I
definitely was glad to be out of signal
range
I kept like you step into American you
step into like sort of American
political news and it's really is like
opening a an evil chest of screams just
you open it up and it's just the most
blood-curdling noises and then you close
it again okay but but no you know it is
very frightening
it's the decision-making process it's
Trump decision-making process layered on
top of conservative dogma right which
are two of the most destructive forces
on planet earth so that is my take away
Tommy I always like to play this game
with you huh how do you think a normal
administration would have responded to
the Iranian shooting down one of our
drums let's say Hillary Clinton was on
the white shirt stipulating that she
wouldn't have pulled out of the Iran
deal and I don't think most reasonable
Republicans would have pulled out of the
Iran deal but like let's say we are
where we are today I think you bring
your whole team into the national into
the Situation Room and you have a
conversation about what is our big
picture goal because I think that is
also missing from the conversation is it
preventing them from ever getting a
nuclear weapon and and renegotiating on
that front
are we just concerned about sabotaging
ships in the Strait of Hormuz is the
concern about the drone and we want to
respond to send a message to the
Iranians that you can't do that again so
I think you figure out what your
objective is then you can move forward I
would start with making a very detailed
public briefing for for friends and
allies that the UN may be about the
specific location of our drone because
the Iranian narrative is that it was in
Iranian airspace we say it wasn't no
one's really detailing what the truth is
I would want to bring friends and allies
together to talk about some sort of
international way to protect ships in
the area and then think about responses
that wouldn't escalate the situation so
I was talking with Seth Moulton served
four tours in Iraq running for president
member of Armed Services Committee he
suggests responding with a cyber attack
that could take down their electrical
grid where that missile system is based
as a direct response to the drone and
then engaging with allies and friends
building a coalition to protect sea
lanes and then publicly spelling out the
golden strategy that to me seems more
measured and proportionate to what was
actually done to us which was blowing up
a very expensive computer in this
I do think Trump is right they're
killing 150 Iranians in response to
blowing up an unmanned drone is is
completely disproportionate yeah it's
you know and obviously it's chilling and
terrifying to think that Fox is
primetime lineup and what its hosts
think might just sway to us from taking
military action obviously these people
should not be part of the chain of
command but they are and they don't
agree on this one either they don't well
you know this is as Trump has moved
further into his administration the
voices that made Trump uniquely
unsettling to Republicans back when they
pack when they admitted that they didn't
want Trump to be the nominee or
President was obviously his trade in
immigration but the other piece of it
was foreign policy and Tucker Carlson
does represents the isolationist
nationalist streak resulting Pat
Buchanan this is Ann Coulter yes and
it's um and it really was an important
part of trumpism when it was being
defined by people like Tucker Carlson
and Maureen Dowd calling him a dove
because they thought that that Tucker
view would be better represented in the
White House so Carlson I think
represents a more sophisticated kind of
Trump nationalism without someone like
Trump it up at the top so does
Tom cotton which is what so does Tom
cotton on issues like trade and
immigration but he is more like other
Republicans on foreign policy
so it's this strange situation in which
one of the things that is missing is a
voice that represents the argument
against interventionist foreign policy
which we were supposed to be getting
with someone like Donald Trump
so Trump decides to not go with the
strike he goes with you know there was a
cyber there was a cyber attack I read
that I had been planned maybe even
before yeah but that was I think that
that was a limited cyber attack designed
to take down missile defense systems
that could have taken out airplanes that
were flying sorties designed to hit
targets like I think it was in the event
of the actual strike if we're gonna do a
strike you take out their defenses first
with some sort of cyber attack to make
sure that our guys aren't shot down okay
and then there were economic sanctions
against some of the
country's top leaders in response to
those sanctions Iran has said that the
path diplomacy is now closed and that
the White House is afflicted by quote
mental retardation Trump responded that
Iran's leadership doesn't understand the
word nice okay and that any attack by
Iran on anything American will be met
with overwhelming force and in some
areas obliteration great so this is of
course the fear that maybe you know
Trump who might have started off not
wanting more cannot control himself once
people once their starts being a war of
words on Twitter and yeah through the
news so what where do we go from here I
mean right this is the problem with
having a child√≠s idiot in the White
House but this is also the problem of
having a strategy that's just
fundamentally incoherent I mean they
have this maximum pressure strategy of
crippling sanctions but it is not paired
with a diplomatic off-ramp that could
lead to some sort of resolution and in
fact they're doing the opposite I mean
they sanctioned the supreme leader and
Zarif the foreign minister those are the
people we need to talk to there are the
people who can cut a deal and make a
decision and they were the ones involved
in the Iran deal right yeah I mean the
supreme leader makes every big decision
the Foreign Minister as the guy you'd
negotiate with but instead we're just
needlessly pissing them off with
additional sanctions they're not gonna
do anything I mean I don't think that
the supreme leader has got a bunch of
money parked in New York that we've now
cut off from them you know it's like
it's just a stupid so again no one knows
what their goal is the message is coming
from Pompeo and bolton and trump change
constantly and so the Iranians are
probably understandably confused our
allies are confused the world is freaked
out and there's no endgame like this is
it's a it's a serious situation I think
we've been in in a very long time
probably since North Korea now luckily
he pulled a rabbit out of the Hat there
and decided to just you know pivot to
talks and let them develop nuclear
weapons and the problem is much worse
but at least we didn't go to war yeah
there really are peril you know we are
seeing on a bunch of different policies
internationally dimensionally in terms
of what's happening in the UK domestic
in the United States when it comes to
health care immigration other policies
and now internationally as it comes to
Iran that we see what happens
conservative rhetoric is bellicose angry
and simple and it attacks the complex
solutions
offered by centrists the left the
international community but when push
comes to shove they don't like the Iran
deal to think the Iran deal is terrible
okay what's your alternative they don't
have one you know you say oh we want to
repeal Obamacare we want a real repeal
Obamacare it's terrible it's terrible
what's your alternative we don't have
one you want to leave the eeo we want to
leave the what's your alternative we
don't have one and so we have this this
populist movement calling for all kinds
of a you know a rearguard action against
the difficult compromises of Modern Life
and then once in power we are left with
these hideous choices because they
cannot match their rhetoric with any
kind of a coherent policy outcome across
virtually any possible issue yeah I mean
I guess all we can hope for is that
Congress takes some action that might
block off their ability to respond to
Iran but I think that he's got you know
considerable authorization under the War
Powers Act and can respond in ways to
defend the US so I don't really know
what the half is to preventing him from
doing something I guess that's Cupid
yeah I guess that's why I was wondering
is what happens in Congress here and I I
guess you know I know that House
Democrats last week repealed the voted
to repeal the authorization for use of
military force but that doesn't go
anywhere in the Senate I imagine doesn't
go anywhere in the Senate and also I
think you could probably make a credible
argument for some limited response under
the War Powers Act anyway so I it's just
there's not a lot they can do to
constrain him here it does look like
public opinion may constrain him it's
ridiculous that it is to have
Tucker Carlson talking you out of a
strike on Iran public pressure in public
opinion and news reports constraint
every president on every issue so maybe
so we're just you just have to be happy
with we're just at the mercy of a madman
right now and whether he listens to
Tucker Carlson or whether he listens to
John Bull or Sean Hannity okay I just
wanted me that's where we are all right
so let's talk about another crisis the
Trump has made much worse
federal authorities disclosed today that
more than a hundred children have been
returned to a detention facility on the
border in Texas after initially being
removed when court-appointed attorneys
discovered that kids as young as
toddlers have been living in shockingly
inhumane conditions with inadequate food
water and sanitation
there was no access to soap toothbrushes
toothpaste beds blanket
there had been outbreaks of flu and lice
according to the Associated Press the
lawyers described a four year old with
matted hair who had gone without a
shower for days and hungry inconsolable
children struggling to soothe each other
some who had been locked in the facility
for weeks at a time the acting
commissioner of Customs and Border
Protection also announced today that
he'd be stepping down in the coming
weeks
let's stop with the most obvious
question why is this happening I mean I
think it's that fear should prevent
these kinds of things from happening you
know like a low-level employee to the
very top of the food chain you should
live in fear that if you did this a news
report would come out about the
conditions in these facilities and you
would be fired or maybe
prosecuted for criminal and neglect
right I mean that's that's how normal
politics works but anecdotally it seems
like these guards are actually punishing
kids on purpose right they were given to
lice combs because there was a lice
outbreak and they've lost one of the
combs and to punish the kids they took
away their blankets or their beds like
this is some vindictive crazy so if
that shouldn't surprise us though right
because Trump's policy is fear he wants
cruelty as a deterrent for future
migrants to travel north and make this
risky bet and like that is that's the
reality and I think that's what
Democrats need to be talking about but
the thing I don't really get is he says
he needs more funding but he declared an
emergency to reprogram money to build a
wall why couldn't he declare an
emergency to take more money to build
new facilities to put these kids like
what they're doing is illegal under the
Flores agreement it's blatantly illegal
and I don't know how to hold them
accountable for it except for these
Press reports well I think this is the
problem in Congress right now I mean at
the heart of this problem is some is an
influx of asylum seekers at the border
right so this is something that you know
and we had this in the Obama
administration in 2014 for a little
while
it's obviously now gone on much longer
under the trump administration so you've
got all these asylum seekers and many of
them are children right now what we're
seeing is a lot of children who are
accompanied by not their parent but by
some other relatives but not their legal
guardians so what happens is the child
and the uncle grandparent
get to the border they are separated
because it's not a parent and what's
Customs and Border Patrol is not
supposed to be able to house thousands
and thousands of children that's just
they were never built from that right so
in under any administration there would
be an overflow at Customs and Border
Patrol what's supposed to happen is
under the law Customs and Border Patrol
supposed to hold these kids for 72 hours
and then they're supposed to transfer
them transfer them to the Department of
Health and Human Services off you Office
of refugee resettlement at that point
that office is supposed to then connect
these kids with some parent or guardian
or any relative in the US yeah off they
go no one has good answers as to a why
these kids are spending so long in CPB
facilities and be why once they're moved
to the HHS facilities they're not being
connected with parents and and Guardians
fast enough in this country we don't
know on either side what's going on
right there does seem to be a
combination of sort of willful willful
neglect a reflection of Trump's
priorities and his desire to use cruelty
as a cudgel combined with a system that
is overwhelmed and a bureaucracy that
does
I think sincerely seem to be overwhelmed
of course you know dehumanized people in
the hands of an overwhelmed Barack recei
is one of the most dangerous forces in
the world right that is those two things
come together to create conditions like
this which is why it's you know the
system being overwhelmed it's not an
excuse obviously Donald Trump's policy
preferences or the opposite of an excuse
so it's uh it's heartbreaking and it is
and it is a culmination of the choices
Donald Trump has made and the and the
the the leadership he has shown on this
issue the kind of direction he has given
to those in these agencies and I would
direct everyone to read the interview in
The New Yorker with Warren Benford who's
one of the attorneys that the
court-appointed attorneys who discovered
this and basically these attorneys who
were appointed by the court became
whistleblowers yeah because they were so
horrified by these conditions and one of
these attorneys
almost every child that we interviewed
had a parent or relative in the United
States who were able to and want to take
care of their children all we need to do
is to get these children to their
families and we know that almost all of
them will be well cared for and it will
be and it will cost the US taxpayer no
money to care for these children because
they will be cared for ever but cared
for by their parents or relatives like
so it is there is no excuse for
this at all and it is it really is a
like a leadership question because this
is why you have a president this is why
you have a White House it the government
is big and it is vast and is doing very
complicated things all around the world
all across the country all the time but
you have a White House to set priorities
and you have groups of people there who
are meant in these moments to step up
and take take charge of the issue say we
have a crisis that's a White House chief
of staff one of the key roles is to
solve problems as they come up in a very
complicated bureaucracy but what is
clear is because of this president and
the people around him there is no sense
that there is a a an animated humane
force inside of the administration that
would see something like this as a true
emergency it needs to solve it just
doesn't care not caring is is the
top-down order I might take it a step
further which is that Stephen Miller
might see headlines about kids being
tortured essentially and think okay that
might convince these parents in these in
central triangle accompany countries
down in inland Central America not to
come north now right so like we know
doesn't work right it's from family
separation today you could draw a pretty
straight line that they are trying to be
as cruel as humanly possible to children
to prevent further migration but I think
the thing we need to remember is that we
are doing permanent damage to these
children I don't think you can
traumatize a two-year-old three-year-old
foiled five year old and expect them to
get over it
these kids are likely to be have
problems for life you know you see some
of these videos it is horrific yeah
these kids well yeah it's trauma there
you can't undo it and and you know to
John's point about there being no excuse
the second these reports became public
all of a sudden there's the ability to
move these kids out of these facilities
right
the attention came except now that
they're moving them back I don't even
know what let me get it though the worst
thing here is the excuses from
not only Donald Trump at his
administration and these Republicans if
Donald Trump telling you no Chuck Todd
interviewed him over the weekend Donald
Trump's excuse on this is I don't have
family separation Obama had family
separation he was the one that separated
them I'm bringing them back together
which is just a insane lie all
over the place
you've got Trump saying we could solve
this whole problem in 15 minutes if
Democrats just came and change the
asylum laws which doesn't make any sense
because basically Trump is saying if
only Democrats agreed to deny people the
right to seek asylum in this country
then somehow the situation at these
facilities of children who are already
there be fixed no that does make any
 sense whatsoever and then you've
got Republicans in Congress saying well
Democrats are holding up this funding
because you know they don't want us to
deny asylum to enough children they
don't want us to put more have higher
guidelines and standards for these
facilities and so we don't want to you
know they don't want to give us the
money to do this so there's just a bunch
of really bad excuses right now
when all you need to do is get these
kids out of the facilities get them the
resources they need while they're in the
facility so that it is actually
clean and sanitary and then you know
connect them with parents connect them
with guardians and relatives to Levites
point you're the president man you've
been in charge for a while you've made
the situation worse it's on you to fix
it get it together and the rest of the
 people in Congress that we've
elected like heartless and you know the
Democrats are out there talking about
this and want gets done but like all
these other Republicans it's not
just Trump there's a whole country's old
government of people who are
just watching as you know two-year-olds
are scarred for life
that is the that is the kind of chilling
obviously it's all incredibly
heartbreaking but there's this and we'll
get to all these stories but there
really is this feeling of these stories
come out and and we don't know what it
is but more should happen we should have
this feeling like there should be
something more and bigger that takes
place when a story like this come out
when someone accuses the president great
there's a bit more that happens and
they're used I mean think about the
first time we've learned about family
separation right it led the news for
weeks and weeks and I mean the reason we
know about this right now two different
things happened one there was an
Associated Press story where the
lawyers you know blew the whistle on
this right but it was sort of in the
news a little bit before that because
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes is on her
Instagram story and said we're running
concentration camps down there and
everyone got all upset because
she used the word concentration camps
and so the first time in months that
news of horrible conditions at detention
facilities was in the news is because
people were upset with the
terminology that was used by a single
congresswoman and including a lot of
reporters and a lot of pundits
in DC or not Republicans and not part of
the trumpeters it made me so angry hey
guys the Holocaust isn't a brand
you need to protect you know it isn't a
when people say we need to learn the
lessons of the Holocaust it is not to
avoid comparing anything that ever takes
place with that terrible evil tragedy
because it denies the the unique horrors
of the Holocaust it is supposed to mean
that we learn from it's certain lessons
about what happens when we treat people
in humanely when we fail to take the
dehumanization of fellow human being
seriously when when powerful countries
put the put the power and might of their
police state of their military and they
set it against people in need right
these are the lessons we are supposed to
learn it is not supposed to make a set
of terms sacrosanct to protect us to
protect the idea of the Holocaust from
being used as a way of learning lessons
now it makes absolutely no sense it is
infuriating we do not have to wait for
things to be far worse before we learn
the lessons of how civilized people
people who consider themselves to be
good can participate in something
horrible yeah I mean there are probably
some people out there that have a deep
personal connection to the Holocaust who
like don't want to hear it invoked and
that's fine and that's their choice but
Liz Cheney is not one of the sample she
is a cynical bad-faith lying horrible
person who is invoking the history of
the Holocaust to make a political attack
on her political opponent and no one is
gonna look back on this moment and
debate the lexical definition of a word
they're gonna look back on the treatment
of kids and think that is a stain in our
history and anyone associated with it
should be ashamed and driven out
of public life seal is thanks for the
Iraq war
thanks for shitty dad thanks you're
terrible compression receiver you sucked
we don't like you don't think we can
blame Liz Cheney for her dad we can
blame her dad for Cheney we can do both
Oh both directions so the question is
you know what can be done about this
what can Democrats do in Congress right
now they're trying to pass emergency
funding to improve the conditions at
these facilities but as I was saying
Republicans refused to accept it unless
Democrats also agreed to fund more
enforcement like immigration raids and
detention beds and some House Democrats
were refusing to support a bill that
does fund these things and doesn't put
enough restrictions on Trump so I don't
know what you guys think about this
debate I get the challenge here right
there's an emergency funding bill you
know you're in the House Democrats run
the house they don't run anything else
I think the mate to me it seems like the
main priority the urgent priority right
now is to get these resources get
whatever resources we can to these
facilities because if you can even help
you know five children to me it's worth
it like I don't want to fund more
 detention beds and facilities
but this is an emergency right now and I
sort of think the Democrats have to just
act like it because we're not getting a
better deal we don't run the Senate we
don't have the White House right and it
doesn't close you off from seeking
accountability or trying to you know
their investigations through hearings
right there are other avenues to hold
the administration accountable for its
mistreatment of these children while
just not using this debate for anything
other than help yeah I mean them as
usual Democrats we're caught between
being responsible and dealing with
administration that is cruel and
vindictive and just lies about
everything
but I mean if you're trying to negotiate
a deal with dick Durbin for more funding
and then the present United States
announces that there's going to be
massive ice raids in ten cities
including Chicago well of course that's
a bad faith way to start a negotiation
of course they don't trust that the
money they would appropriate is actually
going to go towards helping kids and not
towards additional efforts to rip
families apart so get that I guess I can
let her yeah I look I think that I would
land in throwing money at the problem to
try to help the kids too but it like
Trump is making it impossible yeah so
then the
question is what can people do at home
you can go to rice as Texas org that's
our AIC es Texas org they're an
organization that provides sorry they're
an organization that provides free and
low-cost legal services to immigrant
children families and refugees in Texas
they're accepting donations and
volunteers we will also tweet out a link
to the Texas Tribune which published a
good list of other local organizations
that are helping on the border and of
course you should call your member of
Congress and do everything
possible to vote Donald Trump and
everyone who is helping Donald Trump do
what he's doing out of office mm-hmm
okay one more completely offline and
raging story before we get to 20/20 last
week New York magazine published an
excerpt from a new memoir by II Jean
Carroll in which she alleges that Donald
Trump raped her in a dressing room at
Bergdorf Bergdorf Goodman in the 90s
Carroll is now among more than 20 women
who have publicly accused Donald Trump
of sexual assault or misconduct Trump
has denied the allegations he told the
hill on Monday quote I'll say it with
great respect that's thank you for that
I'll say it with great respect number
one she's not my type number two it
never happened it never happened okay
Carole story wasn't on the front pages
of most major newspapers this weekend
nor was it covered significantly on any
of the major Sunday news programs the
Washington Post ran a front-page story
on Saturday guys why hasn't this
received front page top of the morning
show coverage what's going on here yeah
this is the this is the kind of stasis
that we're in there is like a you know
there's a brokenness there's a
brokenness to politics and one of the
the the assumption that Donald Trump
will not face consequences means that
when there is something that a that
someone deserves to face consequences
over breaks into the news it is not
given the attention it deserves because
the end is already presumed that this
will go nowhere this will have no
consequence and because of that it's a
self-fulfilling prophecy
we see that across a number of stories
on Donald Trump it is it is simply a
fact of his above his conduct and his
incredible gross Mis behavior across so
many avenues that he has simply there is
a bias in the media
in favor of Donald Trump that does not
take his misbehavior as seriously as
other people yeah it's just it is now
built in and it is I think a deeply it
is a hard thing I think it's one of the
most painful parts about being about
following the news in this error for
anybody like for all of us who are
paying attention and listening all the
time it is that kind of it is I think
the part that gives us a stomach ache
all the time because there is this sense
that things are supposed to happen that
don't happen and when you say that you
sound naive and you're supposed to be
more cynical but because of Republican
cowardice and capitulation and a failure
to show any political courage whatsoever
combined with the way the media has
treated Trump for the past several years
we are trapped yeah I mean I would
recommend people read the whole article
because the Trump anecdote is just one
of a series of just harrowing accounts
of horrible men acting horrific Lee I
was struck by a few things one the the
way the article was talked about online
was very euphemistic there were lots of
claims of sexual misconduct or sexual it
was rape right it was a rape out I don't
know you know Stan white palm weren't
using that word and the the decisions at
a bunch of newspapers not to report out
the story it's inexcusable is
unconscionable I mean it when you think
look trump has dominated the news since
he started running but the only other
story that broke through was a bunch of
me2 allegations against harvey weinstein
unless me but as much as scumbags this
story combines the two there's no excuse
for not putting this on the front page
of every newspaper and every newscast I
mean I would do some soul-searching if I
were in those newsroom yeah I do think
love it to your point we've now had
three different segments set sorry we've
now had three different segments in this
news section and each one I've ended by
being like okay what can be done now you
know and on Iran we're just waiting
around to see what happens because no
one can stop Donald Trump from doing
anything crazy on immigration
we don't have Congress and who knows
what Donald Trump will do and who
the money will get to the border and the
facilities because we can't trust them
and now on this what what do you do
about the fact that the president is an
alleged rapist and you know has
committed all the sexual assault and the
answer to all of these is to vote him
out of office in 2020 and so the media I
think looks at that and it's like all
right well that's what we're covering
we're covering the race to get him out
out of the office and they don't know
what else to do
and also by the way this is partly goes
to the Democrats in the house saying we
don't want to impeach him we're too
afraid cuz we don't know about the
politics you know like that is that is
not a perfect tool because it will not
result in his removal from office
because you know the Senate will save
him but it is one more tool to at least
stand up and say this man is manifestly
unfit for office and should not be here
because he has committed crimes and done
horrible things yeah and I do think that
part of that is why I think Democrats
generally have a kind of bad feeling I
think sometimes we translate that into
oh no or any of these candidates the
right candidates Oh No maybe we don't
know how what takes wynonie it was in
the backdrop of this election in a huge
way right and it's and I think sometimes
so much of what we're seeing in terms of
conversations about electability is not
a sense of not believing our candidates
are up for the job it is a terrifying
realization about how big the
consequences of failure are one small
point on this sorry yeah when I was
gonna say just to that point and it's
you know we always make fun of my
electability it's like oh you're basing
your decision on what other people are
gonna do but it's partly because we're
all looking around at each other and
we're like I thought we all knew each
other here yeah and then 2016 happen and
I guess we didn't right so people are
guessing what other people are gonna do
because you know you add up all the
votes of everyone the country and that's
what happens yeah unless it's the
popular robot but nobody you know yes
you've okay for you know popular vote
it's close the fact that it's closest
terrifying in and of itself right i we
concede every every way in which the the
the the election was swung toward donald
trump it is still a close election that
shouldn't have been and so it forces us
to confront yes what we what we thought
we knew about our fellow Americans and
about what it means to have a national
identity itself and all of these stories
kind of wrench at that because we're
forced to confront the fact that
of Americans now say they believe a lot
of the allegations about Donald Trump
but may vote for him anyway all of these
things I think force us to make make us
question some basic ideas we had about
what America stood for it about mode
Americans would stand for one one really
small point about this I do think one of
the challenges with this particular
story is because it is a first-person
account yeah it is there is no there is
no journalistic outlet that has truly
run it to ground you know so to me one
thing that I would like to see is for
reporters to take up the story and one
of the challenges is because it's
already broken there's not the upside of
being the one to break it but there's
such value to reporters know digging in
and really really validating the story
going through the evidence that she has
and kind of providing another found
friends yes no of course I'm not no I'm
just saying that's one avenue to go to
of course I'm not speaking anything I'm
not denigrating her account what I'm
saying is that there's value to an
additional account from a journalistic
outlet that runs through what she says
what what Suren says it kind of puts it
in a does an objective version yeah all
right so in a bit we're gonna dig into
the results of the very first poll in
our polar coaster 2020 series but first
I spoke quickly about the approach and
methodology we used with Pat Riley who's
the co-founder of change research which
is our partner in this little project so
that interview is up next interview okay
we're back so as I talked about with Pat
we polled 935 voters in Iowa New
Hampshire and South Carolina last Monday
through Thursday who said they'll be
participating in the Democratic
primaries and caucuses so mostly
Democrats but some independents in their
few Republicans but everyone said well
I'll be participating in the Democratic
primaries in the horse race Joe Biden
leads with 29 percent than Bernie
Sanders with 20 percent Elizabeth Warren
with 19 percent Pete Budaj edge with 14
percent calmly Harris at 5% and better
O'Rourke and Cory Booker with 3% each
everyone else was 1% or under but the
reason we're doing these polls is to go
far beyond the horse race so we also
asked why people prefer the candidates
they did we asked people what they're
looking for in the next nominee and we
asked all kinds of other questions that
you can find on cricket calm right now I
want to touch on a few of the more
interesting findings here but first
what jumped out at both of you guys from
the poll what uh what's interesting to
you uh I thought that it was interesting
the Warrens surge is real and it is real
across early states I mean a lot of this
is within the margin of error but we
have her leading in Iowa she's in I'm
sorry let me start over
um what jumped out of me is that the war
in surge is real and it's real across a
bunch of the early states she's in
second place in this poll in Iowa she's
in second place in South Carolina so
she's made a huge amount of progress in
a short period of time in the early
States and in the national numbers and I
think that if I were her campaign I'd be
pretty happy about it yeah love it would
you think so two things one you know we
wanted to look at right who do you think
would so who do you support
right and that gives you some
information then we asked these two
other questions who do you think is most
likely to beat Donald Trump and who do
you think would make the best president
and I'll just be honest that I I thought
there might be more difference there but
of course then you remember that once
you know when you ask somebody question
who do you support well they're gonna
say they're the best person to win
they're the best person to lead it's
hard to say I support so-and-so but I
don't think so and so would make the
best president so I I'm actually
interested in kind of try to push people
on that maybe in the next poll like
really kind of forced them to like try
to attack their own their own everyone's
a pundit now so they're gonna defend
their choice but but even even with that
kind of built-in natural desire to
defend your decision you see that there
is kind of a pro Biden electability
contingent and there is a pro Warren but
worried about her electability
contingent kind of built into these
numbers where people second choices tend
to go toward Warren where people
concerned about electability tend to go
towards Biden so I think you start to
see the kind of debate that's people
kind of have that that people are having
around electability and Warren and buy
it and kind of inside of these numbers I
want to quickly say a few more things
about Warren in this and then go right
into that electability debate so to your
point Tommy the other thing that shows
I'm sorry the other piece of data that
shows a real warren surge is we decided
to ask people how closely we pay
attention in the primary and also how
much do you know about all the
candidates right so voters preferences
vary quite a bit based on how much
attention they
hey Warren leads with hi candidate
awareness voters these are people who
recognized all the candidates and said
they'd hurt a lot know a lot about all
the candidates and both Biden so when
you do the horse race there Warren's in
the lead then by then Budaj edge then
Sanders and then Camilla actually does a
little bit better too so both Biden and
Sanders do much better with lower
awareness voters among people who have
low wariness of all the candidates Biden
is at 20 I'm sorry
Biden is at 44 among low awareness
voters and Sanders is a 28 Warren booty
did Jane Harris get their best numbers
with high awareness vote so this is as
people pay closer attention to the race
they seem to gravitate more towards
Warren towards Peet towards Kamala and
less towards Bernie and Biden which i
think is a very important characteristic
it's - it's really important for two
reasons one I think that you know we
talked about this that one of the
reasons I think Warren has been doing
better is she seems to run a really good
campaign it's smart she makes
interesting choices she's ahead of some
other candidates on issues on some of
the strategic decisions of the campaign
makes and over time more more people are
you're not going to go from being a let
me say it again people that are lower
we're low weirdness voters are going to
become high awareness voters over time
as we get closer and closer it seems
like it the only caveat there that I
wonder about and we'd have Nina we have
to pull more but Warren is also leading
with highly educated voters more
college-educated voters who tend to be
pay more attention to this stuff and low
awareness voters tend to be less
educated voters who paid less attention
so future future high awareness voters
may not reflect current high well right
there we don't know it could be we don't
know we don't know yet but we don't care
about the polls key thing about this
poll this is the first poll by people
that don't care about polls that's what
makes this so awesome and such an
important poll to pay attention to
because you shouldn't pay attention so
you should pay attention well I will it
that is funny but I love a thanks John
at least the least interesting thing
here is the horse race and this is why
we asked so many more other questions so
you should look at so I want to talk
about electability because we really
tried to dig in on this
whole notion of electability Brian Blair
wrote a great piece on this that's on
cricket calm right now but as you
mentioned love it each candidate
supporters tend to think there can it
will be the best president but there's a
decent chunk of all candidate supporters
who feel that Biden is the likeliest to
be Trump 50% of Buddha judge supporters
twenty eight percent of Warren
supporters and twenty percent of Sanders
supporters believe this the other
question we asked is to figure out this
electability thing are there candidates
that you wouldn't vote for even though
you're gonna participate in the
Democratic primaries that you wouldn't
vote for if they were the nominee 83 to
80 percent 83 to 86 percent of
Democratic primary voters said they'd
vote for any of the top seven candidates
then de Blasio the top seven didn't crap
the top 17 didn't crap the time to crack
the top 20
so Biden and Warren get the best numbers
there but all seven are within the
margin of error that said Warren's
numbers do suggest more enthusiasm than
the others the 23 percent who would
either volunteer or donate to her or
gladly vote for her is tied with Sanders
for the most of any candidate and then
the 65 percent who said they'd either
gladly vote for her or volunteer donate
for her is higher than any other
candidate so we not only asked who
wouldn't you vote for we said which of
these candidates would you go volunteer
knock on doors really be happy to vote
for and the enthusiasm for Warren is
quite high with Sanders and Buddha judge
actually right below her and with Biden
it's actually a little lower the
enthusiast the other thing that's
notable is that Biden is really
dominating among african-american voters
common 62% of african-american voters
hair Kamala Harris is next with 11% that
would make me very nervous if I were in
the Biden campaign given the recent
conversation about his anecdotes about
segregationist senators and civility in
Washington it would seem to me that you
should I would be worried about that
coming up the debate the other person
who should be concerned about the
african-american vote is Pete Buddha
judge because he received 1% and to
receive 1% when you're actually pulling
that high overall just kind of shows you
the breadth of the challenge that he
faces and again it is very very
difficult to win the nomination without
a very good chunk or at least you know
I'm sorry let me say this again it's
very very hard to win the nomination
without doing very well I'm on
in the Democratic Party I also think was
interesting we only 11% of Warren
supporters said that they chose her over
their second choice because they think
she's likelier to be Trump that's that
to me is a really interesting number
that's that's where your start to see
inside of these numbers where the
electability fears around Elizabeth
Warren are very real and very present in
people's minds well so yeah we we has to
follow a question of those who chose
their number-one candidate because he or
she is likely to beat Trump so we asked
why is your number two candidate less
electable than the first candidate you
chose 55% of those who ranked Warren's
second said it was because she was less
likely to be Trump sorry
55% of those who were ain't warned
second because she was less likely to be
Trump did so because they thought
average Americans are less likely to
like her
those who ranked Kamala Harris number
two did so for the same reason perceived
likability but by an even higher
percentage 67% and this was also the top
reason for those who chose Buddha judge
number second though the number here was
only 44% you contrast that with Sanders
the people who chose Bernie as their
number two said he wasn't as likely to
win because he was too far to the left
so it's very interesting that those four
candidates after Biden the reasons why
people think they're an electable and
it's what everyone thinks sexism racism
potential homophobia like it's all there
and then Sanders does have this
socialist left you know so it's a
smaller percentage but I think it was
very interesting anything else anything
else to go to you guys I think you've
really around the gamut yep the
impeachment thing I thought was
interesting yeah that doesn't surprise
you that much you know Democrats will
happily vote for someone who supported
impeachment they'd be pretty pissed at
somebody who actively tried to stop him
yeah it's 83 percent of support
impeachment 52 percent strongly 57
percent who support impeachment would be
willing to vote for a candidate who
voted not to impeach Trump but 91
percent of those who oppose impeachment
would vote for someone who voted to
impeach em it just goes to show you that
for Democrats running for president at
least there is no political cost to
supporting impeachment but there is that
in the primary yeah in the primary there
is a political cost to a postman and
many of them seem to have figured that
out yeah good good for them we have so
next time we'll talk will be after the
debate it's what do you guys think any
I mean most people in this poll said
they'd be watching some or most of the
debate they're gonna be pretty
interested especially of course the high
candid awareness voters what are you
guys looking for in this debate I mean
I'm really hoping I'm really hoping that
someone ends their candidacy at this
debate I want to see Rick Perry
forgetting what agency is he would shut
down and saying oops I want to see Ben
Carson literally getting lost on his way
to the stage or Marco Rubio getting
unraveled by chris Christie those are
the performances I want to see to help
me narrow this thing yeah I would like
to see some some real winnowing by you
know self winnowing by real
miscalculation that's I'm really
interested in that I agree with Tommy I
you know it is so we have the first
night is Warren as sort of one of the
top candidates they are the second night
there are more top candidates Biden and
Sanders cetera you know we talked about
this before we're still looking for a
candidate who can articulate this moment
you know and this this this terrifying
unsettling political moment in which so
much is on the line and there's still
time these are all candidates who are
perfecting what they're saying they're
talking to people they're listening to
people all of that is is food for their
figuring out this big or argument and at
any point because the that you look at
these numbers yeah Biden's winning there
the next two are Warren and Sanders no
one's no one's running away with this
thing any it is I do sincerely believe
that many of these candidates if they
would articulate a true kind of
compelling argument that appeal to a lot
of people could start to emerge and so
at this I just think every moment where
we'll be able to that in the six minutes
they have a lot of yeah you gotta you
gotta grab it Thank You University of
wherever here's what's happening with
Trump here's a big deal no I'm gonna cut
that because I I would say one last
thing on that like it's interesting in
in this poll to what's driving Biden's
perception of electability obviously
white guy but more so than the other
white guys in the race is people say his
experience right and we have been part
of so many elections that were change
elections and obviously this is a big
change election as well because people
don't want Donald Trump but because of
this fear that we've been talking about
this whole podcast I
think this there is this comfort with
Joe Biden because of his experience that
if I were some of these other candidates
I would think about how to make people
not just make the case against Donald
Trump and make the case for yourself but
make people feel comfortable with the
idea of you as commander in chief and
the idea of you going to hotel with
Donald Trump and being able to be him
you know like for example if I was
Elizabeth Warren right Elizabeth Warren
has a fuckload of experience she set up
the CFPB she created it she had the idea
she set it up from beginning to end she
knows how to run an agency a government
agency no one else has created a
government agency on that stage I'd
maybe talk about that a little bit you
know Kamala can talk about her her time
as a prosecutor I'll you know like
everyone can make a case also for their
experience I think that might help sort
of siphon off some of those Biden voters
yeah if I were if I were kama Harris
that's another point just looking at
this poll I I do think of these
electability fears around people under
Biden to me you lose someone like common
law Harris I do think has an opportunity
and so far to me she has done a good job
of saying of putting in people's minds
you can imagine imagine me going
toe-to-toe against Donald Trump like you
get that I'm a prosecutor I'm good at
interrogating people I think people
people who are paying close attention
kind of get that for me I think that her
opportunity is to kind of put more meat
onto those bones like okay we get it we
can see you going toe-to-toe Donald
Trump what do you wanna do like what's
what's driving what is driving you to
make this incredible decision to run for
president at this moment yeah there's
been a lot of emphasis I'm like I can be
the one who can prosecute the case but
it's always like well then what is the
case right look the elephant in the room
here is that Joe Sestak just upended
this whole thing that's true that's true
another game we did not talk about that
on the pot in a post sestak world you're
all laughing you'll be here in two weeks
one of you gonna talk to him do the
Oscar to play us off music all right
everyone we'll we'll talk to you on
Friday
you
