I'm dan Piper later in the pod Dan's
interview with congresswoman Katey
Porter who just came out in favor of an
impeachment inquiry into president Trump
but first we're gonna talk about Donald
Trump's 2020 kickoff rally and what it
says about his re-election campaign Joe
Biden's rocky week and the growing
competition between Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders also by a new episode of
POD save the world dropped yesterday
Tommy and Ben talk about the escalation
with Iran some good news out of Hong
Kong and the bizarre story of why Trump
has a new Secretary of Defense
don't miss this week's episode of
hysteria which also features what a
day's Priyanka Arab Indy who you know
and love from our weekly Q&A live
streams and the latest installment in
our presidential candidate interview
series will drop on Friday Tommy talked
with Beto or Rourke earlier this week
when he was in Los Angeles Dan I believe
you also have some book news I do if
some book is the paperback version of my
book yes we still can politics in the
Age of Obama Twitter and Trump is out
this week amazing a chance get the
hardcover get the paperback I hope you
like it there you go
it's the kind of compelling footage that
my editor tells me to make when the
books come out by the paperback people
its we're about to hit 2020 there's some
fantastic advice in that book and it's
just it's just a joy to read so go buy
it oh and and good important point new
epilogue making talking about what
happened in 2018 and projecting forward
some lessons we can learn from 2018
/ 2020 so new content o content lurk in
the paperback buried the lede man you
can't get that knowing it is a constant
topic of discussion back it with my
publisher buy it for the epilogue people
for nothing else okay let's get to the
news I'm gonna go ahead and say that
this was the week where the apocalyptic
 show of a campaign really kicked
into high gear this was it Dan it
started with a Donald Trump rally in
Orlando Florida on Tuesday night
president officially filed papers for
his re-election the day he was
inaugurated and has been holding
campaign rallies ever since but he
us to believe that the real campaign
kickoff was Tuesday night so let's go
with that for now in a speech that
lasted more than an hour
Trump offered no new policies or any
sort of real agenda for a second term
and instead alternated between patting
himself on the back and painting himself
as a victim of an illegal plot against
his presidency and his family by the
Democratic Party Hillary Clinton Barack
Obama robert muller the media and the
deep state saying quote our radical
Democrat opponents are driven by hatred
prejudice and rage and want to destroy
you and they want to destroy our country
as we know it it's just all very cheery
very uplifting message from the
president and anyway as he was saying
all of this the crowd responded with
chants of CNN sucks and lock her up so
the more things change the more they
stay the same dan what do you think of
the speech be for substance a - for
style that was the substance see for
style
overall grade a course was no it what I
we are obviously for people who are just
tuning this podcast anti-trump yeah I
will try for a minute to take off my
partisan hat and and analyze the speech
from the perspective of a neutral
political observer a pundit if you will
it was terrible
this is poorly written it had no actual
message and had no story the press
strategy around it was terrible the
whole thing was terrible you could not
possibly diagram what the goal was what
the message was what sir a strategic
itch it was trying to scratch it was
just a man vomiting narcissistic
conspiracy Laden talking points yeah
look I know that you know the big focus
on Stephen Miller as it should be is
that he is a C+ Santa Monica fascist his
love it calls him and his behavior his
policy positions the way he sees the war
world his xenophobia his racism these
are the things we should focus on but as
someone who spent a lot of time in my
life as a speech writer I just want to
say he is without a doubt the worst
speechwriter to ever write for a
President of the United States in my
lifetime by far
end of story I mean like Michael Gerson
wrote wrote for George W Bush that I
agree with a lot of what he said not
really fantastic writer Peggy Noonan do
I like her columns I do not did she
write great speeches for did Ronald
Reagan yes she did
Stephen Miller is he like puts together
phrases that they were the most cliched
garbage don't make any sense like Trump
going off the prompter and doing his
weird Trump thing where he just vomits
up a bunch of words and says crazy
is better than what is prepared by
Stephen Miller just just putting that
out there and I won't talk about Stephen
Miller and speech writing again just
needed to say it for the kickoff
do you know that Charlie Day meme where
he is standing in front of the
conspiracy theory board with like pieces
of paper and pictures and very well and
yarn everywhere yes so what I send a
brain all the time when he goes crazy
and plaque the like I think that that
Charlie Day means is basically Stephen
Miller's speech writing process it's
just it is it's not a great it's not a
great process and it doesn't produce a
very good speech
my other question watching that speech
here's how I watch the speech we've all
watch it in the office our team here you
know we did some response to the speech
on the pod save America Twitter feed the
team did a fantastic job so we're all
watching it I got about halfway through
and then I decided to drive home because
I was hungry I needed dinner and it was
getting a little late and I couldn't
believe it was still on when I got home
and it kept going like I was bored by
the speech like is Trump getting boring
for some people I think I mean if the
goal was to get attention he got
attention in the run-up for sure mm-hmm
but other than Fox
this cable networks which are chumps
with lifeblood turned it off pretty
quickly because he would say oh nothing
new and like you know this because you
had you write Obama's re-election
announcement speeches around this time
and 2011 and it's a really hard thing to
do because like if you propose new ideas
people say well why just why don't you
do this and you do those ideas now your
president states and right you like
finding the right balance between
talking about yourselves and you don't
have an opponent yet is all very
challenging but you have to have
something new and Trump had nothing new
he just played all the old hits and
right it was it was basically Trump on
shuffle yeah I mean we were a real
campaign as our most presidential
re-election campaigns regardless of
party and I remember too we decided to
give a speech in the fall of 2011 and
then we gave a kickoff speech in
December I believe of 2011 and the fall
speech was in Osawatomie Kansas and it
was you know the site of the new
nationalism speech by Teddy Roosevelt
where he talks about breaking up the
banks and taken and trust-busting and
all this kind of stuff and the reason we
picked that location is because Barack
Obama decided that he would define the
2012 election as a choice between one
vision that just gave tax cuts to the
rich and cut regulations and let
everyone fend for themselves or another
vision where we took on wealthy special
interests and fought for the middle
class and he said the defining issue of
this election in this generation is
whether people in this country can
actually succeed if they work hard so we
had this whole speech set we decided to
try to frame the race yeah we just have
some new policies as well but it was an
effort by the president to sort of frame
the reelection on his terms with his
argument this was not that this was not
that in any in any way I was going to
say look let's talk about the to the
extent there
was a message of the speech which I
believe there was buried somewhere in
the steaming pile of verbal diarrhea
that was speech there was some couple
different messages in there what did you
think the message was or at least the
various messages in that speech what did
you think they were and what was Trump
and his team trying to accomplish I
honestly had done the clue it it
was 500 messages there was a message if
you clean out about Democrats allowing
immigration to destroy America and ms-13
was gonna come to your family there was
a message about a deep state that was
blocking Trump from more progress there
was a message about a great economy and
these great accomplishments and like in
a truism in politics if you have 500
messages you have zero messages and so
what willing wasn't clear to me I think
to the extent it bespoke a strategy it
was a strategy of exciting a base in
demonizing the rest of the electorate
right it was frightened and suppressed
which was a it's a rerun in 2016
strategy it's just not clear that the
2020 playing field is gonna look a lot
like 2016 yeah I think I mean there was
a few messages that are a few lines that
start to me as attempted messages early
on in the speech he says we took on a
corrupt political establishment that
looks down at you you know my enemy and
it was basically a speech it was there
were so much grievance in the speech as
there always is Trump always tries to
cast himself as the victim but what he
tried to do in this speech is basically
say what he's been saying for the last
couple years my enemies the people who
have attacked me over the last three or
four years they're your enemies too and
this election is about whether it's not
just a verdict on me and everything that
I've done
it's a verdict on as he said the
unamerican conduct of those who tried to
undermine our great democracy and
undermine you and so what he's trying to
tell these people is whatever you think
about me my opponents who he decides to
categorize as Democrats Barack Obama
Hillary Clinton the media
the deep state robert muller all these
people they are not just out to get
donald trump they are out to get you and
if they win they will open the borders
of this country to hordes of immigrants
who will come in and you know threaten
your children and mooch off your tax
dollars and they will sell off America
to China and to the to the highest
bidder around the world and what I will
do is protect you and my enemies are
your enemies and we have to beat them
for four more years that's sort of what
he was getting at I see that like that's
definitely there and you can include a
lot of things in the speech that runs
nearly ninety minutes so he has the
opportunity to touch on many topics and
many messages the thing that is I think
very it's an interesting tension within
sort of Trump but Trump political
strategy which is he does try at times
to make it about his supporters right
like we're all in this together against
these liberal elites who don't happen to
be white like that is definitely a
message he has and he tries to wad the
movement right because of the greatest
grassroots political move in history or
whatever but that always feels like an
afterthought because 90% of it if not
more than that is about Trump himself
things that have happened to Trump
things Trump did problems only Trump can
solve and very little about the people
who support him who are benefiting from
the theoretically benefiting from the
policies that he may or may not
implemented who are the ones who deliver
this victory to him I mean Deen American
voters not the Russian troll farms and
and in like the best thing he can say
like Obama would always say this is not
about me it's about you and we talk
about yeah our volunteers our organizers
the people who you know put on their
marching shoes to use all the Obama
lines and the role they played in
changing America for the positive
pushing for civil rights for workers
rights women's rights et cetera and what
the best thing Trump can say about his
movement is that they had the in their
infinite wisdom they decided to support
him
right he is still the hero of the story
he is Trump is amazingly in alternating
sentences the hero and victim of every
sentence he admits yes that is exactly
right and here's the big difference he's
been president already for a couple
years and he's not railing against a
system of which he is outside which is
the major difference between 2016 and
2020 so in 2016 he can go out there and
say if your life isn't great right now
if you're upset about something whatever
it may be
whether you're not getting paid enough
whether you're pissed about immigrants
whatever grievance you may have in your
life it is the fault of the people
who've been running the government the
establishment the media the Democrats
and if you send me in there I'll fix all
this now he's caught in a situation
where all he wants to do is both tout
his accomplishments which he believes
their accomplishments but I think with
most of the country believing that the
country is moving in the wrong direction
and people believing that while the
economy may be good they don't
necessarily credit Trump for the good
economy and they don't believe that
Trump's economic policies favor them
they believe they favor the wealthy and
they believe that Republican economic
policy favors the wealthy he has that to
contend with and so he sort of
alternates between yeah I've done all
these great things but by the way if you
don't elect me again all these other
people all these enemies that we have
will ruin everything and what's missing
there is we have to finish the job on X
we have to do more on why I need four
more years so I can do XY and Z there's
just there's like you were saying there
is no recognition that anyone in this
country still may have problems or
concerns and want to fix something
because even and that's and that's
indicative of his new campaign slogan
Keep America great right he changed I
got ya a CAG so he lost Magga now he's
got Keep America great and I don't like
I think the Farrelly
I'm not talking about his bass now we
all know know his bass is there
from there all fans I don't want to hear
from everyone being logu it's not gonna
work there his bass loves them yes we
 know that they're 40% of the
country we get it
but for most people in this country for
swing voters of which there are there
are up for grabs odors out there to tell
them Trump's campaign is about keeping
America great it sounds like the job is
finished there's nothing left to do
everything is wonderful that's that I
think that's a danger yeah that's right
it like generally when you were thinking
through the your re-election campaign
strategy you have a very important data
point right and you obviously you have
your polls of your focus groups your
private polling your public polling
there's a data point of the intervening
political event which is the midterm
election and what net and trying to
understand what message was sent in that
election that is worrisome and then how
do you set up your relation campaign to
interest so for us in 2012 other than
just happened to be present at a time
10% unemployment right after I think
they'll out pass by the previous
president not a president but the other
one of the messages from that 2010
midterm was that American voters liked
Obama they trusted Obama they wanted to
believe in Obama but they thought he
wasn't focused enough on jobs on
creating jobs and dealing economy so our
reelection campaign work both the
speeches you mentioned 2011 and then the
amount kornek own announcement speech we
gave very similar to Trump with our
rallies in May of 2011 were about the
economy and jobs and what Obama had done
the progress he made in the things he
was going to do to finish the project of
getting America back and forward our
slogan if you will from the Great
Recession of 2008 and trunk didn't like
there is no indication that he is even
aware of what happened in the 2018
midterms that what the voter said what
it meant why voters left him in key
battleground states and he needs to win
or any sense of what he will do to
address those challenges in order to fix
his political prospects 2020 Obama had
to do a lot of work in a short period of
time to fix his post 2010 political
problems in order to win a big victory
in 2016 as it did you have been 12 Trump
has as of yet not sure an indication
this campaign has so John which we can
talk about but Trump himself and the
most powerful weapon in the campaign
what comes out of a candidate's mouth
genes growth living in a bubble and
living in the past so I suppose we
should ask the question is speaking only
to his base enough can can he win this
election by essentially rerunning the
2016 race living in the past playing the
greatest hits on all these rallies
firing up his supporters so they come
out to the polls because you could make
an argument that you know we said for an
entire election in 2016
he's only speaking to the base of the
Republican Party he's not trying to
reach out to any independence or anyone
else
and sure he lost the popular vote but he
cobbled together 270 electoral votes in
the states that he needed I mean nothing
is impossible right but it does seem
improbable that the same set of
circumstances that allowed him to lose
the popular vote by names votes and
squeak out an electoral college victory
will replicate themselves in 2020 and it
like that is there are certainly some
voters who left Trump in 2018 is gonna
have to find a way to get them back so
basically he acted a certain way for the
first two years the voters delivered a
verdict on that behavior and he has done
nothing to change that in the
intervening six months or any suggestion
that he will change it in the in the
next 18 months they would allow him to
win reelection and so the idea that he
can stitch together this that he can win
states to get to 270 electoral votes at
46 or 47 percent of the vote in
battleground states this is what he
accomplished in 2016 is unlikely and you
have to adjust from your real a commune
ish election to your re-election
George W Bush it was in a similar
situation to Trump in the sense that he
lost the pop it but by much smaller
measure than Bush did then Trump did but
he but he was able to win the electoral
college because enough voters voted for
Ralph Nader the third-party candidate to
tip the election to Bush right
Trump won because the nufs voters were
voted for Jill Stein and or Gary Johnson
and that he was able to win with some
50% of the vote and in a nut key state
to get to 270 or stayed home Bush what's
that
or stayed home right or fiddle and but
just just I'm even operating just from
the people who actually voted because so
you need a third party candidate to get
a decent number of votes for you to win
in the mid 40s and for that to happen
again
he needs a third party can to suck it up
Bush knew that Democrats learned the
lesson they were not going to go Ralph
Nader a daddy the error of their ways
was made apparent and so he had to
change strategy and Bush now he Bush
improves his standing with female voters
by side points which is what allows him
to win the popular vote in the electoral
college in 2004 the question is what is
Trump's plan to improve his standing
with some set of the Elector between now
on that that is not readily apparent
from what he is doing so we didn't I
don't think he can win and with the
exact same trophy when 2016 he's going
to have to improve his standing with
some voters somewhere now that could be
stronger base turnout now that's a so
many of diminishing returns but it's not
he's gonna have to do something
differently than he did 2016 to win yeah
I mean the other thing I noticed in the
New York Times write-up of the rally was
there was a 72 year old woman who
attended the rally and she said to the
New York Times I just want to hear his
plans and he doesn't have those now is
that gonna be the deciding factor for
that woman I don't know but if there are
people attending his rallies wondering
where the plans are what does that say
about the voters he lost in 2018
two Democrats and again that these these
are the real interesting voters here
because it could be the case that some
of these people who voted for Donald
Trump in 16 voted for a Democrat in 2018
to sort of provide a check on Donald
Trump to stop Donald Trump and the
Republicans from taking away their
health care just put a check on Donald
Trump's behavior but maybe saying to
themselves well I still think he's doing
a good enough job I want to give him
another four years that's very possible
we don't we the voters we went back into
in 2018 we do not necessarily have for
good in 2020 and so I think the question
a big question is what are those voters
want how do they see Trump how do they
see this election and I'm sure both
Trump and the Democrats are gonna be
wondering how to put those voters in
their column yeah I want to be very
clear wait I am NOT saying that Trump is
going to lose I'm not saying don't let
the bed the bed is fully wet
Trump is a favorite to win reelection
for a whole host of reasons that I'm
happy to discuss but it isn't it is a
slight favorite but he is most certainly
a favorite and Democrats are going to
have to do everything pretty close to
perfectly to stitch together 270
electoral votes are there any lessons or
clues for the Democratic candidates in
this speech I think if I could take one
from this it is that there is no point
in responding to the things Trump says
it like but you could do you could fill
a room the size of a warehouse with
researchers and Rapid Response people
sending out tweets videos documents
responding to all the Trump's lies the
absurd things he says the offensive
things he says and and you won't end up
just doing the inverse of trumpeters I
mean 500 messages that add up to less
than one message and I think the key is
you just have to have a story about
Trump and you're going to tell that
story every single day yeah no matter
what Trump says no matter what Trump
does and I so yeah my take my clues in
the speech I have jotted a few things
down one he can't help but make it about
himself as we were talking about and we
should too
I mean we've talked about this message a
lot on this pod that Donald Trump
promised to put America first all he
does is put himself first he commits
crimes to put himself first he enriches
himself with his office he uses
immigration and xenophobia and racism as
a way to divide people so he can win
politically everything comes back to him
he only cares about himself and his
fortune and his political standing and
he will stop at nothing to make himself
better off and he does not give a
about anyone else
so to the extent that he says things in
the speech that tried to show that he
cares about other people to try to you
know where he tries to argue that he has
the greatest economy of all time even
though that's not the case
I do think those things are worth
responding to his case depends on
convincing people that the economy is
great and that he's responsible we
should not let him make that case he
wants to be seen clearly from the speech
as the one who's fighting corruption in
Washington we cannot let him make that
case because it's not true and of course
what we've known forever is when in
doubt he will scare try to scare voters
with nonsense about immigration and I
think whoever our Democratic nominee is
has to be able to not shy away from
fighting him on immigration but make a
strong case in response yes I wasn't
trying to suggest that but you shouldn't
make issue specific cases but if you
look if you went like what he said like
we you know the arguments you want to
make right it falls under you have a
overall narrative which is about Trump
putting himself first and I think the
key to that message is you have to
explain how that affects voters yes
right it's not just it's not just the
idea of having a narcissist as president
is bad it has to be why having a
narcissist affects you and like you have
said this before Trump puts himself
first he is in the White House to enrich
himself to reward his friends to punch
his enemies and he does all of that on
taxpayer expense yeah Tom and then I
think you have to take it one more step
which is it Trump is too focused on
himself
he wake imagine if you had a president
who woke up every day thinking about you
not about himself not about his
grievances not about his enemies not
about his own totally Adrian I think
yeah I think that's really important and
you can fit all of that in there so it's
like Trump says the economy is great of
course he thinks that he has made
millions of his taking millions of
taxpayer dollars and put him in his
pocket through his hotels all of his
rich friends and political donors got
rich off a tax cut that says that Amazon
paid zero in federal taxes and you pay
more like there's just a way to do it
flows from that but if you're chasing
every line for the viral hit then gotcha
the fact-check you're gonna you're gonna
lose the forest for the trees and I
should add the message that we're
talking about is a hard it's a hard
message to break through because what
tends to happen is exactly what you were
just warning against which is Trump
gives a speech like that there's a
blizzard of lies we're all conditioned
to because we've all yelled at reporters
talk about the lies talk about the lies
so every one fact checks the president's
a liar he said all these lies right and
so that gets a lot of attention he'll
usually say something crazy offensive
dangerous that gets attention I mean
like I said we were here basically
making from crooked media as we were
tweeting out on parts of America sort of
the economic case that we were just
talking about the Trump salvage case I
happen to tweet about the quote you know
our radical Democratic opponents are
driven by hatred prejudice and rage and
want to destroy you and destroy the
country and I had noted that Donald
Trump said this and you know back in
October a Trump fan sent pipe
bombs to leading Democrats and basically
because he was radicalized at these
Trump rallies he admitted and now
Trump's telling people the Democrats
want to destroy the country and which is
very dangerous so I read about that that
tweet got way more attention than any of
the economic case that we were trying to
make and it's just a small microcosm of
the challenge that I think the
Democratic candidates have because if
you respond to Trump on his racist
 if you were to respond to Trump
on his xenophobic if you
respond to Trump on his lies on all the
offensive things he says that
leads the news that's what gets everyone
talking when you try to make a solid
economic case when you try to paint him
as corrupt when you try to do all these
things based on policy it is so much
harder to break through and so it
requires a sort of new level of
creativity to sort of break through the
noise machine of Twitter cable the media
everything else new I think it is very
important for particularly the nominee
to recognize that if you are depending
on Twitter in the mainstream media which
is basically Twitter to deliver your
message to voters you will never succeed
right is impossible
their incentives the things they're
interested in the thing that drives
their drives retweets which drives
traffic which drives bottom line are
have nothing to do with what most voters
care about and so if that you're sending
yourself up in a feedback loop of named
stupidity if that is the way with you
you were going to have to do it directly
from your mouth when campaigning in
their community through the end getting
that message out through local media
you're gonna have to have your organizer
in the door and you're going to have to
do paid distribution through digital ads
of your message to a target instead of
yes the mainstream media like there are
opportunities for viral moments that can
go very well for you but those are few
and far between a day to day basis you
are going to be optimizing for the exact
wrong thing if you if what gets the most
traffic which gets the most retweets
which even frankly gets the most
coverage in mainstream media you will
you will lose it is just that
simple and I there are a lot of really
smart people party to understand that IP
I really worry there are far too many at
the top of too many of our campaigns who
don't yet understand how the ground is
shifted underneath our feet so let's
talk about Trump's overall campaign
strategy here in an interview this week
with CBS News Trump campaign manager
Brad Parr Scott how do you say his last
name
Prescott's peaky blinder rescue horse
kill campaign manager Brad parts Gale
said he thinks that Trump is going to
rack up more electoral votes than he did
in 2016 and win reelection by a
landslide
he also said that modern polling is the
biggest joke in politics
referring perhaps to the various public
polls and leaked in
ternal Trump polls that showed Shump
Trump but that showed Trump trailing Joe
Biden and the public polls show Trump
trailing Bernie Sanders and other
candidates in key swing states as well
parse Cal said the Trump can win in
Nevada New Hampshire New Mexico and
quote even Colorado in other news
Trump's already raised more than 25
million dollars since his reelection
launch dan is as he full of or what
he really seemed full of in that
speech I'm sorry he tell you he really
seemed full of in that interview he
said repeatedly the polls were wrong in
2016 said every poll was wrong and I
think it's just important to recognize
that that is just not true
almost all the average of the polls was
pretty clear that Hillary Clinton would
win the national popular vote by about
the margin that she did now there were
state polls that were up and down and
the work was enough state poll able to
get those things right but I just want
to stipulate that he yeah
it is he seems to I would just say let
me put it this way I was it was not a it
would not be a confidence-inspiring
interview if I was one of the people who
contributed to that 25 million dollar
fundraising total it was basically he
was speaking to an audience of one that
audiences Trump and that and Trump it
just it wasn't great and just like that
was what's not great well so do these
general election polls mean anything at
this point no yeah and I listened to our
I listened to our friends at 538 talked
about this and they actually you know
did research into this and this far out
they are almost worthless general
election matchup polls
the only now with one exception they
were going through some of them
elections where both candidates have
very high name identification already
they might be a little closer to the
truth but not by much so you can make an
argument because everyone knows who Joe
Biden is and everyone knows who Donald
Trump is perhaps it's a little better
but it's so far out
from Election Day there's so there's
ages and ages and ages of campaigning to
go Donald Trump has not fully defined
Joe Biden yet or whoever else the
nominee may be they have not even fully
defined Donald Trump yet we don't know
what the race is actually going to be
about the issues that are gonna be
fought on we don't know other
controversies that are gonna come up we
don't know what kind of foreign
interference are gonna be anything so I
do think you know we say take all polls
with a grain of salt but in my view look
at some of the early state horse race
polls if you're really looking for some
polls and even those represent a
snapshot in time right now but the
general election matchup holes do not
mean much at this point yes it is cold
comfort to Democrats looking for reasons
to be confident about what's gonna
happen in 2020 there is one interesting
trend in these polls they just can very
much change but it is something to take
away which is in these states whether
it's Florida Ohio Pennsylvania etc
Trump's approval number and his vote
share are almost identical yeah and that
is very important because he is net if
he is going if this is not going to be a
race where Howard Schultz hands the
presidency to Trump by running as a
third party candidate if Trump in school
if it is essentially a two-person race
like unlike 2016 Trump is going to have
to get a to a vote share that is higher
than his approval rating has ever been
since he's been president right and that
that takes a lot that is going to take a
lot of work and some real shifting of
the ground we have not yet seen from him
or his campaign it is possible they're
gonna be wrong but there has been this
theory that people don't approve of
Trump but will vote for him anyway
because they like the economy or they
hate the Democrats but we have not yet
seen that in these polls and even in the
ones that I think are probably the
closest to real which is slippery
Sparkle which are the Biden Trump ones
because Biden is a well known quantity
like beat when it's just a generic
Democrat and people can put forward
whatever views positive or negative they
put on that but when someone you know it
like this like you point out the 538
folks said it's closer to reality
because I would be very worried if I was
in the term campaign and I saw that
relationship between my approval number
in my vote share one other quick thing
that we should mention just before we
move on to the primary police in Orlando
had to get in between a group of proud
boys who tried to confront an anti-trump
protest outside of the arena for the
rally some of the proud boys who are
part of a neo fascist organization that
promotes violence that's what the proud
boys are they are neo-fascists they
promote violence
we're captured on video outside the
event chanting things like Pinochet was
right and Roger stone did nothing wrong
trip Gabriel the New York Times quoted
one Republican operative as saying the
following quote the Trump campaign is
well aware of the organized
participation of proud boys rallies
merging into Trump events they don't
care staff are to treat it like a
coalition they can't talk about pretty
scary it should really be close to the
biggest story in American politics right
now which is neo-fascists neo-nazis
white supremacist are a part of the
Republican coalition and that is
something and then it's not just about
Trump that is how Marco Rubio plans to
win that's all Paul Ryan plan to win
2018 that like that that is the modern
Republican Party for every one of those
people who put on their Brooks Brothers
suits and go work for Ben Sasse whoever
else you are working for a party that
knows it needs the votes of white
supremacists to win elections and
they're your two approaches to that you
could disavow that and try to broaden
your whole issue to still win or you
could just keep quiet about it
and hope they'll probably show up on
Election Day and that's what then that's
the choice the modern Republican Party
made after 2016 election and that's
where we are and I think that that it is
a tremendously under covered under
discussed part of politics in the truck
era yeah it and you know what the I was
probably most annoyed when I woke up the
next day on Wednesday by the
Politico headline about Trump's rally
yes so one or the gray
I'm gonna get it right here the greatest
show of all time the greatest show of
all time is what a journalist a media
organization that's that's how they
decided to characterize a rally where
the president knighted States said the
Democrats the Democratic Party is out to
destroy America where he lied the entire
time and where Neal fascists were
outside the rally blending into his own
event that's that's how they decided to
describe that so the other big problem
we have is the way that the men we could
do a whole episode on that and we
will do more and we're not gonna do it
today but we will no one should think
that the media has learned any lessons
from 2016 as we head into 2020 zero
lessons so that's something that we have
to all be aware about and Democratic
campaigns as they're trying to figure
out as you were saying ways to get their
message out because the media is not a
way to get your message out you do that
through paid advertising you do that
through your candidate you do that
through a whole bunch of different ways
but do not count on the press corps to
you know talk about what you want to
talk about every day or even to cover it
in a way that actually captures the
sheer insanity of the political crisis
that we're in right now their brains are
broken by Twitter and Tom trust like the
rest of us and if you want to do
something about the fact that Donald
Trump just raised 25 million dollars in
an hour and sorry the Donald Trump
raised 25 million dollars in a day you
can donate to our unify or Die fund
again this is a fund where all the
Democrats in the primary right now are
going at each other they're trying to
win the primary so they're trying to
raise money on their own whoever the
nominee is it's not gonna have much
money by the time they face Donald Trump
Donald Trump's gonna have an enormous
war chest and so what you can do right
now is donate to the unify or Die fund
and make sure that whoever the nominee
is they get that pot of money the second
they become the nominee go to vote save
america.com slash unify also if you want
to do something in 2019 we have
elections in 2019 some of them are very
important last week the Virginia
primaries took place we
means we can now focus on the general
election when we'll have the chance to
flip both of Virginia's legislative
chambers in each chamber Democrats just
need to flip two seats and hold all of
their currencies to take control if we
have controlled the VA legislature that
means we get to draw the maps in 2021
that means Democrats can make sure they
have seats in Congress that Congress
isn't gerrymandered this is a huge huge
deal so go to our Gerry fund that
is vote save America calm slash
Gerry okay all right let's talk about
the Democrats huh Vice President Joe
Biden has uh has an odd way of
celebrating Juneteenth dent how long
honestly it rolled off the top at a
fundraiser in New York on Tuesday night
he decided to wax nostalgic about the
time he served with segregationist
senators James Eastland and Herbert
Talmadge here it is as recounted by the
New York Times I'm just gonna read it
verbatim quote I was in a caucus with
James Eastland said mr. Biden 76 slipped
slipping briefly into a southern accent
according to a pull report from the
fundraiser quote he never called me boy
he always called me son Biden called mr.
Talmadge quote one of the meanest guys I
ever knew well guess what mr. Biden
continued at least there was some
civility we got things done we didn't
agree on much of anything we got things
done we got it finished but today you
look at the other side and you're the
enemy not the opposition the enemy we
don't talk to each other anymore Biden's
comments were criticized by several
other Democratic presidential candidates
including Cory Booker who said quote you
don't joke about calling black men boys
men like James Eastland used words like
that and the racist policies that
accompany them to perpetuate white
supremacy and striplac Americans of our
very humanity Kamala Harris Elizabeth
Warren better o'rourke and Bill DeBlasio
also criticized Biden while several
members of the Congressional Black
Caucus including james Clyburn came to
Biden's defense so Dan there was
actually a second gaffe at the
fundraiser but let's take one thing at a
time here
so the Biden camp responded by saying
that the Vice President did not praise a
segregationist he said that sometimes in
Congress you have to work with terrible
and even racist politicians to get
things done
Biden himself responded by saying that
he doesn't have a racist bone in his
body
inside of his long record of civil
rights advocacy including his work to
extend the Voting Rights Act in 1982
what do you make of this whole situation
not great okay I mean it I want to try
to analyze this with respective sure
personally as people who have known Joe
Biden and had tremendous admiration for
him as a person and as an incredibly
loyal vice president to President Obama
the whole thing makes me sad it's like
it is really good I hate I hate that he
like did your buddy was far from perfect
none of us are perfect he is one of the
most human politicians you'll ever be
around and he his strengths and his
weaknesses are out there for the world
to see and but he is a truly decent good
caring human being but it is also true
and that's one of the reasons why a lot
of us were nervous about him but of
those of us who care about him or
nervous about him running is that he's
not necessarily well-equipped from a
political moment we're in both in his
campaigning style his demeanor and it
also just is the fact that he's been in
politics forever and things have changed
a lot and you see this all the time when
people who have been out of politics and
he hasn't really happy isn't had to run
a race for seven years to and even then
he was the vice president doing so he
was not the lead candidate just this is
the thing that I've been worried about
from the beginning about Biden's
campaign now from the analysis of the
politics of it it's a gigantic problem
because it goes to - it undermines his
two greatest strengths which are that he
has by far the most supportive on the
African
in community and he has seen it by
people's over as a Roma the most
electable candidate against Trump which
is theoretical and that it is
something that voters strength voters
have given him and when you make
multiple gaps which was this in
undermines electability case and when
you fail to understand why those
comments would be offensive and hurtful
to large segments of the American
population then you you are undermining
your support in and it's just I think
the whole situation is incredibly
problematic force campaign and you know
it just it's I'll leave it at that
yeah I mean I look there's a lot of
people today Thursday making the case
why is it so bad this is how things get
done in this country you work with
people that you don't like you work with
people that are sometimes awful people
right this is what the Biden campaign
responded with no one is saying at least
I'm not saying and I think a lot of Joe
Biden's rivals aren't saying and his
critics aren't saying that Joe Biden
should have said I refuse to co-sponsor
sign on to work on legislation with
anyone who is a segregationist that is
not the problem here it is not the
problem the problem is that what he said
represents a fundamental
misunderstanding of our history and what
was going on back then James Eastland
here's Jane here's Mississippi's James
Eastland at a rally in 1956 quote when
in the course of human events it becomes
necessary to abolish the Negro race
proper method should be used among these
are guns bows and arrows slingshots and
knives okay so that guy comes up to you
and you're in the Senate and you know
who he is and you know what he believes
and he says to you hey let's sign on
together to a bill to build a highway
that goes through both of our states and
it's gonna create a whole bunch of jobs
for both
of us okay for both of our constituents
you look at that guy you go well he's a
real racist right but I
need a lot of jobs in my state and we
need a highway and that makes sense are
the jobs in his state going to go to
black Americans obviously not because
he's a racist prick but this is a good
thing to work on and sometimes you just
have to work on things with people who
you don't like so fine that's fine to do
but thirty years later forty years later
in 2019 to then point to that example
and say those were the days when
civility reigned and you could get stuff
done with people you don't agree with
well that's not what happened there like
back then the the divisions in the
Senate the divisions in American
politics were you had liberal
Republicans in the north you have
liberal Democrats in north of which Joe
Biden was won back then and then you had
conservative Democrats and conservative
Republicans in the south who were mainly
segregationists and thereby part to the
extent that there was bipartisanship
between those groups
it was bipartisanship in terms of doing
things that left out and excluded black
Americans that was the only way you
could have bipartisanship with people
from the south is if you worked on bills
that excluded african-americans that
trampled their rights that made them
less human that was the only way you
could have bipartisanship so all these
years later to look back and say that
was a Golden Age of bipartisanship and
civility and look at all the stuff that
we got done it's not racist it's just a
fundamental misunderstanding of politics
of history and of where we are now and
on top of that and on top of that saying
he never called me boy he always called
me son yeah I was gonna bring that up I
mean come on man you have to know the
reason he didn't call you boy is because
you were white hey it's just it hurts me
too because this is
I don't know it's it's it's exactly what
I thought was gonna happen in I mean
there is the it's just the response
right which I know we're gonna talk
about but cory booker among others
criticized obama and the question that
as i sorry cory booker among others
criticized biden and the question as
that biden got as he was getting out of
the car to fundraiser which I was just
note from a campaign perspective is that
it's terrible advance work that in the
middle of a crisis Biden was able to be
cornered by a CNN reporter away between
the driveway and the door of a house
like there's better ways to do this but
he the answer there I think the question
was in the context of Cory Booker so
Biden responded to Krueger and said Cory
should apologize and I don't have a
racist bone in my body which is
problematical about nine levels Cory
Booker obviously an african-american
senator and presidential candidate and
not someone who is prone to demagoguery
in any way it could mean whatever I know
whether you support people support
pre-booked or not but he's a very
thoughtful person who chooses his words
carefully and one no one score Booker
did not call Brock called Joe Biden
racist he did not know explain why from
the perspective of an african-american
man sir living in America and serving
United States Senate why that story was
wrong and offensive and hurtful to him
and Biden should instead of stubbornly
yelling back at Cory Booker in a fairly
dismissive and patronizing way she was
instead trying to understand why that
was hurtful as he knows Cory Booker and
Cory Booker wouldn't say that lately
incident the concern to address it and
have a conversation with Cory Booker
about like that would have been the
right approach and also he did not he
just didn't call by racist in the I
don't have a racist bone in my body is a
response to criticism on racial issues
that is very has a long history and is a
in the defense that Trump views
which is to somehow say that the thing I
said that offended people on racial
issues is you treating this binary way
that either I'm a member of the KKK or I
am right don't how the race is done of
my body when it isn't when these issues
are much more complex in nuance and
everyone should be willing specially
someone who wants to be the leader of
the Democratic Party should be willing
to analyze why it is that what they said
caused her to someone they respect and
Trust and what I really worry is that
you know the way that Biden sees all
this stuff is oh this is just the new
left woke Twitter all these people they
criticize everything everything has a
problem everything's blown out of
proportion and I'm a good person I know
I'm a good person I have people around
me who tell them I'm a good person and
so this I don't need to worry about
this and it's like you know what yeah
maybe it is possible it is entirely
possible that that this is a controversy
that stays within you know liberal
circles activist circles it's a thing on
Twitter it's a thing on cable and that a
lot of other voters in the Democratic
Party you aren't paying as close
attention or saying fun and it could be
black voters too because Joe Biden has a
lot of support among the black community
right now with black voters and they
could be saying this it doesn't
really matter I love Joe Biden right and
so fine he can sort of skate by but we
are in a moment right now where we have
to do every one of these candidates has
to do everything humanly possible to
unite this party to beat Donald Trump
which is the most important thing in the
 world right now and so
everything you say you have to be
careful and you have to make n look and
this goes by the way for people on the
far left to who were like all the
centrist and like that to know
we are in a moment right now where we
need to have a great debate about the
future of the party for sure and we need
to argue about it but we have to be
careful as we do this that were not
cavalier and just pissing off people are
dismissing their concerns all the time
and that's what I worry about the thing
is like Joe Biden if he wants to make
his point about you know the good old
days of civility he could have very
easily talked about how he worked with
Bob Dole Republican Bob Dole to
send the Voting Rights Act in 1982 a
piece of civil rights legislation and
and John and Joe Biden sat down with Bob
Dole and Ronald Reagan signed it
into law and it was a good piece of
legislation and it was around civil
rights and Joe Biden got it done he
could talk about his work with John
McCain he could talk about his work with
other Republicans you know people on the
Left maybe us we might still roll our
eyes a little bit but it would have been
totally fine did his advisors tell him
to do those stories yes they did did he
listen to his advisors no he didn't and
that's part of the bronchitis campaign
yeah I mean this is Joe Biden has been
telling the James Eastland story forever
I think I know thousand seven book it is
a and he Joe Biden is and I am from
Delaware we saw how many times you're
buying this Ben my senator my vice
president nearly my entire life and so
I've been hearing Joe Biden tell stories
from her he tells the same stories all
the time
it's every politician done the longer
you're politician the more those those
stories become roped and you're right
there were a thousand different ways to
say this and it is a failure to adjust
to the moment we were in and to
understand how like something may have
been true 40 years ago but you have to
talk about it with the in the present
with the knowledge of everything that
has changed and we have learned in those
40 years about what that all meant how
that moment look then and how it looks
now
and when you've been telling the story
since - since I mean it was just my 2007
if you have not you were still telling
the same story about working with
segregationists in 2019 you were telling
in 2007 let alone 1997 to 877 then
you've missed a massive shift of what's
happening in this country in that time
and it is and that in your point that
his staff told him to tell the to take a
different center you get a little easy
to pick anyone not to mention the fact
that James diesel was a Democrat so it
makes it a poor parable about
bipartisanship right he is it speaks
to electability like candidates kill how
is he going to be nimble and adjust on
the campaign trail if this if you ran
through this light was this wasn't a
flashing yellow light this was a red
light and he ran right through it and
yes maybe this will end up being a cable
news sort of thing but I I think there
will probably be massive record numbers
of Americans who watch the debate Biden
is in next Thursday yeah he's going to
be on stage with people who have been
critical of him and how is he going to
respond to that he didn't have a more
thoughtful response then no you should
go apologize there's not a racist bone
in my body and like you and I also know
that for Joe Biden for all of this
strengthens a politician he is not
someone who he is very strong well it's
not someone who was easy to prep you if
not has his mind set on doing something
he he is going to do it he it is like
prepping Joe Biden is a very challenging
thing to do he is very reticent to be
quote-unquote managed by staff and there
are some real strengths that come with
that because it has allowed him to
develop an authenticity and speak his
mind that has been a huge part of his
brand for many years but it also leads
to situations like this and it it is it
is not hard to project the challenges in
a general election if our nominee is
making mistakes like this yeah and again
not to mention like not to mention the
at McGirt there's two ways look at this
there is that he said something that was
wrong and hurtful and responded to it in
a way that was neither possible nor
empathetic aside from the politics and
that is important then there is also the
what it says about the politics and both
of those are very problematic for him
yeah and again it's like it is so hard
to talk about this because you know I
love Joe Biden and I he has a good heart
he's a he's a he's a fundamentally
decent person who has learned and grown
and changed over the years but he's not
our vice president more he's running for
president United States and he's running
for president I'd say it's at a moment
when we are in a political crisis of
epic proportions against Donald Trump
who is the president right now and when
you're in a race like that you have to
take it deadly serious and you
have to lock it up and May and make sure
that like
everything is right and you're saying
everything right and you have to be
willing to change and you have to be
willing to say the right things and like
man and and knowing and you have to have
a fundamental understanding of the
politics of the moment you have to and
that goes for Joe Biden Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren but all of them they
all have to have that so it's not just
about Joe Biden but in this case it is
so it's tough and then there's another
gaff too he also said in front of the
same group of donors that he doesn't
want to demonize wealth and that quote
rich people are just as patriotic as
poor people fine but then he said how
income inequality bruised political
discord but told the wealthy donors that
they had nothing to fear from a Biden
administration quote we can disagree in
the margins but the truth of the matter
is it's all within our wheelhouse and
nobody has to be punished
no one's standard of living will change
nothing would fundamentally change I
need you very badly I hope if I win this
nomination I won't let you down I mean
just you know you're with a bunch of
rich donors in New York you're telling
them if you're president don't worry
nothing will fundamentally change when
it comes time to your tax policies like
ah
I don't know man that is on the list of
campaign gaps that is a potential
campaign and now it has got almost no
attention because there's another
incredibly damaging controversial
statement within that same day but to go
before a bunch of rich Wall Street
donors in 2019 while running for the
Democratic nomination to tell them don't
worry your standard will not change is
an insane thing to say and it is
something that I can't that would be
brought up in a primary will be brought
up in in general election it is up there
with Mitch with Mitt Romney's 47% yeah
it's session the same thing to do
because your brain has already talked
about repealing the Trump tax cut right
one of the first things he would do so
yes their standard of living would
change he has already pledged to raising
taxes and this is one like Biden is an
old school politician obviously but one
of the things is a habit of doing is
telling people in the room what they
want to hear it is how we ended up with
a with the controversy over the Hyde
Amendment we told the woman on the rope
line that he would repeal Hyde and then
he said he wouldn't in many city what he
is trying to win the
he always tries to win the room and
often times that it's great but you have
to be incredibly careful when he were
doing that in a room full of Wall Street
donors with reporters in the room this
isn't the case of some server had an
iPhone going like MIT Romney for me 57%
he was looking at people with no pads
and recorders as he was saying it yeah
and and same thing is the reason
according influence why the vines have
decided to open up the fundraiser was
because over them all of his fundraisers
to print reporters was so that one he
would be more careful in the things he's
saying and this is what he said it's uh
it's not great I'm sure we'll see
somebody was banging my head against the
wall because we're just we are having
this reminiscence there's so much stupid
 happening and now what's
contributing to it ourselves I know I
know but it's also like you know don't
run a race like this and and and force
everyone to talk about all the by
continuing to screw up don't do it run a
better race man run a better race one
more thing one more thing about this it
is important which is Biden has clearly
adopted the no apology strategy of Trump
and and and that I think is a
fundamental misreading so learn Leo's
barking sorry what works in the
Republican primary will works in the
Democratic primary and I if you make a
mistake you should apologize you
shouldn't apologize if you don't wait
just for the sake of apology but being
thoughtful in nuanced and respectful is
the way to win in democratic progress
and it's not a way to win the Republican
primary so Emily emulating Trump what
works for Trump in 2016 in public
primary I think is a very poor strategic
decision for what will work for
Democrats in the 2020 primary okay Dan
apparently k40 is running ten minutes
late so I think we can do our last
popular Sanders thing all right one more
smallish primary controversy before we
get to Katie Porter on Mondays podcast
we talked for a bit about how Elizabeth
Warren's recent rise and the polls seem
to be eating away at support for Bernie
Sanders so on Wednesday Politico ran a
story with the headline quote
Centris are coming around to Elizabeth
Warren as an alternative to Bernie
Sanders the steward basically quotes a
couple of people in the centrist
organization Third Way saying they
actually really like Elizabeth Warren
that's about it that's the whole
story Bernie Sanders then tweets the
following in response to that story
quote the cat is out of the bag the
corporate wing of the Democratic Party
is publicly quote anybody but Bernie may
know our progressive agenda of
medicare-for-all breaking up big banks
taking on drug companies and raising
wages is the real threat to the
billionaire class dan I was a bit
surprised that Bernie or maybe his
campaign chose to tweet this were you I
obviously I was because knew and Tommy
and I all tweeted about it almost
simultaneously which there's not a
conspiracy conspiracy it's just we're
all the same slack channel so we see
information at the same time yes but
yeah I was surprised I in reading
everything that has come since I have
come to the conclusion that it was a
poorly constructed tweet from the
Sanders campaign the but it speaks to a
defensive Crouch and the Sanders
campaign has adopted as Elizabeth Warren
has begun surpassing him in polls they
really should have done
it's just screenshot at the part the
quote from third way that said that they
would support anyone but Bernie right
which is the point they were trying to
make but if you in a world in which and
the famous game in it is very savvy
about social media but hidden were you
but in a world in which you link to a
story that says establishment Democrats
warming to Elizabeth Warren and say it
talked about corporate Democrats the
core volume Democratic party event the
impression you were clearly giving is
that you were attacking Liz abhorrent
and that's not the impression that we
had it was also a lot of people who were
very supportive him for me we're
concerned about the tweet
well lead she he'd just the Democrats a
run our friends to work a run who worked
now he now works for someone else but he
I think still is very fond at Bernie and
says that they should delete that's with
a lot of
people read it the way we did so I am
willing to chalk it up to a misfire but
it fits within a pattern of behavior
which within the Sanders campaign which
suggests Sanders campaign is running
very differently in 2019 they did a 2015
well I also think it speaks to sort of
the challenge that they're facing right
now is how do you separate yourself from
Elizabeth Warren if Elizabeth Warren is
the one gaining in the polls and seems
to be acceptable to both progressives
and at least mainstream Democrats in the
party and you know I think there's
always been sort of a faction of the
Sanders campaign whether it was last
time or this time who sort of revels in
making a contrast between Bernie Sanders
and the Democratic establishment or
centrist Democrats or corporate
Democrats like they kind of like to have
this fight within the party it's we you
know we talked about this when they sort
of went after Think Progress remember
that little controversy couple months
back and I don't and I think they do
that because they're like well how else
are we gonna separate ourselves from
Warren and I don't know I mean I in some
ways I understand the challenge that
they have in the Sanders campaign
because there's there they're probably
sitting there saying you know we're the
ones who moved the debate and the party
to the left after 2016 because Bernie
was out there for a long time on these
issues and now he's not getting as much
attention as Elizabeth Warren is what's
the deal how do we get attention which i
think is that is actually a tough
challenge I mean I what would you what
would you do with your in that position
I think it's it's very very very hard
for them to figure I don't like Warren's
success is at least in the moment and
nightmare for Bernie it is much easier
for Bernie to become the vessel for
progress that's uncomfortable with Joe
Biden or whoever else is the
front-runner when it is buying arms
sorry when it is Bernie versus Elizabeth
Warren then it's not like that
this is a heart none of the things that
he centered in 2016
become are applicable here and there is
just all
Jennifer Palmieri who was Hillary
Clinton communications director in 2016
so obviously she has run a campaign
against pretty but she noted on Twitter
that in the last election with if she
really admired about the Sanders
campaign was just how cool they were
they never got two up two down they
never reacted whether they were the same
way whether they're winning or losing
and the Sanders 2016 campaign was a
superbly run campaign to go from where
they were to where they ended up was a
tremendous achievement and real
understanding of the political moment in
the party if not the country but in the
lat whether it's fighting with the
Center for American Progress as you
point out with whether it is the
long-running very aggressive Twitter war
ben david sirota
the bernie sanders of speechwriters been
having with nate silver about which
coals are included and this which is I
as notable as the original tweet was
about that was construed by many people
including us as attacking close the corn
was the follow up tweets with Bernie
Sanders himself the presidential
candidate who came within a few million
votes of being a Democratic nominee last
time is now engaged in a back-and-forth
with Jim Kessler the one of the leaders
of Third Way about who they would
support otherwise it's just there's
something that feels just there's a lot
they're sort of are sort of a lashing
about looking for some sort of grievance
establishment grievance to hang on to
here that I think is just very different
then I don't have an alternative
strategy for them and I think this is
wrong one
it's just very different than what works
for Bernie in 2016 anything in general
if you have fought in the last few weeks
with two think tanks and Nate's over
that you're probably there's no probably
not things that are in advancing your
path towards the delegate majority David
Sirota is Bernie Sanders speechwriter
can you imagine Dan if in the 2008
primary I had a Twitter account and was
as speechwriter was spending a lot of my
time in like Twitter flame wars with
 Nate Silver and various like
like shadowboxing various members of the
Clinton campaign on Twitter where you
and
and Axelrod would have done to me I mean
you would I mean you would not a good
speech writer like puff would have shoot
you out of the building to wake sharing
a shoebox with your possessions if he
had been just more to you on the spot so
very very smart people running the
Sanders campaign I think five securities
game editors and credits one of the best
campaign meters out there and we're yeah
great death strategist and I'm willing
to bet that all people make an
uncomfortable with a Twitter flame war
with Nate sober wait I probably fat you
can make it I could make a I could make
a case for why the third wayfinder the
cats fight make some strategic sensor
Bernie I'm not sure that those are
passion I would think but I see how it
fits into a strategy of Sanders branding
himself as the anti-establishment
Democrats
whenever and we have all been guilty of
this the Obama campaign you and I
individually publicly fighting with
pollsters about the makeup of their
polls or their models you weren't that
it that is never something that comes
off well until needs a flashing sign of
weakness uncie you exactly okay
when we come back you'll all here Dan's
interview with representative Katey
Porter
you
