welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett later in the pod John
catches up with Ari Berman from Mother
Jones about the recent Supreme Court
rulings on partisan gerrymandering in
the census before that we're gonna talk
about Trump's dictator buddies Kamala
Harris's momentum in the direction of
the Democratic Party light stuff also
the latest episode of this land is out
called the land grab big news on this
podcast in general the Supreme Court did
not offer a decision on the Murphy case
and has asked for it to be retried next
term so now you have a little while
longer to catch up on the podcast this
land podcast.com subscribe listen and
you can find out what is at stake in
this incredibly compelling story that
we're now gonna have to wait a couple
more months maybe a year
we'll see to figure out what the Supreme
Court is doing here fascinating we have
we have no information either about why
they decided to retry we were afraid
that the court would rule before you got
to Episode seven of the podcast which
was built as a cliffhanger for the
ruling now the cliffhanger laughs now
the cliffhanger last couple months but
you know what that's that's that's life
That's Life that's life but anyway check
it out it's a fantastic podcast Dan
Pfeiffer will be talking to Colorado
Senator Michael Bennet later today for
the next installment of our 20/20
candidate series almost at the end just
a few more stragglers plus Bernie
Sanders and Joe Biden can't get Bernie
herb ID in the studio I think Bernie
we're making some progress and I think
Biden I'll tell you it's a problem
anyway and then so Dan's interview with
Bennett will be going out later this
week dan and I will also be recording a
mailbag edition of the pod that will go
out Thursday we're gonna probably do
that on Tuesdays so please send us your
questions on Twitter Facebook and
Instagram send us your questions we'll
answer them some of them may be all
right let's get to the news over the
course of a relatively short trip abroad
the President of the United States
kissed the asses of three different
murderous tyrants Vladimir Putin of
Russia who attacked our election
Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia who
ordered the murder of a Washington Post
columnist and Kim Jong hoon of North
Korea who's trying to build nuclear
weapons that can reach the United States
on Sunday let's start with North Korea
Trump became the first sitting United
States president to ever set foot
on Sunday Trump became the first sitting
United States president to ever set foot
in North Korea an impromptu meeting at
the Demilitarized Zone that came about
after Trump tweeted the following if
chairman if chairman Kim of North Korea
sees this I would meet him at the border
/ DMZ just to shake his hand and say
hello parentheses question mark in
parentheses exclamation point after
their conversation Trump said that he
and Kim agreed to resume the nuclear
talks that fell apart after Trump walked
away from a deal in Hanoi four months
ago and ended the talks love at how big
of a deal is this did the meeting change
anything historic first steps into North
Korea Wow
you know I saw a lot of people saw some
some journalism that lifted this moment
up as being extraordinary and I suppose
it is pretty nuts to have the president
just walk across the DMZ into North
Korea to say hi to his buddy on it based
on an impromptu impromptu in quotes well
apparently apparently they Trump
mentioned his impromptu meeting a week
ago to the hill and then they had to get
the hill to not publish it because it
was a security problem of course Trump
jump is a security problem so what are
you gonna do but but you know it's a
it's an image right that Donald Trump
thinks in images his whole presidency
for him is about images he's a president
for television it's the only part of the
job he cares about so so when he crosses
into into North Korea it makes for a big
photo op that's what he wanted but what
I was struck by is it's a photo op it's
a photo op without all the pieces of it
that are supposed to make it big and
important so so you know I was thinking
about other famous presidential moments
right you think of being an Arafat you
think of Sadat and beggin beggin beggin
you think of Sadat you think of you
think of Carter I'm just gonna say what
that names you say you think of Carter
meeting with with Egypt and Israel you
think of these of Nixon in China
important moments but what undergirds
them is the
automatic work and and and and meetings
and considerations that make the actual
involvement of the American president
valuable and part of the negotiations
themselves but less work went into a
date on between Donald Trump and North
Korea than between like Katy Perry and
Taylor Swift so like that the the
diplomatic legwork that went with went
into Katy Perry and Taylor Swift
becoming friends in public had more of
the look of a foreign policy apparatus
than what Donald Trump is currently
doing at the G twenty it was at
least teased you know it was it was
teased they put there were some
underlying negotiations that had to take
place first they all understood the
goals they agreed to a set of conditions
there was the communique I mean here's
where we are in North Korea we we had
talked about how this is a very
difficult challenge for any US president
Democrat Republican or Trump but where
we are is Trump comes into office in
2017 they conduct a nuclear test you
know then Trump starts going nuts on
Twitter you know firing Mary rocket man
all the bad like you know bring us
closer to war and then they start these
negotiations and since then basically we
have a few hostages back some remains of
US service members have been returned
though that's on pause we have suspended
joint military exercises with the South
Koreans which North Korea wanted but
North Korea is still testing missiles
they're still developing nuclear weapons
they're still resisting any kind of
inspection regime whatsoever so Trump is
basically where every other president
has been except that North Korea has
just further along in their nuclear
program maybe more and now they're
talking about an elevate and been
elevated by the American press they're
been everybody even talking about the
problem itself so now now that Trump has
restarted the talks that he himself
pulled out of in the New York Times
David Sanger and Michael Crowley have
this piece where they're reporting that
the Trump administration is now hoping
to negotiate some kind of a nuclear
freeze
where Kim proposes to stop developing
nuclear material at a number of
different sites in exchange for sanction
relief so the term administration's goal
at the beginning of the administration
is the denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula and and inspect you know
inspectors in there it's verifiable all
this kind of stuff they've basically
given up on that and now are accepting
the fact that North Korea will be a
nuclear power but they're just hoping
that they don't make more weapons and in
exchange may possibly give them
sanctions relief you saw that John
Bolton also went on Twitter to say that
that's not true so on top of all because
I'm sure he's against it yeah well he's
got he's got he's got he's got a
multiple-choice test and there's only
one answer John Bolton John Milton's
general checkers strategy is to flip the
board over 100% of games and then to tag
it with a nuclear war yeah yeah the no
so it's you know what can I say John
it's a mess here's a sampling of some of
the headlines from this weekend
Washington Post Trump's scores his
biggest live show yet in North Korea
Politico Trump's made-for-tv moment and
our favorite ABC's Jonathan Karl quote
in terms of sure performance this may be
the biggest moment of the Trump
presidency so far these I sort of ask
you do you think it's weird that certain
journalists actually report on how
they're getting manipulated by
politicians with no sense of irony right
it's what is it so honestly like that is
I feel like a too intellectual a
critique how I feel about it because I
don't even understand what the terms
mean his biggest show yet what look what
are you what are you talking about
because even so yes you're exactly right
like this is a PR stunt and they're
saying what a PR stunt right and that's
a problem I'm serious the stunt to
manipulate reporters and they're like
boy Wow
the bizzle they got it worked on me
because look at us we are just we're
just gonna broadcast images of this
meeting over and over we're gonna give
you all the head
lines that Trump wanted boy have they
fooled us but but even before you get to
that it's it's I don't even buy I don't
even buy the argument on their terms
because what world are we living in
where I think it I think it actually is
it's not even another way and that it
fails to appreciate just how much Donald
Trump has devalued the presidency and
the artifice of his job altogether so
okay the American people turn on their
television and they see Donald Trump
meeting with kim jeong-hoon maybe in
another time a better time a worse time
a different time people would think wow
that's a big deal what I'm seeing here
is monumental it is historic but I don't
think I don't think we put Trump's
behavior into terms like that anymore I
think we see them exclusively on his
terms I think that so much of our
political conversation is really kind of
is swirling around his narcissism that
so what we really see is a coup for
Donald Trump personally and everyone
kind of understands that how does this
play into Donald Trump's role in our
politics his reelection his experience
of the world I don't think anybody sees
this as anything having to do with
America's interest at all I don't think
the Trump show and America show are one
show to anyone the Republican or
Democrat I think they are for a lot of
Republican voters because they know if
you saw oh my god did you see the Fox
and Friends clip where they open the
show to talk about what happened in the
meeting and they play dj khaled all I do
is win like seriously they didn't play
Trump Junger so like Trump's out there
but you're absolutely right that his
foreign policy is all about him it's
about glorifying him as a leader it's
about saying that he's a winner
rejecting hoping he's hoping to say that
because I'm a winner America's a winner
too even while and Tommy always points
us out he is just getting worked on the
world stage by every single bad actor
out there right they are all
manipulating him they all know his
number he's getting nothing for the
United States and our security he's
getting everything for either himself
his reputation
his financial standing his next election
right because he's got Putin and other
countries maybe interfering our election
for him so he's getting a lot of
for him or at least he thinks he is he's
getting nothing for us because these
people know his number
but even though even though like like
even Laura Ingram's heart doesn't seem
to be in us you know oh what a win for
Donald Trump he sat down with Kim
jong-un and it the world will never be
the same I don't think she's buying it I
honestly don't think it's it's a it's
signaling to the audience to not be
bothered by this and to treat it the way
we treat everything else which is just
another partisan cudgel right like what
he's doing
Donald Trump is doing well it doesn't
matter how many times I said Barack
Obama shouldn't meet with dictators it
doesn't matter what we've been pumping
to you for a decade on this network
about dealing with your adversaries it
doesn't none of that matters all that
matters is here's the talking points for
you here's how you should feel about it
don't let it bother you and we'll all
move forward so Trump also met with
Putin where he playfully warned him to
not launch another attack on our
election and joked about their shared
disdain for journalists saying quote get
rid of them fake news is a great term
isn't it
you don't have this problem in Russia
but we do yes they don't they don't have
that problem in Russia because Putin
controls the fake news media and and
also has journalists who questioned him
murdered so that's why they don't have
that problem Trump also made time for
breakfast with Mohammed bin Salman who
he called a friend and congratulated him
on doing a spectacular job he said in a
news conference that NBS was quote very
angry and very unhappy about the murder
of Jamal Khashoggi and said absolutely
nothing about the fact that our own
intelligence community has overwhelming
evidence that NBS ordered the killing
himself I want to I want to understand
what conservatives would do I want to
understand I'm like I know we I know
it's become passe to even say this but I
want to understand what conservatives
would do if Barack Obama met with a
dictator who had recently cut to pieces
and disposed of the body of a National
Review writer what would they do how
would they react to that how would they
feel about it it's just so it's it's
even like so beyond that like the
excuses he uses to and this goes back to
what we were just talking about with
like his foreign policy being intensely
personal what about himself you know
he's like well here's the deal with
Saudi Arabia they're buying lots of
stuff they're buying lots of weapons
from us thereby they have a great
defense contracts and other stuff too
they're buying other goods too so
basically his thing is Saudi Arabia is
helping make certain defense contractors
and other businessmen in this country
rich so you know if they kill a few
people if they kill a few journalists
what are you gonna do we need them you
know which is just like such a well it's
it's it's like such a step beyond they
kind of you know many liberals and many
on the Left have long critique Americans
buy part of America's bipartisan foreign
policy for being too comfortable with
some of the most despicable dictators in
the world in the world including
including Saudi Arabia but this goes
another step it goes beyond that right
not just disregard it but to praise Him
that's welcome to face to have make sure
he faces no consequences because of his
personal relationship to you and your
son-in-law
what kind of serious consequences would
a Democratic president or another
Republican president have you know sorry
what would a other sorry what would
another Democratic president or
Republican president have done to Saudi
Arabia if they were in office when
khashoggi was murdered we don't know we
don't know how far they would have gone
but we know for certain that they
wouldn't have had breakfast with the guy
said he was doing a spectacular job
called him a friend they wouldn't have
done that that is that is uniquely
dangerous and uniquely trumpian yeah
almost as if it's it's it's and he's not
unaware of this he knows what he's doing
in Putin by that was kind of skipped
over the Putin thing to Putin who was
like yeah so a reporter is like you know
did you ask him about election
interference you tell him not to
interfere on the election he's like oh
all right I'll do it now don't you
interfere in that election and then they
both laughed what the are you doing
it's uh I mean I think I think this is
an issue that the Democratic
presidential candidates have not done
enough to talk about I would be all over
this all the time yeah I mean and yes I
noticed that uh Joe Biden's rapidly
responding campaign put out a statement
from button about North Korea just now
they got a lot on their plate this
weekend they do touch up weekends Anika
you know and I saw like khamel Harrison
a couple other Democratic candidates
tweeted about it too but I think this is
sort of a sleeper issue that people
you know Trump's friendships with
dictators who wish us harm all around
the world yeah you know doesn't seem
great it's not it's not great John well
you know Helsinki didn't matter
mmm it really did matter to people it
seemed to have broken through in a way
other Donald Trump malfeasance had and
so I do think there's there's some meat
on that bone before we move on we should
also talk about Trump's batshit crazy
press conference on Saturday at the g20
like this is we're just sitting here
like the present United States who is an
international joke went to the g20 and
across virtually any issue you can name
made an abject fool of himself achieve
nothing for the United States snow left
only having damaged our reputation in
the world and oh by the way a bunch of
foreign leaders had looks on their faces
that just said after this is over we go
to a quiet place and make fun of Ivanka
for an hour that's what my eyes saying I
am I am the I am the leader of Japan my
face has three facial expressions one of
them is serious one of them is very
serious and now introducing the third
I'm gonna go talk about a
bong
those are my three faces I'd like to but
I liked about it okay I'm just having a
good conversation it's like that person
who just comes out like oh I have a
story god
let her hear $5,000 dress she doesn't
even know what she's talking about
um so Trump at this press conference
defends Putin defends NBS trashes Jimmy
Carter trashes John Kerry says he broke
the law trashes Hillary Clinton said hot
tamil Harris has gotten too much credit
for her critique of Joe Biden and and he
also responded the following way when a
reporter asked him about Putin's attack
on quote western-style liberalism here's
the answer from Donald Trump quote I
guess you look at what's happening in
Los Angeles where it's so sad to look
and what's happening in San Francisco
and a couple of other cities which are
run by an extraordinary group of liberal
people I don't know what they're
thinking but he does see things that are
happening in the United States that
would probably preclude him from saying
how wonderful it is it is worth always
remembering that we were beat by the
dumbest criminals Donald Trump
just doesn't know about liberalism as a
broader philosophy of governance he
thinks of it only in terms of
american-style liberalism that's all it
means to him he didn't he doesn't isn't
aware of some larger philosophy values
it's sort of like how he thinks about
democracy which is a big inconvenience
to him you know people it's not like
he's some secret autocrat that's been
plotting this all along he sort of fell
into a autocracy because he thinks it is
the easier path to govern well when I'm
the president I'm in charge I should be
able to get done whatever the I
want to get done why are we wasting time
with Congress and people vote this bull
yeah like a fascist savant it's up to
and including when he's like on stage at
the military academy he's like look at
these rippling muscles
it's very fascist he wants a role you
see this weekend from the
projector on the fourth of July and they
might not get him tank so they can get
him like armored vehicle he doesn't know
the difference either he just wants
 plastic tanks yeah he
just wants some like good like good
desert beige or green he wants Jonathan
Karl to say it was a great made-for-tv
moment on the 4th and I would not be
surprised to hear Donald Trump they're
sort of riffing being like hey and when
the troops walk you know be cool what
have they kept there
legs straight like I've ever thought
about that I think it would look really
cool if their legs didn't like it
because it would because it would imply
a level of control from the state that
they're not walking naturally and the
rhythm of it I think would be very
compelling what if they what did they
walk like birds you know like like like
like um like ducks we call it duck
walking or or you know like there's
other kinds of like like the way the way
geese walk something like that you know
like a bird walk called bird walking
maybe they could slurred stepping
there's like a special salute they could
do it like a waiver you can hold your
hand look cool and like I love the
American flag but like it represents all
of the people but like what if there was
one that really showed how loyal you
were to the - like the the ground you
don't need all those stars to count up
the states they know the states you
could just put my picture on it okay
fine there's also by the way we're not
they asked about the the controversy
over busing from the debate and as to
when he thought of busing and first of
all he said well just you wait I got a
plan for that guy Jesus Christ yeah I'm
sure alarming anything then they asked
who they pressed my busing and he's like
yeah well you know busing is something
that happens and I just don't know that
there's that many other ways for kids to
get to school no idea he has which is
interesting right it actually it's too
bad for him because he would love to
 on busing no right that's what's so
surprising about it because there's no
one who's had a like Donald
Trump has not really read the news since
the 1980s but when he was reading the
news his fingers went right to the part
of the New York Post where white parents
in Boston were furious about busing look
he should know about busing because it
right there in his racial
grievance of Raj in his own yeah no
all right well let's talk about 2020 so
that's that that's Donald Trump he
shouldn't be President okay okay update
update listen hot news out of
the g20 he should not be President it is
a joke it is you know obviously
we did 15 minutes on Trump being bad but
brian Stelter noted this actually
yesterday which is like it's Trump being
graded on the curve because we're about
to have a conversation about the
Democratic Party
candidates you know who's doing well
who's not and I do think we're sort of
getting back to this 2016 vibe where you
have two sides of a coin right and so
there's a bunch of reporting and
analysis about Donald Trump being crazy
but you have to balance that equally
with well but the Democratic Party I
don't know if they're ready to beat him
they're in disarray and look you know
we've been critical at the party too but
it's hard to have both Donald Trump and
the eventual nominee or the candidates
trying to replace him on that same plane
yes well you know there was a there was
a there was an an op-ed in the post that
said none of the Democrats seem
presidential is like why did they not
break the other the other piece of this
is the fact checkers have had a real
problem here right because the fact
checkers have spent the last two years
sort of you know counting up Donald
Trump's Pinocchio's and other other I
don't know knows growths I don't know
how they measure lies anymore but but
they had to go through the democratic
debate and the democratic debate was a
largely accurate affair they're people
who are very very careful with their
words you know these are these are and
that's our message for 2020 largely
accurate so so Beto says things like the
now if Donald Trump were president if
Donald Trump were a Democrat he is
president technically a Democrat he'd
say you know they stole all your money
and they gave it to the corporation's
right but better work says the
Republican tax cut favored corporations
and then they have to fact-check it and
they have to find a way to make favored
corporations which it clearly did in
virtually every way right um find the
find the way in which it may be in some
small way allot the truth same thing
with Bernie Sanders saying that three
people control more wealth than the
bottom 50% in the fact check is
hilarious to the fact it is like well
actually the reason the bottom 250
percent don't have as much wealth as the
top three is that they're in a lot of
debt that's not better they asked all
Trump to explain bussing and he starts
like singing wheels on the bus yes but
in a different way yeah it is it's uh
it's wild yeah they're gonna hold yeah
we're gonna we're gonna do the whole
 cycle again so we now have
polling and fundraising evidence that
Kamala Harris is gaining support after
her strong to be
performance in Miami last week part of
which involved challenging Joe Biden
about his past work with segregation all
past work with segregationist senators
to oppose busing the Harris campaign
raised more than two million dollars in
the day after the debate and a new poll
by morning consult found that Harris has
moved all the way up to third place in
the Democratic field gaining six
percentage points from where she was
right before the debate that's doubling
her support in a poll um well but what
does she do to build on the momentum
here does she she as she found a line of
criticism she want to keep criticizing
Biden or offer some other contrast with
him on another issue or does she try
something else here that's a great
question and I don't know the answer I
do think it would be a lot if she comes
to the next debate with like a ready to
go hit on Joe Biden yeah that problem is
a lot you know she also we don't know if
they're gonna be on the same stage and
is that boy it was actually my cousin so
it's a little bit further away that's
still personal so that one was because
and he was it was this is about health
care it is uh it is a tough question for
all of these candidates in a very large
field and even a large field of
frontrunners really like even the top
tier is pretty crowded compared to past
elections and so you have to find these
moments where you stand up because
there's so much noise otherwise and the
debates are the big moments left you
know because everyone's done their town
halls and you know there's the the the
power of the first town hall that you do
on CNN or MSNBC sort of wears off after
a while it's not like your speeches are
getting carried live attacking Trump
doesn't necessarily get you a lot of
attention and it does seem like we're
heading to the place in the primary
which having every primary where the way
you get attention in the way you get
noticed is to critique or at least offer
contrast with your fellow primary
candidates yeah no that's true I also I
do think commas in a unique position
compared to everyone else at which it
which is that she is she is potentially
about to go from being someone beneath
the frontrunner to among the
runners and in an odd way she may be
getting the look that Pete Buddha judge
got that others have gone so it is
actually a bigger opportunity for her to
flesh out her argument for her own
candidacy in a bigger way you know this
is something we said before the debate
that we were looking forward to calm
will Harris on the debate stage in part
because she made so much of her can to
see about it it's incredibly impressive
that she rose to that moment you know
that that's very very difficult to do
but now that she has this spotlight it
can't just be about making that point
again there's a larger argument she
needs to make about why she is the
person to be the standard-bearer of the
Democratic Party that I don't think to
this point she has well made no and I
think I think part of the reason is she
she eyes the field and and eyes the
electorate and thinks she can
potentially build maybe one of the
biggest broadest coalition's here of the
Democratic base and I think they have
been trying to figure out how does she
stand out and they've answered that
question by saying okay well she's a
prosecutor she can prosecute the case
against Trump and by the way in these
hearings and in these debates she's
 stellar and can kick everyone's
ass and that's a great great skill to
have the question is can you put it all
together and say again Elizabeth Warren
you know in five seconds why she's
running and what her story is you know
that to be true about Pete Budaj even if
he doesn't have all the policies to back
it up you know his it's generational
change and comma has not sort of nailed
that story yet and I would spend some
time and now look that story doesn't get
nailing that story doesn't automatically
get you press attention but I think if
she's gonna contrast herself with Joe
Biden it has to be more than about that
one issue and she has to make a larger
argument why her and why not Joe Biden
or even some of these other candidates
probably in the coming week yeah and it
is it is sort of their right I mean it
is part of what Pete is saying it's part
of what Warren is saying it's part of
what um
Eric's wawel is saying that that torch
torch I mean the torch the Pat torch
passing is part of this debate that's
change we're talking about change and
she she can represent change in a way
that Joe Biden can't that's her
and uh she's sort of articulate that
vision I think yeah there's a New York
Times story the Trump and other
Republicans are a little more nervous
about common-law than they were at first
do we buy that and and why are they yes
they've gone to so many different
they're sort of like they I think they
whiplash back and forth with the
electorate in the news cycle
you know first they're scared of Biden
when binds up now they're scared of calm
low and commas up you know it's yeah I
don't I don't buy it I didn't bring my
wallet the III don't I'm not
particularly interested in the kind of
whatever a reverse psychology of the of
leaks from the Trump camp who are they
worried about who are they pretending to
be worried about I don't I don't think
we should really be playing that game
any more than we should be playing the
game of listening to who lifelong
Republicans think are driving them away
you know I don't we got it we got to
focus we got to play our game to use a
sports term we should mention what 1
Thess to use a sport that's a very we
have to play our game adept sports term
very we have to play the game we came
here to play it's not the game they want
us to play so what what should Joe Biden
be doing here he when he spoke at Jesse
Jackson's Rainbow PUSH coalition in
Chicago the day after the debate he said
that the discussion in this race quote
shouldn't be about the past he does seem
to be stuck in this dynamic where like
now every story anecdote example he uses
is sort of viewed through the prism of
does he have outdated racial and social
views and he kind of can't get out of
this now and so I wonder what the by I
mean I saw some people saying well you
know his strategy is take on Trump
ignore his rivals can he continue that
strategy I don't know I don't know I D I
will say to you right now yes you know
the the tires are deep in the mud he's
pressing the accelerator it is getting
deeper that's that's what is happening
right now and every every word is being
seen through this lens if he wants to be
President he's to show that he's the
right person be President and it's
definitely not going to be defending
 busing on the stage and it's not
gonna be and it's not gonna been doing
opposing busting it's not gonna be doing
it's definitely not going to be
defending opposing busing or your
rationale for opposing busing and the
arguments about Joe Biden
the core of his competence as a
candidate they go to the core of whether
or not he can represent people today
whether he's too old
whether he's too establishment these are
the questions he has to answer I don't
know the right way for him to answer
them but they're they're legit this is
um this isn't a side issue that's the
thing like this isn't this goes to the
this is an attack on the core of his
argument for why he should be the
Democratic nominee and if he wants to be
the Democratic nominee he has to answer
it and he has to answer it not just by
speaking to the critique but actually
demonstrating demonstrating that he
isn't a candidate of the past and that's
really hard to do for somebody that's
been in politics for thirty years it's
not not impossible yeah I mean he does I
think he has the right idea there with
that line this election shouldn't be
about the past and he can he can use
that neither his rivals will say but you
have this record that you have to answer
for and he can't I don't think he can
avoid answering for it but I think his
best hope is to continue pivoting to
because look you know I was even
surprised that he raised his hand for
some of the very progressive positions
that they asked people to raise their
hands for during the second debate he
has policy-wise I think he's certainly
not the furthest left in the field but
you wouldn't put him in sort of the
moderate camp either so he has fairly
mainstream Democratic progressive
policies that he's for today but his
opponents are gonna make the whole race
we're gonna try to make the whole race
about his record and not his record
during the Obama administration his
record as a senator before that it's
interesting to look when I think when I
think of Joe Biden on the debate stage
what I picture is someone talking about
himself and talking about his record and
talking about the past but I don't
actually like he needs to say what he's
gonna do as president here are the
things I want to do here's why I'm so
excited to be in this race here's what
we could do to me opportunity and what
I'm sorry just and when he makes this
closing statement you know this is a
fight for the soul of the country it it
also does feel backward-looking
right like okay this is the under like
even his answer you know what do you
want to do as president I want to beat
Donald Trump right it all goes to the
past or what the past will be if he were
to win right the day we elect a
Democratic president we will have
repudiated Trump we will have
successfully done something very very
hard what's not
yeah and I think to the extent that he
hasn't you know he's not for
medicare-for-all he's for more of a
robust public option to the extent that
he has policy differences with other
candidates who were a bit further to the
left I think he has to make the case for
why right like you had you can't you
can't just pretend okay
I'm gonna sort of fuzz up my positions
to make it seem like I'm just as
progressive as them and then I'm gonna
talk about beating Trump and I'm gonna
talk about my record and I'm not gonna
try to do anything beyond that because
because it's just playing prevent
defense at that point I I don't think
that works like didn't work and by the
way it didn't work for Hillary Clinton
2008 either that's the exactly and so I
think you have to make an actual case
for your set of policies your world view
going forward it doesn't have to do
necessarily with Trump and it doesn't
necessarily have to do with your record
what other candidates have to do to
break through at this point there was
news this morning that Pete Buddha jej
raised twenty four point eight million
dollars this quarter he now has four
hundred thousand donors total that is
obviously much more than any of the
Democratic candidates raised last
quarter it is around what Obama and
Clinton were raising Inouye and a
quarter so that's and we haven't seen
anyone else's number yet the quarter
ended Sunday night but that's a big deal
yeah that's a lot of money and
he's got like twenty two million on hand
which is a lot which means his burn rate
how much they're spending on the
campaign is very low to look the good
news for Pete is even if he's not the
nominee he is gonna crush that southbend
reelection that is so much money to
spend to be like that and you know it
let's hope he can because man the
billboards I mean I don't know what it
costs to get a billboard in South Bend
Indiana but it can't be you can probably
get at least ten of them for twenty five
million dollars I'm just kidding I yeah
I mean he's good he's he's in this for
the long haul for sure that's what that
means he is yes he is a candidate and he
can be a candidate for a very long time
and as he should be I mean I think like
he is it's a lesson for the other
candidates and is a lesson for Harris
too which is that the only thing
stopping you from becoming a
front-runner is is you really you
that's why they people blame staff they
blame other stuff it's like you yes if
if you are truly talented yeah and it's
a that I mean like because you could
have said that about Kamala Harris she
had the stache she had the organization
it happened because she performed at
that debate she did that for herself
Elizabeth Warren who was didn't have a
lot of donors and was struggling on
fundraising her campaign was written off
a bunch of times she pulled herself out
of that hole yeah and Pete Buddha judge
Chaston and Liz Smith in the back of an
uber black this happened you know a it's
America it's in in parts of the country
democracy is alive and well burn out but
ya know he I think it's you know he's
gonna have to find I think probably a
moment in future debate sort of like or
a couple moments actually sort of like
khamel had in this debate and I think
that's tough because you don't get a lot
of speaking time when there's all
that many people on stage and you really
have to figure out a way to sort of
command the stage I hate talking about
debates like this is the only way
because debates are a dumb way
to pick the president in there all
performance but you know we are living
in a media age and there's only so many
ways to break through and we know that
breaking through in the media is you
know it's probably not as important as
having a really great
organization on the ground in Iowa but
clearly just having an organization on
the ground in Iowa and having good
retail politics in Iowa New Hampshire
isn't enough these days and you know
what I'm not gonna be embarrassed about
caring about how these people hold it
abates age when one of them will likely
have to face Donald Trump and will have
huge implications for whether we win the
election yeah we're gonna pick this
president television one last point on
Pete this is not this is just my own
personal reaction when he shot that look
at Eric's wall well I even think I you
know I mean did you talk about this aa
spot I know but I made a joke about it
but one other I think I think Pete was
very strong in the debate he you know
held his own on that debate stage but in
that look what I saw it was the ambition
of someone who is a mayor of South in
Indiana
running for president I saw the ambition
and you know we don't talk about
ambition and a lot of the times it's
gendered but every person on that stage
has an incredible amount of ambition and
they try to hide it right because we
don't like someone saying like why are
you running it's like well cuz ever
since I was a little boy and it was the
 best right like nobody we don't
like that and yet in that look in that
intensity you saw what you need in a
candidate so I am actually interested in
seeing the other side of the kind of
state and serious Pete Buddha judge I'm
interested I'm interested in seeing the
the guy that is a mayor of a small town
who looked at this field and said like
this is my moment I mean Obama used to
talk about this even if you haven't been
dreaming about this or planning this
since you were a kid if you run if you
were running for president it is because
you believe that out of a country of 300
million plus people you are the best
person right so even if you just decided
the week before the race but that's what
you wanted to do it's still a
lot of ambition there it just is you
know you don't have to have done been in
kindergarten planning your your run like
the Clinton campaign accused Obama in
that essay like Liz Warren is taking
every photo
she's calling people back in her car she
is working so hard and that's when
commentary says I'm gonna win this race
you know that she means it yeah
enlighten she says I've either Joe I'm
gonna win this race me like yeah I
 believe that the way she says I
said it they had to replace they to
replace Amy Klobuchar is podium because
she because underneath it she just broke
pieces of it with her hands because she
because she's in it so the other
big narrative coming out of the debates
is this idea that the Democratic Party
is moving too far to the left which was
the subject of multiple op eds and
analysis pieces in the New York Times
The Washington Post and other outlets
here's Alex burns and j-mart in The
Times quote vowing to eliminate private
health insurance decriminalize illegal
immigration and provide government
health care benefits to undocumented
immigrants high-profile contenders like
senators Bernie Sanders Elizabeth Warren
and Kamala Harris or wagering that they
can energize voters eager to dismantle
president Trump's hardline policies but
with moderate Democrats repeatedly
drowned out or on the defensive in the
debates the sprint to the left has
deeply unnerved establishment Democrats
who have largely picked the party
nominees
in recent decades they feared that admin
what a great job they've done if they
fear that advocating a government-run
health care system could alienate
suburban and upper income voters who
were otherwise eager to eject mr. Trump
from office while the most progressive
immigration policies might turn off the
working-class white voters who backed
mr. Trump after twice supporting former
President Barack Obama what do you think
the the I love the Democratic Party
establishment voices are always very
concerned but they're too
cowardly to put their name on some of
them actually one of the challenges is
they don't always remember their own
names because they've been they only
they're actually in a soundproof
chambers that are unlocked to give
comments for these articles just sort of
it's this it's one of those you know the
you know room while somebody drowns in a
dissent set a sensory deprivation tank
but every once in a while okay they're
in one of those yeah okay so here's what
I think I think all of this makes a lot
of assumptions about what about how
people feel about progressive policies
and makes a lot of assumptions about how
people vote in America you know in which
and I think a lot of assumptions about
which people vote which way cuz there's
like reading that paragraph there's just
like a lot to undo a lot of things that
are sort of conflated there that I
that's what I mean you have to really
unpack it so first of all like on
whether or not liberal policies will
cost you one of the things that's
hardest for I think nonpartisan
journalists to deal with is what do you
do when the the left-wing policies
actually pull quite well amongst
Democrats Republicans and independents
we talked about this a lot right high
taxes on the wealthy expanding Medicare
expanding Medicaid these things pull
well even in states where Democrats
can't win you have Medicaid expansion in
places like Idaho and Utah and Montana
so you know you look at the actual where
actual voters are even than some of the
most conservative parts of the country
and there is an openness to liberal
policies that's the first thing the
second thing that these articles always
avoid dealing with is that there are
also hard
Democrats who need to be enthused and
turn out to vote well there's a point
you make all the time which is you know
electability you can slice it indices in
a million ways but fundamentally it is
about turning out core people people who
are either lifelong you know engaged
Democrats or the kind of voters who are
turned off by the fact that they don't
believe politics goes far enough to help
them and the more moderates that you
also need from these suburban places to
turn out for you you know how do you
prioritize who can who can excite who
can excite while also keeping moderates
you know coming to the table and
supporting you that's a really hard
question
there are compromises involved in that
but this just sort of avoids half of the
equation yeah but I mean going back to
your first point about the policies so
you mentioned a number of policies that
are wildly popular raising taxes on the
wealthy wildly popular and it's
something that I think you're right that
the mainstream media doesn't quite
understand they'll call it a populist
are they going to turn off people on
Wall Street because like you know people
and the Acela corridors who they
talk to all the time and the truth is
higher taxes on wealthy people Elizabeth
Warren's wealth tax is extremely popular
not only among Democrats but among
independents and even some Republicans
you talk about Medicaid expansion wildly
popular among all parties even
Republicans even some Republicans
Medicare for all is an interesting
example that we've talked about a number
of times where if you ask people do you
think that everyone should be able to
get Medicare and then we should have
Medicare for everyone it's extremely
popular it's a it's it's poppin it's a
polling sorry it's pulling over or 50
percent easily when you tell people that
Medicare for all will require the
elimination of the private health
insurance market and most likely
middle-class taxes to go up it becomes
very unpopular now medicare for all
proponents will say well this private
health insurance thing is sort of
 and I've heard them make the
point like what people really want is
not necessarily their insurance plan to
keep they want their doctor and under
Medicare for all all doctors are in the
same network and so if you're if we have
a Medicare for All system yeah you're
gonna get your doctor no matter where
you go and then maybe people will like
that more right but I guess my point is
if you are backing an unpopular policy a
policy that does not command wide
majority support in this country you
still it is incumbent on you as a
politician as someone advocating for
this policy to talk about it in a way
that is most politically effective and
popular right so you to make the case
for Medicare for all a single-payer
system and why why this problem is so
important that only a single-payer
system right away can solve it and not
for example enrolling a bunch of people
in Medicare and letting everyone in the
country choose to enroll in Medicare you
it is incumbent on you to make the case
why this single-payer system is so much
more important than a public option
system or Medicare for America or any of
these other alternatives where you can
sort of in enroll you have to make that
case and the same thing is true on
immigration right like I we talked about
in the last pod but you know under the
affordable care act Barack Obama
promised that undocumented immigrants
wouldn't be part of this health care
system because it was tough to convince
all it's not about Republican
politicians it was tough to convince a
lot of Americans that their tax dollars
should do that now again as we said
there's an argument to be made for why
when an undocumented immigrant goes to
the emergency room and they get treated
it's going to end up costing taxpayers
more than it would to make sure that
that person has health insurance and is
covered and has preventive care like you
can make an argument but we got to make
the argument and I worry that we're not
quite making the argument yes so I do
think right so I feel like though didn't
I think that's all true
and I and I do think that what I'm
trying to say it's almost I think that's
all true but it's owns as if that's a
separate point because the nuances of
making the case for single-payer the
nuances for making the case around
immigration are don't go to the core of
the kind of political concerns inside of
this article right look I don't believe
that the moderates the moderate pundits
would be less turned off today if anyone
had made that kind of an argument these
are its properties are people coming to
the
table but I still think it's hard to
it's hard to disentangle all this
because you almost have to start the
armor by saying the moderate
pundits the Bret Stevens column
right and and the idea that oh we
must please Republican politicians
because we need them like all that aside
just think about the voters right think
about assembling a coalition in this
country that is that can get you 270
electoral votes and they can get you a
majority in the Senate that's what you
should be thinking about right like
don't worry about what Bret Stevens
thinks don't worry about Republican
policy and how do you get that coalition
and I think you know we have at least
some Democrats have convinced ourselves
that all you need to do is increase
turnout among the base and go after
those voters who've stayed home in 2016
or who voted for third party and then
you've magically got the coalition
that's good
and I think that some other people some
of these pundits have convinced
themselves the only way to for Democrats
to win is to win back all these Obama
Trump voters and I think that's
incorrect as well but I think the point
is it's not an easy call
which side is right and it's definitely
a both and yes like what we forget is in
2012 in 2012 one out of every three
Obama voters was a non college educated
white person which is the exact
demographic that we have been losing for
decades and decades and the idea that
you know sometimes we're like oh well
they're all sort of like racist Trump
voters they're not because a third of
them have been in our coalition through
both Obama terms and by the way Hillary
was actually a little less than one in
three but she still had a bunch too and
if it goes if that if we do worse among
non college whites than Hillary did it
doesn't matter how many other how many
or how much of our base we can turn out
it doesn't matter if we increase African
American turnout to Obama levels it
doesn't matter if we find a whole bunch
of new voters it's just the math
forty-four percent of eligible voters in
this country are non college educated
white voters that is the largest bloc in
the country it's um
I also think so much of this
conversation gets separated by so it's
amazing how everyone's political
preferences
flow from their policy preference right
of course so so that's like the
inevitable Twitter debate which is
pretty unhelpful you know this is the
this is the point about not trying to
please the pundits not trying to please
anybody else it's a it's a genuine
political strategic question right we
can talk about the policy and and talk
about the moral argument for
single-payer it's a it's an argument I
agree with but you come down you come
you come back to what is the best way to
win now I'm if the argument is here's
why single-payer and getting fully
behind that and explaining it is the
best way to win I'm fine I don't know I
really am very comfortable that that's a
great way to that if that if having that
big of a distinction is the is the way
we need to convince people that were on
their side make that argument I'll come
I'll come on board yeah look and I think
I think the same is true on immigration
right like we know that there is a large
majority of people in this country who
are on board with a pathway to
citizenship for 11 million undocumented
immigrants in this country including the
dreamers but beyond the dreamers all 11
million people who are here undocumented
right now that the there is a large
majority for ending family separations
for ending these mass detentions for
ending these mass deportations for
having for building a orderly
immigration system in this country where
you can apply for citizenship you can
apply for asylum you can get your case
heard it's efficient we spend more
resources at the border not necessarily
on security but on judges and
immigration judges to make sure these
asylum claims are heard there's a large
majority in the country in favor of this
and I think and you know we talked about
sort of Castro's proposal to repeal 1325
which decriminalizes immigration all
together on the last pod and I think
when I think about that proposal the
first thing that comes to mind is okay
well the next Democratic president can
achieve everything you want to achieve
through that repeal through executive
action
so why necessarily do we need to make
that a litmus test for every Democratic
candidate for president when we know
that the the big challenge that we have
is not only ending all of these awful
immigration policies but providing
citizenship for all the people who are
here as undocumented immigrants and you
know making sure we have a better legal
a more humane immigration system like
that should be our number one concern
and so if you want to be for repeal of
13:25 like that's fine and I think
there's good debates on why it's
important why it's not a good idea why
it's bad idea there's a lot of debates
on that but I don't think we should be
in like litmus test territory on some of
this stuff well especially because it's
it's um it's it is the like the next
president will face an emergency of
undoing all the damage Donald Trump was
has done and the incredible challenge of
building a coalition or on comprehensive
immigration reform yeah and the odds
that this is part of that debate are
actually quite small
to be honest almost infinitesimal
because you can you can achieve what you
want to through executive action right
like and we've been talking we've been
talking all these candidates will you
get rid of the filibuster and some of
them will some of them won't but like
let's imagine what we have here say we
we win the Senate and we win the
presidency and there's 50 something
seats and what are you gonna do a lot of
them Elizabeth Warren people like that
have said democracy reform a lot of them
talked about Medicare for all so now
we're gonna get to immigration reform
which no one has said it's gonna be
their first priority which is too bad i
with someone's first priority maybe it's
Castro's maybe I could be mistaken but
um it's then you're gonna get
immigration reform you're right you have
to get through you have to get a bunch
of Democratic senators on boards from
these red states for comprehensive
immigration reform that legalizes 11
million people in this country provides
a pathway to citizenship and sort of
ends all of chromes policies like that's
gonna be a big task to say the least
that's gonna be tough and I'm not saying
like trim our sales and everything stuff
like that I'm just saying because we
should be bold we should be progressive
and everything we say but like if you're
going to embrace a policy that may not
command majority support in the country
think about I'm not saying don't do that
but think about how urgent is it that we
pass this policy to solve one of the
problems that we couldn't solve in
another way yeah you know okay when we
come back we will have Lovitz interview
with
Ari Berman of mother Jen's
you
