so you go away for a week and there's
like three blockbuster or Russia stories
I'm gonna take the room real quick first
the New York Times reports that the FBI
was so nervous about Trump's behavior
that they opened a counterintelligence
investigation against him
second The Washington Post reported that
Trump is so worried about US officials
learning what he discussed with Vladimir
Putin and their one-on-one meetings that
he forbid his interpreter from talking
about it and at one point up her notes
away third and this was today Tuesday
the New York Times reported that last
year Trump repeatedly told his aides
that he wanted to pull out of NATO good
god um in my mind these stories are all
intertwined so we pick your poison where
do you want to start what's his favorite
what's your favorite disasters Dart well
look I think well first of all Greg
Miller the poster for to reach out to me
on that story and he said hey would you
guys ever take the notes away from a an
interpreter tell the interpreter not to
share the notes I'm like no I mean first
of all because interpreters are you know
their civil servants right manat policy
aides so for Trump to go to that length
it speaks to a degree of paranoia
there's less crazy I mean you know first
of all if we met with Putin if Obama met
with Putin if there was something really
sensitive that you want to talk about we
would go down to what's called a
one-on-one meeting however a one-on-one
meeting we would always have the
national security adviser in right so
Susan Rice would be in there Tom Donilon
in part because you need somebody in
there to know what was discussed to
follow up on it to back briefed the rest
of the government right and the fact
that Trump not only didn't want an aide
in the meeting but then was concerned
about that with the translator had in
their notes is chilling to me I
mean what is he so paranoid about that
they're discussing right well can I kiss
you quick question so like let's say
there's a really sensitive meeting at a
g20 on the margins yeah Obama grabs Bibi
Netanyahu the national security advisors
and they talk about a really sensitive
detail of Iran's nuclear program how is
that meeting then appropriately read out
to the people who need to know in a
normal case so that happened a lot and
the national security adviser would
essentially hand
you know which aides needed to know
something they would you know call us
and I was usually in that group into
their office and say okay here's what
they discussed
don't tell anybody the details of this
however you need to know this to do your
job right so then the aides could in
working with the State Department the
Defense Department you know be informed
by that conversation even if they
weren't necessarily telling everything
the government exactly what was said
right but you need somebody to be able
to implement what was discussed put it
this way Tommy let's let's look at it
from under different perspective
what is the purpose of a President of
the United States talking to the
President of Russia and not having
anybody in his government know about it
right there's no purpose to that
conversation if nobody can follow up on
what was discussed then it's meaningless
for the purposes of US interest right so
it's if Trump feels like he's the only
one who should know what was discussed
then clearly what was discussed is
something that is only of interest to
Trump it's not of interest to the rest
of the US government it's not of
interest to our national security it's
just in Trump's personal interest now
that leads to this NATO point right
which is let's say Trump has this
discussion with Putin I am sure that
Putin would make the case that you don't
need to be in NATO oh you're right you
know you should be pulling out so then
Trump takes that on board potentially
and suddenly he's arguing to pull out of
NATO I can't so that leads the the the
other crazy story which is it there's no
possible reason for the United States
pull up NATO make not zero this is an
alliance that has basically guaranteed
our global influence our influence in
Europe and the security of Europe for 70
years right I mean it's been a good deal
for us remember World War two that was
bad we prevented a World War three
because we had a NATO right that was
strong enough as a collective defense
alliance to deter Russia from you know
aggression inside of Europe and you know
sure we may want them to spend more on
their defense but to take the leap to
them just pulling out of NATO would
totally unravel u.s. alliances the
security architecture that has governed
Europe and prevented another world war
and it is something that is perfect
found Lee in Russia's interest in not at
all in ours Russia hates NATO because
it's a collective defense alliance right
on their border former Soviet republics
are in NATO they hate that and so this
is something that Russia wants that is
that nobody no good mountain argument is
in our interest right there's there's
some people out there could say some of
these things Trump is doing you know
maybe we should pull out of these wars
or maybe you know maybe we should get
tough with China on trade certainly not
in the way that he's been doing it but
you could make those arguments there's
not any constituency in this country
that is like you know yes it's time for
NATO it's only in Russia's interest and
that leads to the first time story which
is is he a Russian agent you know and
it's hard to explain any other reason
for Trump to want to pull out of NATO
other than the fact that Russia wants us
to pull out NATO now whether that makes
him a Russian agent whether he's
compromised by Russia and he's
embarrassed by that you know we don't
know but but again this could be
different things it doesn't necessarily
mean that he was brainwashed by Russia
and he's a Manchurian Candidate but it
could mean that Russia has plenty of
compromising information on Trump maybe
it's financial maybe it's personal
maybe it's a Trump knows that Russia
knows what they did with him and
collusion to swing the 2016 election and
if he has in the back of his head Wow if
the Russians put this information out
I'm in trouble if essentially Russia can
blackmail Trump then he is as good as a
Russian agent to Vladimir Putin right
and that would explain him constantly
praising Putin not standing up to Putin
taking these positions that make no
sense why is Vladimir Putin the only
person on earth other than maybe Kim
Young and recently that he won't
criticize I these are this is not just
some you know rogue FBI agents who were
upset about Jim Comey I think we all as
Americans have plenty of reason now to
ask is the president nighted states
compromise when it comes to Russia and
the fact that we're talking about that
is chilling it's just so see you some
days you need to step back and just
remember how bonkers this it's bonkers
if we if you and I that this
conversation 2016 we would have laughed
it off it like a bad movie plot but here
we are
yeah I mean I the most serious people in
the government like Jim Comey aside and
we should say too by the way Russia's
already getting what it wants it we're
gonna have to pull up NATO like this
dysfunction in the u.s. like this
shutdown is good to Russia right the
u.s. having no credibility around the
world cuz the Trump is good for them the
the people not knowing whether we're
pulling out of Syria or not that's good
for them like they're getting more than
a return on their investment
you
