welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm dan Piper later in the pod
Dan's conversation with the New Yorkers
Jane Mayer about America's cancer Fox
News but first we're gonna talk about
the president's big day of national
healing the the politics of gun reform
and what a recent wave of House
retirements tells us about 2020 a few
quick housekeeping notes on a packed
episode of POD save the world this week
Tommy and Ben talked about right wing
domestic terrorists with former
counterterrorism director Nick Rasmussen
they also covered the protests in Hong
Kong what's happening with India and
Kashmir and why Lindsey Lowen is hanging
out with the Saudi Crown Prince Lindsey
Lohan and the Crown Prince very cool
very cool
also yeah I missed that headline also a
reminder that our Los Angeles pod save
America live show is taking place at the
Greek on August 17th Wow that's next
Saturday with performances from Maggie
Rogers Amanda seals Best Coast from Jim
James our co-host will be Jamel Hill
proceeds from the show will be donated
to organizations at the forefront of the
fight to protect the vote across America
so grab your tickets at crooked comm
slash the Greek all right let's get to
the news just a few days after a mass
shooting and the worst terrorist attack
against the Latino community in modern
American history Donald Trump spent
Wednesday lashing out at the following
people between visits with the victims
and their families in Dayton Ohio and El
Paso Texas better O'Rourke Joe Biden
sherrod Brown Dayton mayor nan Whaley
Elizabeth Warren Bernie Sanders Joaquin
Castro who Leanne Castro the Democrats
Fox News's Shep Smith CNN and the New
York Times which briefly ran a headline
on Monday that said Trump urges unity
versus racism a time story also reported
that when Trump's campaign was asked
whether he'd stop referring to Hispanic
immigration as an invasion a description
used by the white nationalist terrorists
who murdered 22 people in El Paso a
senior advisor for the Trump campaign
had a one-word answer no so Dan it is by
now completely unsurprising the Donald
Trump acts like a narcissistic sociopath
during times of national tragedy and yet
somehow it's still
always worse than you imagine it will be
at least for me what was your reaction
watching all of this unfold yesterday I
mean it was really bad it's like I know
we are not supposed to be surprised or
shocked but anything trump does that he
is the worst person in america and we
all know this but even still this week
was disgusting
it's absolutely disgusting that he could
go to those communities meet walk
through those hospitals meet with the
people who were shot and injured by
family members the people who were
killed walk out of there and the entire
time think that the true victim of the
day was Donald Trump that he just is so
he is just no capacity for compassion or
empathy or even have an emotional
connection with another human there's
this video that came out today at this
discussion in El Paso where he applauded
the medical staff which is very nice and
he should do and immediately pivots to
how big his rally crowd was an attacking
better works rally crowd from their trip
to El Paso a few months ago it is just
it is just mind-boggling what a horrible
human being he is it's just it really it
and I hope it never ceases to shock us
when we see it yeah like I I don't just
hope to never have a president or any
kind of leader in this country like this
I hope to never know a human being like
this it's just it is on the most human
level it is revolting to watch that like
I don't know you're right like I don't
know how any human being seeing that
kind of tragedy seeing that kind of
grief up close in person in two
different cities could make the entire
day about themselves I mean it was about
it was grievance you know all the
country is grieving and for Trump it was
all about grievance it was it was the
whole thing everything he was a victim
he wasn't getting enough praise the
White House releases this video
of him in the hospitals and the music
looked like I don't know it's it sounded
like the intro to like a an NFL
game
it was the music was insane and all of
the images are people taking pictures of
Donald Trump and shaking his hand there
are no pictures of anything it wasn't it
wasn't like people get hugging each
other and all the kind of things you'd
imagine to see in a video like that it
was all just people taking pictures of
Trump and smiling at him and shaking his
hand that was the video I mean like
there are legitimate questions about the
etiquette inappropriateness I'm doing a
video about this but there is a video
that is about the law enforcement
officers who save people's lives and
they and the other heroes who were in
the Walmart in El Paso or in Dayton who
save people's lives or a story of a
community coming together to heal and
recover something like this instead it
is just a video about how popular joke
is which also makes it fake news because
he's not very popular yeah I mean it
just but it's like this is not just
Trump there are people that we pay the
American taxpayer paid for that
video the people in the White House who
decided that what's right thing to do
like so it's not just that we have this
irrational narcissist with a Twitter
account it's this is the function of the
White House is to serve this like
massively insecure empty shell of a
human being yeah and like I mean it's
not just Trump in that you know dance
Covino you know his social media
director that is responsible for half
these tweets was tweeting yesterday he
was treated like a rockstar in the
hospital he's visiting people who are
you know we're wounded in a mass
shooting were victims of a terrorist
attack and the White House and and
Kellyanne Conway was basically saying
the same thing to he's treated like a
rock star people loved him and then this
unbelievably just awful thing happens
where he in Dayton he's with the mayor
of date and he's with sherrod Brown they
tour the hospital sherrod Brown and
Mayor Whaley come out and they hold a
press conference sherrod actually says
you know Trump he did the right thing he
comforted people Melania comforted
people they both did the right thing was
good and then said you know I did push
him on gun control and said that you
know he we should take these weapons out
of people's hands
and Trump I guess he's that part on on
CNN and then just goes crazy on Twitter
and on television saying that and and so
does his staff by the way saying Shari
Browns a liar failed presidential can do
and just completely lies about the fact
that Jerry Brown actually said he did a
good job in the hospital I don't know
man it's that it's really bad it's
really really bad and it gets worse like
he is B kids actively becoming a worse
president every single day which is the
opposite of the way they should go yeah
and look and this whole thing was not
only predictable but predicted by many
people from across the political
spectrum and George Conway conservative
Republican lawyer George Conway husband
of Kellyanne Conway a couple days before
Trump to these visits had this Twitter
thread where he's like you know this is
gonna go Donald Trump's gonna give a
speech on Monday that some sober speech
on a teleprompter and everyone's gonna
you know pat him on the back for it but
he's not gonna get enough love for the
speech because he won't make any policy
changes you won't talk about gun control
he's still a racist so because then the
coverage won't reflect that everyone
loves him he will get pissed at the
coverage and then he will start lashing
out at everyone within a couple days and
sure enough that's exactly what happened
and it's not like George Conway some
 genius anyone could have seen
this coming because this is who the man
is and he will never change
so most of trumps anger yesterday was
you know per usual about Trump not
getting enough praise but I do want to
talk about how one of Trump's tweets
yesterday quoted reports that the Dayton
shooter had a history of supporting
political figures like Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren and aunt Aoife which
you know even that report from a
right-wing L it is fairly exaggerated
you know Trump later repeated this to
reporters and then answered a question
about whether the growing threat of
white nationalism concerns him like this
quote I am concerned about the rise of
any group of hate whether it's white
supremacy whether it's any other kind of
supremacy whether it's an Tifa
whether it's any group of hate I am
concerned about it dan what does that
remind you of John there are very fine
people on both sides I mean so and in
the you know the broader question here
what is Trump and the White House and
Republican pundits and the conservative
media all trying to accomplish by
talking about who the Dayton shooter may
have voted for muddy the water
muddy the waters this is the most
classic political technique Trump knows
he's incapable of convincing people that
he is not shitty but he also knows he's
very capable of convincing people that
everyone else is also shitty and so this
is exactly what 2016 was about yeah I'm
corrupt but check out my Clinton
Foundation yeah I'm a liar but check out
this thing Hillary Clinton claimed and
just over and over again and you just
make everyone feel so cynical and
terrible that they tune out and stop
caring that's exactly what we're doing
here and it's based on his really
intuitive understanding of how the media
works which is he knows that their
default position is both sides we think
you can give an argument for the other
side that it will be reported either as
fact or as Trump set X so it becomes
Trump said she said or Trump said he
said or whatever else and we're just
trying to draw a false equivalency here
because these are fundamentally
different things they are what the El
Paso shooter did and we know what the OU
has to shoot everything because the El
Paso shooter posted a manifesto that
echoes the message of the Trump campaign
that echoes the message of Fox News and
the weather you know who knows what
these reports but the Dayton shooter was
not inspired by the rhetoric of
Elizabeth Warren because this let me
check my notes of what Elizabeth
Warren's rhetoric is oh yes serious
wonky policy based conversation about
fixing the American economy which does
not seem to be at the at the part of
what went to the tragedy in Dayton yeah
also there's plenty of evidence so far
that the Dayton shooter was a misogynist
he had a kill list and a rape list and
hi
I mean he was like a very troubled young
man and that's that's what the evidence
is there so far and that you know this
may change but they're so far zero
evidence that he was radicalized by a
political ideology at all but you know
you're I think the most important point
here is that there is a larger media
narrative about polarization in America
and how both sides are extremely
polarized that does not recognize that
there's asymmetric polarization in this
country that Republicans are far more
extreme and polarized than Democrats are
and the Republican Party as a whole is
far more extreme and polarized than the
Democratic Party is or the left and so
but because there's this narrative that
exists in the media it is easy for Trump
and Republican pundits and people on Fox
to fee I mean if you watch Fox over the
last couple days you know what are they
talking about they'll talk about ante
foe they'll talk about this date and
shooter thing they'll talk about
protesters outside of Mitch McConnell's
house they'll basically Fox over the
last couple days has been about how Fox
and conservatives and Donald Trump are
victims right they are the real victims
here because for some weird reason
they're all being accused of racism
they're all being accused of causing
this gee I wonder why look at the
 manifesto at the El Paso
terrorists wrote it is language directly
pulled from Donald Trump from Tucker
Carlson from Laura Ingraham from Fox
News directly they were what White House
just say the something that went under
sorry something that flew under the
radar this week
Cesar seoc the pipe bomber from October
of 2018 who tried to assassinate Barack
Obama Hillary and Bill Clinton other
Democratic leaders by attempting to mail
them pipe bombs was sentenced and his
defense his defense in his case was that
Donald Trump inspired him to do this
what are we doing here there is no
 equivalence you know Donald
Trump has an enemies list
he is public about it he talks about all
the time this is the second time in
recent memory where someone has taken
upon themselves to
at them and enemies list and it is and I
just wanna dress the Fox News for this
and I talked about this with Jane and
our conversation will be at the end of
this pod but white nationalism is the
message of Fox News it's not just a
message of Tucker Carlson and Laura
Ingraham it is a message of Fox and
Friends it's a message of the five and
all the other shitty shows on that
shitty Network the entire point this has
been the point that's Barack Obama ran
for president 2008 is that white people
are under assault from non-white people
that it's immigrants taking your jobs
that is African Americans living in
cities who are taking your taxpayer
dollars it is Muslims who are coming
here to kill you it is ms-13 coming here
to kill you its armies of migrants
invading America that is their message
they have created a climate of hate in
the strategy that is amplified by Trump
news and it is a toxic stew and there
has been zero introspection from
anyone on the right other than a random
state senator in Nebraska who was asked
to leave the party for that reason about
how their rhetoric has contributed to a
climate of hate in a country where you
can buy a assault weapon in a
store and that like you would you would
just hope that someone would look at
what they are saying look what they are
doing and wondering if they should stop
but they aren't they are incapable of
that it is deeply dangerous and deeply
disturbing yeah it is a problem will
persist long after we get Trump out of
the White House right well I mean look
if you want to completely just take the
politics out of this the FBI
Chris ray the FBI director says the
domestic terrorism is our number-one
threat right now and that most of the
cases of domestic terrorism over the
last couple years have been you know
have involved white supremacists
CNN reported last night that the White
House rejected efforts by the Department
of Homeland Security to make combating
domestic terrorism like the threat from
white supremacists a greater priority
instead the White House proposed that
their national counterterrorism strategy
focus on radical Islamists and foreign
drug dealers because that would please
the president that's what they said back
to the Department of Homeland
in the career officials at the
Department of Homeland Security and by
the way some of the political appointees
Trump political appointees that we had
the national security and law
enforcement apparatus of this country
saying that this is a threat to the
security of this country domestic
terrorists white supremacist is a
growing threat in this country and the
Trump White House said no Trump likes to
have his writer be about they say no job
because Donald Trump is a racist and it
would upset trunks to read that right we
think the race is base and as we saw we
talked about this a few months ago but
it's the same thing when the Department
Homeland Security was trying to have a
high-level White House meeting about
stopping Russian interference the
election and the White House said no
because it would etc so the national
security strategy in this country to
protect the Americans for domestic
terrorism and foreign interference our
election is being hampered at a fear of
a temper tantrum from the commander in
chief we treat my one-year-old daughter
more like an adult than the US
government treats opposed no sips
responsibilities are less so the
consequences are smaller yeah I mean I
just think it's an important point
because you know we focus so much
day-to-day on Trump's rhetoric and the
tweets and we can label them racist or
not racist or narcissistic or not or
whatever but it's not just his words
that are a problem here though they are
it is the policies that flow from both
his words and his deeply broken
personality because he is at the top of
the federal government and so there are
policy consequences from this that are
happening every single day that often
fly under the radar because we're just
focused on how crazy he is from day to
day and it's really dangerous
it's like I think people like to comfort
themselves as idea that they're a bunch
of like Jim mattis types in the
government who just ignore Trump's
tweets and do the right thing anyway and
that's not right when the president says
on there he says it in a executive order
or a tweet that becomes passe United
States and so these Twitter rants from
the president are driving the polish
united states in with great consequences
for people's lives and safety yeah and
so obviously I would say that the policy
consequences are the most important
thing to focus on here but
you know just going back to yesterday
you know I I wasn't just angry watching
this like I I was pretty sad
in you know because like I think in
times of national tragedy you just you
want a president to act like a president
even if you didn't vote for that
president and you know you and I watched
Obama do this way too many times on the
White House but I also think you know
that's maybe one part of the job maybe
the only part of the job that even a
president like george w bush did pretty
well after a national tragedy do you
think this ability for a president to
console and empathize is important or is
this just more optics that
we're comforting ourselves or not
comforting ourselves with i think it is
important i think there are times or
there were times i would say when people
would put politics aside where you
really would you want the president to
have what our friend david axelrod gonna
call the pastoral role the presidency to
emphasize emphasize sorry empathize with
what has happened and let let you know
that when your community is hurting
whether it's from a shooting or
hurricane or some other disaster that
the president and your government has
your back and that the president would
take the time out of their busy day to
go to your community and grieve with you
and console' you and support you and you
know we went with president obama to you
know particular after natural disasters
and tornadoes and things like that that
some of the reddest parts of the country
and there are people most people he saw
did not go for him in 2008 fo-fo 2012
would never vote for him but they were
appreciative that he was there his
presence and meant something and i
really worry that trump in the many ways
in which he has ripped at the mall
fabric of this country has made it so
that that will never be the same again
yeah that he because he is so toxic and
so terrible the other side will feel
obligated to respond to a normal
president who's an democrat in the
abnormal ways in which we've been forced
to respond to trump and i think it's its
it is said that it will never be
the same and I I would say you were
correct that George Bush did that well
but he also contributed to this problem
by taking the moment of national unity
after asked after 9/11 and then using a
to jam the country into a war of choice
in the country that did not invade us
and that started us down this path that
Trump was finishing the job yeah no he
it is not to say the george w bush
wasn't in the running for the worst
president we've ever had I'm not trying
to make you I'm trying to make you up
Bush supporter but I right now I realize
what's coming after I said that believe
me yeah but look no I think George W
Bush going to a mosque after 9/11 in
Georgia be you know like there are these
moments where you're like this
guy and this was of course before Iraq
once Iraq happens you're like no
him is he's done but there are moments
before Iraq where you're like I did not
vote for this guy I don't like this guy
I hate most of the things he stands for
but good for him at least in this moment
not making it worse I'm not making it
divisive and I think you're right that
what's happening what happened this week
what happens every time there's a
national tragedy now I think will revert
the way that Trump has acted and you
know not just Trump but Fox News because
they speak for the or they influence the
Trump's base will reverberate for a long
time now and I think the future
presidents Democratic presidents
especially are going to have to sort of
go out of the way to be to you know try
to find that decency and compassion
during times of tragedy and look and I
remember you know working with Obama on
some of these speeches after a tragedy
or shooting and you know there were
times especially towards the end when he
would you know push for gun control and
you know Republicans would criticize him
for politicizing the moment but I
remember like we took extra care that
even when we were pushing for gun
control you'd never think of attacking
the Republican Party attacking
Republican politicians by name lashing
out at people calm face
presidential candidates and all the
other you know as he was
meeting with grieving families or
speaking at memorial services I mean
that's insane to even think about and
and the reason it as you know and there
were times after some of those massacres
were we were all very very pissed at the
Republican Party and we said this is
ridiculous that gun control has been
held up even though it's a 90 percent
issue for background checks or whatever
but we did we we all controlled
ourselves the president controlled
himself because this is a moment that
calls for a politician to sort of rise
above yes fight hard for the policy push
hard for the policy point out who's
blocking it but just yelling about
politicians attacking them personally
what the
at least if you're gonna yell yell about
a policy issue write mad that they're
opposing gun control totally mad because
they said something that you thought
with me right right like and this is it
it's not even just like it's just I
wanted this but you've made this point
we made it up time has to be issued be
made over ever get this is not
unacceptable conduct for a president
assuming yes unacceptable conduct for a
human being right if you saw your
dentist act like this you would not let
him put his hands in your mouth and so I
get like it's just so it is so
gross and so infuriating and so sad it
is sad that this is what we are
living in we should spend a few minutes
on how the media has handled their
coverage of Trump since the attacks you
know there was a 48-hour Twitter debate
about whether people should cancel their
New York Times subscriptions over that
shockingly terrible headline Trump
bridges unity versus racism but it
wasn't just that Times headline that
piss people off you know Politico had a
story this week that you were quoted in
about how liberal frustration with the
way the media covers Trump has boiled
over a sentiment that was expressed most
eloquently by better--or Rourke when he
said members of the press what the
dan dan what did you think of The Times
headline fiasco and and why do you think
in general the media keeps doing this
 I mean I was very mad about the
time subway and as everyone else was but
the anger ultimately was not really
about to headline him but for
addition it was the boiling over of a
larger frustration with the media writ
large and the times more specifically
and some of that frustration is unfair
and puts on the times unfair
expectations of what of how
accountability should be delivered to
Trump in this era some of it is very
fair and I I read basically the times is
something that's very unusual for the
times which is they were transparent
about their decision-making processes
Simon Dean vaque the editor at the time
so it was a very smart and accomplished
guy did a number of interviews and he
did one with the Atlantic's Lizzy
O'Leary that I thought was really
fascinating and he walked through the
Hallie ended up with that hemline it
sounds pretty clearly that it was human
error it was like people making a
decision with too fast without enough
supervision and they made a mistake and
they fix it and I think that is I don't
think there was some meeting with the
time decided how to kiss up to Trump and
this is what they came up with and you
and I know from working in government
that when you were debating between the
reasons for a problem being either
incompetence or conspiracy it's almost
always in confidence and that I think
that's what happened here but there was
something in that interview that was
really interesting and I think spoke to
what that Oh
talked about which is Dean went well out
of his way and there to say that this is
not an extraordinary time then we in
America have been here before we have
had leaders white Trump before we've had
tough times before yeah and that quote
explains everything about The Times
editorial decision making process of the
last several years which is obviously
they haven't done great journals in the
hacker Charles they are the gold
standard and journals in America and I'm
subscriber I will remain a subscriber I
think it's great but that I think is
where they are wrong because you act one
way if you think this is one interlude
in American history you've acted
different way if you think we are at a
crossroads between what we were and
something else that is much worse and
that is where the misalignment between
the times in the readers
people are scared shitless they think
that the country is headed in a very bad
direction that Trump is dangerous if you
think Trump is just going to go away
either in 2021 or sometime after that
and then the life will go back to normal
then you react the way The Times is
reacting and I think that is I disagree
with it with their assessment and
therefore I just go with her approach
from that moment from that point well
and I think that also connects with
something else Deen BK said that I I
thought you were gonna mention which is
he's like um you know we are not going
to he said something like we're not
going to be the opposition party to
Trump we're not gonna play the
opposition Trump we don't see that as
our role and it's sort of this this
thought Imam and you hear this a lot
from members of the media where they're
like you know we're not on we're not
Democrats right like we're we're not
members of your party we can't win this
election for you and they think they
sort of sometimes dismiss criticism
about their coverage of Trump as
partisan well I don't have to really
listen to this criticism because it's
coming from Democrats and obviously they
have a political interest in Trump
losing and Trump looking bad so
therefore I must not be making a mistake
because the criticism I'm getting is
just motivated by partisanship and I
think that belief also flows from the
belief that you were talking about which
is this isn't an extraordinary time
because if this was an extraordinary
time and and Trump's presidency does
represent something much different and
worse than we've seen in the past then
you know the it's not about just pure
partisanship and by the way there's
plenty of evidence that it isn't you
know like how many more Republican
strategists Republican pundits
Republican publications on the fringe
you know you got the never Trump
Republicans all the other people you've
got all of these people who voted for
Republican voted Republicans all their
lives you know there's a story this week
that Orange County California for the
first time in history has more Democrats
than registered Republicans all of these
people are speaking out against Trump
leaving the party changing the way they
vote you're not seeing the same kind of
thing on the Democratic side at all
clearly there is something going
there is a rejection to trump that is
that cuts across ideologies that cuts
across parties that cuts across
institutions and it does seem like the
media itself or at least some legacy
media has had trouble recognizing this
or at least they recognize it but they
still feel like they have to prize
balance over everything else even over
the reality of what's going on and and
striking balance is so important to them
that even as Trump is represent
something more extreme and dangerous
than ever they still have to give both
sides the same way yeah there is a I
mean there was just this fundamental
problem in journalism were too often
balance is valued over accuracy yeah
right where you end so that's one
problem the second problem I think to
your point is that there is this I think
on almost in some ways they has become
uncomfortably numb to what is happening
and it's due to whether it's just like
there's this pull to try to treat Trump
as normal as possible right just because
it must be exhausting you uncover this
extraordinary event on a daily basis to
be as scared as most Americans are and
then the third element of this is and
that this goes to sort of the quote I
highlighted from Dean McKay is I
remember in the first Obama term we had
a cabinet secretary it was sort of an
old Washington hand and he had done a a
handful of things it seems not entirely
in Brock Obama's interest and I remember
someone on our staff whose dinner do it
all doing around Washington awhile
saying to me so-and-so was here before
Obama and they're gonna be here after
Obama and that's how they make the
decisions and I sometimes think a lot of
the press not all of the press we should
be very clear there are some great
journals in acting a lot of it at the
times and other places but there is a
sort of view that they are not as
affected by the policies of Trump other
than his anti press rhetoric and
therefore they just got to get through
this moment without changing who they
are or changing what they have been or
adjusting their strategies to reflect
the new moment we are in well yeah I
think there's that and there's also
I know this there's this belief among
reporters like well 40% of the country
at least 40% of the country is with this
guy and so to the extent that we you
know honestly represent just how awful
and extreme he is we are doing so
knowing that like half of our half of
the country or at least almost half the
country is with this guy and if so half
the country is with this guy then he is
normalized by a lot of American citizens
and sorry I think it's like not just
this fear of of Trump and what like
Republican pundits will say about you
but voters or merit the American people
so the times I saw this Peter Baker from
The Times squeeze out the other day
there on that I think there's like 20 i
might have never but something like 21
billion
digital subscribers in air times now
yeah I would love to know what
percentage of those subscribers are
Trump voters yeah it ain't 40% I'll tell
you that no no I do not think so yeah
and look I mean look your job as a
journalist is also not to play to the
audience that subscribes to your media
publication right like we want
journalists to just be accurate and tell
the truth regardless of who's reading
them but I also think look I don't I
don't expect journalists to be you know
members of the Democratic Party to try
to you know sorry to try to help us
achieve you know purely partisan ends of
course not I don't I don't think that
they're on our team but there's a way to
write about Trump and analyze Trump just
using facts not putting any partisan
spin whatsoever then more accurately
represents would an awful human being
president he is then we currently see
often that's all I'm saying you can do
it without any partisan spend whatsoever
just the facts in front of your face do
you have any views on the subscription
canceling debate yeah I know I mean I I
don't think you should cancel your
subscription I don't I mean I think like
The Times does incredible journalism
even if you only like it for the opinion
and and you know Bret Stevens or
whoever else everyone's yelling about
makes you tear your hair out there's
fantastic opinion columnist at the time
there's people times there's people who
write for the times that are that write
some of the best journalism in the
country in the world and so I think that
you know I'm never gonna unsubscribe my
job is to read the news and they produce
really great news most of the time they
also drive me crazy and I also like I
have a broader point which is when
people piss you off I'd rather confront
them and yell at them about it and try
to get and persuade them to change
things which by the way the times did
change the headline after there was the
outcry they didn't change it to
something that was much better but they
changed it and so I tend to think that
that's the way to get people to change
their behavior and I don't think you
know a bunch of people on Twitter
canceling their subscriptions is going
to make a dent at all and sort of what
the unit's not gonna change the times
behavior in any way yeah I agree with
that I'm subscribed I'm called
subscriber and I'd have done it would
not encourage people to cancel I do
understand why some people would do so
the part I hated about the debate was
people raising a legitimate issue and
then reporters not from the times in
this case they're from other places
yelling at you and calling you stupid
for wanting to change to camp your
subscription right yeah just yelling at
the consumer is a terrible business
strategy and is like I thought that what
made the debate terrible was the
reaction from quadrille so part of the
reaction I did like were the people who
said if you cancel your time
subscription subscribe to something else
because we should support your mother at
your local paper or it's a progressive
media outlet like the nation or mother
jones or they're one to a reader
supported in their entirety like that
made sense but the whole thing is like
per usual we are having an angry heated
debate about one of the least important
parts of the problem yeah I mean just to
sort of zoom out from this do you think
that this sort of frustration with the
media in general is why sort of Beddoes
moment about the press sort of resonated
online I saw you in the poll
he's saying that for the first time in
your career it's good politics for
Democrats to rail against the media
which I thought was a very interesting
point yes I think there is a growing
frustration and anger within
Democratic activists and Democratic
voters about the role the media has
played in the Trump era and like we said
before someone that it's fair some of it
is unfair but it is real and it is like
we are sitting here screaming about what
is happening in this country like we see
this racist wire as a president and then
you have our media outlets afraid to
call the president a racist or a liar
that you in it isn't bubbling and when
you raise your concern you get yelled at
for them right that it is that you were
wrong there was very what seems to be
very little introspection what was I
thought useful about that what happened
with that kind of somebody sometimes
explain what happened The Times fires or
public editor we still they don't answer
questions about what they did right or
did wrong I am I've been told by many
people work at the Times if they spent a
lot of time learning lessons for 2016
and at reg will apply those to now but
no one knows that because the times
demands transparency of everyone but
themselves and this is I think you have
a bunch of other media organizations but
I think there was a real like this is a
growing problem and I think media
relations would be remissed if they did
not focus on that thing if the change of
behavior becomes live or anything else
but your business has become primarily
driven by Democratic voters like they
are the ones subscribing they're the
ones watching tuned on Fox News not run
on right-wing propaganda needy outlets
and if they are also angry at you you're
gonna find yourself with no base but no
group of people and beto comments and
also my cory booker and others who've
expressed this reflect that anger and
that is a sea change from where things
used to be yeah and reflect as you said
I you could see it in like Beddoes
frustration that we are in this and the
frustration I'm sure was directly
related to the fact that the massacre
happened in his hometown that this is a
different moment that this is something
unique and different and extreme and
that there is not a
a broad enough recognition of that
certainly among enough members of the
media just to say one more thing
yeah I know we have rather hair this one
in the ground is the other thing that
makes me feel really angry is that there
is a lot of gendered in racial
stereotypes in political writing right
it's the talk of electability it is the
status feted citizens I can never say
this word be better society tokenization
I would say focus on to focus on white
working-class voters in the Midwest as
opposed to non voters of color or voters
of color around the country and like
that like there is then there is a an
elite white privilege problem with a lot
of journals not all of it and that also
drives it which is why you see such
frustration from supporters of women
candidates like Hummel Harris Elizabeth
Warren who often are you find these
sexist tropes in writing about the
candidates like are they like them
enough are they electable enough are
they - well yeah you know that that sort
of stuff that also came is a reaction to
how that's a definite 16 election was
covered and that came through this week
you know we said at the top of the pod
that this was the worst terrorist attack
on the Latino community in the United
States and modern American history and
yet the coverage are not enough coverage
I think the LA Times has done a really
good job with this but not enough of the
coverage has really reflected that
aspect of the story you know there's
been a lot about Trump has Trump behaved
well has he not behaved well we just
talked about that a lot of talk about
guns but there hasn't been a lot of
focus on the fact that this was a
terrorist attack against the Latino
community was a hate crime and I think a
lot of Latinos in this country are
rightly angered by that that that wasn't
a prominent enough angle in the coverage
one more one more thing before we move
on to guns
speaking of sort of betos response to
this how do you think the Democratic
candidates as a whole have been handling
this week do you think they've sort of
risen to meet the moment
should this chant how much should this
change the race for the presidency I'm
not gonna do get into will or won't it
but how much should it change how they
fight their time and attention I think
the Democratic candidates on the whole
have risen to the moment they have
spoken out passionately and eloquently
about the role of Trump's rhetoric in
white nationalist political philosophy
in what happened in El Paso they had
talked about the daily tragedy in this
country because the easy access to guns
and they have done they have not they
have not hedged their bets they have not
pulled their punches they have been
strong you know whether it was Elizabeth
Warren and federal or calling Trump a
white supremacist whether it's the
speech that Cory Booker Gage and South
Carroll is in South Carolina yesterday
yeah this piece to Joe Biden gave Iowa
people have been strong and bold and you
haven't seen political calculation enter
into this moment but there are lots of
things to Loblaw makes it criticized
about people in this deal but I think on
the whole this is a moment where I was
very proud of our Democratic candidates
I felt the same way a to to to a person
every single one of them and you know
it's funny because I thought about how
we all felt after the last debate the
Democrats and the stories were about
sort of like Democratic infighting and
are they attacking brocco bomb on all
that and you know sometimes I
think it takes a moment like this and so
and watching them all react to a moment
like this that makes you think you know
I'd be very proud for any one of them to
become president instead of
Donald Trump and no matter what our
differences are and what we may fight
about over the next couple months and
there will be even more fights as we get
closer to the actual voting any single
one of these Democratic candidates would
be infinitely better than Donald Trump
and the fate of the country our
democracy and perhaps the world depends
on one of them win it it really does and
it really puts the intra-party fights
that we have had in perspective I
think because they are incredibly
important they will make a difference to
millions of people's lives and yet they
are just all so much closer together on
all of these issues then we are with the
presidency that we're seeing right now
and I do think and in terms of like
whether it should change the race I know
this is also goes back to sort of that
that last debate where everything seemed
sort of small like the argument seemed a
little small like everyone was going
back and forth you know there's been you
know last time when Donald Trump you
know tried to or said that those for
congresswoman if color should be should
go back where they came from you know
there were all these pundits getting
very nervous about oh should you know
Donald Trump wants to put race and
identity at the center of this race
Democrat shouldn't take the bait we have
to you know pivot to economic issues and
healthcare and all the like and of
course you and I know that economic
issues in health care and incredibly
important part of the campaign but it
does seem like there is no choice for
the Democratic candidates but to
confront Trump's racism head-on as a
central part of this campaign right I
don't know I mean what do you think I
think you I think you have to I think
like and we've said this before you have
to we have a moral obligation to call it
out because it is at the heart of
everything that is happening in every
why Americans were slaughtered at
Walmart on a Saturday because of the
color of their skin those things are all
related so you have to call that but I
think you also have to explain how the
impact of racism as well how it fits
into the larger political strategy and
this was revealed in perhaps the most
stark way possible by the rich guy who
owned SoulCycle who is hosting a
fundraiser for Trump who is come under
fire and he said basically I'm gonna
boil down his remarks but he vehemently
opposes Trump's views on race but likes
his tax cuts and therefore he will
support them and those two things are
related it is racially it is racial
grievance for the purpose of tax cuts
for the rich
so I think you have to call it the
racism and explain why Trump is dividing
us what he is trying to distract from
from his corruption from his corporatist
agenda from wanting to take your health
care away cut your Medicare etcetera
because it is all of a piece and you
can't do just one part of it you can
tell the broad story yeah I agree with
that too i I do think that you know I'm
I found myself drifting further to the
camp where you know confronting his
racism head-on isn't just about doing it
because you have to and it's the morally
right thing to do and then you pivot and
say he's distracting from all these
other issues but that like as a
political strategy on its own political
in a sense that you know our coalition
in this party is increasingly made up of
younger people of color who are looking
to this president and and to them his
racism is a material issue it is a life
or death issue and that if we want to we
if we expect these people to come out
and work hard and vote in this election
the Democratic candidates have to make
sure that they are not only on the right
side of this issue but talking about it
rather frequently and showing that
they're passionate about it and showing
that they care and showing that that
they think it's actually an existential
issue right now for this country I think
that's part and it's not it's not even
like looking at polls to do this and
like slicing and dicing the electorate
it's just it's stepping back from all
this and almost just thinking to
yourself is like in the most
common-sense way like of course this is
what this election is about you know
that we have the most racist president
we've ever had in the White House and
that racism is were flowing through all
of his policies of course that's what
we're deciding on when we go to the
polls in November of 2020
it is that referendum on that and I just
don't like we can pretend we can run ads
and we can pivot we can do all those
other stuff but I don't know how you
avoid that that is the central issue in
this election Barack Obama would always
make the point that it is never a good
political strategy to avoid addressing
the elephant totally that's again we
have stance racism is the giant white
elephant yes that's right that's exactly
right
all right so in the wake of these two
mass shootings Democrats are once again
trying to pass gun safety measures and
Republicans are once again trying to
stop
them despite the fact that a clear
majority of Americans support gun safety
measures actually was published a piece
on Wednesday about focus groups
conducted in Minnesota where Romney
Clinton voters and Obama Trump voters
all expressed that they were ready for
both a ban on assault weapons and a
requirement for federal background
checks on all gun purchases according to
a poll released this week by the
Politico sorry by Politico and morning
consult a majority of all voters and a
majority of Republican voters would
support an assault weapons ban so it
goes beyond a focus group dan how have
the politics around guns changed since
Newtown or even parkland the popular
sentiment behind these obvious
common-sense and gun control proposals
have not really changed but they remain
incredibly popular the the one thing
that has changed is the it has taken a
while for the gun safety movement to
catch up to the NRA in terms of funding
an organization but I think they have
done that the work that the Giffords
organization has done every town the
incredible work that modest demand has
done is we can now we've always had at
least in the since Newtown popular
sentiment on our side but the enemy
organizational and activist energy was
on the side of the people who are on the
side of the NRA I think that has changed
and I'm not sure that all of the
Democratic Party leadership has
recognized that shift and that this is
the moment to strike yeah I mean there's
there's some interesting stats on the
last election voters in 2018 favored
stricter gun control margin sorry voters
in 2018 favored stricter gun control by
a margin of 22 percentage points and
those who did back Democrats by a margin
of 76 to 22 according to exit polls gun
policy ranked as the number four concern
of voters and voters who cited it at
voters who cited it as their top issue
voted for Democrats by a margin of 72
29% so as for the coalition of both
parties is changing as Democrats sort of
have more suburban voters formerly
Republican voters who are in the suburbs
were slightly wealthier formerly
independent voters those voters I think
care a lot more
about gun control and are more favorable
towards gun control and gun safety then
has ever happened before is that seem
right yeah that seems right and we have
to campaign an act like it yeah what so
why can't popular gun measures become
law right you have vast majority of the
American people you know something like
ninety percent want background checks a
clear majority want an assault weapons
ban and you have you know there's some
bipartisan support in Congress for this
obviously not enough but there's a
probably a majority of House members
either there's a majority of House
members and a majority of Senate members
members of the Senate who want some kind
of gun control why ain't it happening
ban because America is a democracy
governed by anti-democratic institutions
yeah I think there is no better example
of the sickness at the heart of our
democracy then gun control we literally
can't stop people from buying weapons of
war and shooting up Walmart because even
though that's what the public wants
because our our democratic institutions
are broken it ain't broken by the
Republican Party yeah I mean again it
come you know I'm obviously a broken
record on this but it comes back to the
filibuster right there is yeah there is
no world where we pass legislation on
gun control significant gun control
right like we may see in the coming
weeks you know these red flag laws we
know which they passed in Florida which
are which are a good which you know make
sure that people who are may commit
violence that seem like they're a threat
to commit violence make sure they don't
have a gun which seems like
common sense but you know still doesn't
happen everywhere so you may see your
like a red flag law but when you're
talking background checks when you're
talking assault weapons ban we will
never see those never as long as the
filibuster is in place we just won't
it's just we're not dying Democrats are
not going to get 60 votes in the Senate
in the neck in the foreseeable future
there are not enough races there are not
enough vulnerable senators there are not
enough states you can flip just look at
the map
look at it in 20 look at it in 22 look
at it in 24 look at it in 26 you can
look at it every single one of those
years you cannot add up you cannot count
up this
Democratic senators and states that we
could win and add up to 60 you cannot do
it it will it will not happen again in
our lifetime
absent a massive of it it just it cannot
the way popular every demographic trend
is pushing against Democrats having a
filibuster-proof majority in the Senate
every single one and I think that I will
good I would say and this is why it's
like we harp on this all the time but if
a candidate tells you they're low
Medicare for all they are for a green
new deal they are for gun control
legislation there for naming a
post office and they were also for
keeping the filibuster then they are
selling you a bill of goods it just
aren't there you're not going to
accomplish anything of significance
there to write this country to save the
 planet without getting rid of
the filibuster I will support whoever
our Democratic nominee is for sure I
will give to them campaign for them vote
for that blah blah blah blah blah but I
am NOT supporting anyone in the primary
who supports the filibuster that weird
that is tying one hand behind your back
before you even get to the White House
and it was interesting when I talked to
Beto on Monday you know he had
previously been open to getting rid of
the filibuster I think he said yeah
that's something I really want to
consider and you know he did have some
qualification I remember you know this
was months ago and his answer and when I
had talked to him Monday about assault
weapons ban and gun control legislation
I said would you will push the Democrats
in the Senate to eliminate the
filibuster if you're president he said
yes it was not it was not qualified
there's nothing else just yes and the
only people that have been a clear YES
on this are elizabeth warren better or
orc jay Inslee people did it yeah Pete's
Pete's very much like yeah it's gotta go
we got to change it I think there was
some small qualification but he's pretty
much in that category too but it's just
the four of them really you know I mean
I push book around this he said he'd
consider it
kamo said she consider it so that's good
but they're still in sort of the
consider phase you know Biden I think
we're gonna have real problems with you
know Sanders was interesting Sanders has
got a new thing where he's talking about
using reconciliation the budget process
where you only need fifty one votes to
pass all of his big-ticket items but
he's not going to be able to pass gun
control through budget reconciliation
so he's gonna have to get rid of the
filibuster too they all do
it's just that that's what you have to
do I think interestingly enough given
all the conversations about the bias in
the Democratic Party that the big divide
in the party is not between liberals and
moderates right or the left in the
center I think it's between the people
who believe that our democracy is in
peril and are willing to take on the
bold democratic reforms to address that
and those who aren't that's right and
and Pete goodish is a moderate candidate
Beto is more moderate than some issues
Elizabeth Warren is a dive animal
progressive and they believe that in
Bernie Sanders as progressive as they
come has a different approach Joe Biden
moderates a different approach that is
the dividing line that I am military
just mimic if that is to me the P but if
it's when people who get what is
happening in this country and those who
are still at least somewhat blind to the
challenge we face yeah or have been in
the Senate for a little while you know I
mean Elizabeth Warren's ordinarily
escaped this but so Chuck Schumer on
Wednesday said the Democrats were not
gonna settle for half-measures so
Republicans can feel better and try to
push the issue of gun violence off to
the side and said that any red flag bill
that comes to the floor must be
accompanied by a vote in the House
passed universal background checks
legislation good for Chuck Schumer for
saying that and making that a stand
meanwhile more than 200 House Democrats
wrote to McConnell on Wednesday pushing
him to reconvene the Senate for an
emergency session on guns is this a good
strategy should Democrats be doing more
what do you think about how the
Democrats are handling this in general
not great I think what Schumer said was
right I think the caravan that Tim Ryan
and others are taking from Ohio to
Kentucky is a great idea
I wish the demmer you guys really talked
with us and I thought really well on
Monday but is like we have to be a
vessel for the righteous anger in this
country and that means doing recognizing
it's an extraordinary moment in doing
something extraordinary and I think the
Democrats should cancel the August
recess come back to Washington right now
and repass these bills sent him to the
Senate I think Senate Democrats should
go should be in Washington right now
pushing the con
to hold votes you make a Republican stay
in the Senate and knock down unanimous
consent requests to take up these bills
all August some when people should head
to Kentucky and if you don't want to
protest outside mr. house house bro sets
out the McConnell Institute at
Louisville Democratic senator should do
that demos or Congress you know we have
to draw attention as we have to push it
we have to put pressure on the
Republicans and the moment - if not -
permanently shift the politics that's
not past the walls are before us right
now and though and even if you say
McConnell will do nothing because he is
a heartless compassionless vampire which
is true even you say we're not going to
accomplish it now the work we do today
to push this issue will make it easier
for a Democratic president to do it in
2020 being a vessel for righteous anger
is probably the best advice I think you
could give to the Democratic Party
especially the Democratic Party in
Congress it really sort of sums up what
they should be doing on almost every
issue it's you know it goes to
impeachment it goes to all the stuff you
write that the best that they can do is
show that they're fighting get caught
trying like we always said in the White
House get caught trying and you know
recognize that we live in a media age
where the most important thing you can
do is to grab figure out ways to grab
the spotlight grab the megaphone away
from Donald Trump and capture media
attention right like it's it's not fun
that that's what you have to do these
days but that's the world that we live
in and you need to be creative and you
need to think of creative ways to
capture the country's attention to
capture media attention and I don't
think I think that the Democratic
presidential candidates are doing a
great job of that partly because they
live in the world of campaigning and
they have a bunch of strategists on
their campaign who are trying to think
of this stuff all the time I think that
the congressional Democrats are have
been behind the 8-ball to say the least
it's harder in Italy hard they have tiny
little megaphone yeah it's like a
Democratic president mrs. giant
megaphone they never got those little
general cameras up like little blowers
and you know this Russian look like
screaming into a paper bag
and so it's very hard but I think they
can
do more and I would hope that in the
coming days they'll all the shift
strategies and do so do you because the
politics are on their side the right the
moral high ground they have the moral
high ground press your advantage now UK
it is not it is forget like the Trump
media age the days of Facebook and
Twitter even in like the more
traditional news time in the past with a
normal president it is impossible to
convince to remind people something they
didn't originally know and they don't
know you passed this bill they do not
know you passed the background check
bill so you're going to have to do it
again now that they're paying attention
for people to know that one last
question on this why do you think they
haven't the Democratic House hasn't
passed an assault weapons ban yet that
is a great question I have no
idea and I really don't want to know the
answer
I don't either again this is like you
know 70% recent poll 70% of all voters
back in assault weapons ban
55% of Republicans 55% of Republicans
back in assault weapons ban what are you
doing I realized there's some tough
districts out there for Democrats I
realize that you know that's gonna be
the answer right some of these are in
vary and it's not the Clinton Romney
districts it's not the suburbs that
they're talking about those I bet Katey
Porter and all the rest of them but the
crooked 7 who won in California would be
probably fine with an assault weapons
ban it's the Democrats that are stuck in
these Obama Trump districts in the
Midwest and more rural areas and I'm
sure they are terrified of an assault
weapons ban but I don't know that they
need to be do you they don't know this
is the danger of having congressional
leaders who's been around forever
because they were all around whether it
is Schumer - Pelosi - Hoyer tuck LIBOR
and all of us were around in the 1994
crime bill which included the assault
weapons ban and then a large portion of
their colleagues lost their seats now
they'll also seems for many reasons but
in the history and arrogant as was
written they lost because they were
tough on guns and that fundamentally
shifted the Democratic approach on guns
for years and then Columbine happened an
endemic sorry then Columbine happened in
Democrats sir talking about guns again
and then Al Gore wasp and he lost State
the Democrats used to win like West
Virginian as home state of Tennessee and
the narrative was guns and that once
again made us
reticent and then we started talking
about it again after Newtown and then
Democrat lost again including in all of
these rural areas a narrative was guns
when that is not actually a case there
are more complicated reform when people
lose elections and of all of the gun
control bills the assault weapons ban
seems like the easiest sell and I
recognize there challenges with
implementation in the last one wasn't
perfect but people don't need a weapon
of war to go hunting they don't need a
weapon of war to protect their house and
the Dayton example is the best one for
why we shouldn't have weapons like that
which is the police were on the scene
when it happened
in and all those people got shot in
under a minute because of that weapon
yeah that is some policy choice we make
as a country and unfortunately we can
lay all of this at the feet of the
Republicans good on the question of salt
weapons ban it is a policy choice the
Democratic Party also made in Daddy's
bubble now just go look at that Axius
story that focus group
listen to these Obama Trump voters these
are people who voted for Donald Trump in
Minnesota pretty rural area Minnesota
and they're sitting there saying yeah
absolutely no one needs a weapon like
that of course we should ban those I
mean what else you need to hear all
right let's talk about 2020 over the
last few weeks there's been a rush of
House Republicans heading for the exits
about a dozen GOP lawmakers have
announced that they won't be running for
reelection next year including a cluster
of Republicans from Texas we'll heard
the only African American Republican in
the House is among them Democrats
flipped several congressional seats in
Texas in 2018 and came the closest to
winning a statewide race for Senate that
they've been in decades there are 38
electoral votes at stake in Texas and
next year's presidential race dan why
are so many House Republicans retiring
and what does that mean for the House
map in 2020 because it's a Republican
you only have two choices actively
enabled Trump's racism corruption and
incompetence or quit the party yeah bend
the knee or head for the exits that's it
that is the only that is the only option
you have yeah I mean like some of these
it seems like some of these members were
critical of Trump had been critical of
Trump in the past a couple of them had
you know voted against him and then some
just faced tough reelection in some of
these
tough moderate suburban districts and
then for some of them it was both right
yeah I think that's right and some of
these districts will just be replaced by
another Republican will be competitive
the ones in a lot of the ones in Texas
represent the rapid shift of what's of
politics in Texas where districts that
had been solidly red became purple
became less red and now I'm moving to
purple it's not like blue and that's
very worrisome to people and they'd
rather quit than lose I do think we
should just note that a lot of most of
these people who are quitting think
Trump is in dangerously unfit racist
yeah and and instead of doing anything
about that of using the power granted to
them by the Constitution to hold him
accountable or use the platform they
have as a member of Congress they would
rather quit and become lobbyists and
that is crush very telling just
so just so everyone gets an idea what
the house map looks like the Republicans
need to flip 19 or 20 seats in 2020
I say 19 or 20 because it depends on the
results of the special election that
will be held in the North Carolina's
ninth district in September which you
can hear more about on crooked minis we
have a series about the how the NC nine
was was rigged and what's going on there
narrated by Shaniqua McClendon our
political director check it out it's
excellent
and CNC night sounds like a TV show on
the CBS network I know I feel like we
should take it out so but so Republicans
are gonna mainly target 31 Democrats who
currently represent districts that Trump
carried in 2016 of course the problem
for the Republicans is some of those
districts are suburbs that are trending
towards the Democrats but that's sort of
their target list you talked about Texas
so three of the retirements came in
Texas we'll heard Kenny Marchant and
Pete Olson and there are six incumbent
Texas Republicans in the House who kept
their seats by less than five points in
2018 dan what's going on with Texas why
is the state getting bluer
well it there it is dealing with a
fundamental shift in two ways one you
have more college educated voters moving
into the suburbs Texas I think seventy I
saw this really interesting set of
apps from gates Wasserman and cook
report you can call on Twitter at a tree
district talking about why Arizona and
Texas are targets for Democrats and
because Democrats do better in major
metro areas the city's and the
surrounding suburbs and 72% of the vote
in Texas comes from those urban areas
there's metro areas and so Democrats are
in Texas becoming more diverse but it's
also the white vote is also dramatically
shifting in Texas and so it's you know
it was the state that moves the furthest
in the Democratic column of 2016
obviously Beto came very close to
winning it in 2018 and there is a sense
of panic with amongst these individual
members in the Republican Party who at
large about where the crown jewel of
their electoral college strategy is
headed
I found that stat about what percentage
of the vote comes from the cities in
each state to be fascinating because it
also you know they had Wisconsin and
Michigan and Pennsylvania up there and
then they had Minnesota and something
like 60% of the vote in Minnesota comes
from the cities which tells you why even
though it's another Midwestern state
like the other ones it didn't flip to
Donald Trump because there's less of the
vote comes from cities in Wisconsin
especially where he where he won and
when you look at the high high
percentage of the vote that comes from
cities in Texas and Arizona you really
do see that those states are trending
Democratic in a big way because if you
live in an urban area you are not only
likely to vote Democratic but by a very
wide margin Republicans are becoming
largely extinct in some of these urban
areas now the flip side of that is
places where the vote is coming in in
mostly small towns and rural areas
Democrats are having an even harder time
winning and so you've seen this
polarization that we're we're undergoing
a fundamental realignment of the
electorate right now it started in 2008
and moved 2012 we saw the impacts in a
negative way in 2016 but it things are
changing where Democratic votes come
from is shifting where Republican votes
or come from or shifting and that is
going to overtime affect electoral
colleges and the real question is
whether Texas in Arizona become blue
before the Midwest become solidly red
like then that's the race of the
demographic race that's happening within
American politics and just underscore
how important that is if we if Democrats
win Texas and Arizona in a presidential
race you could hit 270 you'd hit 271 if
you then lost Miss Michigan Pennsylvania
Wisconsin Florida and Minnesota you
could lose all five of those states win
Texas and Arizona and still win the
electoral college if all the other
states that in 2016 remain the same that
isn't that that is why Texas people
focus so much on Texas as this big prize
the question is dan do you think
Democrats could win in Texas in 2020 yes
it is a I think it is a long shot for
them to do so and there's going to be a
fundamental resources question because
Texas is so big and so expensive there
will be a real question for the
Democratic nominee Democratic Party and
affiliated super PACs whether they are
willing to spend the money to do so and
I would be very interested to see
polling like will we compete in Florida
or as Florida moving in the wrong
direction
well those resources go to Texas Arizona
is a safer bet yeah because it's in a
smaller or if you're media market that's
simply cheaper to do and Kyrsten Sinema
one guy in 2018 we have a Democrat who
won there now that's right I mean but
and yet the argument against Texas is
even though Hillary Clinton did much
better than Brock Obama she's still lost
by 9 and 9 points would be a long way
for the state to go in a short period of
time but that has happened in the past I
mean those Midwestern states like Iowa
know IO shifted more than nine points in
the Republican direction in 2016 so it
it is possible and it's going to be a
question of resources and whether the
Democratic candidate can put together
the sort of coalition that can win Texas
which is one that is similar the one
that Bennett was going to gather in 2018
which is Dramat really excite the
Democratic base and turn out new voters
and be able to win win a majority of a
significant majority of independents we
want to see if our nominee can do
I think that is sort of the big question
with Texas is everyone sort of digs into
the numbers is how much of 2018 was
better responsible for as a candidate
and how much was larger Democrat
demographic forces in Texas that are
moving towards the Democrat because I
think that matters a lot when you think
about a can a Democrat win the Senate
race in 2018 again I'm sorry in 2020
against John Cornyn and B can whoever
the Democratic nominee is carry Texas in
the general and you know there's I think
the short answer is both right it was
some of it had to do with beto as a
candidate in his campaign and some of it
had to do with demographic changes but
you know Nate Cohn dig dug into this a
couple months ago and he thinks that
better would have won the race with 2020
turnout and that we're better really
overperformed was among white voters
college-educated white voters and they
basically got him super close and also
with crossover voters he got about
500,000 votes that the Republican
governor Greg Abbott got so 500,000
people voted for Greg Abbott that
 guy and voted for better or orc
and but better didn't get this surge of
Hispanic turnout that usually happens in
a presidential year but not in a Senate
year what's what's your read on all that
I I think the challenge for a Democrat
in 2020 is that 500,000 Abbott or wok
motors yes I think it's very tied to Ted
Cruz being the most unlikable person
walking the face of the planet yeah and
it's not obviously I think Trump gets a
large portion of those voters back
because there's something very specific
about Cruz now is there is there enough
outstanding drop-off though Latino
drop-off vote or new voters to make up
that Delta yes absolutely there is so it
that's why it is possible but that
500,000 number is very significant I
think and it is not easily replicable by
any candidate running if I
Democratic nominee in 2020 the odd
billion but even better the only thing
that gives me pause on that is Ted
Cruz's approval rating on Election Day
in 2018 was actually above water even
though everyone says he's like the most
unpopular person ever it was like 50 49
it's pretty close but it was slightly
above water and Trump's approval rating
on Election Day in 2018 was slightly
below water it was at 49% where it
exists today and so you know there's
some belief that it wasn't necessarily
Ted Cruz's unpopularity that helped Beto
in 2018
but Donald Trump's unpopularity that
helped Beto and a lot of these other
congressional candidates who won in 2018
now Donald Trump also wasn't at the top
of the ticket so you're right when
Donald Trump is at the top of the ticket
and not just in the background
maybe voting changes but I don't know it
was something that I thought about yeah
it didn't like it is it the fact that
Texas is in discussion of being a
battleground state in 2020 is a pretty
dramatic statement that people would
have thought you were insane to say like
obviously Democrats I'm talking about
this it's been great
you know white whale off electoral
politics forever
in which are pass since 2012 and always
to food by the people who voted the math
but now the people look at the map say
you're in the neighborhood have made
possibly making it possible it speaks to
a really dramatic shift that should
really scare Republicans it's not in
2020 over the long term
yeah okay when we come back we will have
Dan's conversation with the New Yorkers
Jane Mayer all right outro do we get
everything I think we cover - yeah I
mean we only spoke like 18 hours yes
