my keep it this week is as basic as they
come
it's to that face app old man old face
filter I want you to have your fun I
want you to enjoy the telephones that
you own I want you to share fun things
with your friends I also want those fun
things to stay with your friends
my entire instant timeline is filled
with just gross out Rick Baker looking
photos of you at age 175 I don't think
it's ageist to say you look so gross it
disturbs the Zen of my timeline which is
filled with you know things we all love
such as very symmetrical nipples of
good-looking men the occasional food
item that I will enjoy Glenn Close with
blueberries in her eyes to be all see
that picture we show I saw that yeah
looking like she was in the balcony what
she looked like was a wallace and gromit
you have to see this picture of Glenn
Close the point is that people don't
know how to use Instagram feed versus
stories right yeah using the old man
story put it in your story yeah I don't
need to see it in my timeline right
especially since people rarely have like
a good caption to go with you need to
give me actual content I'm here for the
wit terrible caption I can't give you a
Bible verse this is just so I'm just an
evil smiley face because I just want you
to focus yeah all of my photos go with
Psalms 23 it's always like a booty pic
so I'm just saying control your content
don't post a picture of yourself looking
like one of the zombies from the
Thriller video not only do I not want to
see it
think about who wants to see it
ultimately is it anybody if the answer
is no consider not doing speaking of
people not wanting to see things on
Instagram you were at San Diego pride
this weekend uh-huh one of the hosts of
pots of America said that it is very
jarring to scroll through their
Instagram feed and all of a sudden Luis
is naked oh look we all have a great
time at San Diego pride
what are you supposed to do in San Diego
your clothes it's like a skateboarding
or short you have to find something fun
to do it's like the emperor has no
clothes until the age 29 I had the body
of a tapeworm okay gained a little pride
[Music]
