all right welcome to pod say of America
I'm John Favreau
I'm John Lovett Tommy Vitor later in the
pod Tommy's conversation with
congresswoman elect Ilan Omar will soon
be representing Minnesota's fifth
District is one of the first female
Muslim members in the history of
Congress very exciting yeah lover
leaving is back love early it is back
there we had musical performance yes the
Women's Center for creative work the
Community Chorus came by and saying the
12 days of health care about open
enrollment which you can check out we
also have Mitra Johar Jen statsky Hayes
Davenport one of my favorite episodes I
did a particularly strange rant about
falling asleep on the couch that was not
about me okay
it was about other people's issue I
believe it is back Wow check out that
opening data video of everyone singing
of the choir it was excellent and also
open enrollment deadline is December
15th go to healthcare.gov sign up Tommy
what's uh what's on tap for pod save the
world this week this week in studio we
will have a former US ambassador to
Israel Dan Shapiro oh yeah we all worked
at Dan on the Oh a campaign he was in
the National Security Council for a
couple years before heading out to be
our ambassador he was like a mini
celebrity over there he's a really
thoughtful nice guy and he can talk
about not just our friend Bibi Netanyahu
and and the us-israel relations but
Jamal khashoggi the Saudis of the whole
thing so I don't stand we have a good
time and love it I believe you have a
some lover leave it touring to talk
about love it or leave it is going on
tour whoo well we in all the in all the
best places all of your top top places
austere markets and we're gonna announce
that this week I believe they're gonna
go on sale presale Tuesday I don't know
what's the what's the information oh
they're gonna go there's the precinct
we're gonna we're gonna put out all the
dates tomorrow we're gonna put out all
the dates on Tuesday the pre-sale stuff
the pre-sale starts on Wednesday the
code will be crooked and come check it
out get those tickets get those tickets
all right guys
it's time to get to the news who to sum
up where we are right now I just want to
start with a lead from the New York
Times on Saturday
please sum it up quote the latest
revelations by prosecutors investigating
President Trump and his team draw a
portrait of a candidate who personally
directed in the legal scheme to
manipulate the 2016 election and whose
advisors had more contact with Russia
than mr. Trump has ever acknowledged the
prosecutors effectively accused the
president of defrauding voters
questioning the legitimacy of his
victory not great so The Times is
referring to a pair of sentencing memos
filed by the Southern District of New
York and the special counsels office on
Friday that recommended substantial
prison time for former Trump attorney
Michael Cohen as well as a court
document filed by the special counsels
office that detailed how former Trump
campaign Chairman Paul Manafort lied to
prosecutors earlier this year after he
entered into a plea agreement and
promised cooperation let's start with
the Cohan memos how serious are these
crimes and how do they implicate Donald
Trump well for Michael Cohen they're
pretty serious I mean I believe they
outline for crimes mmm for pretty
substantial federal offenses so Michael
Cohen is in some trouble he will likely
get significant amounts of jail time
some of those crimes or his own personal
crimes did on his own time yeah private
time crimes I mean well the problem for
a Cohen is that Michael Cohen tried to
half cooperate which means when it comes
to the Southern District of New York he
wouldn't sign a full cooperation
agreement that details every crime he
committed or offered details about all
the crimes others committed presumably
because who has that kind of time you
know what I mean when there's that many
crimes it's like you got to remember
them all you got to get your like we
were black Ledger's were you write down
the Russian money it's like when a clown
is taking a handkerchief out his nose
exactly keeps going he probably thought
to himself maybe I can serve out my time
in jail and that would be shorter than
talking about all my crap all my crimes
but we do know that mr. Cohen met with
Trump seven times and according I'm
sorry we do know that Michael Cohen met
with Muller seven times and that Muller
from the special counsels office
document was satisfied that he helped
him out with a whole bunch of stuff so
this is a big problem for individual one
Donald Trump who conspired with him to
commit campaign finance crime
yeah yeah it seems like there there's
how my vocal was cooperating with the
Southern District and they're seized and
there's how Michael Cohen was
cooperating with a special counsel those
know things don't totally align seems
like maybe Muller was a little bit more
satisfied with him then then the then
the US Attorney's in New York but we
don't really fully know but the way that
I was thinking about it was that you
know we've been waiting to see for so
long these in these three different
paths that it can go there was the
obstruction of justice pass that path
there was the collusion in blackmail
path and there was the ramp and
criminality and corruption path right
we've kind of been watching all three
and they seemed to all coalesce in the
mind and actions of this below-average
New York City grifter taxi medallion
scammer named Michael Cohen yeah I mean
the government believes the Trump was
personally involved in a federal offense
right I mean and I think that's a big
deal I have to say I think the SD NY
prosecutors did a fantastic job in this
memo of laying out the story of the
crime the campaign finance crime and why
it was so significant I thought there
was a great section in the memo while
many Americans who desired a particular
come to the election knocked on doors
toiled at phone banks or found any
number of other legal ways to make their
voices heard
Cohan sought to influence the election
from the shadows he deceived the voting
public by hiding alleged facts that he
believed would have had a substantial
effect on the election and then they
accused him of quote acting as if the
political process belongs to the rich
and powerful I mean can SD and why do
some messaging for the Democrats about I
think John what do you mean is better
deal no but that's what what you see is
that that there are you know career
prosecutors law enforcement officials
non-political people who have been
investigating Michael Cohen and through
Michael Cohen Donald Trump the Trump
Organization and what they are what what
you see is that they are shaking with
fury they're they're angry about how
they're being derided by the president
they're angry about how one of the two
political parties is diminishing these
crimes not because they have the
of democrats at heart but because
they're in it they know more than we
know and knowing more than and and there
is there a few people besides Devon
newness who know more than we know who
have not come to staggering conclusions
about this administration it just find
that all this time we've been focused on
Bob Muller and the special counsel and
it feels like Trump's JV idiot lawyers
have too and now there's this giant
looming SD ny case coming down the pike
and we know that Cohen helped out and
gave additional information about others
who might have committed crimes along
with him yeah which means that I don't
know Don jr. Ivanka the CFO of the
organization he's in some serious legal
jeopardy too which means while Michael
Cohen might not have wanted to spell out
every terrible thing he ever did there's
some other people and some serious legal
jeopardy that very well could be and
like what's fun of fun what's
interesting about all these reports is
like all of this was documented in news
reports for a long time yeah and there
have been a whole bunch of other crimes
in plain sight they were in the
Washington Post about the misuse of the
charitable organization those all the
all these other things that are very
likely to become you to put him in legal
jeopardy and it is true now that the
crimes are starting to have a theme
whether the Russia crimes and holiday
campaign finance crimes which is Donald
Trump and his associates broke the law
and cheated in order to win an election
mm-hmm and I mean it's a very simple
story here whether it was the campaign
finance crime or what we're seeing is a
Russian conspiracy like the reason we
have these federal finance laws at the
heart of those laws is transparency if
you are a candidate you can spend as
much money on your own race as you want
that is not the issue here was whether
Trump spent the money or Cohen's month
but you can spend as much as you want
you must disclose the money that you
spent not only did they not disclose the
money that they spent they actively
tried to hide the money that they spent
to shutup stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal and they did that by creating a
shell corporation and engaging in
fraudulent bookkeeping and they also
induced another company the national
Enquirer's parent company to commit a
crime by spending - an influence
election and
not being transparent about spending it
dragging the National Enquirer yeah I
mean those fine people
I mean minding their own business making
up stories about John Travolta's plane
and that boy yeah I mean Cohen is in
trouble for willful tax evasion false
statement to a financial institution
illegal campaign contributions false
statements to Congress that's a tough
basket of problems but on top of that I
mean you know I don't even know where to
transition because there's so many
crimes here but we also know that money
was is in remains a massive motivator
for Donald Trump up to during and
through the campaign because his
organization is run by idiots he was a
broke idiot who got all of his money
from his father through various tax
schemes and they desperately needed a
couple hundred million from the Russians
to get a Trump Tower going because he's
broke their grifters so and you know you
don't have to take our word for it about
how serious this is
Fox pundit Andrew McCarthy longtime
Trump defender he's been defending him
thoughts of Russia investigation is
stupid been defending him through this
whole thing
former SD NY prosecutor said he wrote a
whole piece about this over the weekend
quote the president is very likely to be
indicted on a charge of violating
federal campaign finance laws so credit
to Anderson McCarthy for what we
actually admitting that I also just
think Andrew McCarthy is the final hook
that a lot of Republicans will hang by
before letting go and admitting what
they're seeing I don't know if this
analogy is really doing it but but but
that he is the that he is this sort of I
would say the serious intellectual
conservative who has given a lot of
cover
I think sincere cover right they've
allowed them they believe Andrew
McCarthy they trust Andrew McCarthy who
has tried to diminish a lot of what's
come out of these investigations and and
now I think it's why there's a lot more
quiet this weekend because the ones
they're looking to to help them out of
this are locking the doors you know I I
would say though like give him a minute
I think they'll find a way to be even
more craven I mean you're already seeing
people I think Rand Paul was out there
saying that people commit campaign
finance violations all the time een he's
kind of right
that a lot of campaign finance
violations occur in their paid for after
the fact with fines and in handled this
way but this does seem to be a whole
other ballgame in terms of conspiring
with your aide to cover up a you know
hush money but other Republicans are
drawing a line and saying what I need to
see is evidence of collusion with Russia
and I haven't seen that yet and until
that happens I'm with him well let's
take the campaign finance violation
argument which we're gonna hear a lot
from people like Rand Paul and we heard
this morning from Donald Trump he was
tweeting this morning about how
Democrats can't find a smoking gun with
regard to solution guns so now they're
focused on what he calls a simple
private transaction a civil case really
and also by the way it's all his lawyers
fault how is this different than a usual
campaign finance violation like what for
example Barack Obama's campaign paid
after 2012 like so many campaigns are
found that there you know guilty of a
civil infraction that they have to pay
back yeah so campaign finance law is a
morass it's a thicket of creative hard
to follow rules that have been built
over many years pulled apart but their
political reasons partisan reasons that
have played out inside of these
regulations in these laws and so
campaigns have to employ lawyers and
accountants to go through everything and
make sure everything is clear and
sometimes they make mistakes then you
have cases where campaigns play fast and
loose we see one kind of abuse going on
all the time where people will post huge
amounts of video footage on YouTube
because it's technically illegal to
coordinate with a super PAC but they
want to get the video out there you see
a lot of gray areas where people get
brushed back the the the federal
regulators are pretty toothless then you
see people like John Edwards who get in
trouble for having made payments to keep
a mistress quiet in a way that on the
surface does look similar to this but I
think all the confusing ways in which
campaigns can break the law all the
confusing ways in which there can be
interpretations that need to be played
out with fines and arguments and you
know good-faith actors on both sides
none of that can explain the clear as
day case of a campaign saying we better
cover up these affairs because if we
don't
he will get in trouble in this campaign
and it might cost him the election and
as we cover up these affairs let's make
sure we do it as secretly as possible
right not just by paying off women but
by creating shell corporations and then
engaging in fraudulent bookings so that
the FEC doesn't found out about them
like trying to try that is why it's
called defrauding conspiracy to defraud
the United States right they are
basically saying this is the law of the
United States they want to know what
you're spending your money on and we are
purposely not doing it other campaign by
any like Obama's campaign was you know
there were campaign donations made over
the legal limit and they reported them
they reported them like a week late and
so you get nicked for that kind of stuff
so there's like all kinds of infractions
what keeping screw-ups are very
different right but what I really
enjoyed about the incident with Michael
Cohen is that when all was said and done
he went to the Trump work CFO totaled up
all the crime committing he'd done all
the money he'd spent they rounded up
they slapped on a bonus they made up a
fake retainer to pay him all out I mean
they they couldn't have created a more
clear paper trail of their fraudulent
activity if they had tried look I've
said this before but these people were
not ready for national criminal scrutiny
they were they were ready for some
county level all right so this is one
set of felonies what more do these memos
tell us about a potential conspiracy
between the Russian government and the
Trump campaign they tell us that Michael
Cohen not only continued to meet with
various Russian officials throughout the
campaign about potentially creating a
Trump Tower in Russia but that he lied
about it to Congress and very
interestingly that someone gave him help
in preparing his testimony in which he
lied to Congress so that seems like
something you do when you're awfully
nervous and your bosses to we but like
in stepping back we also know that every
time Donald Trump was soft on Putin
didn't condemn him during the campaign
change the platform and convention to
take out arming the Ukraine he had in
the back of his head that he was trying
to get a couple hundred million dollars
out of Russia so and then when he became
president every time he went into a
secret meeting about covert action
against
Russia a meeting with Putin whatever it
was he knew that they had something on
him because they had been publicly lying
about their contacts with these bozos
and by the way that's not just us
putting this together Muller lays this
out in the memo which is very
interesting he says you know the the
Canada individual 1 and Cohen in the
campaign stood to gain hundreds of
millions of dollars from this real
estate deal which is notable because it
was happening at the same time as the
Russian government was seeking to
interfere in our election and that was
well known yeah so he's basically like
you don't draw that connection in the
sentencing memo if you're just gonna
sort of leave it there like there's
clearly something by the way the
Russians don't need a P tape to own
Donald Trump I mean let's be real minute
we already know that he liked to get
spanked with a magazine with his face on
it right so like this guy's humiliation
is complete all they needed was to know
that he had been publicly lying that
that means you own him you own his aides
and also like it's not just Michael
Cohen's testimony that is clearly saying
this because they wouldn't have put it
in they wouldn't have put the charges in
these documents unless they had
corroborating evidence says every legal
that's very important this is not just
Michael Cohen's word against anyone else
it's a bozo admit they have emails they
have messages they have phone
conversations they have phone records
they have all this kind of stuff no I
also that was funny that Cowan had been
approached by another restaurant Russian
national back in 2015 let's talk about
political synergy between political
Sherman
any turn he ended up turning the guy
down because I already had felix seder
yeah and the other Russians on the real
estate deal so he's like I'm sorry I
already have enough I have I got a
drowning in Russian connections here I
turn down turned down the random
weightlifter because he had the guy link
with links to a pop star this is so dumb
so dumb headline from The Washington
Post over the weekend we now know that
Russians interacted with at least 14
Trump associates during the campaign and
transition and all of them lied about it
14 it's um it's really it's like they
these are they they didn't care about
the country
they didn't even they didn't even care
about the they didn't even care that
much about the pro quo of the whole
thing they wanted the buildings
they wanted the money that's right
you're like oh you're gonna get a
with Hillary Clinton yes we're gonna
lose we want the building I need the
money I want some money
change the platform great what's the big
deal I'm gonna lose and then we get the
 money and then all the
sentencing yeah that is very possible
that they they wanted the building more
than they wanted the election because
they maybe didn't think they could
actually help them with the like well
that's what that's sort of what I always
keep coming back to they're like you
know they come in and they hand them a
file and say here's what we're gonna go
take Hillary Clinton apart like okay
great so I'll lose by eight fine can I
get the building do you
understand what my brand is my brand is
that I'm rich
my business is fake I need the money you
want to change the platform I don't care
put nukes in Ukraine I don't give a
yeah Russians interacted with at least
14 Trump idiots during the campaign in
transition they offered political help
Hillary's emails business help dirt on
Hillary they were pushing on an open
door and what's funny is this shouldn't
be news to anyone because right after
Trump was elected a top Kremlin official
said on the record that they'd had a
bunch of meetings and they trotted out
hope Hicks to deny that there was any
communication during the campaign or any
foreign entity which was obvious and
stupid I mean like it feels so long ago
but I remember where I was in my own
home when I read that Jared Kushner
tried to set up a secret private - and
all the hide from the US intelligence it
it all makes sense what what does a
group of Trump idiots called
it's like a murder of crows I'll cross
no no what would you call it a medallion
send us your send us your idea yeah so
we talked about the campaign finance
crimes we talked about the potential
conspiracy with Russia crimes there's
also of course the obstruction of
justice case that caught that molar risk
seems to be building here we had some
more information about that from these
memos as you I think you mentioned this
Tommy already that Cowan was possibly
coordinating his false testimony with
somebody someone in the White House
either they approved of it they knew it
was a lion didn't care they helped write
it any one of those is bad and
potentially illegal we also know that
our friend Paul Manafort one of the ways
that he lied to Muller and the special
counsels office is he was in contact
with the Trump camp with Trump officials
White House officials during the time
where he had already been arrested and
he was in jail I was just talking to
them what was he talking to them about
he was also lying about his
contacts with a former business partner
who is an asset of Russian intelligence
Konstantin kill Nick and and we don't
know a lot about that because there's a
lot of redactions too so there is also
seems to be like parallel here there's
an obstruction of justice case that's
buildings we also we also got more
details from Comey
oh yeah who who don't commis testimony
call me back blast from the past playing
his greatest hits I'm I'm great and it's
not my fault by James Comey which sits
nicely on the similar book but I'll also
interviewed John Kelly yeah fun job
chief of staff is man but the way I was
about to say Matthew oh yeah but and
also the man affords the manna for
contact with with the White House also
comports with Donald Trump's extensive
public obstruction of justice which is
constantly referring to the fact that
that manna for it has guts cuz he's not
gonna be a rat like the other guys which
is like again like Donald Trump is
picking this up from Goodfellas
yet weeding it
we like Muller has a lot of information
we don't know and there could be a lot
of bombshells I think the area of crime
where there might be the fewest
bombshells is in the obstruction of
justice like I don't know how he's gonna
do this you can write it up in a memo
but most of it's gonna be like you all
remember that tweet yeah you all
remember that thing that was reported
you remember when he sat with Lester
Holt and obstructed justice on national
television like I don't know maybe it
would be but I don't know that that part
would be the biggest surprise all right
let's talk about what happens next the
Democrat who will soon be in charge of
the House Judiciary Committee Jerry
Nadler said this weekend that the coen
memos described impeachable offenses but
quote whether they are important enough
to justify an impeachment is a different
question what do you guys think he meant
by that so I he's getting a lot of heat
for saying that or at least I think
people are confused by it and it sort of
speaking to like are the Democrats too
timid or they're not handling this
properly I think it is a I I think the
correct answer is yes but the the it's a
reasonable question to ask we have to
not just make a case that Donald Trump
broke the law we have to make a case
that what Donald Trump broke the law in
such a way that rises to the level of
impeachment that that
that that that that this is a high crime
or misdemeanor and that it reads a
standard that says this is worthy of
removing the president you know Rand
Paul I think is very cynical he is
diminishing these campaign finance
violations when he says like what's
gonna happen will become a banana
republic we're gonna impeach every
president we're gonna to remove every
president go to jail after he leave
office I don't think he's right about
that I don't think I don't think Donald
Trump is the test case for that but I
think we have to answer that concern we
have to say these crimes are so
significant that it isn't just a case of
criminalizing politics this isn't just a
case of finding something that we could
use to remove Donald Trump from office
but we have to make a a cogent political
argument that says Donald Trump cheated
to become president his presidency is
illegitimate his crimes rise to the
level of impeachment and I think that is
a political case and he's right to ask
that question well but that you just
made the case yeah I mean remember but
he didn't say it's not he's asking the
question remember remember we had Cass
Sunstein on and you know Cass was very
he was careful about talking about and
we wrote a book on this what rises to
the level of an impeachable offense or
not and one of the things that cast
points out is gaining power gaining the
office of the presidency through corrupt
means is one thing that is clearly that
the founders had - an impeachable
offense and what we're seeing now both
with the Russia conspiracy and
specifically this campaign finance
violation is that he cheated he cheated
and broke the law broke the campaign
finance laws in order to win an election
whereas if voters had known the
information that they kept from them
through illegal means
perhaps the outcome of the election
could be different I mean I can't read
Jerry now there's mine but I think that
there's a constitutional case and a
political case and I think it's obvious
that what he did is is is an impeachable
offense and that they should pursue it
but then they're gonna have to send it
over to the Senate and there's no way
that a bunch of Republicans are gonna
vote to pull him out of office
so there's a legitimate question to be
asked politically whether that will help
or hurt Donald Trump during this period
of time we know that Bill Clinton's
approval ratings went up during this
process he was re-elected and all the
Republicans were mad that they went down
this path so I don't know but look I if
it were up to me I would absolutely be
pursuing these
in concert with molar beers I think it's
the right thing to do and I think
there's a whole lot of smoke and we're
finding fire every day I also think that
it I think they have to not just because
it is the politically smart thing to do
in the short term though I could make a
case why it is politically smart I mean
let's say that the Senate as we expect
acquits him on these charges because we
couldn't peel off 20 Republican senators
we're still gonna go through an entire
impeachment hearing in the house where
crimes that are clearly much more
serious than what President Clinton
committed which they had him on perjury
we have him on campaign finance whatever
happens with rush everything else will
be sort of laid out for the public they
will be witnesses then there will be a
trial in the Senate that John Roberts
would preside over there would
presumably be witnesses there Muller
would probably testify and all of the
stuff we like so think about a couple
months of letting the American public
know what we've seen and like in spurts
over the last couple years all of the
crimes that he committed to win his
election and how he did them right so I
could I could make a case that it would
be good politics but I also think
there's a precedent you set here where
if the Democrats say because we're we're
worried that it might not be good
politics and we're worried that the
Senate will acquit him so we're not
gonna bring these charges what does that
say to future candidates who can say
okay well as long as I have my base with
me and as long as I have enough people
in my party who can equip me of these
charges I can commit any crime I want on
the way to the presidency and while I'm
president yeah I think that's right but
I also think it's almost like this is
even this even the political question is
not where we're at even if you believe
even if you want to end up at the place
where the Judiciary Committee is
pursuing these impeachment article
pursuing articles impeachment regardless
of whether they can win in the Senate
the question is what should the position
the current posture be of Democrats in
the house and I don't there's a good
argument we make that seeming serious
and and being deliberate and saying I'm
not yet sure if this rises to the level
is the right thing to do even if one
month from now you know Nadler is out
there saying this has met the threshold
I guess what I what I would advise
Democrats to do is I don't I don't think
there's a question of whether this rises
to the level of opening an impeachment
hearing I think this clearly does but
I'm fine with demo
saying oh well mullahs got to finish
because if we're gonna bring impeachment
hearing impeachment proceedings we might
as well get all the crimes at once you
know I'm saying like I totally agree
with like hey crime in crime and nine
saves time crime in the hand is worth
two in the bush like if I want them to
know that like if if Muller doesn't find
anything else what we know so far Rises
totally opening a peace review but it's
totally fine to say hey there's a whole
bunch more stuff out there and we might
as well get it all at once before we
start going down this path yeah that's
fine and the Adam Schiff has had like a
really good posture publicly about all
these issues every interview he does he
is serious he is sober but he is not
mincing words at all right he just
describes what the facts are the facts
are what are on our side and and just
describing the facts and taking the
facts seriously and letting those lead
you towards your conclusions I think is
in the fact that he stated over the
weekend is the day Trump leaves office
he could be in school so I wanted to
talk about that yeah he said there's a
very real prospect that that that on the
day he leaves office the Justice
Department may indict him that he may be
the first president in quite some time
to face the real process of jail time if
Trump knows that reelection is a
guarantee that he'll avoid potential
jail time what does that mean for 2020
yeah this looks I mean I would say that
when Donald Trump became president there
was a there was something that that
terrified me more than anything else and
it was the period of time between Donald
Trump believing he will no longer be in
power and the day he actually his office
yeah
that period of time as always to me been
the most frightening and it's starting
to become clear that we are maybe
inexorably driving towards that moment
and with incredible evil legal jeopardy
hanging over his head yeah I would I
would tell everyone to check out our
Brian boy there's a great piece on this
and crooked not a comment today about
this because it is it's like we know
Donald Trump's gonna act crazy to try to
stay in office anyway in 2020 and if he
has the prospect of jail time hanging
over his head yeah I mean this is partly
why I literally lock him up might be a
real yeah and it's um you know Donald
Trump is not disciplined he's all the
bad things we know that he is but he's
also a survived
and you know I look at the outcomes that
where we're heading right he that that
he can resign he can be impeached and
removed he can be defeated in election
and I don't know which of those three
were heading towards but to me I try to
remember that the single most important
thing is removing him from office and
it's not removing him from office with
justice at the end of it that I look at
this and I see so many outcomes and to
me the least likely is one in which
everything wraps up with a bow and I
think of Mike Pence and I see him and I
just feel looking at him that he's a
person who was put on this earth to
pardon Donald Trump that has every
choice and every decision has led
inexorably to the moment where he's
confronted with that moral choice to
make the wrong one
and honestly I look at what we're facing
and I I do sometimes think that it is
perhaps the best and safest thing for a
country that the case becomes so clear
his odds of when reelection become in
doubt and we can and and by putting the
information out there putting pressure
on Republicans we can get some sort of
corrupt deal between Mike Pence
and Donald Trump and get this guy out of
office and it will be so unsatisfying
and will be some ah so awful but the
most important thing is removing him
before he can destroy the country to
save himself and it's very dark but I
just look forward and there are no safe
or rewarding outcomes to me good times
good times alright so in that let's talk
about all the people that work for
Donald Trump in the wake of the
Department of Justice implicating Donald
Trump and multiple felonies again
something that happened I think we'd
have to keep repeating that the
president's chief of staff and vice
president's chief of staff both resigned
and it's also not a big story Trump
announced this week in the chief of
staff John Kelly would be leaving the
job by the end of the year and then when
Trump offered the job to Penske feof
staff Nick heirs heirs turned him down
Politico is also reporting that other
potential candidates OMB director Mick
Mulvaney Treasury secretary Steve Newton
and US Trade Representative Robert light
dizer are also sending out signals that
they aren't interested
time to try zip recruiter it's like it's
like applying to be a pilot of the
Hindenburg after the announcer has
has screamed about the humanity it's
like humanity where the iceberg anyone
yeah looking we're looking for a cellist
to round out the string quartet here
aboard the Titanic do you like a
horrible work environment enormous legal
jeopardy got the job for you
let's start with Kelly why is he leaving
what is John Kelly's legacy I mean Trump
has been trying to fire him for how long
uh I can't remember since he started I
can't remember where I read this but I
might have been the time said that he
was gonna Kelly was going to announce
his departure on his own terms after our
negotiation with Trump on Monday to the
staff but instead Donald Trump in one
last you decided to announce it
before the army-navy game on Saturday
just to like stick it to him before the
couple hours he might have found joy in
this world going to this phenomenal
amazing tradition that America gets to
watch I mean just like I was one of the
people who allowed myself to get like a
little tiny bit bought into the kelly of
it all just because you know he'd served
for 45 years of murine honorable and
what like I just I wanted him to be
better he was awful he was awful he was
just as Extreme as Trump on immigration
his hand-picked successor oversaw family
separation he was one of the crew that
scuttled daca and a deal for the
dreamers he was bought in you know the
way he bungled the Rob Porter fiasco
cannot be overstated he sat on knowing
he committed domestic violence for
months and months he lied about Federico
Wilson praise robert e lee for god sake
like good riddance the only thing john
kelly did that was worthwhile was firing
Omarosa cheb Gorka and steve Bannon like
he shoved some awful people out the door
I'm glad he's a little miserable I
remember that line from the Bob Woodward
book when he said when Kelly said we're
in crazy town I don't even know why any
of us are here this is the worst job
I've ever had you know it's also like
John Kelly was supposed to be the guy
that you know knew how to keep the
trains moving and he was gonna write to
his ship discipline and and and I was
like ah in Donald Trump John Kelly
finally met his match and find that very
frustrating there been reports in just
even the past few days that that John
john kelly and donald trump aren't even
speaking and haven't been speaking for
some time we've worked at the White
House the idea of a president not on
speaking terms with the White House
chief of staff is so extraordinary and
so dangerous literally the first person
you speak to in the last person you
speak to before you leave at night is
your chief of staff it's it's wild
denies everything yeah but the TV is
deaf he speaks to is in the TV set Sean
Hannity and he's talking back to him
through the TV
I hate when my TV dad and my real-life
dad are fighting it also those speaks
volumes that his pretty you know the guy
he wanted is this dude Nick Ayers who
some reports Trump thinks looked like
him when he was younger so that's you
know he wants whatever Nick Harris is
like 36 years old he's just a total
political hack who came up working for
like sonny perdue but interestingly
interestingly his can't his disclosure
his filings what the hell are we called
when you put your stuff financial
disclosures his financial disclosure
forms you have to file when you enter
the White House showed that he is made
between 12 and like 54 million dollars
doing political consultants
I don't know any political consultant
that has made 54 million dollars he must
be so good at being a racist yeah so you
have really good racist ideas for ads so
you have to imagine that he was very
worried about the increased scrutiny
that might come from this job with
Democrats in charge of the house and
everything else I mean you look it's an
awful job maybe he does really want to
go home and see his kids I don't believe
any of these you know yeah well whatever
the other possibility is he never really
wanted the job for obvious reasons
because it's crazy to take this
job and it doesn't matter but he thought
to himself well I'll let my name float
out there because now when I go back to
the private sector everyone will say Oh
Nick Ayers the chief of staff that
almost was but turned it down right so
it could be a little brain I think these
guys are power-hungry and they do want
the job until they they can't get it but
I mean there's been a dynamic that's
been at play in the Trump administration
from the very beginning that's a thing
in stark relief right now which is the
Venn diagram of people with the
competence grace intelligence and skill
to successfully work in the White House
and the people who would be willing to
work for Donald Trump
in overlap and it especially doesn't
overlap now being White House chief of
staff is one of the hardest and most
demanding jobs in the world and to look
at this White House right now and say I
want in is to reveal yourself to be
unqualified as we're headed towards
potential impeachment hearings who wants
that job and it's also a lot
like look did Donald Trump make some
mistakes
sure sure is he good at the job no but
he's also interpersonally one of the
worst pricks on planet earth I
mean does it matter at all who takes
this job next the new rumor this morning
is Mark Meadows freedom caucus member
markjenner one's called
an idiot I find that one funny I love
that one I also just I appreciate mark
Meadows looking at the financial
landscape and deciding that there's more
money and being an ex-wife chief of
staff and being an ex-congressman
because I assume that that is 100% the
reason he's seeking it no but if it's
Mark Meadows or a pet rock like
I don't think it makes much of a
difference I don't think it makes any
difference picture of Roger Ailes on a
scarecrow I don't think it makes any
difference in terms of Trump's agenda
and like getting things passed I think
if a really impressive person went in
there you might be able to then hire all
the slots in the legal team that you
couldn't fill hire some competent press
people like build an infrastructure that
might begin to combat the nightmare that
they're about to go through but it
ultimately doesn't matter he said he's
gonna tweet what every tweet I don't
think any I don't think there is any
person who could come in there and say
because John Kelly couldn't do it right
if John Kelly was the one who went in
but that was all John Kelly
like had no political skills that that
was that that's why you don't put a
general into the White House chief of
staff job because like you need some
political ability right but he sent the
message that we're shaping up we're
gonna be a serious place come work for
us we're gonna do it better and he
didn't do it and I don't think anybody
after John Kelly is gonna be able to
convince people that now the Trump White
House is gonna run successfully he's
terrible so Trump also announced on
Friday that he'd be nominating as
Attorney General William bar the former
attorney general from the George HW Bush
era and a skeptic of the Russia
investigation what a surprise
some legal analysts have commented that
Barr was among one of the least crazy
choices Trump could have
made Yahoo News reported the Trump once
approached bar about being his defense
attorney after he wrote an op-ed arguing
that Trump was right to fire Comey again
huge surprise he's criticized Muller for
hiring too many prosecutors who donated
as Democrats he's cast doubt on the
conspiracy with Russia he's defended
trumps calls for a new criminal
investigation into Hillary Clinton he
counseled Bush george HW bush on the
pardons in iran-contra so i don't know
it sounds pretty bad to me are we just
setting the bar too low here saying it's
one of the least crazy choices it's um
it's funny it's just like we're trying
to improve on hot tub crime machine and
so i don't know who cares it came to me
and i was just like I'm just gonna point
about bar I know I mean everything
described it sounds terrible it's like I
just I haven't been able to summon the
outrage yet Democrats were saying that
he might be a reasonable pick are they
saying that someone reported that I
don't know I mean I just I was gonna ask
like is there anything Democrats can do
about it because you know we have only
47 votes in the Senate right now and so
if all the Republicans are on board with
this guy and maybe they'll say they're
on board because they'll ignore
everything that I just said and be like
well he was a George HW Bush guy and
he's very respected in the field of
wobblin they'll do the Washington thing
that they do with so many
establishment goons and then and then
he'll sail right through I think what
right now that we have this it's a hard
thing to think through in part because
we're in this place where we have so
little transparency on how the Justice
Department is being administered right
now we don't know enough about Muller's
independence versus hottub crime machine
we don't know what Muller it seems as
though Muller has been able to freely do
his job yet we don't know if there are
things we're not seeing reports we're
not finding out about sealed indictments
that whatever there's a lot of
information we don't have so it's really
hard in this space where it seems as
though Trump has corrupted the Justice
Department and yet Muller successfully
been able to release a lot of important
information how a new Attorney General
sits on top of this what rod Rosen Stein
is up to what these guys are up to who's
technically running the day-to-day of
this Russian investigation so there's
just I feel like it's hard to wrap your
head around
because we're so in the dark and
hopefully whenever these hearings might
be we would also be having hearings run
by Democrats to get some answers to some
of these questions yeah unfortunately
what happened in his confirmation
hearing because it's the Senate but no I
know but at least one conversation on
the other side Richard Schiff will be
taking over or net non-throw taking over
yeah I don't know Richard Schiff yes I
do that all the time I mean honestly
I'll take Richard Schiff over Devin unas
I'll take Ricky chips I'll take anybody
over Devin unas I'll take some I'll take
some I'll take some guest stars you know
you know like in the old world who
played Allison Carter who play Dawson
Jason what's his name you go out then
add the job so I mean in the old world
of confirmations like I I think you
would probably say that you know your
president gets to choose their cabinet
and he's done the job before so that's
relevant but then you you know so maybe
not well a criminal but I'm not
supporting him I don't like no one
tweeted me that I'm being soft but like
then you look at Heather nowart who was
just named to be the US ambassador of
the UN I mean I asked you about that she
was the spokesperson at state for like a
year and a half before that she was the
host of Fox and Friends friends so not
even midday Fox show not even primetime
just a reminder I mean George HW Bush
was the US ambassador the UN Henry Cabot
Lodge Samantha power won a Pulitzer
Prize and was a senior director at the
NSC I mean it's like there sounds like
they're officially downgrading the
position itself from cabinet level to
not cabinet level so I guess you down
those grade the person in the job but I
mean they're treating this job like it's
a joke I was gonna say House might be a
nice person she might be smart I don't
know where but come on yeah like Heather
never decide are you concerned about
downgrading the job to a sub cabinet
position do you think that's a big deal
in itself it mean it's significant it's
it's signals that you care a lot less
about diplomacy and you care a lot less
about the UN but you know Mike Pompeo is
out giving speeches attacking all these
international institutions anyway and
you know threatening to pull out of them
or whatever else we do so right it's
almost like oh it's like so much of the
work post Trump will be about rebuilding
the integrity and reputation of the
institutions regardless if we went
it's them like I don't you get some you
get some whatever I mean else agrees to
take this job instead of Heather an hour
it doesn't matter it's still
gonna be a disgrace to have been
participating in this administration and
also one more thing I'll take a
guest-star I'll take harm I'll take Mark
Harmon you know that can edit in okay
when we come back we will have Tommy's
interview with Ilan Omar now I did that
we could also do the climate
you
