[Applause]
Jimmy thanks for being here thank you
for all right we have some important
business we're gonna do on stage a
little bit later but I want to start by
talking by finishing the conversation we
just had on stage about 2020 in the
South Carolina Democratic primary now
most important primary well well I could
say this is someone who worked for
Barack Obama he wouldn't been president
without the South Carolina Democratic
primary yeah
so you're an activist here you're
talking to activists what what are the
voters the Democratic primary voters
here in South Carolina were they looking
for in a twenty twenty candidate I think
they're looking for someone who's
genuine someone who's inspirational
someone who's hopeful and someone who
can beat Donald Trump and a bunch of the
candidates have been through here I know
you've been talking all of them I read
the New York Times who gave Elizabeth
Warren called you gave some advice about
running here
what are you telling candidates about
how to win in South Carolina well the
first thing that I tell them is that you
can't mail it in and what did I mean by
that meaning that you know you can't
just send in staffers from other states
just because you're a black woman from
Tennessee you think oh well we can send
her down and she can be the state
director in South Carolina no that
doesn't work
they have different barbecue in
Tennessee so doesn't translate you need
to you know my grandmother is is always
my gauge for things in politics and so
if you go and knock on her door she has
a few questions for you first she she
says well she's looking out the window
to peek and see what kind of car you
driving then second of all she'll open
the door and she said well who are you
where are you from and who are your
people
those that that sense of commonality and
bit and building some kinship is really
really important and so I'm looking for
these candidates not just to spend all
the time in Iowa or in New Hampshire but
to come here to South Carolina to get to
know the voters here in South Carolina
have them ask the questions because
South Carolina
looks like the Democratic Party South
Carolina looks like America and it's
important for them to really test their
messages and to test their outreach in
this state
and I know a bunch of have been down
here some are coming that this upcoming
weekend
is there anyone you've seen who has been
impressive in what they're saying how
they're thinking about or how they're
organizing the state well listen I you
know let me put this out I'm a DNC
officer so therefore whatever I say I am
not endorsing anybody
I'm not sitting this is only between us
in the room you know there have been a
number of candidates and I always see it
this way they've been a number of
candidates have really been working hard
to get to know South Carolina to get to
know the leaders in South Carolina the
community leaders in South Carolina and
hiring in South Carolina staff and
they're making great inroads in that and
so my encouragement for the other folks
you know those candidates who don't fit
that description they but you know who
you are if you don't know who you are
you need to step up your game because in
in the end of the day it's going to be
about the people who put the roots in
the ground and and they water it and
they plant it and they talk to it every
now and then and they tend it and and by
February 29th it is a full grown plant
and that's really really important so
like the chia pet strategies and so the
traditional path has been Iowa New
Hampshire Nevada and South Carolina and
then that in South Carolina was always
the launchpad into these like Super
Tuesday and these other you know huge
multi primary multi state primary days
this year California has moved up and is
right on the heels of South Carolina
does do you worry that that diminishes
the influence III don't
partly and and I can tell it's not
diminishing the influence because we've
actually seen more candidates come to
South Carolina and down than they did in
the entirety of 2016 I mean Hillary and
Bernie only came here a few times but
you core a Kamala
in a number of them have been in South
Carolina already three three four times
and I expect to see them here a lot so I
think it's really really good and it's
good for us team I think South Carolina
is coming to it into its own as it
relates to presidential primary politics
particularly on the Democratic side so
you know having California come-come in
just means South Carolina is that more
important because in the end of the day
you know South Carolina is on February
29th Super Tuesday is then that three
days later on March 2nd that Tuesday
well what's going to happen is the
people who will come in first and second
in South Carolina will get all of this
free television publicity in that time
and voters your creatures will have it
they're gonna look at who has the
momentum and many of them will say well
I sort of like this person they just won
South Carolina so maybe I need to vote
for them
so I think South Carolina just becomes
more significant because Super Tuesday
is now SuperDuper on steroids Tuesday so
there's another election yeah in South
Carolina in 2020 yes there he is
it's very anything you would like to
tell us about your plans for that
election I agree it is time for Lindsey
Graham to come home
listen if you've never seen a black man
blush you just saw you know I don't
think I would have ever in my life if
you told me a few years ago that Jamie
you will agree with George will on
something like I would have it was like
I would have been like Joe Wilson you
lie but George will if you have not seen
the op-ed that he wrote about Lindsey
Graham that ran in the Washington Post
recently I mean it just blows your socks
off but he called Lindsey Graham an
opportunist but he called him a
political windsock I never ever want in
my history to ever be known as a
windsock and definitely not as a
political windsock but I want you all to
know I mean not that it's a preview
because you know the newspapers are
though this is the first time we're
making this news here so yes yeah so let
me just tell tell you this I will be
announcing an exploratory committee to
run for the United States Senate against
[Applause]
[Music]
dogs are awesome
yeah
and I just I just want you to know this
that for me
this isn't about playing games you know
right now you know very soon our our
house will add another little body to it
I grew up here in South Carolina in
Orangeburg right down the road the the
roads that you drive on my grandfather
helped to pave my grand my grandmother
worked in the textile industry my mother
had me when she was 16 years old and you
know my life has been the American dream
I have lived the American dream coming
from one of the most impoverished places
to actually now saying that I'm going to
explore one for the United States Senate
that only happens in America that only
happens and when I think about some of
the towns that I've gone through in
South Carolina and I know many of you
have driven through these little towns
and you see that they're shuttered that
you see the the downtown just looks it's
sad I remember as a kid going through
those same towns and they were vibrant
the problem that we have in South
Carolina is that we have these little
bastions of hope I grew up in of
hopelessness rather I grew up in the
area that they call the corridor of
shame I wouldn't want to be a senator
representing the state like South
Carolina that has a quarter of shame and
the thing that I'm writing about is not
and tweeting about it's not about the
fact that the water in dim bark look as
Brett looks as brown as my shoes or that
the tears are killing our farmers or our
small businesses or that for rural
hospitals have closed in the state or
that their babies being separated from
their from their parents at the border
you know what our senator writes about
it is the manner in which Roger stone
was arrested
you know what our senator cares about
it's his tee time with Donald Trump it
is time here in South Carolina that we
have somebody that we send to Washington
DC that is looking at making sure that
the doors of opportunity and the doors
of that hope is still a part of the
American dream and it's vibrant right
here in South Carolina and so that is
what I want to fight so I'm glad you
brought up Lindsey Graham and when
Barack Obama was first elected and we
were working in the White House Lindsey
Graham was in the White House every day
he was he was in there to talk to Barack
Obama about how he's gonna help them
pass immigration reform he's helped us
past climate change bill is gonna help
Brock Obama close Guantanamo then some
Republican senators lost in primaries
and we haven't seen that Lindsey Graham
in a while know so and now Lindsey
Graham went from someone who was said
Donald Trump would be an embarrassment
if he won to try not muscled on jr. out
to get in the will and so my question is
for someone who's seen him all day
listen in South Carolina what is up with
Lindsey Graham I listen I don't know I I
don't know what what they're feeding him
or what's in the water in the Senate but
somebody please get him away from that
bottle because there's something going
on with him I mean listen this is a guy
in a two-year stint who called Donald
Trump what was it a racist bigoted
xenophobic religious bigot right like
all of that yeah and now Donald Trump is
his BFF I mean literally if you look up
like love on the phone and Donald Trump
pops up and it has a little jingle or
whatever oh there's my best friend
forever Donald Trump I mean it's just
crazy and those two things can't coexist
you can't think somebody's a racist
bigoted and and then you want to make
sure you golfing with them and you're
having lunch with them and dinner with
them it says to me and hearing about
Lindsey being at the White House during
Barack Obama's time is that this guy
just wants to be relevant he doesn't
care about the people here in south
he just wants to be relevant he wants to
be in front of a TV camera he wants to
be in front of a microphone that's fine
I can give you a TV camera in a
microphone Lindsey and you can stay in
your house in Seneca all damn year I
don't think so
Jamie it has been it's been a while
since South Carolina is elected in a
long time like not this century I think
we've been in the wilderness for long so
why help everyone here understand why
this time could be different listen one
of the things that we really have to do
part of the problem that we have here in
South Carolina is not just a problem
that's unique to South Carolina it's
across the south nationally the
Democratic Party has just you know until
recently and I applaud Tom who I worked
with at a DNC because he is reinstated
Howard Dean's 50-state strategy and
started investing in southern parties
and that's how we won and with Doug
Jones in Alabama and and a number of
other houses Joe Cunningham here is
happy that's exactly right and so what
we have to do is we have to get our
folks here energized again and give them
some hope that Democrats can actually do
it and Joe actually did give us but the
second step of it is that we have to
convince national Democrats that they
can't just leave us out here fighting by
ourselves you know if you take a look at
what happens is and Republicans are very
strategic you know they fight everywhere
look at Massachusetts Maine Maryland
blue states right blue blues of the blue
states but what do they have in common
Republican governors that's because
Republicans don't see it any territory
to us but but the Democratic Party on
the other hand will say well South
Carolina we can't win Alabama we can't
win Mississippi we can't win
you know the Idaho in Kansas we can't
win and we'll just see that over to the
Republicans and we only fight in these
you know the marginal States or the
swing states or blue states well you
know those same red states are sending
to us
to Washington DC and the policies that
those US senators are voting on the
judges that they're voting on have an
impact on every single person in this
country we can't cede any territory to
them we have to fight on these grounds
and they're good democrats in the south
and we can win at the investments jamie
thank you so much
[Applause]
you
