Erica I'm Jon Favreau I'm Dan Piper
later in the pod i chat with
congresswoman Rasheeda Talib about all
kinds of stuff in the news before that
we got a lot of news to get through from
the lawsuit that might undo the
Affordable Care Act to the latest Trump
scandals to some brand new polling we're
releasing today about the 2020 primary a
few programming notes we'll be releasing
a bonus episode of positive America on
Friday featuring our interview with
World Cup champion Megan Rapinoe who
will be dropping by crooked HQ later
today the entire staff is very excited
in I'm very that is very cool and I'm
very jealous yeah also on the latest
episode of POD save the world Tommy and
Ben talk about Trump's Twitter fight
with the British ambassador to the US as
well as big updates out of Iran North
Korea and make sure to check out our new
crooked minis series called reclaiming
patriotism hosted by former Navy pilot
and congressional candidate Ken Harbaugh
featuring interviews with people like
Pete Buddha judge Tammy Duckworth and
Barbara Lee it's an excellent series go
check it out
finally we will be in Denver on July
17th and in Salt Lake City on July 18th
that's next week the shows will be
co-hosted by hysterias Aaron Ryan so
make sure to come see us live get
tickets at crooked comm slash events
there are still some available all right
let's get to the news Donald Trump and
Republicans moved one step closer
towards their longtime goal of
destroying the Affordable Care Act this
week when two out of three judges on a
fifth circuit court of appeals panel
seemed amenable to the argument made by
Republican plaintiffs that the entire
law is unconstitutional now that the
individual mandate has been eliminated
by Congress Dan obviously the Affordable
Care Act has had some close calls before
how did this particular legal challenge
come about how did how do we get to this
place
so late last year a very conservative
judge in Texas struck down the law and
the argument behind it was that the
mandate was unconstitutional now in 2012
the Supreme Court held that the
individual mandate was constitutional
but they did so by saying that the
government could require people have
health insurance because they had the
power to tax in the Republican tax bill
of 2017 they struck down the individual
mandate Thank You Susan Collins and so
this judge said since the Congress is no
longer taxing that they didn't have the
power to do this and then the judge said
because the individual mandate was
unconstitutional the entire law was and
so now we could have come just so that
was stayed so the law stayed in place if
this argument had like went to the Fifth
Circuit I believe they had this argument
and where they're gonna test two
questions one the whether the individual
mandate is unconstitutional if the
government is not taxing into this idea
of severability where you could you
remove the individual mandate keep the
rest of the law and that so those are
the two parameter questions are is the
energy mandate constitutional and if it
is not is it quote unquote severable
from the law and you've got all of that
because I took three constitutional law
classes in Georgetown I was gonna say
you know I'm no I'm no legal expert
legal scholar I'm not a lawyer but
there's two pretty common-sense answers
to the questions at the heart of this
case that you just raised one is the
individual mandate still constitutional
well it was it was like you said it was
held as constitutional because it's a
tax and Congress has the power to tax
all Congress did in the 2017 bill was
take the tax from whatever it was down
to zero so now there's just zero dollars
of fine if you if you go without health
insurance so I don't know how that
changes the constitutionality of it and
the second question can the law survive
without the individual mandate in place
well we've had two years since they
brought the fine down to zero and the
law has survived and so I don't
understand this legal argument and we
should point out by the way that
it's not just a bunch of like liberals
and Democrats who are arguing that this
challenge does particularly GLE
challenges absurd there are some very
conservative legal scholars most notably
this guy named Jonathan Adler who is a
law professor at Case Western who had
previously filed briefs against the
Affordable Care Act when it was being
challenged legally and it appeared
before the Supreme Court and now he's
saying this legal challenge from
conservatives is quote absurd
so I'll legal scholars from across the
political spectrum think this challenge
is absurd and yet they found this judge
in Texas who decided to uphold you know
decided to side with the plaintiffs and
now two out of three judges on this
circuit court panel one was appointed by
George HW I'm sorry
one was appointed by George W Bush one
was appointed by Trump and they both at
least you know during the argument they
seemed like they might be amenable to
the plaintiffs case so how scared should
we be here we should always be scared
absolutely I mean there's I mean there
are reasons to not panic and we can talk
about those but I found this very
worrisome because the argument flew in
the face of reality the environment the
arguments from the people who want to
give her the ACA yes that was absurd as
it was meant to be the but the question
judges appellate judge el rato
because I believe the Bush appointee on
the yeah and all basically said Congress
didn't make it clear that they wanted to
preserve the law when they got written
dual mandate except there are two
problems with that Douglass had voted
against repealing the law about less
than a year before or about a year
before they voted to get rid of
uniformity and the swing votes on that
on the individual mandate provision have
said that they support the law so there
is both there is actions that happen
beforehand and comments afterwards we
should both make
pretty obvious what Congress was
trying to do here yeah and so that that
part to me is very worse than it like
this it's seen from the questioning
right and there are a lot of caveats
here but it seemed from the questions
the judges were looking for a pretext to
overturn the law and send it to the
Supreme Court yeah I mean what you're
just you were just talking about is that
the judges are basically trying to
divine congressional intent here so did
Congress intend to get rid of the whole
law when they repealed the individual
mandate and one of the judges who was
the judge that you just said judge all
right
oh yeah and so one of the judges judge
Elrod actually said don't you think that
maybe when Congress repealed the
individual mandate that they said AHA
this is the Silver Bullet that will
destroy destroy Obamacare but like you
said the big problem is they had an
opportunity to destroy the whole law
they voted it down they didn't have the
votes to destroy the whole law they
don't want to so I just it's it's absurd
it is completely absurd so what are the
reasons for optimism here if let's say
what we think will happen happens and
the Fifth Circuit basically sides with
the judge in Texas on holding the whole
law unconstitutional what happens next
well the reasons for I don't even want
to say optimism because optimism is just
feels like the wrong thing to offer
people but into and I did it because
there this is not I have optimism when
the public can do something to affect
the outcome right when you have a bunch
of federal society born-and-bred judges
in this circuit and the Supreme Court
making decisions that are in line with
the Republican policy Republican Party
policy and the wishes of the Republican
German class then I am cynical when the
public has a chance to weigh in that
I'll optimistic and in this case this is
the reasons for here but the reasons
just to provide some context for this in
2012 when the Supreme Court when the
Affordable the Affordable Care Act had
its Supreme Court hearing the hearing
went so poorly that everyone presumed
the law was dead the
was just seen to be a disaster for the
Obama administration and the wall was
preserved the other reason is is that
despite all the changes that happen
supreme court the jamming through of
people like Brett Kavanaugh the stealing
of the AmeriCorps won't see the five
justices that rule to preserve the
affordable care act in 2012 in 2015 are
still on the court right so we will see
what happens here I mean the Fifth
Circuit has to rule and then if they if
they rule they happen a rule against the
the judge in Texas against the
plaintiffs then the Supreme Court will
probably never hear it and the whole
thing will be done but if they do agree
then yeah then we'll have another
probably the third legal challenge to
the Affordable Care Act to to reach the
supreme court and this will also likely
be in the middle of the twenty twenty
election so obviously there's tremendous
political implications as well as the
horrifying consequences that defeat in
the law would sorry so obviously there
are tremendous political implications as
well as the sort of horrifying
consequences for Americans if if this
law is repealed in terms of the
political implications let's start with
the primary most of the debate thus far
has been about whether or not to move to
a single-payer system how if at all does
the debate change now that the
Affordable Care Act is in jeopardy well
I think there's that again I mean I
think this is gonna go two ways for a
candidate like Biden who in his big
speech in South Carolina last weekend
try is basically trying to rerun the
play that Hillary Clinton ran in 2016
which is to take on the advocates for
Medicare for all or single-payer system
by pitting by trying to say making
himself the defender of before people
Care Act right that it is Affordable
Care Act burst Medicare for all or and
if you if the Affordable Care Act is not
around that makes that a harder
challenge but I think the big question
for Democrat
we'll be just the argument shift in fate
just shift towards preserving me for
worker the former Care Act it's almost
been an afterthought in the health care
conversations in this primary it's all
been about what comes next and not so
much about what is here now and how we
protect it and I wonder whether it's
going to for some portion of the primary
for fairly large primary field it will
move we will start having more of a
conversation about what is good is about
the Affordable Care Act about as opposed
to what is list what is missing and what
needs to be added on to it or changed or
scrapped to have a better more
affordable more accessible universal
health care system in the country yeah I
mean it it is probably useful to think
about this like you know art sorry let
me try this again it's probably useful
to think about this in terms of we all
want guaranteed universal coverage we
all want affordable and quality coverage
and where does the Affordable Care Act
fall short on those goals and then how
can we reach those goals and that could
mean you know covering the people who
still aren't covered making sure that
deductibles and co-pays and
out-of-pocket expenses aren't as high as
they still are for a lot of people and I
think the question is can you achieve
those goals by adding a public option or
improving the Affordable Care Act in
other ways or is the only way to achieve
those goals to finally move to a
single-payer system which would look
very different than what we have right
now with the even with the affordable
care act and I do think like Biden's
people have at least hinted in recent
weeks that this is where they want to
take the health care debate one Biden
aide told POLITICO were headed for a
health care conversation in this party I
think he'll be talking about it more in
the coming days and then biting himself
in Charleston on Sunday said quote on
health care we strongly disagree I don't
want to do away with Obama care start
all over and trash it what do you think
about that argument
I am I don't love it for a whole host of
reasons yeah I think there is a
legitimate policy debate about whether
you build on top of the Affordable Care
Act with Medicare for all Medicare
buy-in public option whatever I'm sorry
I'm check I think there's a legitimate
policy discussion about whether you take
the portable Care Act and you build onto
it with a Medicare buy-in or public
option something else as opposed to over
a transition period scrapping the entire
system and building a new one that the
single-payer base like Bernie Sanders
and Elizabeth Warren and others have
advocated well I think that is looking
at policy debate when I find
uncomfortable about the Biden approach
which I think was also endemic to the
Clinton approach in 2016 is it turns
this into a proxy conversation about
your love for Barack Obama right are you
going to stand with Barack Obama and be
for the ACA are you going to be against
Barack Obama and suffer the political
consequences of being the other side of
someone who was the 96 of percent
approval rating the Democratic primary
the problem is crock Obama himself is
very clear-eyed open and honest that the
Affordable Care Act is the beginning of
a process to get us universal health
care and has talked about Medicare for
all as an eventual goal and supported a
Medicare buy-in in 2010 when we were
trying to pass the bill and support of
the public option all those things and
so I I think we should have a legitimate
conversation about what the best policy
is and and a frank conversation about
the political ramifications for choosing
one of those sides like what are the
political consequences both in terms of
the you know general election and also
for a president who was who was newly
elected who's trying to enact that
policy like that like this is not this
should not be some sort of ivory tower
conversation there there's politics
involved here and that should be part of
the conversation that happens but I
think it is it is an oversimplification
of the process to say you're either with
the ACA and Obama or you're with
medicare-for-all against Obama because I
don't think that's all Barack Obama
would come down on that issue
ya know I think there's a mean I'm
hoping there's a sort of robust policy
debate about health care
in this primary that doesn't sort of
resort to you know are you on the side
of Obamacare or are you not because look
I even think that the and you know Ezra
Klein wrote a good piece about this and
Vox like I think this debate about
abolishing private insurance or not is a
bit of a red herring in terms of what
the real differences are between all the
plans and the real heart of this debate
is which is about sort of financing this
new system right like in in Bernie's
bill that Warren and Harris and others
are on and support literally everything
is free your your doctor's visits are
free there's no co-payments there's no
out-of-pocket everything's covered every
procedure is covered but also you know
the government sort of sets prices and
has to figure out you know what is
covered and to finance a system like
that like you know Bernie's folks will
say well you're not gonna pay premiums
anymore so when you pay more in taxes
that's just you paying the premiums you
would have paid otherwise but it's not
quite as clean as that and there is this
transition period too and so you know no
one has really laid out in detail
exactly how you financed completely free
medical care you know Medicare that is
more generous than the Medicare program
we have now and more generous than most
countries with a single-payer system and
the question is how do you how do you
finance that and who pays what and what
do the tax increases look like and what
do the reimbursements to the hospitals
and doctors look like and these are all
really important questions that go far
beyond are you going to quote-unquote
abolish private insurance or not right
even though that isn't it that is an
important question both because then
there is there it may be the right thing
to do it may be the wrong thing to do
but it has implications and it does make
it sort of damages some of the
comparisons to other countries who who
have government-run health care or
single-payer health care that ought also
still have some measure of private
insurance exactly that is a an element
of the plan that is interesting and
notable to a lot of people yeah so if
the Supreme Court kills the Affordable
Care Act it's pretty
is how it becomes a major issue in the
election if it doesn't though or if
we're still in limbo
how do Democrats make the Republican
threat to repeal the law a more central
issue than it's been so far since we've
been talking so much about Medicare for
all
well let's start with the the worst
scenario and work our way backwards so
let's say the Supreme Court strikes it
down what I would then recommend that
the Democratic House does is immediately
pass a version of the ACA that is almost
word-for-word what we currently have
without the individual mandate and it
sends it to the Senate and forces the
Trump administration oppose it and all
of those vulnerable Republican senators
to oppose it and filibuster it like
that's what we should do we should put
like if the ACA is gone in the hole like
if the the parameters of the democratic
health care discussion there's been the
Affordable Care Act is before and we're
debating what the ceiling can be in the
near term about the US healthcare system
then we got to put the floor back in
place and so if we were able to do that
I don't know put tremendous pressure but
the ACA back on the table would reignite
the conversations that were happening in
2018 that were so beneficial to
Democrats about the future of the
Affordable Care Act and being on the
line it is before where Care Act is
popular which is a weird thing for those
of us who were around in the early days
to say but it's quite popular a large
swath of voters and we can like that
would be the recognition I worry that we
would wrap ourselves around the axle
about that with like should we do that
should we make it
ACA plus should we do the ACA plus
something else look like just do this
the simplest thing that puts the ACA
back on the table and puts pressure on
Republicans to show that they are
against all of the parts of the plan
that are incredibly popular reaction
people pre-existing conditions
preventive care lifetime limits caps on
out-of-pocket cost all the things that
are incredibly important and popular and
make ourself the advocate for that again
and make it very clear who the opponents
are yeah well especially I mean we need
to highlight the very human stakes of
what happens if this law is killed which
Republicans have advocated for for a
very long time it's 20 mm
million people who will lose their
health insurance this isn't like you
know you had private insurance and then
your transition to a government program
like we're talking about with Medicare
for all this is losing your health
insurance you have no health insurance
this is all the prescription drug
discounts in the bill go away the
protections for pre-existing conditions
go away so an insurance company can
prevent you from getting insurance if
you have a pre-existing condition or
drop you from their insurance from your
insurance if you have a pre-existing
condition it means young people can't
stay on their parents health insurance
until they're 26 anymore every so it's
not just even the uninsured or people
who buy you no insurance on the
exchanges that get screwed here it's
millions and millions and millions of
Americans who are paying less for their
health care because of the Affordable
Care Act and were protected from the
worst practices of the insurance
companies because of the Affordable Care
Act all of that goes away and I think
Democrats can very fairly lay that at
the feet not just of the at the courts
but of every Republican politician who's
advocated for the repeal of the
Affordable Care Act and voted for it
numerous times over the last 10 years
and Donald Trump himself who supports
this lawsuit who's filed brief after
brief in support of this lawsuit it is
their fault that the affordable care act
is in jeopardy right now and if the bla
dies it is the Republicans fault and I
think it's also good for Democrats to
say even if the Supreme Court upholds
the law well it's nice that the Supreme
Court upheld the law but if you vote for
Republicans if Donald Trump is
re-elected and a Republican house is
elected this is exactly what will happen
they will finish the job they have
promised to finish the job and they will
kill Obamacare and these devastating
consequences will be felt all throughout
this country so I feel like that's
that's gonna be the argument right and
the question is how you deliver that
argument I mean how do you get it in
front of people right because we like
here is the affordable care act here's
something it affects millions of people
from a domestic policy perspective it
should be the single most important
store in the land
and Donald Trump's social media summit
slashing grievance gathering is going to
get nearly as much coverage because
that's just how the press works this day
yeah and I just and I think look
everyone talks about what a lesson mm
they think what works so well that
helped us and do so well in 2010 how can
we replicate that for 2020 and the
argument was comes down to is that the
issue that was before the voters was
about preserving the Affordable Care Act
right and they an argument against
Republicans is about did they would give
her the Affordable Care Act and trial
again server the argument 2018 there was
so powerful loop voters was that
Democrats would protect a full character
always get rid of it right in order to
pay for tax cuts for millionaires and
Wall Street executives and but it is not
true that all the news stories in the
run-up to the election were about health
care in fact none of them were the
reason it was on the ballot was because
Democratic candidates and campaigns put
it on the ballot by advertising about it
digitally and yes on television and also
are talking about let's pump every
single day they did it with zero help
from the press Yeah right and so the
like we see this and you see it and all
the talking points and Trust releases
that we see from Denmark from Democratic
politicians thank you advance it's like
oh something's happening that will also
talk about the ACA for five minutes and
that's great we should do that they can
manage the opportunity to try to get a
little coverage but the way you
penetrate there is no way to make health
care a top long-term news story in this
country because that is not true the
press is that is not what the economic
model of media and the digital ad age
that's not how it works
and so campaigns have to decide to do
this the presidential campaign has to
decide to do this the candidates
presidential candidates decide to do
this all the senate-house that decide to
do it they have to invest money in doing
it and the Democratic super PAC and
party apparatus has to invest money in
doing this and they have to start now
yeah every every candidate for office
every Democratic presidential candidate
every candidate everywhere else should
be saying they want to take your health
care away at least five times a day I
mean you know it's like it's got to be a
central part of the message and you're
right that you have
to be creative enough and persistent
enough that you get this message out in
a way that doesn't rely on the you know
media that has a DD from you know you
can't rely on them to do it you can't
rely on you can't wait for opportunities
like this you just got to keep saying it
every single day I come a broken record
on this I'm gonna scream about it - my
head explodes or we win the selection
whichever comes first which is if you
think the mainstream media everyone from
the New York Times the CNN is the
primary vehicle for getting your message
in front of voters you were going to
lose yeah that was barely true ten years
ago and in this age particularly in the
era of Trump it is impossible it cannot
work it is a strategy doomed to failure
it was a lesson 2016 plus in the 2018 is
that there was another way to do it and
we have to adopt a new fundamental
understanding of communication of the
modern age gender brand agree another
place where the Supreme Court may soon
step in again is the census scandal
after Trump announced this morning that
he'd be adding sorry after Trump I
should say he's gonna dance it today
another place where the Supreme Court
may soon step in again is the census
scandal after Trump announced today that
he'd be adding a citizenship question
through an executive order dan can he do
this what's what's the issue with
Trump's latest move here I mean he can
try and there is something that ties the
the Affordable Care Act arguments as
absurd as they are with what Trump is
doing on the census which prior to Trump
the general view among Republicans
conservatives was you you can get the
courts to do or the Congress to do what
you want as long as you could come up
with a reason that walked right up to
the line but did not cross it of making
people laugh out loud when they heard it
right you had to have a basically close
to but not absurd rationale for whatever
your conservative policy goal was yeah
in the Trump administration we are
understand
that Republicans have no shame have no
dignity so you just need any reason and
so the like the rationale book for
beginning really ACA and the rationale
that they are coming up with for putting
the census question or the citizenship
question on the census are absurd but
they very well may work because
conservatives just want to do what
conservatives want to do and they will
accept almost any reason level and we
know with the certain you guys talk
about this a lot on Monday was because
the they already said what their reason
was and now they're coming back after a
year-and-a-half of standing with that
reason this with a new reason yeah and
so it is audits it is so absurd that it
should be last out of the Supreme Court
but I'm not confident it will be because
I know who's on the Supreme Court and
look I mean the again I don't wanna say
reason for optimism for all the reasons
you said above but the the issue here is
while five justices said that Wilbur
Ross and the Commerce Department have
pretty wide latitude to add whatever
question they want to add on the census
Roberts did hold that if you're gonna
ask whatever question you want you that
still doesn't absolve you from having a
very clear-cut rationale for adding that
question and a paper trail for exactly
how you arrived at that conclusion right
so he thinks that's part of the law as
well that you know Congress passed the
census Act and gave a lot of this power
to the Department of Commerce to run the
census but Congress also said if you're
gonna add a question or if you're gonna
make changes to the census you need to
detail exactly how you came to that
conclusion over time it's nearly
impossible for the Trump administration
to now come up with a new rationale and
say oh actually the entire time this is
exactly what we've been building towards
this this brand-new rationale it's
almost impossible to do that it defies
all logic but like you said that's that
hasn't stopped the legal system from
acting screwy before but just because
Trump is issuing executive order does
not absolve
or the Commerce Department from still
coming up with that rationale that John
Roberts asked them to provide so it's
it's on it's not clear that the
executive order gets him out of this
this conundrum that he's in but you know
I guess this ends up at the Supreme
Court again right I mean it seems heads
of that direction
great great everything is and the
country's future is just in the hands of
John Roberts that makes that make
everyone feel pretty good all right
let's talk about what Democrats in the
House are doing or not doing about the
ever-growing pile of crimes and scandals
around Donald Trump on Wednesday the
president's Labor Secretary Alex Acosta
defended his handling of a 2008 plea
agreement he offered as a US Attorney -
Jeffrey Epstein a rich politically
connected investor who's now facing
fresh charges of running a child sex
trafficking operation under the deal
Epstein entered a guilty plea in state
court and served only 13 months in jail
and was allowed to leave to work in an
office during his trying 13 month stay
in a jail Acosta said he made the deal
with Epstein because he didn't want to
risk
Epstein not going to jail at all which
he thought would have happened if he
didn't make the deal congressional
Democrats including House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi are calling on Acosta to step
down but Pelosi also basically ruled out
impeaching Acosta and said that
accountability for Acosta is the
president's problem and that it's quote
his cabinet
this comes after Pelosi chose not to
fight Republicans over the recent border
bill continues to resist impeachment and
said a few weeks ago that Congress had
too many other things going on to
investigate the recent rape allegation
against Trump dan let's start with the
Acosta Epstein drama who is Jeffrey
Epstein and why does this story have a
political connection in the first place
aside from the link to Acosta that we
just spoke about Jeffrey Epstein is a
shadowy rich guy it's not clear how he
got to be as rich as he claimed to be or
is even that rich but he is what was
very closely connected he was close
friends with Trump in his papers that
were believed he had 14 different
numbers in his contacts
were members of the Trump family from
Trump to his assistance to Milania to
trumps ex-wives to Ivanka I'm very
connected also very close with Bill
Clinton claims to have been intimately
involved in the idea for the Clinton
Global Initiative has traveled with
Clinton on a couple of times met on his
planes many years ago so he's been in
and around for a long time
and so the political connection is his
connection to both Clinton and Trump who
do seem to have an amazing ability to be
friends with some of the worst people in
the worlds which would be the one thing
I think those two men have in common
yes and so the and then the fact that
his plea agreement was negotiated and
signed off on by Alex Acosta who's now
from flavor Secretary has put that what
would be in otherwise a political case
right in the middle of American politics
yeah so why I mean why does it cost to
still have a job right now and what can
what could the Democrats do about it I
mean this guy the more you look into
this deal he gave this scumbag of a
human being the more enraged you get
right like the fact that this guy only
served 13 months when there were I think
a cost to set aside I think the number
is 54 different charges in a federal
indictment on that had to do with sex
trafficking sex trafficking of minors I
mean it is truly disgusting stuff and
the fact that he only gets 13 months in
jail during which time he gets to leave
to go to work when you compare that to
what you know people who are convicted
of very minor drug offenses the prison
time that they know right exactly yeah
no so when you compare when you
compare how Epstein was treated to how
most people in this country are treated
especially people of color especially
people who are involved in minor drug
offenses it's it's pretty sickening and
you know and also by the way we should
know that a federal judge ruled the deal
unlawful
because Acosta did not notify the
victims Epstein's victims and you know
it costs to give all kinds of excuses
for this yesterday but a judge ruled
that it was illegal so how does this guy
still have a job well I want to go back
a second to Nancy Pelosi saying that
accountability for the cabinet is the
president's responsibility right that is
not true
I am sympathetic to Nancy Pelosi on a
lot of things I think she was put in a
possible addition on the border bill
could have been should we have a better
bill yes could have been handled better
yes but all of the blame for that does
not fall on her a lot falls on senator
schumer and a shitload of senate
democrats who wanted to go home for the
holidays but on this one she is wrong it
Alex Acosta is the Secretary of Labor
the Secretary of Labor is responsible
for human trafficking I'm sorry much I
get Alex Acosta technically he is
responsible for human trafficking policy
within the administration the idea that
the person in charge of human
trafficking policy gave a sweetheart
deal to a politically connected
billionaire who was accused of sex
trafficking is something that the
Congress should look at congressional
oversight is it is not an option it is
it is a responsibility not a privilege
it is something that they are supposed
to do that is their job in the idea that
it is somehow that we're going to count
on trunk to to enact accountability on
people who have done things that who
have protected sexual predators is an
absurd idea and it is absolutely
something that Congress should look at
whether they can actually couldn't each
other and now could that we're not
counting on the Senate to convict but
they should absolutely look into this
deal and exposed to the public what can
be exposed that is their job that is a
job we couldn't do and they should do it
yeah and it is it is just it is I think
it is a a true it is a bizarre
abdication of responsibility from
congressional Democrats to not look into
this it really is and I think it's
really unfortunate I don't even
understand what political issue they're
trying to scratch
by avoiding this yeah I mean it does
look like they you know slightly reverse
themselves yesterday when I guess Elijah
Cummings who is the chair of the
Oversight Committee sent a letter to
Acosta asking that he come testify and
answer some questions now I don't I
don't know if a subpoena will be issued
or what I sort of wonder I wonder what
you think about this if there's sort of
a logic problem for Pelosi like if she
says that the house will look into and
possibly began impeachment proceedings
against Alex Acosta who covered up for a
sexual predator then isn't the question
well then why won't you begin
impeachment proceedings against a real
sexual predator in the White House who
also committed a whole bunch of other
crimes like to me I feel like she is
trapped she has trapped herself she has
backed herself into a corner by everyday
seeming to close the door on impeaching
Donald Trump so that every other
investigative question every other
potential scandal everything else she's
asked to look into she starts worrying
that if she goes down the road that road
leads to impeachment which she doesn't
want to do like to me it seems like this
is this is the problem with not just
saying I don't know about impeachment
yet but it's an option and we'll see
where the facts go but instead what
she's been saying which is you know heat
Donald Trump is self impeaching and I
don't think we want to do this and and
and basically just throwing cold water
on impeachment every day it seems like
she's trapped herself yeah you're right
she just put herself and I maximum
security prison of political caution
which is everything flows everything
flows from that choice yeah and the
problem is it it is a it's pretzel logic
because the action like if you were
doing the politics of it let's just say
you are Nancy Pelosi you've decided
either you yourself believe or the
majority of your caucus with an
impeachment is a political error and
should we should not go down that path
so who a one option being to to try to
shy away from investigations at
oversight the other way which is what
their kinds are sort of doing like a
fits and starts pot that's the other
thing to do is
to aggressively investigate everything
and that if you if you are willing if
you find something then you can maybe
reverse your position on Pietschmann
but you are you're sending the end goal
it's you're basically you're working
backwards from the end goal supposed to
just going through the process and I do
think one of the things that is
affecting our house leadership is
whether it's Clyburn or steny hoyer
or flow sea or a lot of the other people
there they've been around for a very
very long time they they are the
products of their experience and one of
their experiences is in the 90s when the
Republicans took the house in 1990 1994
election they investigated Bill Clinton
like lunatics like obsessive conspiracy
Laden things like to the point where it
seems ridiculous to tell this anecdote
but that person who had a logic Cummings
job back then Dan Burton was convinced
that Vince Foster who was a deputy
counsel in the White House committed
suicide in he Dan Burton was convinced
that then that Vince Foster next to it
so I was actually murdered in order to
prove his point he once shot a gun into
a watermelon as part of the hearing and
so be like they were insane in the view
in that time was the Republican zeal to
investigate Clinton led them led to
Clinton's reelection and the problem is
Clinton is not trumped Pelosi is Matt
Gingrich then is not now there is a
different like because something
happened in the night does it mean it's
gonna also happen in the 2010 and so I
think they are in some ways just it is a
there it is this caution born of a very
unrelated experience that is keeping
them from being as as aggressive as they
should be and it causes them to miss the
stakes of what is happening here yeah
and again if you are spending every day
 on the idea of impeachment
which Pelosi does every time she gets
asked about it as opposed to just you
know a sort of go slow strategy where
she says who knows what might happen and
where the facts may lead the question
remains what are you doing all these
investigations for why are we hearing
from Muller next week if there's no
possibility of impeachment why are do I
do any investigations or
foresight at all if it's not possible
that what you uncover would lead you to
impeach the president and I think that's
her you know having it both ways trying
to appease the pro-impeachment crowd
with some investigations with sending a
subpoena here throwing a letter there
but then appeasing the anti impeachment
crowd by saying oh we're not going to go
there we don't think it's politically
wise is a terrible strategy it's just
it's a terrible strategy like pick one
you know either go out there and say
we're we're not going to impeach this
guy because the Senate's not going to
convict him and so therefore we're gonna
focus entirely on other other I
don't know what it is I guess passing
 message bills that will die in
the Senate I guess that's the big
strategy we're gonna focus on you know
focus on other or at least leave
open the fact that at the end of these
investigations
you may impeach the President of the
United States because he has committed
these crimes and his stand is surrounded
by a bunch of other criminals and and
people who protect sexual predators and
all the rest I don't know man I really
losing patience I I have to like I have
tried to be very sympathetic to the
position that pull ups even Democratic
leadership aside cuz I do believe that
Nancy Pelosi in her heart plays to
Donald Trump she'd be impeached and she
is both making a political you know
decision which one I disagree with got a
political decision and but it is like
it's irrational it's not an irrational
political conclusion to make about
impeachment but it but also serving as a
shield for her many members who are
hesitant on impeachment or worried about
the politics of it and are trying and
are now able to say well Nancy Pelosi
said burn occupation so they don't have
to suffer the wrath of the eighty-five
percent of Democratic voters who want to
pitch her
well let me ask oh I was just ask you
about that cuz Brian and boiler and I
were sort of talking about this
yesterday Brian thinks if if it was put
to a vote right now the house would vote
there would be enough votes to impeach
or at least to move forward with
impeachment proceedings and that Nancy
Pelosi is basically actively whip
against this or at least not providing
the leadership that would bring over
some of these moderate Democrats on to
the side of impeachment because Brian's
argument is look if they were given a
choice maybe they're sort of skeptical
of impeachment now but if you're given
the choice to stand with Jerry Nadler
and launching an impeachment inquiry or
standing with Trump and protecting him
then Moe you know a majority of
Democrats in the House would vote for
the inquiry do you agree with that or do
you think that Nancy Pelosi is doing
this because there are not enough votes
and there are plenty of members who are
just saying absolutely not I do not want
to vote for even beginning impeachment
proceedings I think the reality is a
little more nuanced in a couple of ways
one I do not think she is whipping
against impeachment they have not heard
anything to suggest that it would be it
would be uncharacteristic if Nancy
Pelosi style she would be whipping
against peace with second she's
certainly not making it easier for
people to come for impeachment all right
so yeah like that is also true so if
she's not actively whipping but in
certainly creating an environment where
it's more challenging to come out for
any patient particularly for committee
chairs and members of her leadership
team I think Nancy Pelosi is right like
if there was a secret ballot right where
no one had to put their name on their
vote
I think impeachment would fail yeah
because I think a lot of people along
and I talked to some of these newly
elected crush their members and this is
very worrisome to them they look at
their district I pulled it and they
think it's it is as it currently stands
very unpopular they depend on a large
number of independent votes to get over
the top and so they're very worried
about it I think it's a battle they can
in they can win and right now we're
living in a world breather getting the
worst of all worlds but right they
believe that I think if we admit a
policy were to decide she was for
impeachment and we're to say we're gonna
have a vote the it would pass people
would vote reluctantly they wouldn't
want to do it but being on the 15
percent side of an 85 15 percent issue
in your party is pretty close to
impossible if a vote were to be called
right and so it's sort of I don't think
there's almost people who secretly are
for each I think they're bunchy
who who would be dragged to it by the
base if they were forced to stand in the
well of the house and and pick one side
or the other
yeah Nancy Pelosi is protecting them
from that outcome for reason but having
said all of that I think the pate like
the we have been sent as I have been
sympathetic to the position there were
any but if I disagreed with their
outcomes but I think we've liked between
the continued fight with the quote
unquote squad the sort of the
half-measure approach on this stuff the
way the border talk with others a lot to
be very frustrated about how things are
going it's it's not me the answer here
is not to disengage in politics and
dislocation of house their chance to
answer is to engage we engage with them
and continue to put the pressure on them
to do the right thing time and again
yeah I agree that okay let's talk about
2020 and the results of our brand-new
post-debate poll with our friends at
change research we pulled 1261 voters in
Iowa New Hampshire and South Carolina
and found that a week after the first
set of debates Kamala Harris has gained
quite a bit of support and Joe Biden has
lost some as a result we see a very
close race in the early states with
Bernie Sanders at 19 percent Elizabeth
Warren at 19 percent Joe Biden 18
percent Kamala Harris at 17 percent P
booted it at 15 percent and no other
candidate above 3 percent Harris and
Biden are the only candidates whose
numbers moved by more than one
percentage point in either direction
following the debates between our
pre-debate poll and our post debate poll
overall the survey found that the
debates changed the minds of about a
quarter of the votes sorry about a
quarter of the voters contacted that is
a tight race stand by five-way race
that's all within the margin of error
basically between 15 percent for Pete
and 19 percent for Bernie and Warren
would you think of the results and did
anything stand out at you well I think
we now have established two very clear
tiers there had been several tiers
within the race of maybe Biden at the
very top and then Bernie in a second
here all by himself and a bunch of
people competing or the third it is that
there is
top tier and there's everyone else and
well there's still a lot of time left
that said there's the time is starting
to run out for some of those candidates
who aren't in that top group to get in
that top group to have a real chance to
make an impact in this race so that's
one - Komal Harris's debate performance
was even more impactful than we thought
it would be for her and for Biden and
that sets a stage for what's going to
come in these next set of debates for
the need for her you know her did need
for her to maintain her new status for
biting to a comfortable or he got and
for a whole bunch of candidates who
probably now see the path to the top of
the polls is to take a pretty big swing
at someone that's I think that's gonna
impact what happens on the stage so I
mean this is a incredibly tight race it
is interesting and last thing I'd say
it's very interesting how different the
polling in the early States is in the
national polls even though you see some
of the trends in the national polling
it's what happened in the date is even
more impactful in the early states where
people are more engaged and they have a
context to understanding these
candidates because they are there all
the time yeah and I think that the two
big differences between national polls
and I think some of these early state
polls especially our early state poll is
Bernie Sanders seems to be holding on to
his support I know that the poll shows
him in first here but his number did not
change between our pre-debate poll in
our post debate poll which is very
interesting he was a 19 percent in the
pre-debate poll and wasn't in first
place and now he's tied for first with
Warren I mean everything's within the
margin of error here so he does seem to
have this
it's a Bernese Bernie's not growing
support and and none of these other
polls are showing him sort of gaining
any support but he's not really he
probably lost a little bit since he got
in the race but he's not it seems that
he has a floor right now at least in
some of these early states and I'm
that's so that's sort of an interesting
thing to watch it is that enough I don't
know it seems like you need to grow your
support at this point and yeah at this
point exactly should that it's an
interesting thing right like the other
candidates could start splitting the
votes so much that as long as Bernie
holds on to the you know anywhere
between 15 and 19 percent that he has
and a lot of these polls then who
that's enough maybe it is the other
thing is I think Pete Buddha judge who
in some of these national polls has
either leveled off or sort of lost some
support in the early States especially
in Iowa is still doing really well and
that so two things about us the burger
thing is very important because if he
were to like there is movement among
other candidates and Bernie is
rock-solid and they're like if she said
there was a question of whether his
floor is enough to win by the path the
the sequence of the early states is very
favorable to Bernie Sanders if he is
able to hold on to that far we've seen
other polls where he has dropped below
his steady level in recent months is
Elizabeth Warren has gained or others
have gained but let's take our poll
because it's ours so if he stays there
Iowa he almost won last time he's
incredibly strong in New Hampshire and
you not goes to Chris to out your very
great hip so there has been it I think a
little bit like Bernie went from I think
being overestimated having a strength
overestimated to now being
underestimated and opal syrup shows
right where it was a very very
legitimate contender for the nomination
yeah particularly in a field where you
have several strong contenders and you
know there are other contenders but you
know other people in this poll who are
doing not well now but have show room
for growth and some of that clips become
like they spent to some of these other
candidates right yep we're running out
we're running out of free vote three
percentage points for people again as
candidates become more known
yeah I'd and go ahead no no God no I was
going to say to you the first point that
you made about the poll about how
there's sort of two tiers now the other
thought point I thought was interesting
from our poll is how difficult it is to
sort of break out of that bottom tier
even if you've had a good debate
performance so let's take who Leon
Castro he was a pleasant surprise in the
debates 223 percent of respondents which
was behind only Kamala Harris who it was
at 26% but while Harris's horse number
horse race numbers skyrocketed as a
result of the debate Castro is still at
1% support and he's the second choice of
only 2% more so obviously his name ID is
still
very low it was helped and his
favorability ratings were helped by the
debate but it didn't really even though
he had that moment and had this great
debate it didn't really change the horse
race numbers for him all that much and
and he's the one who had in the lower
tier who had a really good debate I'd
say Cory Booker did too and his numbers
didn't really change so sort of shows
the challenge of breaking out of that
bottom tier and it'll be interesting if
we ever get to a point where the the
debate stage is narrowed right and I was
I was thinking that was going to happen
in September when there's when the third
debate happens and the DNC requirements
go up but we've seen a number of
candidates who were in danger of not
making that stage come either get there
or come very close to get there Castro
announced I believe the other day that
he got 130,000 online or grassroots
donors Andrew yang was incredibly close
to that number a few weeks ago so I
imagine he crossed it if it like the
problem is your good performance is
diluted by being one of twenty yeah
right and particularly if you are less
known you've been less in the in the
mindset you know as people like there's
a handful of very well known candidates
and it is in coming into this race right
like Biden and Herman set name might be
Bernie Sanders number set name ID it was
with Warren very well-known bit on the
national scene for a long time Carla
Harris new verse in the national scene
but came into this race with a big boost
of momentum with someone who was talked
about if you read about her as she
announced you're like oh this is
something to definitely be President
bayar Pete put himself onto that list by
dint of an incredibly successful
communication strategy and an appealing
message the other candidates have been
unable to do that even some who aren't
like Booker and Kovich are who have some
knowledge they it's just it's very it's
I think it's very hard when there are 20
people for people to fight I think when
the average people who are interested in
this process are thinking about it you
can't think about all 20 people right so
you're kind of narrowing it to a list
and getting into that into that list of
conversation is very challenging even
with a big horse it may be easier there
are only ten of you on stage yeah right
and and it's like if it isn't one debate
in Castro it had his huge moment on that
one debate and it hadn't been over
the next day by Kamala Harris and
Biden's exchange maybe it would have
meant more meaning on the first debate
was probably disadvantage to a lot of
people who were trying to break out yeah
the the one other thing I thought was
interesting from the poll Democratic
voters favor the more progressive
position on other top debate issues
voters would abolish private insurance
fifty eight percent to twenty three
percent voters want a government health
plan to cover undocumented immigrants
54% to twenty four percent and voters
favor decriminalizing unauthorized
border crossings seventy five to
thirteen percent now I was not surprised
that obviously Democrats are probably
gonna favor the more progressive
position but I was surprised at the
margins were you because those are some
pretty big margins for favoring those
positions that you know we have all
talked about are pretty lefty yeah no I
was you like you I was not surprised
that the more progressive position went
out but I was surprised by particularly
on the decriminalizing the border just
because that is a newer issue yeah you
know we've been talking about private
insurance for a long time the
conversation around health care for
undocumented people has been around for
a long time it also is like it's easy to
understand right like in on its face
what it means the different lines in the
border one is much more it's newer it
like really had not been discussed in
the national conversation totally and
Castro put it in the national
conversation so I was surprised by how
strong it does and it does I think speak
to the reaction within the Democratic
electorate electorate to the absolutely
inhumane treatment migrants and and
document people under this
administration and then desired moved as
far away from that as humanly possible
yeah I think that's right
one last point in our poll before we
move on we asked we asked what issues
you wanted to hear more about and then
we asked a question do you think that
the DNC should hold a climate only
climate change only debate and sixty
five percent of voters said they want a
climate debate and climate was the
number one issue mentioned that people
wanted to hear more about
in the next debates so I thought that
was pretty interesting yeah and I would
I would say one thing about this which
is if the campaigns wanted a climate
debate they could have won because yeah
the campaign managers all speak to each
other they they move and block and so if
Biden campaign manager called couple
Harrison's campaign manager called
Bernie Sanders campaign manager called
Cosworth's campaign manager and they
said we want a climate debate there
would be a climate debate in 2008 David
Plouffe our campaign manager talked to
panik's restoral Clinton's campaign
manager talked to folks
Edwards campaign whenever there was a
question about a new debate or new forum
to sort of move in mass together because
we determined what happened and so the
campaign's could make the climate debate
happen tomorrow if they wanted to and so
I think it's activists are looking for
places to pressure it's not just the DNC
it's the campaign's themselves all right
last 2020 thing this week we said
goodbye to Congressman Eric's wall well
he dropped out of the race and then we
said hello to billionaire philanthropist
Tom Steyer who was entering the race you
have any thoughts on the departure or
the entrance of more candidates well
let's just say you know we obviously had
some fun at Eric's wawas expense after
his debate performance and he you know
he certainly had a lot of very cheesy
lines which is like this is like all of
our pet peeves and so we you know we got
a Nord by it but in it I'd say I think
we should at least say two things one he
put gun violence prevention of the
center of his campaign and that should
be applauded in more candidates should
do that and he was very aggressive about
it and to having the sense about when to
drop out having that level of
self-awareness is important and yeah he
he hadn't he had a reason to get out
that other only a handful mothers do
which is he is another office to run for
right he had the either he wants to run
for reelection to the house so there was
a point at which he was going to make
that not a viable option for him and
other candidates would get in so he to
do that that is not that really I think
only applies to Seth Moulton and Tulsi
Gabbard who if
to run for re-election to their health
suits the rest of the candidates do not
stand for election in 2020 so this is I
don't know that this pre-staged is a
massive exodus of candidates in the race
don't forget Tim Ryan oh yeah Tim Ryan
sorry I like Tim Ryan yes awesome right
my apologies look Tim Ryan it's hard to
keep track of everyone man no I feel the
same way about swallow land look he you
talked about him bringing sort of gun
violence making it central to the
campaign to his campaign and you know
when he was on the debate stage he was
able to sort of like force a discussion
on the government buying back assault
weapons and a couple of candidates
committed to that on the debate stage so
good for him you know that's good that
he did that what do you think about
steyr I like disclosure being that I
know Tom Steyer I like Tom Styer and I
did some consulting work for Tom Steyer
a few years ago I just find it hard to
imagine your or a human being who looks
at this field whether it's all polling
other polls or sees Calloway Harris or
Elizabeth Warren mayor P or the former
vice Prez United States or Bernie
Sanders that you know and says what this
candidate with this campaign needs is
another candidate yes right this is a
strong field there are times in which
people come in late to a field that
people think is weak they're supposed to
be of some sort of white knight savior
candidate and this deal doesn't no need
of that right we have too many good
options we'd hoped we don't need another
one look he comes Tyra's the biggest
donor democratic causes for all of the
 people give him about his ads on
impeachment he invests a tremendous
amount of money and organizing in youth
voter registration and fighting for
climate change and that should all be
applauded I certainly hope that the
hundred million dollars that he spends
his question spend on this campaign does
not come at the expense of those other
records because they're incredibly
critical to a lagging progressive
infrastructure that needs all the help
it can get yeah I mean I I sort of feel
the same way like I think that the most
important question any candidate can
answer is sort of like why you why now
and why not the other people and you
know he made an attempt
answering that in his opening video and
in some of his interviews that he's done
but you know he said all these Democrats
you know have great ideas but none of
them are gonna come to pass unless we
stop the corporate takeover of our
democracy but like you know that's what
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are
saying and in a lot of other candidates
talking about sort of the you know
corporate influence in our democracy and
have some great plans around democratic
reform and how to do that and so I'm
still not quite sure besides his hundred
million dollars what steyr brings to the
race that other candidates don't have or
have not offered yet and I think he is
going to have to answer that question
and he's probably that's a more urgent
question for him to answer than even any
of the other candidates because he's
decided to get into the race so late and
you know you've already seen sort of
Warren and Sanders sort of take shots at
him by saying like I you know that those
two candidates are out there and they've
raised a lot of money so far from a lot
of just grassroots donors without
getting doing a lot of high-dollar
fundraisers and they're out there saying
like why do we need some self-made some
billionaire in the race when we were
able to raise the money we need from
grassroots from the grassroots and I
think that's a pretty fair criticism you
know yeah it like Trump's message into
the trunk when he ran stuff in 16 told
everyone that he would not be influenced
or basically purchased by special
interests because he was cutting his own
campaign now he didn't fund his own
campaign and was also blocked purchased
by special interests at home and abroad
and at home and abroad
but that message was appealing the
difference between the Republican
primary Democratic primary is Republican
candidates were all being funded by
billionaire and pseudo billionaire super
PACs and you have candidates in this
race like Bernie Sanders Elizabeth
Warren who are raising all of their
money in a grassroots fashion and so
that's a harder you know sort of the the
political advantages of self-funding are
as will not be as prevalent and this
primary as they potentially have been in
the past or in the Republican primary
yeah I agree
okay when we come back my interview with
congresswoman Rasheeda to leave I'll do
now trail
thanks to congresswoman Talib for
joining us today and we'll talk to you
guys next week we'll be on the road in
Denver Wednesday night but we'll have a
pot on Monday before that so we'll talk
to you that
