now it's time for okay stop you know it
works we roll a clip and the panel can
say okay stop at any point to comment
Bernie Sanders the underdog slash
frontrunner for the Democratic
nomination always finds a way to bother
conservatives and in the case of Tucker
Carlson it sometimes makes him so mad he
couldn't molt and if he molds too early
in the season he's vulnerable to
predators so it's a problem recently
Tucker asked a random British man why
what we should make of Bernie and aoc
and they couldn't help but sneak in some
racism let's take a look to continue
with your asylum analogy in the land of
the entirely deranged the fitfully sane
man is king the funniest joke Tucker
crosses ever her is such a good job that
is so funny the proverbial stopcock you
just ten minutes ago you mentioned a
burst of sanity on immigration where he
he said we can't have open borders
because all the world's poor will want
to come it he sounded it straight this
dude ain't from here why are we
listening to him I think I'll find that
Tucker's problem with immigrants has a
certain kind of say two-hand tone I know
I can't tell them apart Bernie Carlson
or Tucker Sanders Barney's brother is
her like an old-school British Labour
Party socialist he's all about the
workers by which he means the British
workers not six and a half billion other
workers what the are they talking
about where is he going with this it's
um also that yellow shirt you have
behind with a pumpkin hankered style but
seriously what are they talking about
once you open the borders section I
think that is actually the sweet spot
I'd be very sympathetic to a candidate I
don't think they're smart enough to do
that so I got to ask about this
Alexandria Kazu Cortes started sporting
a new accent while speaking at Al
Sharpton's extreme
I love it this young incredible woman in
Congress is sending them out of the roof
they there she's making them crazy like
more power to her more power to her
unbelievable
I'm proud to be a bartender ain't
nothing wrong with that
Acacio Cortese says she's from the Bronx
and she's always spoken that way she
says it was code switching and that her
normal day-to-day voice is the fake one
I wonder though here's the thing Tucker
Carlson finds the idea of code switching
hilarious because he first of all
doesn't talk to people that don't look
and sound like him that's the first
thing the second thing in part though is
he code switches all the time because
this is not what he sounds like when the
cameras aren't on he's not a gruff anti
elite populist when he's that
Daniel restaurant you know I don't I
don't think he sounds like this I know
one code-switch is better than Fox News
host no one they pump out the most
vicious anger for their entire
professional lives those cameras are on
they are angry they are furious they got
all kinds of people to blame those
cameras are off
they are nothing but nice because their
lives are gilded surely that
people are very happy I don't believe
they're nice I think to each other to
eat maybe I don't think I don't think
they're tipping well I just think their
hands to each other okay cool
okay that didn't you grew up in a world
where people are encouraged to be who
you naturally are when you're a kid
could you imagine living in a country
where people are supposed to be ashamed
of how they were born I thought that was
the office again I'm just like who are
these people
I know people watch this and they agree
but who are they and how many are there
I just want to know and it's so
disingenuous you can I'm wondering why I
can look at it and see that he's
basically making
 up making up his anger about this
thing and no one else can say how about
how about the fact that I grew up in an
America where you were allowed to be
whoever you wanted to be interesting
place to have that opinion yeah
trans bathroom ban news politicians who
who are actually trying to pretend to be
so the Elizabeth Warren is Harvard Law
School's first woman of color and nobody
laughs that's the insanity you guys look
at Tucker's facial expression petrified
or constipated I can't really but
everyone who matters in America takes
that nonsense properly I just make a
serious point about this yes it's just
so frustrating to like see some guy
who's been handed everything in life and
has um obviously a very nice probably
seven figure plus contract to go talk on
cable news every night complain that
people are trying to be something
they're not people who have barked and
did people are trying to just make it in
this world I mean for him to criticize
others when he has had literally every
privilege handed to him is so
frustrating must be nice
right he's heir to that I believe the
Swanson that the Swanson meal of fortune
right anybody fact check that in real
time that right he got super funny it's
also uh he's got that what soup he's got
he's got he's got frozen meat love money
Wow he's got frozen meatloaf with a
little apple pie some peas and mashed
potatoes money which is good money
privately why I only buy Marie
Callender's because I'm a patriot
[Music]
