all right realize California's fine
we're streaming
we're here with New York Times
bestselling author Alyssa Mastromonaco
so proud to be here
Michael Cohen's cousin okay I bet and of
course as always Priyanka
hey thanks with the queues yeah we got
we got a lot today we're not gonna come
in we're gonna come in mildly hot we're
just gonna build some temperature here
ones that we know you want the good
stuff at the Cohen we're gonna make you
yeah we're gonna get there mm-hmm all
right
we'll kick things off with a little 20
20 and then work our way down
how's that sound mm-hmm go up okay our
first question comes from Madison she is
asking what other races we should be
looking out for in 2020 besides the
presidency what should be on our radar
what should we be paying attention to
good answer the worst thing that can
happen is that people get too distracted
by the circus that'll be 20/20 and
forget about all of the good stuff they
did a few months ago which will be
vitally important yeah all of the all of
the members of Congress that we just
sent to Congress and the reason we have
a majority and the reason we have the
Michael Cohen hearings happening today
will be up again and so the people who
are in tough districts who won because
of increased Democratic turnout will be
dealing with a presidential election
year turnout levels which will make it
in some cases maybe harder for them so
who's there protect every one of those
seats and then there will be pickup
opportunities in Ohio no I'm sorry
Iowa North Carolina Arizona Arizona
Colorado Maine remember the name Georgia
and possibly Texas and we're defending
everything else and we're defending
everything that's for the Senate so they
say it's very big we need if a
Democratic president wins we need we
need to flip three Senate seats because
then the Democratic vice president could
break the tie yeah it seems like
Colorado Maine and probably Arizona are
at the top of the list then Iowa North
Carolina and then maybe for a real lucky
Georgia in Texas but Collins Stacey
Abrams went runs it
I feel pretty good about it yeah yeah
but every election look I'm we talked to
some Democratic House candidates even
before this election who were telling us
you know even if I win this thing the
very next day I wake up I have to start
raising money to keep this seat two
years from now because that's what our
 party emails requires and so
like and they're worried that there's
all this focus on the house in 2018 so
they could raise a lot of money but
they're worried about raising money for
2020 when everyone's focused on the
presidential race well and they should
be to us because Democrats will have
probably at least for a year so upwards
of ten to twenty twenty twenty years
trying to raise money total and so
that's why people need to be very
judicious and thoughtful about how they
give their money and also again state
races governorships
state legislatures flippin we have a
potential to flip the Virginia
legislature in 2019 before we even get
to 2020 so people should be focused on
that a lot of races a lot of races a lot
of races don't let your guard down who
is it Madison Madison hope you were
taking notes Madison as a detailed
answer this next one's from Megan Megan
is asking about Pete Buddha jazz and she
wants to know are she saying that Pete
is the only candidate talking about
abolishing the electoral college and
stacking the court is this a good move
people judge will be here tomorrow
interview by Dan Pfeiffer Wow
electoral college complicated
complicated so here's the thing
I think the backdrop of all of these
whether we're talking about the
electoral college or they were talking
about filibuster reform like it's always
been true that states without a big
population have had more sway in both
the electoral college and the Senate
since you know for a long long time
what's changed is the country has now
polarized along partisan lines so that
geographically all the small states with
not much population are extremely
Republican and all the big states with a
lot of population
are extremely democratic that hasn't
always been the case because that's now
the case it means that Republican voters
in these small states yes have more
power when it comes to electing the
president or electing members of
Congress than voters and democratic
states and that's one of the big reasons
why the Electoral College is now you
know it it's not as good for the
Democrats and neither is the Senate but
also I think that like when we talk
about abolishing anything I think that
we should talk about like reform before
we abolish just because I think it's so
easy to talk about it as a partisan
issue like oh you know Hillary got the
popular vote but not the electoral and
so we should abolish the Electoral
College and so that's why I think that
we should talk about a nice serious
reform process before we're just like
hashtag abolish the Electoral College I
mean you you also need a cop you need so
you need a constitutional amendment to
abolish the Electoral College so that's
not happening anytime soon but right now
eleven states District of Columbia and I
think Colorado's about to do this I've
signed on to something called the
National popular vote interstate compact
and what that is did you know that off
the top of your head reading from what
is a it was under the radar on Friday
about it basically what the state says
is each state will award its electoral
votes to the candidate who won the
national popular vote and if enough
estate sign on to this that add up to
271 electoral votes basically it renders
the electoral college fairly useless
anyway it's a weird play for these
states to be like yeah well we'll COFF
up our our take on this election to the
broader electorate but what yeah but
again I mean we've now had a couple
popular rogue I get the reason it's just
a weird move yeah state sovereignty
I want your mayor Pete on this bad boy
though guys yeah I want to hear Buddha
judge to like way bonus pod right Friday
yeah sweet excited all right you can
take about one all right Christina is
asking what are you guys as thoughts on
Elizabeth
warns move to stop going after big
dollar donors is this something that the
party as a whole should be moving
towards I'm for it you know what I mean
good for her
well here's the thing every candidate
has to make their decision for her I'm
sure it was a good decision she there's
probably a lot of money she probably has
some big dollar money that she can raise
right but for her if you're a 2020
person who's facing the March 31st
deadline and you say that you're not
taking big money if your number is not
that high
it's very explainable right and so I
think that a lot of 20 20 people their
numbers are gonna be different than what
we're used to you know I mean I think
our first quarter number was like 27
million dollars I don't think people are
gonna come close to that and so she's
sort of like taking the best of both
worlds she's like look 500 in below
right it's 500 and below mm-hmm 500
below oh yes she she's just saying she
won't have like it's confusing she's
like one of the big dollar events and in
call time you get to hang out with
Elizabeth Warren but if you pay a
smaller amount you just get to be far
away and less interest right so my
theory still holds yes but it's good for
her for her expectations game but you
know I mean if people can still give you
the big dollars then yeah I mean look
she's right that there are a lot of
people who will donate to candidates
because they want to meet them and get
access and some some of them are truly
nefarious people who have like actual
business interests before the government
and they want help down the road from
whomever so you know I do think it's
like an important piece of reform that
not being able to buy access with a big
check like that's a good step forward I
don't know how hard this is gonna make
it for her to raise money like I can't I
just don't understand fundraising well
to know like if this is a big sacrifice
but it's certainly an interesting step
that I think will you know get her a lot
of credibility with with voters because
when we wouldn't take PAC lobbyist money
and from the Obama away campaign that
was a huge applause line that people
really resonated with when she so I
think for her well one the biggest thing
is that how much time it saves
right if she's not Jack a Seng around
the country to go pick up checks she's
spending more time in Iowa and New
Hampshire and that's good for her and if
you look at I think it was the fourth
quarter of 15 I think Bernie I'm pretty
close on this I think Bernie had
something like three fundraising events
and Hillary had over 40 that's amazing
so he was spending more time talking to
people and less time talking to donors
and so you know I think no matter what
that's pretty good smart and as
Elizabeth Warren herself has pointed out
for many years now one of the big
problems with politics and sure if
you're democrat or republican is because
of the campaign finance system you have
to spend a ton of time with really rich
people and you know just because those
rich people are democrats and liberals
that doesn't mean that they have a
certain point of view especially
financial issues you could be spending a
lot of time with some very socially
liberal Democrats who still are
complaining about taxes because they are
very very rich yeah maybe this is just a
mental health move for her it's not
worth it's nice than I have to spend a
lot of time with those people that's so
funny I mean those people are great
people I'll still be nice I'll be count
then I won't have to cut a check I'm
happy to cut a check you don't have to
spend a lot of time with me go spend
time talking to people who you know ya
know pipe and drape photolab know anyway
good we all like it good bring your
warranted for you another smart move
okay these next few are foreign policy
this one is specifically Tommy for you
Lucy's asking if you can talk about the
implications of India's air strike on
Pakistan what this means going on in the
background of these coefficients and
Tommy looks thrilled to answer I am I am
certain amigos Lucy thank you for the
question we talked about this a little
bit on pod save the world today it's a
great show check it out
things got a lot worse overnight it
sounds like the the Pakistanis might
have shot down some Indian aircraft and
things are really escalating and like
this is all in the context of an
election in India that's this is this is
the worst case scenario this is the
scariest one of the scariest places on
the planet is Kashmir between India and
Pakistan because they're constantly at a
low level war and if things escalate
into a full
conflict they both have nuclear weapons
and so it's really disheartening to see
like Mike Pence around this week
in Venezuela and Colombia trying to get
them to you know ferment up the
opposition in Venezuela and Trump's over
and in North Korea around with
Kim jong-un for a summit that's not
going to accomplish anything and Jared
is back in Saudi Arabia with his
journalists murdering friends and no one
is like managing one of the biggest
flash points on the planet in terms of a
potential nuclear conflict so yeah
people should be really worried about
what about what options does the United
States have to help mitt into the
situation I mean just getting in there
and telling everyone to chill the
out or bringing in the UN or any other
international parties like that you
might be involved
I mean well we've told them all to go
kick rocks yeah we have and in the Trump
into the trouble ministration is very
much Pro Modi in pro India and a lot
less so Pro Pakistan and like there's
some fine reasons for that but like it
makes it harder to be a mediator so you
need someone experienced over there like
dealing with this I don't know is all
righty
another thing that might be causing some
people to lose some Street some sleep
from Alessandro he's wondering your
guys's thoughts on the Trump kim
jeong-hoon summit
how is it going so far what do we know
you guys far away it's a joke
I mean come on if I have to look at one
more pool spray of them yucking it up
over dinner it's like talk about
fiddling while Rome burns and then
overnight on top of it all they're doing
nothing substantive near as we can tell
except yucking it up over dinner and
then they still didn't let like half the
pool journalists in really yes for
shouting I was a big thing they they
they basically anyone who asked a
question in the earlier pool spray was
denied coming into the pool spray of
dinner so like what's the point why are
we paying your salaries like you have to
talk to the American public
so I mean mostly this is just like him
going to Vietnam cuz like you know he
didn't go the first time is Michael yeah
that's right
the best lines over I did too I thought
that a good line yeah I mean there in
Vietnam in part because I think they
think that Vietnam could be a model
for the North Koreans in terms of how to
go from a really bad relationship of the
United States international world into
one that is very beneficial in the long
term for the Vietnamese people and their
economy it is unlikely that anything is
going to be accomplished coming out of
the summit
Trump might try to make up some
accomplishments and say now that there's
peace on the peninsula by setting the
Armistice baidu gleaming a peace
agreement peace there's technically a
still a war going on in Korea after the
1953 armistice they could do a whole
bunch of things but like there's no
sense that there's any progress toward
actual nuclear disarmament from the
North Koreans and there's this defector
who is quoted in the New York Times
today who was asked why Kim jong-un is
having this summit and he just said he's
just doing this for the preservation of
his family the main goal of Kim
jong-un's meeting with Trump is to first
buy time and second-guess sanctions
relief finally wants the status that
comes from being a nuclear power so you
know meanwhile Kim jong-un is making
more nuclear weapons he may sell them he
may just stockpile just like leaving
North Korea yeah I'm sure I bet it's
like to get out Disneyland
yeah you know remember there's a guy who
murdered his own brother with VX gas and
nerve gas in an airport in Malaysia it's
like the Trump said he wasn't messed up
like other Richard this is comparing kim
jeonggyun to like Don jr. and Eric and
Ivanka friends that he thinks are way
worse there's in the movie rich kids
that have ancas in its turn oh it's a
bunch of shitty writ like one of the
Johnson kids or something with it
telling it I remember it from college
it's like the heir to the johnson and
johnson fortune and some other kids
talking about how hard it is to be rich
and Ivanka is interviewed reading I'm
gonna tweet this out no one will miss it
[Laughter]
perfect okay this last one is from
Madison and I'm gonna spoil this a
little with that she might know a little
bit more about this if she read what a
day it's fine
Madison wants to know about the
administration's claims that they are
going to be trying to push for the
decriminalization of homosexuality
worldwide while that is obviously a good
goal on paper
she has fears and feelings about them
doing it wants
to know what's actually going on is
there an ulterior motive I think there's
an ulterior motive because the first
instance they flagged a game in being I
believe executed was in Iran so a lot of
this is about putting pressure on Iran
the efforts being run by this guy Rick
Cornell who's the current ambassador to
Germany it was just a Twitter troll come
to life he's a horrible it's a
noble goal and in fact on POD say of the
world today I talked to an expert named
Jessica Stern who works for an
international LGBT advocacy organization
about like the scope of the problem I
did not realize until I had this
conversation that one in three people on
the planet lives in a country where
being gay can get you in thrown in jail
so it's a huge problem an important goal
what are the biggest countries that are
contributing to that like where the most
popular is it so I mean the she said
this sort of common threads between the
two are like colonial era laws and
religious derived laws and so some of
the most egregious places are like
Chechnya
where they were torturing and murdering
people using like anti-terrorism style
tactics like in Sudan you can be killed
for being gay so it's it's really a it's
a global problem but there's I think
some egregious examples in Africa but um
I don't check her check out outright
international great group right good
work all right before we get into these
Cohen questions I just would like to
offer you all anybody would anyone like
some popcorn just brought over here yeah
that was a really bad throw no popcorn
for me okay a little bit I live in fear
of the kernels getting stuck in my gums
people like to know that Bob okay now
that we're all settled grab your popcorn
at home this is where the fun begins
Alessandro who apparently has gotten a
second question in the stream his lucky
day
wanna know wants to know what your guys
thoughts are the Cohen testimony
republican-democratic questioning why do
you think Republicans won't ask any
useful questions I mean I better get a
sir
to my actual bumper sticker on my car I
mean I don't know where to be get I
guess maybe we should start with sort of
the Museu stings from both the testimony
in the hearing frankly the test the
hearing is just like you know expanding
on the testimony but hasn't been super
newsy I guess the one newsy thing from
the hearing that wasn't in the testimony
is someone asked cohen about his last
conversation with donald trump or an
agent of donald trump he said you can't
testify about his last conversation with
trump because it's currently part of an
investigation by SD NY and he also said
he knows about more illegal acts by the
president that are under investigation
name is God yes John and that that seems
apart from both muller and the hush
money payments so there are additional
potential little acts by the president
that are being investigated right now i
think oh we've learned more about the
BuzzFeed story that said that Trump
directed Michael Cohen to lie to
Congress mm-hmm and then the special
counsels office issued that rare rebuke
and said that's not true or the story
isn't true it seems now like we're
finding out why there was this mix-up
Cohen's basically saying okay Trump did
not tell me go lie to Congress but Trump
said when you're going to Congress
remember no yes no Russia no collusion
no deal right he was literally like I
didn't talk to Russia right like
hypnotic John you're wearing a red shirt
John your shirt is really that was his
example did you hear me it's red the
most beautiful short I've ever seen the
other important thing we learned is
Trump's lawyers including Jay Sekulow
and Bobby Lowell who's like a Donna
dungeoneering Ivanka's lawyers I think
his lawyers sorry
did make changes to Cohen's testimony
before he gave it to Congress the
testimony that was false that he's going
to jail for and the changes included how
long the negotiations over Trump Tower
Moscow went on and the fact that they
went on past when they originally said
so you know did Trump
suborn perjury did he you know push
Donnell up Michael Cohen to perjure
himself before Congress like suborning
perjury perjury doesn't necessarily have
to be go lie to Congress right now right
so that was a big one too
what are the big sort of revelations you
guys take away from the testimony or the
hearing what do you think listen I mean
mostly I'm really like don't tweet at me
I just find it's really hard to be mad
at Michael Cohen now like he's obviously
a liar but he's just like all that sad
puppy-dog face on and he's had like sort
of good humor throughout the whole thing
and so I give him credit for that but
like mostly just like not a great day
for America I know it's bad you know
like the Republicans have not asked one
question about Trump they are and I
think I was like you know maybe it's
like is it partisan am I just being
ridiculous then I think back to like the
impeachment hearings like the Clinton
impeachment hearings Democrats weren't
exactly lobbing softballs back then and
so I feel like they do have some
responsibility to their constituents to
ask like what up with Russia yeah I mean
Michael Cohen made this point why was
like not one a couple hours into the
hearings like not one of you asked me a
question about Donald Trump yeah all
about attacking his credibility so if
you think that I found fascinating I
mean we were reading his prepared
statement in real time and texting
sections to each other last night in
like what's fascinating is I got you you
can think that Michael Cohen is a lying
stupid scumbag and you probably should
but a lot of this testimony is backed up
by documents like check said of Donald
Trump's signature on them or
conversations that in meetings that
include Alan weiselberger who is the CFO
of the Trump organizations so these are
confirmable like we can get other people
on the record to confirm these facts so
you know reading the prepared testimony
if it's true there seem to be multiple
and P chable offenses in there
I don't think Donald Trump should be
negotiating nuclear agreements with us
right now when he should probably be
impeached in the very near future and
like one other very just petty take is
you know there's a lot of great members
of Congress we sent to Washington this
last cycle a lot of people I'm really
proud of and excited about there's also
just some of the dumbest people on the
planet in that body they're also really
awful dressers there's a there's a vest
that really jumped out at me that just
upsetting ill-fitting vest it
fitting vest it looks like The Bachelor
took a blackjack dealer from you know
you know some shitty casino like in a
tan it was so weird really bad people
they're just terrible people prepared
for their questioning by
watching Fox and Friends and shiny
Hannity yeah and it shows like they
their main line of attack on Cohen is
you know did you collude with Adam
Schiff or the Democrats you talk to them
it's like yeah when you're giving
testimony you speak to the chairman of
the committee about the topics that
they're gonna ask you about that happens
all the time and their other
line was like well aren't you gonna just
make a lot of money from a book that you
write after you get out of prison will
you promise that you'll never make money
again in your entire life like this was
one of my favorite moments he was like
we've already turned down a lot of like
made-for-tv movie deals but if you want
to work with me I can help someone cat
like I can help you be cast it was the
REA I was like what is that
it was fight was early early the thing
the only thing you need to know is both
the southern to the federal prosecutors
from the Southern District of New York
and the special counsels office and
robert muller have said in state in
public documents mr. cohen's testimony
to us what mr. Cohen said to us is true
and we know it's true because we have
corroborating ever evidence that it's
true so you do not need to believe
Michael Cohen you there is evidence some
we there's evidence that we've seen and
then that Michael Cohen is provided to
there's also evidence that Muller has
and the SDN why has that we don't know
yet right and one of the big revelations
we haven't talked about yet is that
Cohen testified that Donald Trump got a
phone call from Roger stone mm-hmm and
Michael Cohen was in the room put him on
speakerphone and Roger stone said
WikiLeaks in a couple days we'll have a
bunch of very damning emails about
Hillary Clinton so they informed him
about the email dump this is big for a
couple reasons one it puts closer to
Trump it puts Trump closer to a direct
conspiracy with Russia which you know
we've been wondering about for some time
and reportedly in Muller's questions to
trump which he had to answer Trump said
that he's never spoken to Roger stone
about WikiLeaks so that's true then
gave a false statement too big time
already big one John the people are
saying that when you turn to ELISA they
can't hear you so if you could anchor
your mouth sorry sorry sorry there we go
that's I just wished that having the
stupidest son alive was an impeachable
offense do you have the tweet I have it
this is from cones 2 prepared remarks
what struck me as I look back and
thought about that exchange between Don
jr. and his father was first that mr.
trumpet frequently told me and others
that his son Don jr. had the worst
judgement of anyone in the world oh my
god that's not even what I'm talking
about what's that no there was someone
tweeted about Michael Cohen and said
this man basically that this man has
nothing left to live for therefore he
has no reason to lie and back to the
prepared remarks out there anyone in the
world oh and the other the other big
revelation is that Cohen believes that
he was at a meeting where Don junior
went up to Donald Trump and said the
meetings all set and that it was about
the famous Trump Tower meeting in June
where the Russians offered dirt on
Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign
said yeah let's give it a go give us
some of that dirt guys I'm glancing my
notes and it looks like we got pretty
much everything except you uh failed to
mention the women for Cohen women for
Michael Cohen Twitter account that was
my highlight I think about that he was
asked about it by a Republican who
wasn't asking real questions they were
like so explained like this the deal
about this Twitter account that you paid
for to be made and he was like no it was
a joke but like got to relive like the
tweets of all these fake people being
like wow Michael Cohen is so honest and
hot like the feds I just looked up the
women for Cohen Twitter account and it's
the biggest tweet is actually from a
friend of mine hey Franklin Leonard
asked if the woman for Cohen Michael
Cohen Twitter account was to protect
Trump or benefit Cohen Cohen answers I'm
not sure how that helped me we're not
either buddy all right yeah perfect
um Lily wants to know before we get the
fun stuff she wants
you all just to lay it out really easy
what are the possible eminent legal
outcomes for President Trump after
today's testimony eminent legal outcomes
I mean I don't know any I don't know the
timeframe on anything but one I mean
that people around Trump could be
indicted for a lying like his son the
southern New York Jared hopefully the
southern district could bring charges
based on blatant campaign finance fraud
yeah I mean look at the inauguration I
mean there's also there's evidence in
the prepared testimony like remember
back in the day the Washington Post did
all that amazing reporting on how Trump
uses charity as his personal piggy bank
we now have more specificity so
apparently Trump had a random straw
buyer purchased the painting of him at
an auction
then he reimbursed that individual with
filings from his charity and then hung
it up in his Golf Club so which is a
blatant violation of self-dealing laws
so there's like for multiple crimes just
swirling around imminently it's probably
more the people around him than him
right because there's a you know we're
once again facing the Department of
Justice guidelines that you're not
supposed to indict a sitting president
so the question is like what happens and
we've been wondering this for a while
now what happens with the SD NY case
with michael cohen of the hush money
hush money payments where they say the
Trump has directed this criminal scheme
right well so what we're still trying to
find out is in order for it to be
illegal Trump would have had to known
turn what about to know that it was
going to be illegal to cover up this
these hush money payments and defraud
voters and so you know the standard is
like did he know it was illegal or was
he doing it just to avoid personal
embarrassment and you know a
preponderance of evidence seems to show
that it was right before the election
yeah he you know the reimbursing michael
cohen through five different accounts
setting up a shell corporation like you
know you could probably hide it from
your wife without going to such great
lengths is premeditated it is impossible
to dissolve this from the context of the
election and any suggestion otherwise is
laughable on its face and we should mock
those people forever i mean III think
the real question is like in terms of
you know eminently legal like
should Democrats soon begin House
Democrats begin impeachment hearings
based on what we know so far and I think
like it's fine to wait for Muller to be
done and to get the report but based on
what we know so far there is plenty of
evidence to at least begin impeachment
hearings and again remember impeachment
doesn't mean that you're automatically
convicted and removed from office and
probably he won't be because he won't
get the votes in the Senate to do that
but it's the responsibility of House
Democrats to say there's potential and
people offenses here we should
investigate them that's what you're
doing here let's call Don jr. up let's
call a banca up let's call jared up
let's call it Eric Trump let's call
Allan weiselberger there's so many more
people that let's call Tiffany she the
only adult child who wasn't mentioned
today only adult child you know good for
her run all right actually I found one
last one before we get to the fun one
but I mean it's kind of fun Josh wants
to know why Matt Gaetz hasn't been
arrested okay breaking breaking what the
Florida State Bar is investigating him
his tweet from last night to you guys to
explain this I was very curious about
that too and all I got was freedom of
speech so Matt Gaetz tweeted like hey
Michael Cohen does your wife know about
your girlfriends as a daughter about
your Fermo so basically he's trying to
intimidate a witness who's about to
testify before Congress 24 hours before
it happens if you don't know who Matt
Gaetz is a member of Congress in Florida
who is the dumbest person on the planet
ever calls him the human fret paddle
he's a human frat paddle he's a foam
party come to life he is just the
repellent douchebag and so he got chided
by Nancy Pelosi he had to delete the
tweet but then that walked
through the hearing room this morning
and stood in the back just to intimidate
Cohen so now the Florida State Bar is
investigating him and you really think
that like with all Michael Cohen's got
on got going on he's like super
intimidated by that dickweed know right
I'm going to prison people this guy does
not matter he might as well be like Eric
Trump's twin B is a you know he does the
bidding of the Trump Organization so you
know that his source for any accusations
he made about Cohen is Donald Trump or
like Don junior my favorite was gates
his line about those who said I wasn't
witnessed
tampering I was testing the just
make up is everyday I made fun of
him on Twitter last night and his sister
chimed in to criticize me back
it's very we really had to let it go you
know what the gates please the gates
family on Twitter gates family
All Right see you Bob this one I know
we've been criticizing the vest that we
saw today Natalie wants to know who the
best-dressed Republican is do you guys
have thoughts is there a best dress
that's the best was congressman clay
Higgins
just for clarity okay I don't know
Republican they all look like
idiots
it used to be Trent Lott I loved him
Justin Amash actually asked thoughtful
questions and didn't yell I don't know
how great he was
we should give him credit for asking
yeah actually trying to find truth from
Michael Cohen Marc meadows is
insufferable importantly worse than Jim
drew yeah Jim Jordan and he wouldn't put
on a suit coat which I respect but uh
he's a goober all right Natalie I hope
you're happy with the answer to that one
all right and then this next one we want
to know when Dan will move his imaginary
super PAC to real life and how do I
throw money at it what's the deal with
that hopefully soon tweet Adam yeah
everyone tell them to get the super PAC
started need to light a fire under it
would be super super PAC Oh news cool
I'm gonna need something I know I mean
you need for it is evident every single
day like you look at Michael Cohen at
this hearing and like some of the stuff
he's saying how stupid some of the
Republicans are like wouldn't it be
great to cut an ad of that of like all
the Republicans saying stupid
Michael Cohen giving very compelling
testimony and like you know just show
that as a Facebook ad to a bunch of weak
Trump voters yeah
that's the kind of thing we need dan dan
Pfeiffer Facebook oh man all right
polina wants to know today is keep it
day she this questions for you John can
you please explain how the beef between
you and iris started she has
missed a single keypad episode but she
does not get it I can't explain it and I
think that maybe maybe someone should
ask I write to explain it John knows
what he did
wait you guys have beef no it's just
that I'm the only positive America host
and I'm getting to be like the only
crooked media hoods tool never been
invited on keep it and Ira says that I
can never come on keep it I just love
the show so much that I forced myself on
and then they had to learn like Gail to
his Oprah oh don't feel sad I look I see
I I sit in the office over here when
they finish keep it they come out we
have a nice conversation all of us and
yet so it's just for the cameras it's
partly for the cameras Wow
there's just you know they just don't
want me on there it's a big reality TV
guy Sarah big fraud accusation you're
talking about reality TV I could talk
about all kinds of things about hmm I
don't know keep up with the Kardashians
the way I did I probably could they're
probably good all right um this next one
how to oh how did or how go the crooked
media fantasy bachelor rankings John
care to explain your here's the thing I
was leading which was something that I
was proud not proud of and then I was on
vacation last weekend so I forgot to set
my pick last week and then I forgot this
week to now so I'm probably I've
probably slipped in the rankings I think
you're I think you're still top for my
who's the is it Colton and Colton is
bachelor Emily has slipped too because
she stopped competing because she thinks
she might know who I know you watch who
do you guys think is gonna win I mean I
was really Pro Caitlyn so here's the
thing I was Pro Caitlyn I really need to
know who sends Colton over that fence
what the is around me like the last
episode we're gonna have to wait and
spoiler alert it looks like Cassie is
sent away in a car because she's crying
and she's buy a TV right so I don't know
but then it's like we looked at the girl
from Alabama whose name Oh Becca is
Becca from Alabama Demi
oh oh oh Hannah G Hannah jeev Hannity
that was a really tough hometown visit
to watch
she took Colton to an etiquette expert
like like what kind of date is this yeah
so powerful Katelyn I was Pro Katelyn
but I still think maybe he's jumping
over the fence to chase Katelyn because
he sent her away his the fences vCard no
I'm not being metaphorical they've been
teasing for like five and embassy outs
but that episode is next week so we're
all really excited like Anna you guys
watch a show about that boring date so
here's the thing I get tweeted out a lot
people being like you're too smart for
this I'm not no I enjoy it I like to see
smurfaroo see what what percolates what
bubbles up to the top I like having it
on because there's some TV where you
clearly need to put your phone down and
watch but there's some TV where you
could just be on Twitter or while the
TV's on in the back row atom and to me
that's this is not prestige TV yes yeah
I just finished your detective season 3
last night I don't I'm it's good ok good
hmm seems scary for me so you have good
TV choices is what I'm picking up from
here alright this one is from Cat
Stanley this is a last question when
will there be a crooked cat a crooked
cat please check my Twitter feed her
name is midge Mazal Mastromonaco Crellin
norm and another brother Petey who's
named after our old boss Pete Rouse and
Aaron Gloria Ryan has a cat Eleanor
there are a lot of cats and they're all
owned by the ladies I grew up with cats
we had pansy don't really get in on the
game get Snooper I have to be honest
Terry right now in my house that I
rescued what are all Derain want to hear
a cat sorry so we had three what one
would like one I didn't really know then
we'd Snooper and then we had mouse and
mouse was my cat just Sweden awesome
great Snooper is my brothers cat and she
was just mean as hell and one day like
my dad was out of town for work me and
my mom were sitting at like the kitchen
table like I'm out to dinner after
school or something and the cat tries to
jump up on the table and I was a heart
attack in midair I'm just funny cat
story it was it was so bad and I'm like
I don't really like the cat that much
but like I think I should cry or force
myself to and my mom starts laughing and
laughing laughing so we bring it
downstairs and it's like Tuesday night
we bring to the
basement where it's cold and my mom just
like puts it on like my dad's table saw
and leaves it for him to deal with for
like three date SVU episode don't ever
let midge Mabel Mastromonaco Kron around
Tommy yeah I didn't give it the heart
disease I guess we overfed it but uh
mouse is a great cat Maine cat
they're really sweet outdoor cats that's
how we're gonna go yeah what do you
think I'm heartened good boy
I'm with the cats that that's our stream
I think greatest Ernie over today
honestly that was the best room we've
ever rescue a cat adopt own shop
I named it mouse mousie honor it's
ironic who's cute
