now it's time for okay stop you know
works we roll a clip and the panel can
say okay stop at any point to comment
it's obvious that Joe Biden scares
Donald Trump it might be the Aviators it
might be that they once reached for the
last slider at a democratic fundraiser
in 2003 and Biden ate the entire burger
while he made clear to Donald Trump his
eyes were locked on Ivanka
but Trump tweets about him non-stop
Trump is on the attack so much so that
Trump sent his fiercest attack dog to
Fox News a man I've never heard of
before it says here his name is Anthony
scaramouche II let's take a look Anthony
scaramouche II a man who has never
stayed in his Lane Lane is my lane every
Lane yeah so what okay stop just
flagging this small talk is brutal it is
brutal
something about lanes and staying in
them scaramouche II dyed his hair he's
gone he's gone to an Auburn shade and I
don't know what it means what I'm
feeling better now
what are you warning everybody I want
your new book title by the way just
there is Trump the blue collar president
makes the Liberals crazy
okay so what is the Venn diagram
of of people interested in Anthony
scaramouche's thoughts on economic
dislocation and Trump's appeal to
Midwestern Americans and people who can
read a book if you've ever seen Trump
support men up on Fifth Avenue looks
like louis xiv smoked crystal meth and
decorated the apartment okay why why
this is why is his head like that why is
his face like that he looks he looks
like he should be a normal-looking
person but also like he was about to
peel all the skin off of his face he
carries his tension in his neck
that much is clear his tension maybe
some nuts for winter I don't know he's
really he looks like he's very tightly
with a guy yeah I ever see that apart
but you know he captured the blue-collar
people he's gonna do it again it's like
the last two years were a big complaint
from the Democrats because Trump went
into their Lane but they didn't change
because he's still the president but
they couldn't they couldn't find a way
to beat them and so they had to start
making up stories about why he won okay
so now have two and a half years of that
because I was saying that you went from
Muller time to the bar but Q like I'm
 I nailed that one
I feel like though like so he was in the
White House for like 25 minutes yeah
this segment is longer than he was in
the White House and he's written a book
I'm assuming praising President Trump
otherwise he wouldn't be on this show
right that's pretty pathetic right like
that's like he's like obsessed with an
ex who he really only made out with one
time but he's acting like they got
engaged and it's like a big deal in his
life or something was there a
brainstorming session where he was
coming up with the title of his book and
he was like I wanna have a color and
like a piece of clothing white hood
probably blue collar let's go blue
collar the way he phrased it was like he
captured the blue collar vote that
doesn't make him blue collar a tuna
fisherman is not a tuna like also I
think people with non-white skin can
also wear blue collars I think that he
doesn't actually mean yeah blue-collar
America he means a small subset of
people who work for a living
a similar white the defensive maneuver
to go after the investigators let
somebody else
focus on that we need the president's
time and energy on all the good things
that he's capable doing in his instincts
that's one of those things that people
say all the time that's like a kind of
banal lie but is obviously a lie like we
need look all right being president is a
tough job all right and we need Donald
Trump focus at that desk doing what he
does best reading policy documents
processing the information coming to a
conclusion delivering it to his trusted
aides those aides go out and turn that
direction into movement of the
government on matters important to all
of us that's what he does every day from
11:30 p.m. to 12:15 p.m.
before lunch number one the
investigators point becomes stronger
because now he's tied to that
administration and people are gonna have
questions for him as to what did you
know what did President Obama know what
was going on here that justified this
investigation when that when the time is
right and he goes into the president's
crosshairs it's going to be a rough time
for Vice President Biden but a great
debate debates a man we'd all miss it'll
be fun it's gonna be great to mate when
are they good when Trump faces Biden
[Music]
