I'm Jon Favreau I'm Jon Lovitz or later
in the pod my interview with our friend
Adi Barkan who just launched a video
series on healthcare featuring
interviews with the Democratic
presidential candidates and whose new
book eyes to the wind comes out Tuesday
but first we got a lot of news to cover
from all of Trump's latest corruption to
his canceled Taliban get-together two
new polling in 2020 sorry two new 2020
polling that shows the top three
Democratic candidates pulling away from
the pack ahead of this week's debate
also we have a new crooked minis for the
month of September and it's called state
of conspiracy this month we'll take a
look at the rise in popularity of
political and anti government conspiracy
theories hosted by Professor Catherine
Olmstead an expert in conspiracy
theories this series will look at the
rising popularity of political and anti
government conspiracies and how the
Trump administration has contributed to
their rise check it out finally our
schedule this week is a little different
with the big debate on Thursday night
so our regular Thursday pod will move to
Friday for a post debate super pod with
me and Tommy and Dan on Wednesday we'll
be doing a Q&A livestream on our YouTube
channel and on Thursday night will be
doing another live group thread all of
us that you can catch on our YouTube
channel make sure you're subscribed
there at youtube.com slash crooked media
and get the live stream you can get the
group thread all kinds of good stuff
there I didn't agree to do any of this
Tommy did not agree on this we're still
in negotiations with Tommy and love it
urine off the meeting and love it you're
joining us today from New York you're
not even hearing no I mean I'm in New
York City what's happening there why are
you there you have a show or something
yeah
we have Radio City on Friday night there
are a precious few tickets left at this
point we got Stacey Abrams Jesus and
Miro a bunch of really great guests Wow
listen Mastromonaco Wyatt Cenac Dulce
Sloan Jim packed jam-packed can't wait
go okay so there's a lot of important
news we're gonna get to but before we do
we just we need to point out that the
president the United States has now
spent more than a full week complaining
that the media correctly reported that
he spread false information
Meishan when he said that the state of
Alabama might be hit quote much harder
than anticipated by Hurricane Dorian
in response Trump attacked multiple
media outlets and journalists by name
including a bizarre video he posted on
Twitter just after midnight on Saturday
that involved the weather map he
doctored with a Sharpie a cat a laser
pointer in the CNN logo so Dan and I
almost forgot to mention this stupid
story on Thursday's pod but when I saw
the Washington Post story about Javy
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration or NOAA which is the
parent agency of the National Weather
Service warned their staff put it out a
public put a statement warned their
staff not to contradict the president's
false information and publicly disavowed
the completely accurate information
released by their own Birmingham office
I started thinking that maybe this story
does matter what what tell me what do
you think I think it matters when a
government agency is browbeaten by the
President of the United States and his
political hacks not to put out
information about a potential natural
disaster that may or may not impact
their life and safety and health yeah
that's kind of the nightmare scenario
where George Orwell 1984 we have a Prezy
nighted states whose ego is so fragile
that he can't be corrected when he
tweets the wrong thing it's insane yeah
in like it's it's kind of funny that
this is all coming on the heels of his
rage about the whole lost summer
narrative I mean he just pissed away
another week talking about whether or
not a storm would hit Alabama he just
can't let it go yeah love it what do you
think yeah I mean I think with with
moments like this you're reminded that
with Trump you're either honest or
you're implicated you know when the
president says something false
demonstrable obviously false and then
you are asked did the president say
something false or if you're called by
worried citizens in Alabama about
whether the president said something
false you have to decide what's more
important telling the truth
or staying out of the fray there's no
way to choose between the two you're
either complicit or you're honest and
you know we've seen countless
politicians choose to not pick that
fight because it's easier
now we're seeing Noah do the same and
you know it's it's this this constant
threat it's it it's this constant
reality with Trump that things are both
silly and very dangerous you know and we
we struggle because both of those things
can be true it's he can he can kind of
it's like authoritarian improv you know
he kind of accidentally stirs up these
incredibly dangerous forces this idea of
anything I say is true and if you go
against me you're not telling the truth
you're part of the problem you're the
enemy and the scariest thing we have
learned over the last few years is how
easy it was for someone who is
disorganized and undisciplined and
ultimately venal and Craven and not out
for any particular ideological purpose
can cow so many people by sheer force of
his personality by sheer force of his
willingness to pick every single fight
to not let any pitch go by yeah I mean
people reported with the Washington Post
reported that you know Trump was the one
who doctored the map himself big
surprise he was the one he was the one
who held the sharpie and you know a lot
of people have noted that that's illegal
that it's illegal to falsify a weather
map and the reason the reason it's
illegal the reason there's that law in
the first place is because it can put
people's lives at risk right like big we
this actually matters to people like we
have to be able to trust the information
that our government provides especially
in times of crisis especially in in the
midst of a natural disaster and now we
can't trust that information because we
are at the whims of a narcissistic
sociopath who not only lies to us
himself but now tries to pressure and
force and bend the rest of the
government to his will I mean like these
the the forecasters in the Birmingham
office they said there's just a story
out today because the net the head of
the National Weather Service said that
the Birmingham forecasters who basically
put out a tweet that said Trump is wrong
we're absolutely correct in doing so and
the reason that they put out a tweet
they actually didn't mention Trump in
the tweet they just said oh by the way
there's no forecast that's going to hit
Alabama at all because all these worried
people in Alabama are calling are
calling up The Weather Service there and
they're all worried and Tommy you and I
were talking about this but like there's
like local weather forecasters in
Birmingham quoted as being like I had to
stand up here and say that this was
wrong this is to your point love it like
you're making like local weathermen in
Birmingham choose sides
he's literally asking us to concede that
the sky is not blue and that it is in
fact filled with storm clouds and
hurricane it is it's insane I mean well
there's also the fact that he canceled
his visit to Europe to commemorate World
War two because he had to stay behind to
monitor the storm right and what we know
he did instead was play golf so maybe he
tweeted factually inaccurate information
or at least dated information that
suggested Alabama might get hit with
high winds because he just forgot the
updated information he learned or maybe
it was cause he was around on
the golf course and he just tweets with
reckless abandon and put out something
that was wrong either way like the fact
that he is now engaged the media and
Washington and the weather service in a
six day debate over this issue is
infuriating and there's there is an
element of this that is it's so small
and it's so petty that it's like you
can't believe we're still talking about
it but there is a far more fundamental
fundamental principle at stake here
which is that we can't trust literally
anything that come rise now and god
forbid there is a terrorist attack or
something truly truly awful that happens
no one will believe what he says and
meanwhile he's utterly distracted from
the actual effort to help people who
were just hammered by this storm in the
Bahamas and you know the things coming
up the the eastern seaboard so like it's
it's it's just it's so frustrating yeah
and it's uh it's funny didn't you know
he was saying he stayed home from Europe
to work on the hurricane which he didn't
do because he has no work ethic he has
no discipline no attention span but if
you introduce a personal grievance like
a little flight or an insult yes is
going in it he is dedicated he's like a
dog he he's a dog who latches on to this
he runs this I mean he is he is the like
for a guy that cares about
nothing he is the mother Teresa of
Nursing his ego he is bedside 24 hours a
day he's got cold compresses he's
bringing soup like he is he is so
attentive to his own psychological needs
but has no aptitude for anything else
and his team treats it all like a joke
right they're now selling sharpies yeah
from the campaign because they think
it's funny that our presidents a
pathological liar you know this all
flows from the people who are on the the
2016 campaign say the day of the Access
Hollywood video is this big inflection
point you were there with Trump and the
lies and all the awful things he did or
you weren't and it's clear that like
they just pledged absolute fealty to him
and that's all that matters and and
again the danger is here it's not just
that like you know I saw Tom Perez over
the weekend was telling you know DNC
delegates and people like that like they
don't we the Democrats don't want to
just focus on Trump's awfulness they
want to focus on how he's done a bad job
and how his awfulness has actually
affected people and I think that's smart
and in this instance we can all laugh
about how it's like day 8 and
we're still talking about sharpie gate
but like the president's undiagnosed
personality disorder here like has a
real impact like there was a story out
this morning on CNN that the United
States extracted one of its top spies
from Russia in 2017 because they were
worried that Trump would expose the
identity to Putin mm-hmm right like
there is he is putting all kinds of
people at danger in danger every time he
pulls one of these he has one of these
episodes he lies like this he tries to
cover up he goes down the road of being
a narcissistic sociopath like it is a
danger to the country it is not just him
being a goofy that we should all
laugh at you know I think it's time for
a conservative weather channel I just
think I'm sick of them it's where we're
headed I mean it's not that's not crazy
sadder he also like like just as I'm
like working on this outline last night
we're all researching this for today
like he goes on a tear late last night
East Coast time because he watched MSNBC
and star like John Legend talking about
criminal justice reform and John Legend
didn't sufficiently praise Donald Trump
so not only do you attack John Legend he
attacked Chrissy Teigen calling her
foul-mouthed she didn't even have
anything to do with this
she was involved he just basically had a
series of tweets where he was attacking
black celebrities and journalists for
not praising him enough for criminal
justice reform I mean love you you joke
about a conservative weather channel but
there was a clip going around the
internet from oann which is the news
organization that's to the right of Fox
News that's even worse and there was a
clip where someone was referring to Noah
as a notoriously liberal agency I
suppose because they honor the fact that
the climate is changing so yeah that's
that's absolutely we're going that is
terrifying all right so let's let's talk
about a brand new scandal from the Trump
administration that offers yet another
example of the president using his
public office as a way to get richer all
at the expense of us people who pay
taxes on Friday Politico broke the story
that the house Government Oversight and
Reform Committee has launched an
investigation into whether the
Department of Defense is helping Trump's
struggling Scottish golf resorts stay
afloat by having Cruz stay there when
Air Force planes refuel at a nearby
airport even though it's more expensive
on Sunday night the Air Force announced
it will be conducting an internal
investigation into the matter after
reporters uncovered additional instances
of military personnel staying at Trump
properties political reporters sorry
political reports that at least one
service member was frustrated that the
food and drink at the Trump resort was
over his government allowance and this
morning of course Trump tweeted that
none of this has anything to do with him
and that the Air Force merely has a good
taste tell me how unusual is what the
Air Force did here and how big of a deal
should this be it's so hard to tell a
guy I will never in the investigation
I'll never pretend to understand things
like the way the military procures fuel
or how they have people's you know spend
time different places it does seem
pretty weird that they spent 11 million
dollars the military at Prestwick
Airport which is the closest airport to
Trump Turnberry
I would assume that there are cheaper
places to buy fuel for these planes
based on our military's ability to
procure like billions of dollars of it
at a time but who knows there's also
reports that the military members are
getting discounted rates and free golf
at the club so you know nice plenty of
time to do but the club lost four and a
half million in 2017 but revenue went up
three million in 2018 so you know it
seems like things are on the up-and-up
but like the key point I think is this
is a great example of the fact that
Trump is making millions of dollars
every single week steering visitors to
his DC hotel or to rent out spaces for
events I mean Trump apparently according
to the New York Times they track this
he's visited a Trump property on 293
days of his presidency so basically a
third of his presidency he has spent
time at one of his resorts and when he
goes and spends time amar Lago or
Bedford
that means the Secret Service is renting
dozens of rooms and golf carts and just
pouring money into his pocket there's
all kinds of reporting about the Saudis
spending half a million dollars to rent
out half of the hotel in DC or various
grifter going in there so it's a
constant ongoing grift and there are
members of Congress who had this little
process called impeachment that they
could use to really dig deep and they
just been sitting on their hands for
weeks and weeks and weeks and you know
there was a great interview with David
Farenthold who's a reporter at The
Washington Post he was on fresh air and
it aired over the weekend and he talked
about you know all the things he's been
doing to uncover this grift and it's
just like thank God for people like that
because Congress isn't doing they
figured this up love it would you think
of this story I think it's really good
great story for the administration put
that one up on the refrigerator I want
two dots one Trump has never behaved
like he has cash yeah never
he is constantly behaving like he's
about to run out of money that was true
when he was like even back in 2016 when
he was debating whether it alone rather
than give his campaign I think it was
ten million dollars at the time you
never get the sense that this is a man
sitting on a lot of reserves so it seems
as though every time he makes a decision
to go golfing it is because they are
going to view they view the presidency
as a way to make money and what I've
said you know I've said this before but
I still think it's true we will know
that Donald Trump believes he is no
longer going to be president to him and
he starts admitting to the fact that he
made money on the deal that he will at
some point start to say what I was
president for four years now never
supposed to happen and look how much
money I made
yeah yeah that is coming that is coming
I mean yeah in what I think a New York
Times story about the Trump Hotel that
ran over the weekend they said that in
private
Trump pumps up his properties to people
a lot more than he does in public
surprise surprise and raises it all the
time this concerns about it yeah I mean
but like okay think about in 2016 what
we were talking about both in the
primary in the general election Hillary
Clinton after she left public office
giving speeches and like not releasing
the transcript of the speeches even
though she was giving speeches on Wall
Street and making money as a private
citizen
outside of politics and we still all
talked about the optics and there are
legitimate concerns around that right
but Donald Trump is in office in the way
he's making money while in office while
in public office is not just a bunch of
private citizens giving him money it's
the United States government it's our
tax dollars are making him richer like
if Democrats can't make a issue
out of this like let's go home and
here's these motors in Avenue John the
the Trump International Hotel they
leased the old post office building in
Washington and that's that's the Trump
Hotel the house transportation
infrastructure committee has oversight
over that property so Peter DeFazio a
congressman out of Oregon could request
a whole bunch of documents for some
reason he has not see people seem to
think it's because he thinks there might
be some big infrastructure deal that
gets cut with Trump down what are we
doing
infrastructure weeks right around the
clock as soon as he starts talking about
the weather eat the national
joke the documents to Fazio
well so the good news cause II oh you
son of a you get those
documents well so I'm sure he's a great
congressman what are we doing I mean the
good news on the House Democratic front
is the New York Times reporter over the
weekend that the House Democrats are
widening their impeachment inquiry to
include accusations of corruption
against Trump just not and they'll be
voting on formalized procedures to guide
the impeachment inquiry this week which
is good you know congressman James Jamie
Raskin sorry congressman Jamie Raskin
said the focus needs to be on corruption
quote the central sin the original sin
of the Trump administration is the
decision to convert the presidency
into a money-making operation for the
president and his business and his
family yes correct that is the message
listen to Jamie Raskin that's great lean
into that yeah I mean I think though so
I'm reading this story it's I'm sure you
guys did about how like House Democrats
are widening the inquiry to include
corruption I was like yes this is what
we've been talking about great wonderful
and then the last paragraph of the story
says this with the Republican controlled
Senate highly likely to acquit mr. Trump
even if the houses case were put to
trial some Democrats have begun raising
another possibility that the Judiciary
Committee could draft articles of
impeachment vote them out of the panel
but never bring them to the floor of the
house offering the public and election
year indictment of sorts without ever
bringing the president to trial I think
it's great I think you saw a really cool
sword Rattata I would say one other
thing that I would suggest is actually
like print it really really small so
that like you need like a magnifying
glass to see it or maybe you could like
release it as an audio book but only at
a whisper just out a whisper like do not
bother please do not bother if that's
the path you're gonna go down like wait
a way to get all of the political risk
for impeachment because everyone will
say the Democrats impeach Donald Trump
but none of the upside which is months
of hearings where you tell the American
public why he's a criminal
yeah you know it's funny all the time
people say this all the time right they
say imagine what Republicans would do if
Obama did something like this we're Matt
imagine and that we're going to talk
about him we talk about Trump inviting
the Taliban for a samburu a Camp David
but but IIIi think it's worth like
stopping for a second and thinking like
what does it mean when people say that
imagine what Democrat Republicans can do
and sometimes it means imagine if
Democrats use the same kind of reckless
intellectually dishonest scorched earth
or scorched earth scorched earth
politics of Republicans and I don't
think that's a good idea but sometimes
it just means imagine if Democrats
fought as hard for what they believe in
as we often see Republicans fighting as
we often see how hard Republicans fight
for what they believe in and to me like
this is an example of that there's just
this you just feel this lack of fire in
the belly which is what I think so
Democrats have been have been hungry for
and that's why they knocked on doors in
2018 and then you you see an argument
like that and it's like it's really
dispiriting yeah and this look this is
the corruption part of this right look I
get how tough it is to like you know
walk people through the whole Muller
report and wide Trump is a kernel of
what obstruction of justice means why it
matters to your life all this kinda
stuff I get all that this corruption
angle like put on go put up a big
calculator on a website and say like how
much is Donald Trump costing you how
many of your tax dollars did he spend on
this add up all the money he's made in
the Trump organizations like this is not
a hard thing to do right like
journalists good media outlets are doing
this all over the place I have all kinds
of charts about this they're adding this
up like you know House Democrats
do something be creative about we've
learned so much about Donald Trump and
his finances despite all efforts he's
make to prevent that kind of disclosure
over the last couple of years and if you
think back to say the Benghazi hearings
because Republicans were relentlessly
focused on a non scandal and doing
everything they can to get documents and
subpoena witnesses they figured out that
Hillary had this private email address
yeah and if not for that dogged unfair
unethical at times effort they never
would have had their number one campaign
issue so why don't we get caught trying
I may be I'm back to being opposed to
impeachment we obviously don't ever
together to do literally anything
anything this is always my my like my
opposition to impeachment which was it
like five percent was always rooted in
that like yeah well like I I do want it
and I want to see it happen but you
can't it up just not up it's gonna
be worse than worse than if you never
made it yeah but the other thing I would
just add to is just to add to the the
kind of corruption angle to is we've one
of the things that's broken through over
the last two years was when Trump
thought you know when Trump got so
buddy-buddy with Putin and in Helsinki
and sort of apologized to the United
States the other piece of this
corruption is how it's influencing our
policies every single day and how he has
sidled up to dictators and and and
coddled dictators in part because he
views them as a place where he has a
financial interest where he was trying
to build hotels before he became poor
where he was trying to build
Bertie's before he became president
where it seems as though he's imagining
his empire growing after he's president
yeah okay let's talk about the the
biggest news of the weekend which was
the canceled Taliban slumber party at
Camp David the president announced via
Twitter in between cat videos that he
was calling off peace negotiations with
the Taliban whose leaders he had
secretly invited to Camp David along
with the president of Afghanistan the
same week as 9/11 the New York Times
reported that the cancellation came
after a long-running dispute within the
administration about negotiating with
the Taliban to end the two decade war in
Afghanistan and disagreement over the
deal that was emerging from those
negotiations tommy I want to get your
reaction to this story but first can you
give us a primer on what we know about
these negotiations what the goals have
been and what kind of issues need to be
resolved sure so we currently have about
14,000 troops in Afghanistan
remember that Trump actually had
promised in the campaign to end the war
in Afghanistan but actually sent more
guys there so that's important context I
think it sounds like there was a deal in
principle that had been made between
Zama Khalil Asaad
and the Taliban negotiated over the
course of maybe ten months or longer
that agreed to pull out 5,400 US troops
and close five bases over the course of
say five months after the deal was
agreed to the goal then was to get the
rest of our guys out over the course of
a year maybe a year and a half but you
know it's notable this whole timeline is
built around Trump's reelect the deal
was basically we pull out troops the
Taliban cut ties with al Qaeda you help
us deal with Isis and maybe long long
long term it bleeds some power sharing
agreement with the Taliban over the
future of Afghanistan it's important to
note that there was no requirement for
the Taliban to stop attacking Afghan
civilians or the government or their
troops during that period in a deal and
any other deals they know this so it's
weird for the Trump to act like that
what blew up the talks um because that
latter question that letter issue of
negotiating with the Afghans themselves
is the hard part it's very easy for the
u.s. to make a deal with the Taliban
it's hard for the Afghan government
because the Taliban they don't recognize
that they exist they won't engage them
so that's part of why this Camp David
business is so screwed up
Trump is essentially forcing ashraf
ghani the president of afghanistan to
show up at this made-for-tv spectacle at
Camp David
so that Trump can
infinitely pretend that he just glued
this piece deal together meanwhile Ghani
has an election coming up on on the 28th
of this month and the Taliban is like
blowing up the capital killing civilians
and Ghani is getting briefed on this
deal he's not at all happy with it but
his choice is skip this event and be
called anti-peace and risk 400 Trump
tweets at you or don't go so you know
here we are like it doesn't make any
sense to me that Trump actually believes
that this suicide attack is what led him
to call off negotiations everyone knows
that the Taliban they increased their
level of attacks while they're
negotiating it's a credit create
leverage by the way so do we Pompeyo was
on the sunday shows bragging that we'd
killed a thousand taliban in ten days so
like unfortunately that's the way the
war is but I'll pause there but like
none of this speaks to the need to have
a conversation at Camp David well so
yeah I was gonna say like it I I can
only imagine how difficult these issues
are to negotiate with the Taliban the
Afghan government the US government
we've been probably doing it trying to
do it for years now yeah right but it
does seem like the deal emerging which
was we pull all of our troops out and we
get a sort of vague promise from the
Taliban not to you know allow al-qaeda
to attack us yeah it doesn't seem like
the bet like I don't know just does that
it was that an okay deal if they were
able to strike that deal because it
seems like the killing in Afghanistan
continued I mean it depends on who you
are right if you're the US government
and your concern is an Isis or Al Qaeda
safe haven Afghanistan maybe that's the
best you're gonna get if you're an
Afghan citizen who doesn't want to live
under Afghan rule
I'm sorry under Taliban rule in some
parts of the country it's a horrible
deal but for Trump he wants the press he
got from the Singapore summit and that
diplomacy is a total disaster by the way
with North Korea we should talk about
some other time but like I think we all
should be happy that he likes the press
he got out of diplomatic you know events
more than like say blowing up Syria but
you know like this was this made no
sense I mean the the Taliban as of I
think a couple weeks ago put out a video
saying they still supported the 9/11
tax yeah you know like there's no need
for them to come and like be at this
amazing you know piece of the crown
jewel of like where the president
actually ends up living and by the way
like we can negotiate with the Taliban
in a million places we've been
negotiating with them in Qatar with some
of the individuals who were swapped as
part of the Bowe Bergdahl prisoner swap
remember when McCain and grand told us
that was the worst thing that's gonna
ever happen so like I support peace
talks the the Afghanistan war has gone
on longer than World War One World War
two and the Korean War combined but
having these guys come to Camp David for
a made-for-tv event for Trump for his
reelect is Craven
but what did you think of the the wisdom
of the stage craft of having a Camp
David meeting with the Taliban the week
of 9/11 I thought it was politically
risky at best John yeah so two two quick
points about this because you know Tommy
he's got it covered is uh one it's a
reminder to how often Trump just says
something this is a case where we learn
something via Trump tweet so that was
fascinating and important and new and
concerning and and didn't make sense and
then you have to spend the next week
trying to figure out what the actual
truth is because everything he says is
fabricated in some way or or
self-aggrandizing in some way or just
flat-out wrong that's the first thing in
the second thing is this is what's
happened with North Korea this was what
what he's seeking to do with the Taliban
he he doesn't care about exposing the
presidency or lowering the presidency to
meet with someone like the north to
meeting with someone like kim jeong-hoon
without having done the kind of
preliminary work or by inviting the
taliban to Camp David because he doesn't
value these institutions he has no
respect for them he doesn't care about
them he doesn't view the presidency as
anything other than a kind of toy for
him to play with so of course he's gonna
just want to grab on to something and
bring bring people to the United States
even though that that sends a terrible
message even though that elevates people
even though that it's something you have
to that there should be you know
diplomatic work and other work that
long before anything like that takes
place because he just doesn't care about
these institutions it doesn't occur to
him to value or protect him it doesn't
occur to him to value or protect
anything other than his own personal
stake yeah I mean like we hosted the g7
at Camp David this is these are a bunch
of Taliban goons like they're
not foreign heads of state they're a
terrorist group they were killing you as
service members this week and now Trump
has blown up this process who knows when
we'll get back into it and the Afghans
are scared shitless that this is gonna
lead to a huge surge in violence
especially with the election coming up
on the 28th so you couldn't say what if
this was Obama to so many different
things this is like one of the ultimate
what if this is Obama but like of course
Trump attacked Obama in 2012 for having
talks with the Taliban so there's always
a tweet but I met like Viper was texting
us this over the weekend he was like if
Barack Obama brought the Taliban to Camp
David Fox would need to start
immediately another Fox News station
just to contain all of the attacks on
like so the New York Times did a really
great tick-tock on what you were saying
love it trying to like backtrack from
his tweet on everything that actually
happened and they updated it you pointed
out Tommy late last night with the
paragraph that really says it all
because they were saying a fundamental
dividing point that was contributing to
the collapse of the talks was this mr.
Trump did not want the Camp David
meeting to be a celebration of the deal
after staying out of the details of what
has been a delicate effort in a
complicated region Trump wanted to be
the deal maker who would put the final
parts together himself or at least
perceived to be so one of the things
that collapsed this whole deal
was the fact that Trump wasn't good it
didn't think he was going to get enough
credit for it even though he didn't
deserve the credit for it
yeah he doesn't he was it's he wants to
lick the spoon with the batter on it and
then say he made a cake he wanted to be
Jimmy Carter like sitting between Sadat
and and beigen and like bringing these
you know the sides together
it's just I'm blown away by how crazy
this is never in a million years did I
think Donald
would want to bring the Taliban to Camp
David but he is a you know he's a
reality TV star and the whole
thing is just the whole thing is a show
the whole thing now video the next
person who hates him he's trying to get
to Camp David is Melania Trump everybody
but seriously but seriously he's
terrible there you go the kind of
analysis would crave look look so you
can see more of this at Radio City on
Friday City Music Hall can you believe
it all right let's talk about let's talk
about 2020 as ten candidates get ready
to meet in Houston for a third round of
debates on Thursday evening CBS released
a set of early state polls which we
cannot say enough or a lot more useful
than national polls that show three
frontrunners and everyone else you know
a little far behind in Iowa it's Joe
Biden at 29% Bernie Sanders at 26%
and Elizabeth Warren at 17% New
Hampshire is Warren 27 Biden 26 Sanders
25 South Carolina is Biden 43 Sanders 18
Warren 14 and in Nevada it's Sanders 29
Biden 27 Warren 18 no one else polled
and double digits in any of the four
states so guys the lead of the CBS story
about these numbers is quote this poll
tells a story about Elizabeth Warren
rising but not Joe Biden falling Tommy
do you agree with that and what is what
does a race look like where those two
things are happening it's a good
question I mean I I do think it speaks
to something I heard over and over again
in Iowa when I was there for a few days
was just how hard it is to break through
if you're not a top to your candidate
yeah I'm not seeing as part of the
national conversation about electability
and beating Trump and and everything
else and I think it also speaks to the
fact that Elizabeth Warren is running a
good campaign the conversation about
Elizabeth Warren is how she has plans
and she's running a good campaign and
that's that's helping her over time
other people are just not getting a look
I mean these debates might be you know
their last chances potentially you have
to really do something exciting and
breakthrough ultimately I do think the
results in Iowa will be the biggest
springboard
for whomever does the best to get that
last media bounce and do well in New
Hampshire and start racking up delegates
but I think it ultimately speaks to a
relatively stable race except for this
rise of one yeah love it what did you
what did you take from it yeah I think
that's true I I think it's worth
remembering too that we've we've have
seen candidates break this kind of hold
that Biden Warren Sanders have in the
field Kamala Harris did it at the last
debate there are still opportunities for
candidates to do that to me I mean I
think that one of the stories of what's
happened is homilist surged and then
wasn't able to maintain that lead and I
think it's worth asking why and I think
it has a lot to do with the fact that
many stories about camel camel Harris's
campaign tend to be about what Kamala
Harris's campaign is doing to fix Kamala
Harris's campaign and that's been sort
of a trap that her campaign has been in
for a long time in part because I think
she struggled to find an argument a
message that stands out from the three
being offered which are pretty cogent at
this point from Biden Warren and Sanders
I also think it says something about
Elizabeth Warren's challenge going
forward so there's been a lot of there's
a lot of talk about lanes and the
primary and a lot of people when they
talk about lanes they think of
ideological lanes and so they think
there's a progressive Lane and a
moderate Lane but the truth is Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders draw their support
disproportionately from non-college
educated white voters younger not in
college educated white voters and also
non college educated black voters and
Latino voters and and in Joe Biden's
case black voters in total and it does
seem at times like when you look into
digging has led some of these numbers
Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris and
Pete Budaj
and even Cory Booker and better or orc
and some of the other candidates are all
fighting over a lot of college-educated
white progressives and these polls sort
of show that Elizabeth Warren is winning
that fight
she sort of consult a lot of these
people you know that shows that these
polls show the people who were
supporting Harris before have moved to
Warren she's getting support from some
of the other low
our tier candidates who were losing
support they're all going to Warren now
so she's consolidating a lot of the
college-educated
white liberals vote but the question is
if she wants to be Biden beat Sanders
she's got to break into she's got to
start doing better with non college
educated white voters and black voters
and Latino voters better than she's
doing and the question there is are
these voters just not into her yet or
are they not closely engaged in the race
yet because we know that the most
engaged voters right now are these
college-educated white liberals and so
that's the question that we can't answer
yet yeah I also thought like do you
would you guys look at these polls and
think that maybe people have been under
estimating Bernie Sanders strength as
he's hanging in there and all these
polls first or second most of these
states it's a good question I mean to me
Bernie's sort of ability to stick it out
probably speaks a lot to name
identification comfort level with him I
mean Biden for all the criticisms you
see of him and policies and previously
held positions and gaffes and all this
crap that sort of swirls on Twitter
every day most people just know that
he's a popular vice president for a
popular two-term president know who
they've seen on the national stage for
eight years and think like oh that guy
looks like a president cuz they saw him
in the White House for eight years
Bernie Sanders is someone that was
pretty well introduced to the country in
2016 I think unless you were a hardcore
Hillary Clinton supporter you probably
have a relatively favorable impression
of Bernie Sanders yeah I think that he
needs to do more to make inroads with
the folks who were a ride-or-die for
Hillary and I'm not sure that they have
achieved that quite yet but you know the
bernie comes off as likable and charming
and consistent so you know I think
that's probably people know of him yeah
and they're also there is a progressive
I mean I just said that there was a sort
of a lane of college-educated versus non
college educated voters there's also
he's fighting Elizabeth Warren for
progressive voters you know they're both
are fighting each other for that for
them the most progressive voters love it
what did you think yeah I don't think I
would added to you know Bernie and
perfect you know Bernie was captured a
larger share of the electorate when he
was facing just Hillary Clinton so one
question
as where are the people who supported
Bernie before where did they go and I
would imagine many of them went to
Elizabeth Warren and some to other
candidates but there's a kind of yeah an
ideological alignment between Warren and
Bernie that I think is a challenge for
both of those campaigns yeah I also
think it shows that like none of the
candidates have really figured out how
to peel away some of Joe Biden's support
that the the focus on and it's not it's
not really just a candidate focus
because it's really sort of a media
focus and sort of some of the surrogates
and the campaign staff and all that kind
of stuff but a lot of focus on his
gaffes a lot of focus on is he losing a
step a lot of focus on you know is he
sufficiently progressive enough and I
think at some point it's time for some
of these candidates realize that those
lines of attack on Biden are not really
having an effect and that if you want to
start peeling away Biden's support
you're gonna have to find another
argument yeah I mean certainly it was
true that Kamala Harris was able to I
think do a number on Biden at that first
debate I think that some of the attacks
on Biden at the second debate backfire
yeah and that it might have I mean I
heard this anecdotally but that a lot of
the criticisms people heard came off as
nitpicking or to negative or unfair in
some way I'm not saying I agree with
those descriptions but those are just
some of the things I heard from various
people so yeah I mean I do think they're
gonna need a more effective way to go
after him maybe as folks pay attention
more closely in the fall like people
will just think harder about what they
wanted the next president who they think
can win I still think this electability
question is is all-consuming for most
voters in early states yeah and I think
that the other candidates have to make a
case for their own electability and I
think that they can I think each one of
them has a good argument about why
they're the most electable candidate and
some of them are different I also think
like you know this debate that's coming
up this week like Kamala Harris and P
Budaj and some of the others do sort of
have to figure out a way to
differentiate themselves from these
three frontrunners Budaj edge sort of
gave a hint of that over the weekend in
New Hampshire he said we need ideas big
enough to meet this moment but it's
not enough to think up good policy we've
got to unify Americans around these
solutions or nothing will actually get
done it's why I'm not making some of the
promises that some of the candidates to
my left are I share the goals and
believe that we can do it in a way that
will bring Americans together what do
you guys think of that that's
interesting because that's not Pete
Buddha judge thinking I need to take
down Biden that's him thinking I need to
differentiate myself from Sanders and
Warren yeah it's interesting it's it's
saying we need an alternative survivin
right which I think has actually been
motivating a number of candidates I
think it's actually why a number of
candidates have been staying in the race
from Michael Bennett to boo to judge and
others there's a there's a kind of you
know under an unspoken aspect to all of
this which is we don't really know if
Biden is the Trump of this race the
person who may not have a majority but
will have a strong plurality that
carries them to the nomination and
because everyone else is kind of divided
no one becomes an alternative and Biden
gets the nomination or is he more like a
Jeb who is someone who has garnered a
lot of establishment support and some
money and some some talent but
ultimately doesn't have what it takes to
win the nomination and I think there are
a bunch of candidates who are looking at
Joe Biden and saying I'm gonna bet on
this candidacy being softer than it
looks and that that 30% at some point
becomes 25 becomes 20 becomes 15 and all
of a sudden people are deciding between
Warren and an alternative whoever that
may be yeah it was it was a subtle
contrast and it was interesting
departure from a purely generational
contrast although that was probably
infused in the speech and frankly just
seeing Pete on stage with some of these
candidates makes the generational
contrast more than anything he could
actually stay the thing to watch with
Pete is he's got money
yeah and he's investing it in early
States and when I saw him at the State
Fair he had a big-ass crowd on a Tuesday
and how he's open like a dozen more
offices and he's up on TV early and so
look anything can happen in these races
I mean we all remember 2004 when Howard
Dean was gonna be the nominee and it was
a runner effort and then there was
essentially this just-
you know murder-suicide between
dick gephardt in the closing days before
Iowa and then John Kerry and John
Edwards emerged like there's a million
different ways that could play out but I
would feel pretty good if I were Peeta
and I had resources I wouldn't feel
great about the fact that my the the
surge I'd seen in the polls relative
surge has dipped a little bit yeah and I
think for him if you're gonna make this
case that it's it's fair to make it but
you've got to go all the way you don't
have to like whack everyone else onstage
yeah but you got to get into the details
you cuz because they'll it out really
what he's talking about is you know he's
for Medicare for all who want it as
opposed to Medicare for all so that is a
real difference that he has with Warren
and Sanders that he could talk about a
lot at this debate on some of the other
issues it's not as clear you know he's
pretty much taken a lot of the
progressive positions he has sort of
talked about how he cares more about the
deficit than some other Democrats too so
maybe he makes that case but I think the
last two debates he had he's had some
pretty good debates and he's been pretty
solid but he has been reluctant to draw
differences between him and the other
candidates on stage and he probably has
to do that on Thursday and still do it
in a way that is respectful and true to
himself right because that's the kind of
campaign he's running so that should be
interesting to watch and it should be
interesting to watch what Kamala Harris
does too because you know her she said
her message over the weekend was you
know there's so much more that unites us
than divides us which is not really a
message about differentiating yourself
too much from everyone else but it's
trying to be the person who says okay
enough of all this like infighting we
should all sort of take on Donald Trump
together because more unifies us which
is an interesting message but also
different from how she was with Biden in
previous debates so then sort of
interesting to what you do yeah it's
also that it's um it's like partially
rhetorical in is a it's a it's a
rhetorical argument which I don't think
actually has much value and I don't you
know do in in pizza at he talks about
how we need solutions and again it's
like I don't know whenever now I maybe
it's because I still carry some
emotional baggage from 2008 but whenever
someone says like we need solutions I
just see a poll document that makes me
think somebody they want solutions they
don't want partisanship and so I'm gonna
start saying that so go with with amla
you know I think that there's this
is this opening right which I would she
seems sort of like half willing to take
which is all right so you like Warren
and you're like Bernie cuz they're
further to the left and they're they
have a big argument for systems just for
for structural change that we need in
this country and you agree with that but
then you look at someone like Joe Biden
and you see polls that show that he is
doing better against Trump and some key
swing states and you're terrified of
losing you're terrified of what's going
to happen to the country if we don't put
up the right candidate and so so you're
torn because you want big liberal ideas
but you want to win more than anything
and you don't know how to sort through
this well here I am
someone who's gonna kind of split the
difference and maybe there's a maybe
there's a compelling way to make that
argument I don't know but I'm still it
all it just so it just feels like we're
still you know I don't know dancing
around that specific okay
I just think that the the the message is
gonna resonate in Iowa especially is
gonna be about how you're the person who
can beat Donald Trump and I think and
why to the extent that folks are are
making cases where they're sort of
obliquely criticizing policy ideas as
too big or too small or too destructive
I just kind of think you're missing the
boat like of course people care about
policy like the health care debate is
fundamental and X essential for a lot of
people but all of them are resigned to
the fact that it is irrelevant what your
plan says if you don't win yeah I agree
with that
okay when we come back my interview with
Adi Barkan
you
