welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Love Italia tour on today's pod
my conversation with Kara Swisher about
Elizabeth Warren's new proposal to break
up big tech companies like Amazon and
Facebook before that we're gonna talk
about the release of Donald Trump's new
budget proposal the latest fox news
drama and the ongoing narrative about
the supposed ideological divide and the
Democratic Party new lover leave it is
out this weekend I hear we had a
fantastic episode in Madison Wisconsin
with the Lieutenant Governor Wisconsin
Mandela Barnes we had honoree Cox we had
a Kela Hugh's it was a great episode she
should check it out take check it out
Walker milestone here at crooked media
the hundredth episode of POD save the
people is out that's amazing
congratulations to DeRay brittany clint
and sam for a hundred fantastic episode
yeah and this is a good one interesting
conversation about education in Haiti
things you don't hear about on a lot of
other podcasts they bring interesting
news every week every single week so
please check it out also we're on tour
we're gonna be on tour in April in
Boston and New Hampshire let's go get
some tickets get those tickets Kruger
dot-com slash events you can go scoop
some up now there's still some tickets
left
because group names like kitty litter we
did not go on tour this month in March
because this weekend we were at South by
Southwest for the premiere of the new
Beto documentary running with Beto yeah
we watched it on Saturday I just want to
say the director of the film's at guy
named David Modigliani we have known
each other since 9th grade we either met
in English class or when we were both
told that we were not good enough to
play quarterback at freshman football
the details don't matter it's a it's I'm
so proud of this documentary we started
working on it like literally two years
ago before we knew really who bettah was
or what he was all about but I think the
cool thing about it is like yes you'll
learn a lot about Beto but also about
how hard it is to run a campaign how
hard it is on your family how hard it is
on your staff you'll get to know what
he's made of but then I think what
really got to people in the room and
moved them was the story of these three
incredible volunteers that dedicated
their lives to to support his campaign
and I think you will come away and
fired by how meaningful that can work
can be even when you lose so it will be
out several months on HP I think in May
but their screenings happening all over
the country and check it out yeah I mean
look there's a it'll get swept up in the
better Oh 2020 talk but to me it's you
know the reason why I'm so happy that we
worked on this is it captures a moment
in time which is how people ordinary
people have responded to this
devastating loss in 2016 and Trump
becoming president and how you know the
state of people in Texas who you know as
they say it's not just a Republican or
democratic state it's a non-voting state
you know and what people did to get
involved in politics again from the
grassroots level is it's pretty
inspiring yeah check it out all right
let's get to the news news Donald Trump
is releasing a budget proposal today
that calls for more defense spending an
eight point six billion dollars in
additional funding for his wall which he
intends to pay for worth
across-the-board cuts to domestic
programs like cancer research clean
energy funding education heating
assistance environmental protections
incredibly the president has also
proposed a 241 billion cut to Medicaid
and at eight hundred and forty five
billion dollar cut to Medicare sorry do
you say billion I said billion eight
hundred forty five billion dollars
billion to Medicare now cut you know
Obama had proposed some some of these
Medicare cuts were in an Obama budget
because what they are as overpayments to
providers and so it helps make sure that
health care providers are focused on
quality and quantity but that's some of
the cuts eight hundred and forty five
billion dollars worth of Medicare cuts
from 2020 Medicare for none obviously
this budget is dead on arrival right no
chance of passing a Democratic House
it's not ever going to become law what's
the strategy behind releasing a budget
like this I don't know I don't know what
they're going for
you know I really don't know I don't
know why you would do this you know I
think a lot of the attention out of the
gate has been around the border funding
right so it's clearly there's a strategy
that right he wants talk about the
border and there's going to be a
conversation we'll have it here about
how he's
two domestic programs important things
like education and the environment in
health care to pay for a border wall to
me that you step back and the larger
debate I think it's worth having is he's
cutting he said he's cutting you know
somewhere around a trillion dollars from
health care to pay for a trillion
dollars in tax cuts for corporations and
the wealthy to me like ultimately this
is the tax cuts that he already already
passed like this is a manifestation of
the plan that Republicans have had since
george w bush step one massive tax cuts
for the wealthiest people people that
need at least four corporations that are
already doing really really well that
already have huge amounts of cash on the
books then turn around and say because
of the deficit we created with the tax
cuts we now need to cut spending
drastically including spending for
things like Medicare Medicaid and Social
Security yeah I mean your ideal of it I
mean the initial coverage seems to focus
on the fact that he's asked for eight
point six billion dollars in new wall
funding and then three point $6 billion
dollars to replace the money he stole
for this national emergency that's
twelve point two billion in total
there's also a big increase in military
spending he's increasing it to seven
hundred and fifty billion from seven
hundred and sixteen billion last year um
to your threshold question why do you
why did they do this I don't know what
like everyone these budgets aren't real
Congress never takes it up and passes it
they're gonna write it themselves and
obviously the Democrats are gonna have a
big say in this thanks to waiting a
bunch of House seats in 2018 so you just
create this massive political liability
for yourself by putting forward a plan
that would absolutely gut Medicare and
I'm not really sure what the strategy is
for Democrats I think the strategy
should be right now they're trying to
paint everything we do as the most
radical proposal in the history of the
world we need to make clear people
understand that this is an incredibly
radical budget proposal I think this is
potentially the most politically
damaging thing he has done in the
lead-up to the 2020 race yeah yeah yeah
because and here's the thing I don't
even know if it's Trump's priorities
himself Trump only cares about
immigration look we know he cares about
the wall he wants the wall he's you know
he loves xenophobia that's his deal
that's what gets him up in the morning
the rest of us both at in a that in a
12-ounce diet coke yeah and like
whatever cold in a glass no person time
whatever
whatever Steve Doocy is gonna say on Fox
print that morning Steve Doocy 12 out of
10 so so that's what gets him up but you
have to remember his OMB directors the
Office of Management budget is Mick
Mulvaney right and you know great guys
administration is still staffed with
Paul Ryan Tea Party traditional
Republicans who's what gets them up in
the morning is slashing government
program same thing that Paul Ryan that
got him excited around that keg all
those years ago right slashing
government programs especially around
health care around education stuff like
that so they can pay for tax cuts right
let the market do everything don't have
government do anything give everyone tax
cuts don't give a about deficits
and cut all the programs that people
depend on that's what gets traditional
Republicans excited and as usual
traditional Republicans usually tend to
have the most unpopular policies more
unpopular even than some of trumps
policies to people at least when you're
looking at across the board right like I
I mean in 2012 people you know look at
how Obama ran the race against Romney
and a lot of times they point to oh well
he painted Romney is this private equity
guy in this room and that's all true but
I will say when Paul went up
Mitt Romney selected Paul Ryan as his
running mate and we knew that we could
run against now Romney and Ryan and sort
of hang the Paul Ryan budget
around their necks which was gonna gut
Medicare to pay for tax cuts we were so
excited because we knew how unbelievably
unpopular that was not just with
Democrats not just with independents
with some Republicans - yeah I think
that's yeah that's what I thought it
when I saw is like oh this is this is
the Paul Ryan budget this is what it
would look like if Paul Ryan were in
charge and to your point this is the the
budget is a detailed document it's
something that it takes a long time to
produce that's done over many months
through many meetings now usually in a
functioning White House what happens is
all those different groups of
policymakers coming together to kind of
form different pieces of it it kind of
there's a system an organized way in
which those ideas float up through the
process that end up into smaller and
smaller meetings until there's big
decisions made by the President and the
senior team to decide oh wait a second
the the Mick Mulvaney is a nutbar we're
not gonna put 845 billion dollars with
Medicaid cuts in this thing Medicare
cuts in this thing but of course there's
no point in which Donald Trump
intervenes and says I think you should
check section J these are my prayers
yeah just
the quick aside just another reminder
why the Tea Party is so full of
so one annoying thing about the way
these budgets are formulated is you have
your you have your military spending
budget and then you have another account
that's called the overseas contingency
operations funding which is where bush
unfortunately obama a lot of presidents
have funded the actual wars that are
going on so you have these massive
additional expenditures like hundreds of
billions of dollars
Mulvaney used to call it a pentagon
slush fund he was wildly opposed to
so-called OCO funding now they are
leaning hard into it right so all the
things that these guys said that they
lived in breathes for the reason they
were elected to congress they are now
just folding on like a cheap suit donald
trump right away after you know a decade
of war in iraq and afghanistan
increasing defense spending ain't too
popular either no yeah a budget that
says we're gonna build a wall we're
gonna give more money to the military
and we're gonna pay for it by cutting
your education clean energy your health
care the State Department the
transportation infrastructure yeah yeah
restructure all of this I mean like
remember Trump ran for president in 2016
by in part lying to us about his
domestic priorities I'm gonna give
everyone great health care I'm never
gonna cut Medicare I'm never gonna cut
Medicaid I'm gonna close the carried
interest loophole on Wall Street yeah
I'm gonna balance the budget not just
balanced budget I'm gonna get rid of the
debt oh right yeah yeah exactly that's
not gonna happen
but he said all those things because you
know even Donald Trump sort of
intuitively knew that it was popular to
say those things Yeah right and knew
that it was unpopular when Paul Ryan and
other Republicans are running around
saying that they would gut programs and
so in that way Trump and Hillary at
least both at the way to both of them
campaigned campaigned on similar
messages on the economy Trump was
completely full of she was not but
to go now into 2020 with this budget I
think is a huge political I
think we're about I think one thing I
will make predictions but if I were to
make a prediction I'd make a prediction
that we read a story about how angry
Donald Trump is to have been blindsided
by this Medicare cuts oh yeah he's gonna
say would it mix mix killing me
Mick you're killing me something like
or they're already there are certain
because some reporters are noting that
some of those Medicare cuts have been in
Obama's budget so they'll bill obama did
the same thing and it's it's not it's
not the same thing one other to sort of
point on the budget too though i think
it's worth sort of stepping back and
having just an American decline moment
love us so there are across-the-board
cuts in this budget right we have this
massive budget deficit that Democrats
have decided we can no longer treat as
our our problem when Republicans use it
to cut spending when they wish and then
cut taxes and make it worse when they're
in power and now in a government that's
functioning this budget obviously we
have a Democratic House it would not
become the basis for any kind of
democratic policymaking but we don't do
budgeting the way we used to in this
country right what used to happen is you
would have different committees working
on budgets for different parts of the
government and they would be debated and
there'd be examining what parts of the
government are working and there'd be
hearings and all this the way we govern
right now is through continuing
resolutions where we barely can keep the
government opening open by maintaining
the funding levels at a certain
percentage of where they were before and
so the whole budgeting part of the
government is completely broken so the
President's budget would be a policy
document kind of a political document
under any administration but right now
the disconnect between the way the way
up this budget will be sort of carried
out and what actually happens inside of
Congress which is completely
dysfunctional you know Democrats will
argue for cuts in defense and keeping
the spending levels as they are for
important priorities in education and
the environment Republicans will try to
do across-the-board cuts to Medicare and
Medicaid and to the government itself
there will never be an actual debate
about how to make the government work
never be a debate about where our money
should actually go to make the biggest
difference in people's lives we will not
have that conference Mitch McConnell
would rather roll this document up and
smoke it than actually pass it so yeah a
few other developments concerning Donald
Trump's goon-squad over the last few
days
bill shine the fox president great guy
turned sexual harassment cover-up artist
turned White House communications
director he's resigned subtitle for his
bio
a memoir how I did it he's resigning
he'll become a senior adviser to Trump's
reelection campaign why do we why do we
think he left can I do a little thing
real quick yeah okay guys name
of trumps White House communications
directors all right
did Jason did that guy Jason ever get in
Jason we're including him Jason I pulled
out Miller Miller oh there was that guy
who's Nate who who bossy dub key Mikey
and then Hope Hicks yep Spicer was
acting yes he had two jobs yes
and then after hope Hicks obviously bill
Cheyne was shot after robux who we
missing
no we're missing somebody you're missing
a big scare Meucci yeah uh-oh the ten
days of mooch he says 11 so we don't
know why bill shine is going to the
campaign I mean it is a little weird
that he's resigning suddenly you know
there is a tendency for like some people
in the White House who are high-level
advisors go to the reelection campaign
there's been some reporting that maybe
you know Donald Trump didn't really gel
with bill shine that much because he
thought he base someone wrote somewhere
he thought he was getting Sean Hannity
but he instead he got Sean Hannity's
Lackey right really here's what we know
we got every political reporter dusting
off their worst the shine wore off joke
on Twitter that we got a lot of I'm glad
you did that before I made one I mean I
think I just don't think Lashon was very
good at the job I mean what we saw him
do was have Trump do little videos
outside the Oval and that they would
release on Twitter and then he like
quadrupled down on doing Fox News
interviews I think Jane Mayer's piece in
The New Yorker that's all about how Fox
is a propaganda wing of the Republican
Republican Party said I didn't he'd done
45 interviews with Fox as president so
that's hardly groundbreaking yeah he was
also getting millions in severance
package money from Fox as he was White
House communications right the same time
that's odd severance money that he got
after leaving because he was covering up
all of all of Roger Ailes is sexual
harassment
yeah cool I also think I just think
they're like we don't know right like
either either it's a deliberate effort
to put him in charge with the campaign
or it's a deliberate effort to get him
out of the White House we don't know how
we don't needle I will say so if it does
turn out that his job inside of the
campaign is real if they're putting him
there because they you know even if they
didn't think he did a good job at the
White House they recognize his value I
think the that bill shine some
who has was the face of it was was a
bill shine who was a senior part of the
Fox News team who was incredibly
well-connected inside of that
organization and respected inside of
that organization because it's an
organization of ghouls like that that
person being in charge of the campaign I
think I think we're not fully prepared
for just how intertwined the 2020 Trump
campaign and the 20/20 Fox news
apparatus are gonna be connected because
we forget but in 2016
Fox News did keep Trump at arm's length
for huge parts of that campaign the
primary in the primary and yeah they got
behind him in a big way but I don't
think we're really ready for they have
they have fully transformed into a pro
Trump organization even in the past few
years it's gotten worse
they covered up the stormy Daniels story
during the campaign to like we're
learning a tear down stage with the
candidate yes I think like but now with
Ailes dead but what we have seen is like
an off the rails kind of connection and
bill shine running that running calms
inside of the Trump campaign Fox News
fully planned they'll be a basically a
merger you know it's also true that
Trump is his own communications director
he likes doing rallies he likes tweeting
he likes going on
judge jeans show like that's not gonna
change it's also not possible to be a
successful communications director for
Donald Trump yeah speaking of that
ghoulish organization we had two more
examples over the weekend that clearly
demonstrate what a mistake Democrats are
making but not rewarding Fox with a
debate Fox host Jeanine Pirro said that
Ilhan Omar's hijab maybe sari may mean
that she's against the Constitution and
then Media Matters
discovered audio of Tucker Carlson's old
appearances on a radio show where he
defended statutory rape and said
absolutely disgusting perverted
misogynistic things about all kinds of
famous women in response Carlson said he
refuses to apologize of course and that
if you want to know what he thinks watch
his show this morning fox did say that
they have talked to Jeanine Pirro about
about what she said and so they've
reprimanded her I guess by talking to
her so I assume that you know Chris
Wallace and Bret Baier and all the real
journalists at Fox News are gonna gonna
push for Tucker's ouster what do you
guys think the Jeanine Pirro thing to me
like you know Tucker Carlson saying
things on this radio show their guests
horrible perverted strange immoral
disgusting things the Jeanine Pirro
thing to me is a signal example right it
is it just cut and dry she went on
television and she just decided to pump
into the baby boomer brains of her
audience just pure unadulterated
anti-muslim bigotry if you're wearing a
hijab it means you can't love America
you should be suspicious of Muslims how
could somebody be a Muslim and be a
faithful American it was clear as day
pure racism there is usually it usually
it's not pure right usually they added
mixer they put meat on a quadrat it but
this was pure racism and getting
an apology is just not enough and so to
the Chris Wallace Bret Baier Shep Smith
point of this it's like again okay
you're a reasonable journalist have any
any respect for yourself this is
somebody you're gonna share airtime with
this is someone you believe you can buy
education rhyme time line up this is
this is okay with you you do real
journalism and then you got a pure bigot
on in the evening that is the Elan Omar
strategy for the entire Republican Party
though I'd say they just want to show
images of her in a hijab and and
juxtapose that with quotes that they
find concerning and scare the out
of everyone that they think is Scarab
also like we should just every time you
read a story criticizing something she
did or said sometimes there's legitimate
criticisms and I've talked about to make
great lengths on pot saiful world check
it out download it today subscribed I
felt like that's a piece of this is
there it's Islamophobia I just wanted to
make a couple of points like one the
show was called Bubba the Love Sponge
Bob of the love soccer Karlsson incident
are the Carlsen yet the show tucker
carlson was on is called Bubba the Love
Sponge Bob of the Love Sponge is the guy
who videotaped Hulk Hogan's sleeping
with his wife and then that posted the
video and that video is ultimately what
led to the lawsuit that took down Gawker
who knew that Bubba the Love Sponge was
going to be so in pushing our politics
it's very weird but credits and
Media Matters for unearthing this stuff
I should know that they're having a
protest outside of Fox News headquarters
on Wednesday at 11 a.m. in New York
because Fox is having an emergency
meeting with their advertisers so if you
want to send a message and you want
people to actually care there let the
advertisers know because that's the only
reason yeah the Bill O'Reilly and the
lore like the people I'm Glenn Beck's oh
yeah yours it's only thing that's where
Tucker Carlson is their most popular
host and their most popular timeslot
that is that as Fox News and by the way
this wasn't just like bro II like
out of it was like oh I'm a incendiary
shock-jock
he said something where he defended
Warren Jeffs who was this like
polygamist little religious / cult
leader and and was sort of saying what
he did was okay Jeff's at Warren Jeffs
is trial they literally played the the
jury audio of him raping a
twelve-year-old girl that's how
up this guy was and he was joking about
in defending this person of all the
people on the planet to joke about in
defense so you can't explain that away
buddy why can't Democrats answer tough
questions from fox news carlson too you
know Tuggle carlson is an opportunist
you know he started out as a kind of
serious ish conservative writer then he
saw where the wind was blowing he
becomes a CNN kind of bloviating pundit
against the hosts crossfire and
represents conservatives in a moment
where that was a great way to be a
success then he starts Daily Caller
at a moment when there was this appetite
for kind of right-wing trolling and kind
of that attitude that's what he took on
and then the second he saw an opening
under Fox under Trump for nationalism he
transitioned in this into this kind of
nationalist uh figure on Fox News
bashing immigrants talking about dirty
immigrants are talking about how there's
a war on men like Tucker Carlson in his
opportunism in his desire to be relevant
kind of shows you the evolution of
conservatism through this era and now he
represents this kind of white
nationalist Rindge every night oh they
love him yeah you have you have Laura
Ingraham and and and and Tucker doing
doing the kind of white nationalist
revanchist conservative politics and
then you have Sean Hannity cleaning up
with Hillary's still still the problem
of Trump's innocent all right let's talk
about what else is going on in Congress
last week House Democrats passed
arguably the most significant sorry last
week House Democrats passed arguably the
most significant democracy reform
legislation in a generation one that
would strengthen voting rights and fight
corruption the bill known as the for the
people Act includes a suite of voting
rights reforms like automatic
registration
Election Day a holiday prohibiting voter
roll purging ending partisan
gerrymandering through independent
commissions and restoring voting rights
for the previously incarcerated it also
includes a host of anti-corruption
measures and new requirements for people
running for and holding the office of
vice president and president to release
ten years of personal and business tax
returns for the people Act would also
establish new disclosure requirements
for dark money groups and set up a new
small dollar matching system for the
public financing of congressional
campaigns or the government would
provide six dollars for every $1 raised
in small contributions so none of these
measures on their face seemed partisan
or ideological but Mitch McConnell has
called this bill the quote Democratic
politician Protection Act and refuses to
allow a vote in the Senate because quote
I get to decide what we vote on that's a
great as a great uh that's a great
example of begging the question in the
actual reason like why won't you bring
it up for a vote because I don't have to
bring it up for about yeah and because
it will because I think that when more
people vote and it's easier to vote and
there's less money in politics it will
help Democrats that is what Mitch
McConnell is is admitting he's honest
when there's more democracy it hurts it
hurts the Republican Party that's that's
basically what he's that's Mitch
McConnell I mean so we're so this isn't
obviously becoming law uh House
Democrats passed it it's not gonna go
anywhere in the Senate while Mitch
McConnell's there what if anything can
Democrats do here how big of a deal
should we make about this about this
bill I mean I think it's arguably the
most important thing we could do as a
party yeah there's a democracy would be
to push for to make it easier for people
to vote automatic registration an
election day you know trying to get
there trying a whole bunch of ways in
this legislation tried a whole bunch of
ways to lessen the influence of big
money in politics there's the there's
the six to one matching system you
talked about but there's also something
that's called the disclose Act which
requires super PACs and nonprofits to
disclose who's giving them checks of
over ten thousand dollars like all the
way the Koch brothers and these
big-money creeps like the Mercer
families our manipulator in politics
would be would targeted by this bill so
unfortunately like the thing was
completely wiped out of the headlines
last week because the Democrats were
fumbling around over this dust-up about
you on Omar's comments about Israel but
I do think like
we need to push this really hard
obviously it's not going anywhere in the
Senate but I think you could peel off
pieces and try to pass it in states I
think you should figure out an
organization to run ads to put money
behind this it's like build a movement
and build support for this kind of
legislation because they're wildly
wildly popular proposals recent polling
from the pack and citizens united found
that eighty eighty two percent of all
voters and eighty four percent of
independents said they support a bill of
reforms to tackle corruption so yeah it
should be like a thing we are
bludgeoning Mitch McConnell with every
day it should be a huge 2020 issue every
Democratic presidential candidate should
be talking about it and I think all of
the Democratic Senate candidates should
be talking about it too because you know
we we get a Democratic president in
there and we don't flip the Senate this
this bill still isn't happening because
Mitch McConnell still isn't bring it up
for a vote we flip three Senate seats we
controlled the Senate Chuck Schumer's
already talked about how much he likes
the bill how much he wants to pass it it
is the kind of bill that if we have you
know again at best we're gonna have 51
52 votes in the Senate at best then you
know you could see maybe picking off
some Republican senators on some parts
of this bill maybe but probably not
which is why again gotta get rid of the
filibuster if you want to pass it yeah
but this is one where there's maybe a
few things in there that some
Republicans could support but probably
probably not
McConnell while he refuses to hold a
vote on before the people Act does want
to hold a vote on the green new deal to
put Democrats on record now
is this as smart of a political move as
Mitch McConnell thinks it is okay you
know we can go to all the ideological
reasons Mitch McConnell would rather
talk about green new deal and then HR
one but there's also another rule that
Mitch McConnell basically always follows
which is he brings things up that unites
his caucus and won't bring things up
that divides caucus right and to your
point there's parts of these sort of
anti-corruption reforms pro-democracy
reforms that are divisive that are
popular that Republicans don't want to
vote on that there's differing views
inside of the caucus on there's a unity
inside of the Republican caucus on the
green New Deal in fact it's something
that unites the Republican caucus even
as there are certain members of the
Republican caucus that are willing to be
a bit more forthright although not by
any global standard by by this name
Republicans on climate so they are eager
to vote on something like this because
they can be United they think it divides
their Democratic caucus they like they
like the idea of Joe Manchin being in a
tough spot they like the idea of some of
the moderate senators being in a tough
spot so you know it's pretty transparent
ya bring up things that you think helps
you don't bring up the things you don't
yeah it's a show vote it's it's meant to
try to embarrass Democrats and Democrats
should treat it like that yeah I think
the answer to your question is probably
state-by-state but it's also it's maybe
it's a bigger question that is
unanswerable at the time because we need
to continue to fight out and argue for
the policies that are part of the Green
Deal and right now the Republican Party
has gone all-in on this whole well this
will lead to the eradication of
airplanes and will murder all the cows
and all the silly stupid ways that
they're distorting what the bill will do
and if we're not making the case for
radical changes to preserve our planet
then you know we don't deserve I mean if
I was a Nancy Pelosi what I would do is
throw down a resolution in the house and
make all the Republicans vote on
resolution that says we believe that
manmade climate change is hurting the
planet yeah let's let's get them on
record to see if their climate deniers
are not simply they get all the climate
centers on record I mean now that we
have control of another house I do think
it's a question for Democrats because
one question I do have is you know man
one briefly public and then retracted
FAQ frequently asked questions with a
with a few poorly worded sentences in it
have been such a gift to Republicans
that they have been just turning into
what the green new deal is and I don't
actually know like what do we do to get
past the fact that they have now decided
that that fact sheet is the only set of
information that actually matters talk
about it more not less because I think
this the bad reaction would be in the
reaction that the Democratic Party has
had in the past is you know we saw this
happen with immigration as well oh you
know little political heat here there's
some problems this this this one idea
isn't popular so maybe I should just
avoid it and talk about things I feel
safe on I think you know if we truly
believe that climate is an existential
threat and that we need to pass some
kind of green New Deal some kind of
ambitious climate legislation the
Democrats need to talk about it more and
educate people about what it really
means for the country for their lives
how we can get to
emissions you know lay out the path and
you got to talk about it more not less
yeah yeah alright let's talk about the
2020 primary thanks to the New York
Times we can add another Democrats and
disarray story to the pile of kindling
this one starts with the lead the sharp
left turn in the Democratic Party and
the rise of progressive presidential
candidates are unnerving moderate
Democrats who increasingly feared that
the party could fritter away its chances
of beating President Trump in 2020 by
careening over a liberal cliff two
months into the presidential campaign
leading Democratic contenders have
largely broken with consensus driven
politics and embraced leftist ideas on
health care tax as the environment in
Middle East policy that would
fundamentally alter the economy elements
of foreign policy and ultimately remake
American life guys what you think of the
piece as the party moved to the left and
if so should Democrats worry about what
that could mean for 2020 what what kind
of gets me about these stories is that
they focus on the politics of these
proposals as if they're an abstract
thing in the context gets left out so
for example the last five years are the
warmest years ever recorded in the 135
years that NOAA has been tracking
climate data a UN climate report says we
have 12 years to prevent climate change
catastrophe shouldn't that change the
context in the consensus and once the
consensus should be you see the same
thing with US policy towards Israel
which is another component of this yeah
in 2008 they people say there was no
daylight on US policy towards Israel
among Democrats well over the weekend
Bibi Netanyahu picked a fight with like
gal gadot and a couple other people
where he was on Instagram where he was
saying that Israel's not a state for all
citizens it only belongs to the Jewish
people he's oppose all efforts to
advance a two-state solution so you know
the world has changed the party has to
keep up and his dan Balz who was a
fantastic Washington Post reporter noted
in his piece the interesting thing is
the Democratic base in the grassroots of
the party are what are shifting us
whereas the Republican base is being
entirely shifted by or the Republican
party at least is being entirely shifted
in the direction of trumpism and
whatever he's mad about or tweeting
about that day so I'm more comfortable
with a a grassroots driven change in
policy perspective yeah I mean a small
brain and
on this is a Republican move to the
right so as a reaction Democrats move to
the left and what you're saying Tommy is
it's exactly right that like no one is
paying attention to why conditions in
the country and in the world have caused
Democrats to say we need to propose
challenges I'm sorry we need to propose
policies that are commensurate with the
challenges that we face and I mean just
use Barack Obama as an example right
Barack Obama always used to say in
2007-2008 if we were starting over from
scratch a single-payer health care
system would be the best way to do this
but we're not we have this very
complicated system so what I think we
can piece together is the affordable
care act and why didn't we have a public
option we had a bunch of conservative
Democratic senators that wouldn't let us
do it right since the Affordable Care
Act has passed all the Republicans have
done is tried to chip away at it and
especially and we've know this before
they've tried to chip away particularly
at the private insurance regulations
that we put in place and so and they've
tried to chip away at Medicaid too and
so because of what Republicans have done
in response to the Affordable Care Act
because deductibles are still too high
because there's still too many people
uninsured because there's people
you know raising money for their
surgeries on GoFundMe that's why
Democrats have said ok we need to go
even further than the Affordable Care
Act now it is the conditions on the
ground that have changed the policy not
the politics of the Republican Party or
Tron
yeah I think that's right I think
another piece of it too is the
intransigence that the Republicans
showed for Barack Obama
even when he was moderate you know even
when he tried to get their votes on a
Recovery Act that was conservative by
the by any standard economists laid out
for what was needed in the face of the
greatest financial crisis it's the Great
Depression the intransigence on the
Affordable Care Act not just after it
was passed but in the delicate and
long-term efforts to try to get people
like Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins and
Chuck Grassley to go along with it
despite Mitch McConnell's efforts to
undermine it from the very beginning and
their attacks ever since you know one
other piece of this too though is it's
there is a left shift in the
policy-making apparatus to your point
right because
we don't believe we look at the scale
all the problems we face we look at the
opposition we face we look at the
attacks will face no matter what we do
and you come to the conclusion that we
should just be for the biggest and
boldest version of what we believe in
because Republicans will called
socialist no matter what you do and
because economic quality is getting
worse the environments getting worse
corporates corporations are getting more
and more powerful the Koch brothers are
doing everything they can to stymie
everything we do wealth is concentrated
and fewer in for your hands but also I
do think that it exaggerated s' the
amount of shift inside of the party I
think the presidential debate has moved
to the left I think that there's a left
debate on Twitter but I don't know that
it it's not representing the fact that
Cory Booker's out there saying that he
wants to keep the filibuster you know
right you've got moderates you know
anything that Democrats will end up
doing in the Senate well we'll need
people's votes like Joe Manchin you know
well there is still there is still a
sizable block of moderate votes inside
of the Democratic Party that ultimately
will we need to want over to anything we
try to pass not just among politicians
right I mean the argument in favor of
this thesis of this piece goes something
like at least half of all Democrats call
themselves moderate or conservative
Democratic voters the vast majority of
candidates who flipped red seats in 2018
were center-left candidates you know
they were that the AOC s came out of
very safe blue districts they did not
come out of the you know the candidates
that flipped the house the reason we
have the house is because a lot of these
center-left candidates now we called
them center-left now they would have
been thought of as very progressive back
in 2008 so it tells you that like none
of none of these candidates are like
Third Way DLC mushy moderates that that
flipped these red seats like they were
all in favor of the Affordable Care Act
they made most of their campaign about
it right they heard about health care
all the time so he's a pretty
progressive candidates but still you
know is there any merit to this argument
that okay you know the debate on Twitter
like you said the policy-making
apparatus has pretty much gone a little
further to the left for what we believe
are good reasons but we probably have
some work to do convincing Democrats
that this is the way to go yes have you
looked at the argument Ford is one there
are moderates out there too but you know
so let's take Medicare for all for
example there are there is great
frustration on the left's and
in with for me too when people say well
how you gonna pay for it how you gonna
pay for it right and you don't get that
question about tax cuts and a lot of
Republican proposals that doesn't mean
we don't have an obligation to talk
about how we'll pay for things or how
we'll pass things or how we'll implement
things because if we don't talk about
that on the front end and people lose
their insurance or something or their
taxes go up on the back end they'll be
very pissed and they will feel misled
and they will vote against us in the
future like building political support
requires big ideas and courage but it
also requires transparency and making a
good faith argument I think you can do
both I mean look every state that has
tried to pass single-payer where the
plan has fallen apart has been in the
discussion around how it's going to be
financed and internationally that's true
internationally that's true too and
that's not to say this is an
insurmountable challenge or that we
should back off it is to say that we you
know and and look it's one thing to say
we have cared too much about deficits in
the past absolutely 100 percent it's one
thing to say the Democrats are always
like you know ready to talk about how
they're gonna pay for every single penny
of spending and like maybe they don't
need to do that I get that too
but there's a difference between saying
that and then saying we never have to
worry about spending we never have to
worry about talking about taxes or how
we're gonna pay for stuff like I don't
think that is in line with most of the
Democratic electorate I would also say
to you though like you know it's
interesting what's to find as radical
right because to Tommy's point something
we talked about all the time these
radical positions that are now becoming
the mainstream inside the Democratic
Party are broadly popular they're not
just popular even among like you know a
well tax a higher marginal tax rate for
for the wealthiest Americans whether
it's the warrant proposal or the AOC
proposal those are popular amongst
Democrats independents and Republicans
by the standard of what's radical
according to pundits the American people
are quite radical what I do think is
often missing though is you know you see
this with you know John Hickenlooper you
know John Hickenlooper has asked are you
a capitalist and he's like I don't want
to use a label and he avoids it it
becomes the whole thing and now and then
Howard Schultz is saying look Democrats
are afraid to say they're capitalists
anymore and I think I think one thing
that has happened I think it's partly
because of Twitter politics and I think
it's partly too because a lot of the
Democrats
are afraid to say what they actually
think because they're trying to prove
their left bona fides it's interesting
that they don't one of the only people
willing to just go out there and say I'm
a capitalist is Elizabeth Warren is
because she doesn't believe she has to
worry about proving that she is abrasive
or sherrod Brown saying you know what I
think we should do a Medicare buy-in
before we go to Medicare for all because
he also doesn't think he needs to worry
about his progressive bona fides so
because you have a lot of people
including people like Kirsten Gillibrand
Connell Harris Cory Booker who are
worried that they won't seem progressive
enough there are a few and this was also
true of Hillary Clinton they refused to
go out there and say I'm not a socialist
I am a capitalist but here is the
version of capitalism I support a
version of capitalism where we have a
strong regulations that prevent abuse of
power the prevent consolidation that
prevent pollution that protect workers
that protect consumers and a safety net
in which everyone can get an education
everyone get health care and people pay
their fair share in taxes that like a
humane consensus version like and I am
by consent sorry I'm is it a humane fair
version of a market-based system in
which workers and ordinary people don't
feel like there's a boot on their
 necks which by the way is part
of a global consensus about what an
economy should look like whether it's
you know a version of the social
democracy you see in Europe or the kind
of right-wing version we currently have
and moving that to the left so to me one
problem we have is the only people out
there are outlining an ideology a
coherent ideology are the left wing of
the Democratic Party and the right wing
of the Republican Party they are not
equivalent they are not equivalent by
any stretch but what is missing is an
articulation of what it means to be a
Democrat not on the Left not on the
center but like what is a consensus
version of what it means to be a
Democrat and I would like to see more
people talk about I just think I think
the greater danger for candidates is not
what ideology they choose if they truly
believe that ideology right if the
danger is not being to lefty in your
ideology or to centrist or to right be
in your ideology the danger is saying
what you think you need to say to get
elected so know what you believe and say
it either it works or it doesn't work
but don't go down this road where you're
like oh well the Twitter folks and the
lefty folks say this is an important
polity so I'm going to say this
oh no I shouldn't say this because this
is too centrist or or I don't want to be
like this this is this has bedeviled
Democrats for decades now and in the
past it used to be they would say things
and they'd go to the most centrist
moderate position because they were were
you know school uniforms and all this
 or I mean in in 2008 it
was it led a lot of them to vote for the
Iraq war right and so it went the other
way for a while now it could also go
like well oh well the new fad is that I
you know ase is very popular so I must
agree with everything aoc says yeah and
if you do that's great but if you don't
say that and I was like come on man
Hickenlooper I got you fixed you have to
clean it up the next day you had a
brewery it's okay
look Elizabeth Warren if Elizabeth
Warren can go out there and say she's a
capitalist you can too we believe in a
free market it's still America and by
the way you look at what the left of the
Democratic Party of the of the
Democratic policy debates out advocating
you know look people are using labels
like Democratic Socialist now I think
that's fine
but like they're talking about Medicare
for all they're talking about Universal
College what they're cut about they're
talking about is a strong social welfare
state that protects people from the
excesses of capitalism something every
liberal believes in it's not the things
have not things have changed the party
has shifted to the left but and that's
good it means we can talk more honestly
about how big the problems that are and
the scale the solutions we need that's
fine but but we don't have to you don't
have to ignore what you actually think
you believe in a free market economy you
believe in people starting businesses
and competition if you believe in that
kind of a regulatory state just
say it
so the question we don't ask enough is
you know what our voters think of all
this or even just Democratic voters so
new poll out this weekend over the
weekend by the Des Moines Register about
taken of Democratic caucus-goers in Iowa
and look you know we can talk about
polls are they accurate horse race blah
blah you've heard us all say before we
should say the Des Moines Register poll
is like you know this Tommy insult sir
is the gold standard in polling she does
the poll for them yes it is the gold
standard polling particularly in Iowa
right they do national polls do but
their Iowa polls are the gold standard
nails so right now Joe Biden is the most
popular potential choice among potential
Iowa caucus goers but let me do that
again two potentials right now Joe Biden
is the most popular choice among
potential
Iowa caucus-goers even though he's still
not officially in the race 27 percent of
respondents said that Biden would be
their first choice while 25 percent said
Bernie Sanders would be their top choice
Elizabeth Warren is next with nine
percent Kamala Harris is at 7 percent
better O'Rourke is at 5 percent and
everyone else is between 0 & 3 percent
but aside from the horse race which
changes its hourly some people are in
some people there aren't I thought one
of the most interesting parts of the
poll was this if Biden decides not to
run 30 percent of those who named him as
their first choice candidate would
switch their allegiance to Bernie
Sanders who MAME does their second
choice so what if anything does this
tell you guys about this debate about
ideology in the party that Biden is
supposed like big moderate in the race a
third of his supporters would just jump
on the Bernie bandwagon if he wasn't in
there feels like it tells you that a lot
of people would like to support someone
they've heard of and that they like
based on decades of having heard about
them like what a radical idea I mean but
it is in the coverage yeah I know I know
I mean I would love to touch on the
horse race for a minute after this but
you guys if you want to dig in it's
enough I mean I just think the thing
that's not let's become we despised no
but well it's that's getting a horse
race unbelievable it's getting the thing
that's interesting about Iowa is a poll
like this this early like yes it's bad
to be at 0% but I also hate to see
radical point but it's also bad to be
ahead because Iowa is not necessarily
about winning or losing
it's about expectations and exceeding
expectations because there's always a
couple tickets out of Iowa so say the
National Press so I would not be worried
if I were in third fourth place if I if
my name ID was growing if people were
responding to the things I was saying it
is a little scary to have an early early
poll that sets this really high floor
for you as a candidate at like 25 30 %
especially if 900 people jump into their
race like it creates complications about
how your win or loss or third-place win
or second-place win will be received by
the national press corps and the
momentum that comes out of an Iowa
caucus result is earned media that no
amount of money can buy not even Howard
Schultz could purchase the value of a
good
Iowa caucus result totally agree totally
great so uh I thought a couple other
interesting points in the poll love it I
want you to respond to seventy percent
of respondents say they believe Biden's
political views are neither too liberal
nor too conservative but instead are
about right that's the highest
percentage of any candidate tested forty
four percent think Bernie is too liberal
forty eight percent says his views are
about right
that's the highest percentage of anyone
who thinks a candidate is too liberal
and then forty three percent of voters
say that Sanders time as a candidate has
passed while thirty one percent of
voters say that of Biden so on the
people uh aligning with bra with Biden's
views I think that he is he is on a
Barack Obama motorcycle just racing
racing to that nomination I think so you
know there was that poll that came out
that showed that you know on the
Republican side they identify as
conservative Republicans on the
Democratic side they identify as Obama
Democrats and I think I think that there
is a look Democrats are right now I
think this also speaks to why though by
the way why there's a lot of people who
would shift from Biden to Bernie I think
there's a lot of Democrats out there who
feel two things one they want to be
Trump more than anything they've ever
wanted in their lives yes and two
they're not confident in their ability
to make that decision you know I've
talked about this before but I think
there is a sense in which we're going
into the most important primary in our
lives without being totally confident in
how to make that decision and so you
think to yourself if what I value I
value two things right I value obviously
a president who will pursue the policies
I care about who will be a just and
humane leader but at the same time also
the thing I care about even maybe more
than that is making sure that Donald
Trump is not reelected and you think
about that you feel unsure about how to
make that decision you think well what
is a who's somebody that what's a kind
of politics that one two majorities in
recent memory
oh it's Barack Obama right and so you
look at your Biden you say maybe he's
too old maybe he's not as left as I am
but man I trust him I trust him to
govern like Obama
it feels safe to me and so I can get on
board with that yeah and look I think
for for Bernie and for Biden some of
this probably has to do with maybe a lot
of it we don't know for sure very high
name ID almost universal name ID
everyone knows who Bernie Sanders and
Joe Biden are at least the Democrats who
answer these polls so that's part of it
part of it is also it's not just name ID
because there are other Democrats with
very high name ID who don't have a
widely favorable ratings right Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders like it or not are
very well liked by a broad majority of
Democrats poll after poll after poll
show that the Democratic Party
Democratic voters they like Joe Biden
they approve him and they like Bernie
Sanders that is just like I know there's
a lot of people who don't like Bernie
Sanders but that is the truth that said
neither Bernie Sanders nor Joe Biden has
really ever had to sustain any kind of
period of negative campaigning against
them a lot of attacks I don't think
there's ever been an attack ad run
against Bernie Sanders I think so you
know the when Joe Biden if Joe Biden
enters the race he's gonna face a lot of
questions about his record about his
past and we'll see how his numbers hold
up then Bernie Sanders probably for the
first time will face all you know a lot
of questions and concerns about his
record or you know anything else his
past and so we'll see how both of them
hold up as the campaign begins but I
think it's not just name ID it is there
but there broadly brother yeah anyone
they're all gonna get hammered I mean
you know anyone who gets in this race
like the Oppo researchers are coming and
it's gonna get brutal and the issues
we're gonna be talking about in six
months we will not have heard of today
that is very true no one knew who
Reverend Wright was for a very long time
issues controversies scandals we're
gonna have 25 a day what's this thing
really started yeah and I also you know
on the burning front to you know there
was a I think there was a birdied never
because it was assumed that Hillary
would win right actually to the
frustration of Bernie supporters and
when they talk about you know debbie
Wasserman Schultz I you know there's an
underlying feeling that no one really
treated Bernie like he could win and
because of that it was hard for him to
win right but now there is a real sense
that he has a chance to win this
nomination and be treated like the
potential
kradic nominee and he has never faced
that scrutiny right okay when we come
back my interview with Rico decodes Kara
Swisher
you
