to call on Friday September 13th there
are just a few seats left and I'll have
more confidence if it sells out head to
crooked comm / events to get tickets and
very excited about that show Alisa
you'll be there I will be there front
row so I can tell you you look like a
model that's all I need
till I need in this world alright let's
get to the news about our lawless
Wallace president's here is what the
Washington Post reported on Tuesday
night he has directed aides
to fast-track billions of dollars worth
of construction contracts aggressively
seized private land and disregard
environmental rules according to current
and former according to current and
former officials involved with the
project when aides have suggested that
some orders are illegal or unworkable
Trump has suggested he would pardon the
officials if they would just go ahead
aides said he had what he has waived off
worries about contracting procedures and
the use of eminent domain saying take
the land according to officials who
attended the meetings though the the
piece goes on don't worry I'll pardon
you he has told officials and meetings
about the wall he said people expected
him to build a wall and it had to be
done by the election one former official
said you know Trump deny this
immediately claiming that the Washington
Post is out to get him
but even inside of the story aides
refused to deny that Trump discussed
pardons outright claiming Trump was
joking Trump not Trump also not one for
subtlety apparently also is insisting
that the wall be spiked and painted
black
even though painting the wall black will
cost so much money that the wall will
end up being 4 to 7 miles shorter ELISA
there is a lot to unpack here so I want
to start with the political pressure
Trump is feeling then talk about how
he's paying for all this and finally
dive into the corrupt and criminal
elements so Trump has promised to build
500 miles of his wall before the
election but as of now he has built no
new fencing along the southern border
none' they replaced some fencing they've
managed to do some construction to
replace some fencing but that's it he
seems to be panicking about this a new
Quinnipiac Quinnipiac Quinnipiac doesn't
matter found them Trump's approval
rating on immigration his signature
issue is at 38% with 59% disapproval so
Trump uses as a central to his
reelection we just went through a
midterm fight in which Democrats
produced a huge majority in the house
despite immigration fear-mongering ELISA
did you take away from the story in
terms of Trump's immigration politics
someone scared someone made one promise
in 2016 I think the chant was build that
wall and he has the one thing the one
thing people wanted from him he can't do
he hasn't done and you know he he's like
that's it love it it comes down to this
 wall it comes down to a wall he
knows it we know it and there's no wall
so you were part of an administration
I'm sorry let me say it again so you
were in a job in the Obama
administration that was very much about
tracking projects like this of course
the Obama administration would not
pursue a project like this but you were
in a job you know one of the one of the
one of the jobs of president and the
people that work for a president is
setting priorities for an administration
and keeping things moving forward I want
one detail in the article I found
striking is that Trump has been having
regular meetings to assess the progress
in the construction of the wall which
seemed like almost ordinary politics
from Trump how much of a failing is it
for a White House to be so flat-footed
on a signature issue like this well I
mean love it can you imagine if after as
many years as we were in the White House
back in 2009-2010 if we had done nothing
on health care if there were no
discussions if there was no progress if
there was no you know gang of eight
whatever the group was called and here
he is now being getting whooped you know
last fall in the midterm and now he's
cruising into you know his re-election
and he he hasn't done anything to
deliver on the fear-mongering
race-baiting that he did and you know
his core constituency his core
supporters they want to see this
wall they want to know he scared the
 out of everyone he said a caravan
was coming he said everyone was climbing
over things breaking through the country
he built this all up and unlike with
tariffs and everything else he's he does
this with he can't really walk it back
because he created such may
and so now he needs to literally by hook
or by crook get something on this wall
but love it I don't know if you saw I
had to look at this a couple times as I
do with many Trump tweets he put a video
it's his pin tweet right now that has
what looks like video of this completed
black wall and he says things like the
wall is going up as fast as you can but
it's it's a lie but he'll do anything to
try to tell people he's actually making
progress when there is absolutely no
progress I'm sneezing no it's
interesting it does seem like he is
caught between his two instincts one is
his understanding that that he made a
promise and even though politics is
barely functioning even though he can
say whatever he wants to his base even
though he'll be backed by a propaganda
network even though people are shouting
finished the wall at his rallies despite
the fact that he has not really begun
the wall at least not built any new wall
that he can kind of get away with it by
that I'm sorry that he understands he
actually has to do something while at
the same time recognizing that if he
can't do anything he still is free to
lie about it that he can just simply
claim the wall is being built and have
footage of construction and call it a
victory just so that he has something to
campaign on the real
choose-your-own-adventure inside his
head I don't I feel like every
choose-your-own-adventure
in Trump's head ends with the bus going
off the cliff and no one finding the
Mona Lisa did to me I had it was a vivid
it was vivid all right so so Trump uses
his mate let me move on today so one
other facet of this is how he's paying
for the wall in July the conservative
majority in the Supreme Court affirmed
Trump's ability to take 2.5 billion
dollars from the Pentagon and put it
towards wall construction despite
Congress's explicit refusal to devote
money to this project after Trump
repeatedly walked away from immigration
deals with Democrats and Republicans
that would have funded the wall now we
learn that for the second time in a year
Trump is taken funding from FEMA to pay
for his immigration policies last up
the administration took almost 10
million from FEMA sent its ice this week
the administration announced it was
taking 271 million from FEMA including
155 million from the agency's disaster
relief fund and directing those funds
toward the border including towards
detention beds this came in the midst of
hurricane season hurricane durian was
striking the US Virgin Islands Puerto
Rico and I'm sorry
hurricane durian was striking the US
Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico and it's
a storm that's currently intensifying as
it heads toward Florida even as Puerto
Rico was bracing for the storm Trump was
attacking Puerto Rico on Twitter
Puerto Rico was largely spared from the
brunt of durian but still not great you
know we now have Trump he claimed Mexico
is gonna pay for it that's become a joke
in and of itself but he's taking money
from FEMA he's taking money from the
Pentagon we have Trump telling aides to
take the land from American citizens to
eminent domain all to give his
reelection a boost ELISA how would you
be telling Democratic candidates to talk
about this the way that he has decided
to fund this pet project so this is very
this is very personal to me because as
White House deputy chief of staff I
oversaw disasters and one thing that I
think candidates I think that you need
to make it vivid and I think you have to
drive at home and one of the things as
it relates specifically to him taking
the money from FEMA and homeland
security is that the cost leus
hurricanes that have hit the u.s. all
happened in late August September or
October right Katrina
Harvey Maria sandy Irma Ike and Wilma
right since 1980 the United States
government has paid over eight hundred
and sixty two billion dollars to
hurricane recovery
the average cost about twenty one point
six billion dollars per hurricane so the
question for everyone is if most
hurricanes hit the US the costliest the
deadliest hit the u.s. between September
and early November why is he moving
money now like this is the worst time
this is like when your parents give you
$1,000 for
food and books your first semester of
college and you I don't know decide to
go to an Indigo Girls concert in Amherst
Massachusetts and use half that money
like you still got to pay for the food
for the rest of the semester which only
means calling your parents or getting
another job but you got to find the
money and in this case the money the
parents are Congress are you well that
analogy was too specific or maybe not
specific enough I mean it's something
that I was thinking about when the
Indigo Girls came on the radio on my way
here and I was like it's just like that
I mean it's obviously not just like that
but you get my point
so he's bankrupt he's he is this is
nothing but robbing from Peter to pay
Paul and if there are things Dorian
right now is is on track to make
landfall in the US as a category for
many of the Hurricanes that have been
that have had the damage that they've
had were less than a category 4 so he's
just it's it's all such garbage
so now I want to move on to it so me so
let's talk about the other this story to
me was like there's something Quintus
there was something about this
Washington Post story that captured sort
of every element of the threat Trump
poses it is focused on a cruel and
inhumane immigration policy rooted in
the animus that he has stoked in
millions of people against immigrants he
is taking from other government
priorities because he has no care for
the functioning of the government
whatsoever and has been sort of abetted
by the Supreme Court abetted by
Republicans in Congress who you know
don't seem to care to hold him
accountable but there was also this
final piece of it which is what the
Arctic which is which is what the
Washington Post reported on pardons that
cNN has confirmed others have confirmed
but basically says if aids have to break
a few federal laws to get the wall done
more quickly it's not a big deal because
he can just issue a pardon ELISA what
was your reaction when you saw this sort
of pardon offer as part of his as part
of his race to get the wall done I mean
on the one hand not really surprised I
mean I guess I would have thought he was
you know offering the
sooner you know like he did with all the
other people who have gone to jail
because of him but you know for me I
guess I just remembered you know my very
first day in the White House when Barack
Obama made it clear literally said
verbatim you you report you serve the
people of the United States and I think
what's so clear in this West Wing
specifically is that they serve one
person who is mercurial to be kind and
it is not at all about the people or
doing what's right or doing things the
right way or adhering to anything I
don't know it's just like I mean love it
what did you think were you surprised
you know when I saw it come over the
wires as it were I read it and for a
moment it just felt like another Trump
story and then I thought about it again
and I read it again and I thought wait a
second I know were a nerd to a lot of
trumps worst abuses and I know the
immediate the immediate reaction
political is well even if Democrats
impeach trompet the Senate won't do
anything nobody will care the immediate
there's a there's a kind of learned
helplessness that when you see something
like this you already jump to the fact
that you're aware that everyone's gonna
move on but when I saw it I didn't want
to move on because it does to me feel
like a real escalation you know Trump is
dangled pardons for Paul Manafort for
Michael Flynn for Michael Cohen Muller
documents Trump's abuse of the pardon
power and the report dozens of
references to how he has tried to use
the pardon to cover up crime he also
Trump's also pardoned people like Joe
Arpaio dinesh d'souza right-wing
hardliners and his lackeys who he just
wanted to give a favor to no deeper
principled no sense of no sense of kind
of what the pardon power is meant to do
which is to bestow mercy for those who
deserve it but this to me is is new this
is saying break the law to help me win
reelection and I will pardon you which
is not far from saying federal laws do
not apply if you are helping Donald
Trump hold on to power
that if you are going whether it's a
campaign finance laws whether it's laws
governing how you can build a wall along
the southern border whether it's laws
around electioneering whether it's laws
about what Kellyanne Conway is allowed
to say on the White House lawn violating
the Hatch Act by by basically treating
the White House as a campaign platform
for her boss that Donald Trump doesn't
care about any of it he doesn't care
about any of it the law does not matter
all that matters is his ego his not
being wounded by negative attacks or by
or buying defeated in reelection so to
me this was a kind of dangerous
escalation yeah it's hard to it's
actually hard to imagine like he's done
so much like you say to make us numb to
this but I just for a minute think it's
like you know the other day was the
anniversary of Barack Obama scandal of
wearing a tan suit and I think about if
any other president if we had heard that
Bill Clinton was offering out pardons
for people to lie to Ken to do something
to lie to Ken Starr like I'll take care
of you perjure yourself I just think
that the world would have been on fire
the you know Tom Brokaw would have been
you know having break-in special news at
you know five o'clock instead of six and
now we're just like like we know it's
terrible but there's so much other bad
 he does that you're like okay you
know I guess here's another thing yeah
it is it is a it is this sort of
catch-22 in that despite the fact that
we know that trumps impeachable offenses
that Trump's misconduct his abuse of
office is an unprecedented viciousness
and all of it has become in many ways
sort of the status quo ante of politics
that we can't treat it that way in the
moment despite the fact that in the back
of our minds we fear that that's what
will ultimately happen anyway so it's it
is it is what it is the strategy right
we are exhausted by many different
abuses of Donald Trump but but I do
think this one it you know we have now
seen a steady trickle of Democrats
coming out for impeachment but it is
worth noting that right now there is a
kind of brazenness to what
Donald Trump is doing he is floating
having the g7 take place lots at Doral
he is telling aides to break the law to
proactively inform them that he will
pardon them if they break the law an
abuse of the pardon power that has been
warned about since the founders were
giving the president the pardon power
this unlimited power that everyone has
recognized was ripe for abuse so you
know we come back to this question is it
worth impeaching Donald Trump or do we
just simply have to repudiate him at the
ballot box but I do think it's also
worth just pausing and saying this is
new this is dangerous this is an
unprecedented move by Trump in a very
tough category of abuses and and beyond
that it's about pressuring Democrats to
take it as seriously as they should to
not buy into the kind of learned
helplessness that we see in the media
that we see in the sort of political
coverage right it's kind of like it's
impeachment isn't for this then what is
it for right right you know and it's
that that it and that has been true we
could have said that it's interesting
that sentence has been true for a long
time that was true of the abuse as
outlined by Muller but this to me is an
even new level
the president is telling people that
they can break the law with impunity to
help him retain his office that is an
abuse of power at the core of checks and
balances that is why we have an
impeachment power we can't declare a
vote of no-confidence we can't go up to
queen elizabeth ii and say can you put
the parliaments and you know inquiry in
the fridge this is what we have and it
may not lead to removal in the senate
but it's still the power that we have he
is so brazen at this moment because he
doesn't believe there will be any
mechanism to hold him accountable and we
know that he is not nuanced right he's
not slick he's not so so what I think
about is is what what has he done and
said you know in this vein that we don't
know about like what's he saying to
people at the State Department about
what we're doing in Syria or you
or Africa or you know it's just it's
this is just the tip of the iceberg
you know that's that what I think about
when I hear this it's like if this is
what we are hearing then this is just
the beginning this is just the beginning
of the like cockeyed that he's
doing from his very empty desk yeah you
know jeffrey goldberg of the atlantic
interviewed mattis former Secretary of
Defense and it was a it's a it's worth
reading the interview because what you
feel is first of all you feel the
imbalance between those who want you I'm
sorry you feel the imbalance between
those who don't give a about about
to quorum about civility about mutual
respect about treating people fairly who
want to defend Trump and people like
mattis who is a complicated figure who
does not deserve on what does not
deserve the unalloyed praise let's say
but who nonetheless you feel kind of
bristling against his desire to remain
quiet out of respect for the office of
the presidency who nonetheless does seem
to want to speak out about what he saw
behind the scenes and there's a moment
in this interview where where mattis
basically says I feel as though I have a
moral obligation to provide silence but
it won't last forever and you do not
even to fit you do see that there are
people inside who have not yet told us
enough about the truth of what they saw
when they were working with this
president and something that I think is
interesting that I always think is worth
sort of shining a light on just Susan
Rice and I a couple months ago did an
event together it was this big event and
one of the things that I asked her was
you know people like John Brennan and
Jim clapper you know have they done they
are apolitical these are not members of
the security of this country who wanted
to come out and and make statements that
make them appear political but because
they know what a menace what a threat
this president is to national security
they have felt the need to speak out and
it's and I always think it's worth
to think this was not in their DNA this
wasn't something that they ever wanted
to do they served multiple presidents of
different parties and you know but this
is this is where we are it's you know
everybody feels the need like see
something say something
ya know you know these are these are
heavy topics but before we move on I did
want to read one tweets from Trump about
this question as to whether or not the
g7 should meet at Trump Doral here it is
quote no bedbugs at Doral the radical
left Democrats upon hearing that the
perfectly located for the next g7 Doral
national Miami was under consideration
for the next g7 spread the false and
nasty rumor not nice there has never
been anything that has convinced me of
the opposite of what it is claiming more
than this tweet beginning a tweet no
bedbugs at the raw is such an admission
of bedbugs at Doral like do you think
that Angela Merkel and president macaron
just like tweet links to each other of
his tweets like like not sure if they
should use the wide eye emoji the lol
emoji or the crying emoji but like this
is the person they have to deal with and
you know what there are a lot of reasons
that it shouldn't be if they're all one
it'll be different hurricane season but
also it's a funny thing because as again
part of my job I oversaw things like the
g7 summit and where we would host things
and hosting important summits and
everything and you know that in our
administration and several others it
never would have past event because of
all the liens that it had against it I
want everyone to know that I attempted a
French accent of McCrone and Merkel
making fun of trumped are all having
bedbugs but for your benefit I did cut
it ELISA you speak French is there
anything you'd like to add merde
all right let's let's move on to 2020
we're headed to one debate night in
September Thursday September 12th 10
candidates will take the stage
they are Biden Warren Bernie Booker
mayor Pete Castro Camilla Klobuchar Beto
and yang senator Kirsten Gillibrand of
New York dropped out of the race
yesterday following recent departures of
other candidates including John
Hickenlooper and Seth Moulton the field
is narrowing Elissa how do you feel
about that you know I just you know I
love Kirsten and I think that she went
out in a really elegant way and went out
on top and you know her voice will still
be very present in the election as we go
forward and she's gonna be out there
yeah she's she for me is someone who has
always had the backs of women and made
sure that they were believed and heard
and you know she stuck her neck out for
she she said what she felt when it came
to Al Franken and she never backed down
despite the pressure and you know many
of her colleagues now say oh you know I
regret it I didn't do it and so I just
you know I dig her she stood up and good
for her and we love her and we hope see
her more from her you know for the
debate for the you know for the bigger
picture I think it's really good that
we're down to one debate stage I don't
know why but I feel like if there had
been two somehow
Warren and Biden wouldn't have ended up
on the same stage again
and I just don't know how much more we
can endure and also just watching them
you see the people who were sort of in
the lower tier who were really just sort
of like doing the breaststroke trying to
get you know a moment so that they can
get more money so they can make it to
the next debate and so I feel like the
group that we'll be hearing from is is
pretty steady and it will be substantive
I hope do you think it'll be substantive
I hope so I do think we may also be
headed back to a double debate next time
because a few people are so close steyr
was close
Tulsi Gabbard was was close so we may
be back to a two-night debate you know I
I ultimately think it is good that
they're all in one stage but at the same
time given how many people have been on
each debate stage already I also wasn't
averse to there being kind of six and
five just have two more substantive
debates just to mix it up but I I also
think that you know a lot of people are
kind of pointing criticism at the DNC at
this point that really isn't earned
given basically how like these
thresholds they were there for everybody
to see and write we've seen candidates
be able to surmount be able to surmount
these thresholds from you know people
like Julian Castro mayor Pete others who
have managed to kind of fight their way
into this into this category so I don't
know I think it's ultimately good that
we are guaranteed a debate with Biden
and Warren on one stage but I also think
it would've been fine if we had a bunch
more people the only reason I the only
reason I was so for one debate night is
because I didn't want to get would love
it or leave it yeah so speaking of Biden
and Warren being on the debate stage
together Biden released a health care ad
that I wanted to play because I thought
I'd captured something essential about
his campaign and the debate we're having
right now over healthcare I was sworn
into the United States Senate next to a
hospital bed
my wife and daughter had been killed in
a car crash lying in that bedroom I to
surviving little boys I couldn't imagine
what it would have been like if we
didn't have the health care they needed
immediately
40 years later one of those little boys
my son Beau was diagnosed with terminal
cancer and given only months to live I
can't fathom what would have happened if
the insurance companies had said for the
last six months of his life you're on
your own the fact of the matter is
health care is personal to me
Obamacare is personal to me when I see
the president tried to tear it down and
others proposed to replace it and start
over that's personal me too we got to
build on what we did because every
American deserves affordable health care
I'm Joe Biden and I approve this message
Melissa what did you think of that ad so
I thought it was really powerful
you know I saw it before I even had my
coffee the other day um I thought it
might have been more powerful without
sort of like the veiled swipe at the end
that sort of medicare-for-all
um you know I just it's because the ad
is so personal because he he talks about
his family and his struggles but he's
really never used them sort of in this
type of ad before and um but no it was
really powerful I just think that you
know I just probably wouldn't have I
wouldn't have done that at the end yeah
you know the reason I wanted to play it
is because to me I I was incredibly
moved by his kindness to tell the story
and I was it's emotional to listen to
and you're reminded that this is
somebody who has been sort of steeped in
grief throughout his career that that
has been that that the pain that he has
had in his life has been I think part of
why he has been able to
retain a kind of ordinariness and
ability to relate to people because he
has been through something so wrenching
his his his life in politics is
bookended by these tragedies and then
and you see that and you're reminded too
in that that that's part of his strength
as a candidate that goes beyond just
name recognition that goes just goes
beyond electability that goes to the
affection people have for Jill Biden and
then then it turns and it becomes about
health care and the the critique of
Trump is valid and good the defense of
Obama care is good and then it is used
as a tip to issue a kind of very small
minded attack on other Democrats health
care proposals that isn't very fair and
I thought it really did capture the kind
of the promise of a Biden campaign and
also the weaknesses of a Biden campaign
in one ad that he would share this
incredibly personal story in a way that
I was incredibly effective and then have
the message of the ad ultimately be an
attack on a kind of health care planet
isn't it isn't particularly accurate you
know so well that's why that's why I
wanted a plot that's why I wanted to
share just because I do think of that
there is that that duality inside of it
well and I think that for me too
part of my initial takeaway it's like
look we've all been through campaigns
before we've all watched them unfold on
television we've lived them in real life
and to me the he almost missed the the
point that he missed is that the thing
that the other campaigns are saying is
they fundamentally believe that health
care is a human right right like that's
the underlying that's the through line
and I feel like he that's where he
jumped the shark at the end because you
know I don't know I just I thought that
that was that when I hear Sanders or
Warren or anyone else talk about
Medicare for all and how it's that it's
that we all deserve to be able to go to
the hospital and like the story that
Kamala tells you know not fit in the car
with your kid in front of the emergency
room knowing that when you walk in it's
going to cost you $5,000 because if your
deductible so yeah I just I thought it
was really powerful and moving and I
just really didn't like the last like 45
seconds yeah and it was it also to be
pointed I thought well what I thought
the ad was going to be
yeah it's this incredibly personal story
and it really could be about a larger
argument about pain people are feeling
about what he wants to do as president
about the stakes of right of what's
facing the country and it doesn't do
that to other races I wanted to touch on
one Republican senator Johnny Isakson of
Georgia announced he will be retiring
for health reasons Republican senator
David Perdue of Georgia was already up
for re-election now both of Georgia
Senate seats will be on the ballot
Stacey Abrams has again said she will
not run for the Senate nonetheless these
are to pick up opportunities now for
Democrats the path to taking the Senate
has widened a bit and has also now
focused on Georgia a bit more ELISA what
do you think this means for Democrats in
the fight for the Senate I think it
means we have to have our act together I
mean look we have a we have an
opportunity um we have a state that's
getting that's creeping Bloor right
Stacey Abrams showed us that you know in
the last election you know Abrams got
something like I think it was forty
eight point eight percent and John
Barrow who is a white man got forty who
is running for Secretary of State got
forty eight point seven percent so it's
showing the Democrats are bringing out
people to all kinds for all kinds of
candidates and you know I just think
that there is a there's a lot there's a
lot to be done they have to find some
good candidates who can keep sort of
paving the path that that Stacey
specifically sort of blaze in the last
cycle one other one other fact about
this that I saw let me say it again ah
one other aspect of this too is the fact
that both of these seats are up for the
same time and apparently the last time
two Senate seats were up in a state at
the same time and split as in didn't
both go to the same party was apparently
1966 so more than 50 years ago so it
also does seem that the odds suggests
that these seats will move together the
other facet is this is a this is a
special election in which if no
candidate gets 50% then it could go to a
runoff
and so many have been noting that this
introduces the possibility that the
Senate could be determined in January by
a runoff in Georgia it is a terrifying
possibility that gives me a knot in my
stomach and I wanted to share that with
all of you thanks for bringing us into
your anxiety before we go one other race
this is at the North Carolina ninth
during the 2018 election Democrats came
extremely close to flipping North
Carolina's ninth congressional district
it initially it initially looked like
Republican Mark Harris had beaten
Democrat Dan McReady by nine hundred
votes it then came to light that Harris
had hired a shady political operative
who stole ballots state officials called
a new election which will take place on
September 10th McCready and his new
challenger a Trump loving state senator
named Dan Bishop are neck-and-neck and
the polls Trump will be going to North
Carolina to hold a rally right before
election night so that gives you a sense
of how important the Republicans view
this race to learn more about how the
Republicans stole the original election
check out this month's crooked mini
rigging North Carolina led by Shaniqua
McClendon our political director who did
an incredible job and I want we have a
call to action for North Carolina well I
can add an answer and and I'll just have
that ELISA yeah thank you for joining
today love it thank you so much I can't
wait to be your biggest cheerleader at
Radio City on all right the 13th do you
think it's um are we superstitious that
this shows taking place on Friday the
13th is the first time how I don't get
it I think it's nothing but good New
York City on Friday the 13th please
it'll be spooky good spooky good talk to
you later listen bye we come back we'll
have when we come back we'll be joined
by congresswoman Ayanna Presley oh now
we should we should do the outright was
you the address sorry now we're in the
outro ELISA it's always good to talk to
you you love it that's it that's the end
of art that's that's what we got for
each other after all this no I didn't
know there was an out for you I didn't
either I did I caught myself off-guard
I caught myself up guard I'm doing
a lot of pods this week all right John
and Tommy are both in Europe on a
bicycle built for two and I'm just I
don't know this I'm recording everything
yeah I love an hour
I do have an hour to be here with you
okay on the Thursday before Labor Day my
love for you is real
Wow thank you for doing that oh yes plan
yet no parade don't worry I love it but
