welcome to pod safe America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett and timing Vitor
later in the pod Tommy talks to our
friend DeRay McKesson about his hometown
of Baltimore which the president called
disgusting over the weekend before that
we're gonna talk about out the Trump
campaign is now admitting to reporters
that they're using racism as a political
strategy we'll also talk about how the
Judiciary Committee is kind of moving
forward on an impeachment inquiry and
we'll preview the Democratic debates
this week
speaking of debates we are bringing back
our group thread this Tuesday and
Wednesday night for this one we won't be
live-streaming the debate itself because
CNN's legal department whined about it
so I thought it was a very nice email
from their head of global comms yeah it
was fine it was fine so it'll be more of
a second screen experience whatever you
watch it on TV you look on your phone
you see if he's gonna be grouped it's
gonna be great the three of us Dan
Priyanka Arab Indy and crooked political
director SHINee coal McClendon will be
discussing the debate in real time and
we'll take audience questions in
comments too as you know
Shaniqua has an ongoing feud with Lovett
so look for some attacks coming within
the group thread and on the debate stage
we brought jinuk want to the live stream
last week too got it a little got heated
so come watch the debate with us
enjoying the group thread when the
debates begin at youtube.com slash
crooked media she think we knows what
she did if you prefer to get the
highlights from the debates will be
recapping everything you need to know in
our what a debate newsletter you can
sign up at vote save America calm slash
subscribe for that love it tell us about
love early great love it or leave it
Matt Walsh Diablo riddle Emily Jane Fox
a great reporter
it was incredibly funny also I put Emily
Jane Fox on the spot and I said tell us
something that that we don't know and
she described life in prison for Michael
Cohen which was fascinating and we treat
some federal prisoners too well they've
Jeffrey Epstein
they put there's actual tennis guys
really yeah like with with rack quotes
and rackets they're not grass courts are
they doesn't well they better be
grass or clay put upkeep into the grass
and clay you got a sweet thing
so don't miss my interview with Bernie
Sanders that we released on Friday he's
the 18th candidate who sat down with us
and we're in the process of scheduling
the last few remaining candidates with
the glaring exception of Joe Biden if
your name rhymes with smiting what are
you doing come on in hello people on his
campaign we know you all we have a lot
of listeners leaves right back to our
emails your boss is literally the only
one who has not scheduled to sit down
here be the question I would have what
why do you think millions of progressive
listeners shouldn't hear from Joe Biden
we interviewed him before the quote
Donald Trump it was fine what the hell
do you have to lose anyway but the
Bernie interview is great check it out
Bernie was fun in the office too you
know just right to type great group
picture the whole thing was fun he
literally wandered off while I was
trying to tell him about my deceased
grandfather who loved him but he didn't
a very charming ways it was fine for him
all right let's get to the news the
president spent his weekend trashing an
American city of more than half a
million people because one of its
representatives as the chairman of the
House Oversight Committee who's
investigating evidence of Donald Trump's
corruption and criminality in
retaliation for congressman Elijah
Cummings criticizing the administration
for its treatment of immigrant children
being held at detention facilities so
bad that the Department of Homeland
Security own inspector general called
them a ticking time bomb the president
called the congressman's district which
includes part of Baltimore a quote
disgusting rat and rodent infested place
where quote no human being would ever
want to live the president went on to
call Cummings who's the son of a South
Carolina sharecropper a racist and
demanded that he be investigated guys
I'll start with the first question that
I asked when I saw these tweets where
did this all come from which of his
friends from the television told him a
story that made a match two different
questions where this came from
is he grew up in a household in which
racism was taken as a fact of life and
an assumption that black people were
less than white people and the only
acceptable black people were those that
showed incredible amounts of deference
to white people misogyny and racism were
the only two consistent features of
donald trump's worldview since the time
it was a boy where it came from was a
clip of Fox News idiots
yeah little Fox and Friends yeah Fox
News did
on Baltimore in certain parts of
Baltimore where they basically just like
found some garbage and decided to film
it and say that that was Baltimore and
the reason but I think was getting lost
in all this today now day three of this
 thing on Monday is like the
reason that they're all criticized in
Baltimore and Cummings is because he
dared to speak out about the
detention facilities in the in the
treatment of children on the border yeah
you know he's upset that children are
being forced to sit in their own filth
for days on end something that should
outrage all of us and so he brings that
up something that Donald Trump has
direct control over and Donald Trump's
like oh yeah well your city
sucks in his poor I saw it on TV that's
where this caver so yeah all these
conservatives now once again you always
say love it the intellectual Zamboni's
are coming by like well you know Bill
Baltimore has a lot of poverty and crime
and so do a lot of American inner cities
and and Democrats have been in charge of
them and this has been the case for
years and now we're not supposed to
bring that up without being racist it's
like no no no that's not how the whole
 thing started yeah and you could
you know look you also go back to well
actually you can do the well actually as
well actually many of the Republicans
that he's been praising this week come
from districts with higher unemployment
rate and higher crime rates and also by
the way Kentucky has a higher
unemployment rate than the district that
Elijah represents but nobody's
direct said at Mitch McConnell but of
course that's beside the point when he
you know many as many have noted he when
he wants to call a place infested it's
because it is filled with people of
color when he says no human being would
live there it's because the place where
black people live yeah there's an
obvious racial element to this and it is
so exhausting and so frustrating every
time he does something like this that
we're forced to examine the words alone
in abstraction like it's the Rosetta
saimin the words alone like an
abstraction like it's the Rosetta Stone
it's the first time he's uh turd a
racist statement and like not like
there's a clear pattern of him making
these kinds of statements of targeting
black communities I mean it's a fact
that he's a racist right it's been
established he's 73 he lives in
Washington he's a racist that's Donald
Trump let's stop debating that piece of
it and just call it out every time we
see it I mean does anyone also want to
spend a few seconds on what's wrong with
the president blaming a congressman for
the crime and poverty in a city that he
partly represents yeah I mean it's
clearly like it's not the role that
Congress please not the mayor of this
city
yeah hopefully he understands how this
the government works also this is I mean
this is important because it goes to a
broader issue of Trump running for
reelection you know someone found a clip
today of Trump in 2015 saying Baltimore
is a mess and if I'm president I'll fix
it you know which is what he said about
literally the whole country so now
Donald Trump's been president for four
years last week two weeks ago I think we
had a report that the Trump
administration is cutting three million
Americans off their food stamps they've
been trying to take people's health care
way for four years they've cut housing
aid by double digits in their budget
they've cut transportation
funding there's no infrastructure bill
all the federal government has enormous
power to help American cities to help
poverty to help crime Donald Trump has
done nothing his economic agenda is
passing tax cuts for rich people and
hoping that you know everything else is
great you know more than that by the way
hurting urban areas and other high tax
tax areas across the country by tilting
you know by making decisions that
rewarded Republican areas of the country
through this tax bill so it's more than
just it's more than just neglect
well let's it's purposeful harm well
let's point out Republican areas this
country
used to be Republican areas of this
country wealthy people living and
there's plenty of rural white areas
Republican areas of this country that
aren't doing so well under Trump yeah of
course I'm done with the tax cut I think
you guys are being unfair he does employ
Jared Kushner who owns I believe 9,000
rental units in Baltimore that have been
singled out for having pretty awful
conditions at times so he's he's
employing someone who's directly part of
the problem but if you go back remember
during
