welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor from
Iowa
Tommy Vitor hey guys loving the
Instagram stories Tommy thank you I'm
trying out a new medium at Tommy Vietor
I wanna ID you know little vignettes
from the State Fair a little slice of
Americana that you just can't get in LA
with you uh you know elite there you go
there you go
all right later in the pod we have
Lovitz interview with Florida
congresswoman Debbie mu ker SEL Powell
who dropped by cricket headquarters on
Friday to talk about impeachment
immigration and lots of other things but
first we have a lot of news to talk
about from the possibility that Congress
may finally pass gun safety legislation
to the formal impeachment inquiry
launched by the house to the mysterious
death of Jeffrey Epstein will also get
an update from the 20/20 campaign trail
and about what's sorry we'll also get an
update from the 20/20 campaign trail and
on what's been happening in Iowa where
Tommy is right now love it how it was
love or leave it this weekend we had a
blockbuster episode of love it or leave
it with Larry Wilmore Paul Scheer
alice wetterlund Veronica sorry oh she
stopped by to do a rant we talked about
the hard news of the week we had some
fun it is a truly great episode also
Paul Scheer worked at the say us at
Blockbuster that I also went to when I
was a teen Wow burying the lead there
that's what I called it a blockbuster
episode oh you see you did there finally
our show at the Greek Theatre in Los
Angeles is this Saturday August 17th
it's finally almost here some tickets
are still available at crooked comm
slash the Greek and if you need any
extra motivation it's gonna be love its
birthday finally love it's the
celebration I deserve this is why we did
it the Greek happy 40th birthday love it
yeah listen four zero people can see
this on the stream they know that that's
not plausible
42 okay let's get to the news over the
last few days Donald Trump has said
multiple times that he's in favor of
quote meaningful background checks to
reduce gun violence and he also said
that Mitch McConnell was quote on board
the New York Times reports that the
president also told donors in the
Hamptons over the weekend that he's
confident he'll get a deal on guns and
that quote the Senate doesn't need to
return early because the
the leadership in both parties would
agree on something that members could
vote on when they return in the fall so
Tommy we have no idea what will happen
here but we do know a few things
McConnell hasn't endorsed anything yet
Trump is a liar and tried Trump said
something similar to this after parkland
and then sort of backed off once the NRA
got involved all that said what are the
political dynamics that could
potentially make this time different I
do think that the NRA is severely
weakened because it was essentially an
organization that stopped caring about
gun rights and gun safety and was
primarily focused on getting Wayne
LaPierre to and from his new mansions on
a private jet so those guys have
atrophied there have been some amazing
groups that have popped up on the left
like moms demand action
Mayor Bloomberg deserves a ton of credit
for everything he's funded with every
town that have built a grassroots
movement for change in in favor of gun
control measures now I don't believe for
a second that Republicans will support
the policies we're talking about because
Mitch McConnell or Trump or the NRA had
a change of heart I think they're only
going to decide to support gun control
measures if they think that there's a
political benefit for them or if they're
scared of losing elections what I fear
might happen is McConnell supporting
some sort of half measure that sounds
meaningful but actually is insufficient
Democrats block it to push for a bigger
reform and this allows the press to
return to a both sides are playing
politics narrative the reason I'm
worried about this is because you see
people like John Cornyn and John
Barrasso who you've probably never
thought about in your life but is
actually the number three in charge in
the Senate already throwing cold water
on reforms so hope springs eternal we
should all fight like hell to get good
gun safety laws passed but you know
Trump owes the NRA about thirty million
dollars for all the ads they ran for him
in this last cycle and they're gonna
remind him of that every single day yeah
I mean Lovett McConnell said that
background checks and red flag measures
will be front and center when the Senate
reconvenes piece in the Atlantic saying
how you know it was significant that he
acknowledged the overwhelming support in
public polling for stronger background
checks what do you think McConnell's up
to here since it's always more than
meets the eye
it's it's hard to say so it's worth
stepping back and realizing the last
time we were this close to passing
something was 2013 mm-hmm
when background checks failed due to a
filibuster in the Senate due to
Republican intransigence led by Mitch
McConnell the issue had largely been the
issue certainly it's again the issue was
largely dead for the years that followed
because Republicans controlled both
chambers of Congress it wasn't until
Democrats retook the house in 2018 that
there were again hearings and potential
that that there was again hearings on
this issue in the house for the first
time in years the issue has changed in
that span of time it has been six years
in those six years there has been no
let-up in gun violence there has been no
let-up in mass shootings and slowly but
surely the politics of this issue has
changed now whether when Congress comes
back McConnell does what he says he's
willing to do or if he was simply using
the August recess as an opportunity to
claim to be open to something while not
committing to it to simply get over the
hump of this issue for fear of
introducing a measure that divides his
caucus and unites the Democrats we just
honestly don't know one other thing I
would note about this is Trump has been
very very wishy-washy on this issue he
has a gut political sense that being for
gun control is good for him he wants to
be for it it is why again and again not
just after this shooting but also after
Parkland as John points out but several
times in the intervening years he has
said I don't see why we can't do some
form of gun control only to discover in
a private phone call or meeting behind
the scenes why he can't because of the
political opposition arrayed against
Republicans who might be for this issue
so I really think we don't know but
these are more hopeful signs than we
have seen in years
yeah I think if if these were smart
people if Donald if it was a smart White
House you would want to pursue some kind
of gun safety legislation because you
know one thing in the back of some of
these smarter Republican strategist
Minds is that they are hemorrhaging
voters Republican voters in the suburbs
that was the story of the 22 18 election
and we're because of these mass
shootings and not just one of them but
because they happen over and over and
over again there's a lot of people there
who are you know that the politics of
gun control have shifted and there's a
lot of more moderate more traditionally
Republican independent voters who do
want to see gun safety legislation
passed I mean Tommy remember when we
were knocking on doors with Joe Biden in
Orange County the heavily Republican
Orange County like how many people when
we knocked on the doors were actually
talking about parkland and gun safety is
one of the reasons that they were really
excited to come out and vote yeah I mean
listen I these there are 40,000 gun
deaths let me start again yeah there
were nearly 40,000 gun deaths in the
United States and 2017 60% of those were
suicides according to the CDC but that's
all right sorry according to the
according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention but yeah I mean
it's not just that there is an epidemic
of gun violence in this country it's
been these constant high profile mass
shootings that have driven it to the
forefront of the political conversation
and in the news and like you know back
to what you guys were saying about Trump
I mean it would be incredibly smart for
him to make a deal and put forward a you
know common-sense gun safety proposal
that would actually if you pulled it
would probably be supported by 60 or 70
percent of the country the problem has
been that when he's presented a choice
between being a deal maker which he says
he wants to be and his base he always
chooses his base and then on top of that
the NRA has a no retreat no surrender
approach to all gun control policy they
treat every gun control proposal like
it's a slippery slope argument that
could one day lead to eradicating the
Second Amendment so you know even when
it we were talking about just banning
bump stocks which turned a
semi-automatic weapon into a machine gun
that took 19 months for that ban to go
in place so you know he's got to want to
fight for this and sadly like his own
staff was back rounding the Washington
Post saying that you know he kind of
lost interest in issues after a few
weeks I was just gonna say I think like
there's a couple of big obstacles here
to getting this done
you know the NRA is still an obstacle
they've already come out and said that
they don't want
crunch checks they don't want anything
and that you know Trump supporters would
be disappointed if he supported this so
that's that's an obstacle as you
mentioned there's a lot of Republicans
in the Senate who have not been moved by
this by the the recent mass shootings at
all and are still maintaining their same
position which is no gun control
whatsoever no background chance to know
nothing but I do think the other big
obstacle here is time and as you were
saying Tommy like he lost Trump lost
interest after Parkland because the new
cycle moved on and I think what
McConnell could be betting is that by
not calling the Congress back right now
and waiting til the fall
Trump will have lost interest and maybe
the country will have lost interest and
they can move on so I think for
Democrats or Democrats the question is
what can we do to make sure that this
time isn't like all the other times and
I think you know there's supporting
organizations like every town on moms
demand action and continuing to build
the grassroots momentum behind this and
to continue to pressure vulnerable
Republican senators and potentially more
moderate Republican senators again the
ones that are up in 2020 like Cory
Gardner is probably the most vulnerable
Republican senator he's in a state that
has very strict gun laws in Colorado
susan collins people like that Tom
Tillis and North Carolina right like I
think we have it's up to us to keep the
pressure on Trump and Republicans
through the next few weeks into
September so that we're not sitting here
in mid-september when McConnell and
McConnell says you know what we had a
couple hours debate on on gun safety
measures and the votes just weren't
there so we're moving on and because you
know there's a whole nother set of
 crazy Trump tweets we turn away
and that's that yeah it's also I mean
there will be more mass shootings this
topics not going anywhere the new cycle
will return to this because there will
be more mass shootings across the
country on a pretty regular basis until
we make a bunch of very significant
changes to our laws and our culture so
they can try to run from this issue I
mean it's worth also remembering too
that what we're talking about background
checks and red flag laws right that's
basically as far as Trump and McConnell
had been willing to go is the bare
minimum of what we can do even even
banning assault weapons
now has a above 50% approval among
Republicans like the country has moved
so fast on this issue because of the
steady the steady tempo of these mass
shootings that have made people feel as
though there is nothing they can do to
protect their kids that there's no safe
place there's no safe part of the
country there's nowhere to move there's
nowhere to hide there's nothing that
they can do personally to avoid the
random chance of violence that has
really terrified people so whether or
not they are able to move the you know
the knew whether or not was it again so
whether or not the news cycle moves on
really isn't up to them because we have
this crisis and it's not going anywhere
tell me do you think that Democrats
should be pushing for more than red flag
laws and background checks and and
potentially come back and try to pass an
assault weapons ban in the house so then
the compromise position can be
background checks and red flag laws yes
I absolutely do I think they should push
for as much as they can get in part
because it's the right thing to do but
also because as love it said there's a
whole lot of public polling that shows
that the public supports those positions
the the challenge has always been for
Democrats that when you get to election
time and the NRA messages you know sort
of common-sense gun control measures as
take your guns away gun grab like
whatever it is they say it gets harder
to win the fight and and and they're
able to pick off a whole bunch of you
know sort of moderate gun rights
supporters in the middle who might
actually support the positions if they
weren't lied to about what they were
voting on but yes I think we should
fight for this the problem is you know
we're talking about two or three things
today
one is impeachment one is gun control in
a strange way they're related because
Democrats are still terrified and
scarred by votes on those issues from
the 90s and we need to move on from
political failures of the past and have
some courage in fight for things that
could prevent the death of tens of
thousands of people a year in the
country yeah and look I think that the
Democrats in Congress should you know
find some courage from what the
Democratic presidential candidates have
been doing you know they were at a forum
in Des Moines this weekend Elizabeth
Warren released a plan that she said
would reduce gun violence by 80 percent
that includes background checks an
assault weapons ban and national
licensing beto came out for national
licensing in an assault
weapons buyback program on pots of
America last week Cory Booker's been you
know he was the first one for a national
licensing program from the beginning it
does seem like the Democratic
presidential candidates taking those
political positions should instill some
courage in the House and Senate
Democrats on this issue you know yeah
it's also worth remembering that the
house has already passed background
checks and it's definitely dead in the
Senate which is also yet which is
notable I mean that the House bill on
background checks is the most sweeping
legislation pass on guns by the House of
Representatives since 1994 since the
last assault weapons ban so it's it's a
stronger background check build and even
manchin-toomey yeah you know I wasn't at
that I wasn't at that forum on Saturday
I got here a day later but I mean you
know I watched some of the coverage me
was interesting that that Senator Warren
put forward this sweeping plan that she
says could reduce gun deaths by 80% and
that's incredibly important and
admirable and we should talk about it
who's also interesting seeing Andrew
yang get up there and just respond to a
woman telling him a story but a stray
bullet killing her four-year-old kid as
a human being right I mean he's the most
recent politician on that stage he's not
even politician he's just running for
president and he was like broke down and
was crying so yeah I mean these these
candidates are taking courageous
positions they're they're you know
pushing with with all their political
will to try to get something done and
also interestingly in 2016
Bernie took some heat for his record on
guns I haven't seen much criticism of
him this time around it seems like
everybody's more aligned this year than
in the past yeah and I think I think
that's a credit to the activists right
the reason the presidential candidates I
think are more responsive is that the
act that you know they're they're more
in contact with activists on the ground
whether it's in Iowa New Hampshire in
the early states are all over the
country who were really pushing them you
see moms demand action show up at almost
every event in the primary and they're
there making sure that this is an issue
people vote on because you know one
problem with gun safety has always been
the folks that are anti gun control the
NRA folks they make it ish they make
this an issue that the people vote on
and even though majorities I'm sorry
even though polling shows the majority
of people want background checks and
it's all open spaying all the other
stuff it doesn't it's the intensity
around the issue hasn't been as great as
it has been on
other side and I think what shifted over
the last couple years is the intensity
on the left has started matching the
intensity on the right and in many cases
surpassing it alright let's talk about
the other big development in Congress
late last week House Judiciary Chairman
Jerry Nadler slipped this little nugget
of news into a CNN interview about his
investigation of the president quote
this is formal impeachment proceedings
we are investigating all the evidence we
gathered the evidence and we will at the
conclusion of this hopefully by the end
of the year vote articles of impeachment
to the floor or we won't the committee
also put in writing in a lawsuit last
week that they are quote now determining
whether to recommend articles of
impeachment against the president based
on the obstructive conduct described by
the special counsel about 120 House
Democrats have already come out publicly
in favor of launching an impeachment
inquiry a number that's been growing
steadily since Mahler testified last
month Tommy did we miss the impeachment
Eagle take flight what's going on here
no look this was the rollout that we've
always hoped for people always wanted
you got it you got to get it in in the B
Block on Erin Burnett is out front or
whatever the hell the name of the show
is that is when you want to want to flip
this thing in there like mid-august a
Thursday night that's when you announce
an impeachment proceeding I mean love it
what does this mean and how is it how is
it different than what we've been in up
until now would impeachment by any other
name smell as sweet
[Laughter]
you know look I do I do think that
though that the worst way we could end
up in is it I do believe the worst way
we could end up in an impeachment
inquiry is via logic you know as via the
logical conclusion of what we've already
done I understand why he's saying it you
know the truth is what he what what he's
saying is look when I made the request
for the from the grand jury testimony I
had to say that basically what we are
doing is impeachment so we're doing
impeachment when we're looking at crimes
that may lead to an impeachment inquiry
that is in a peach way he's basically
he's basically using the term
impeachment proceedings to describe what
he's already been up to I mean I think
definitionally what he's saying is
nothing has changed I'm just
I'm just following what you're asking me
to it's logical and that said I do think
it's a big deal that they're
acknowledging it and actually talking
specifically about the path to
ultimately impeachment possibly being on
the floor I think it's also it's a
strategy to paper over the differences
that remain in the caucus right Jerry
Nadler you've been able to we've been
all been able to tell for a quite a
while now is in favor of impeachment and
he has been holding back partly because
of Pelosi and Pelosi has been holding
back partly because of there's a lot of
the House Democrats who don't want to do
this in in a lot of swing districts the
thing everyone should know is Pelosi
specifically blessed this language it
was not an accident that Jerry Nadler
said yeah we're in formal impeachment
hearings now and then people have been
parroting that maybe they did not expect
to actually just do it on a Friday
afternoon at CNN but Pelosi has blessed
the language Nadler has said it and I
think what they're trying to do here is
you know it what they've done is
basically sorry let me try this again
here's the strategy at a formal
impeachment inquiry through the House
Judiciary Committee does not require a
full vote in the house and so members
who are nervous of getting on board
right now did not have to take a vote at
the same time they can show people that
they're taking this seriously and
they're actually moving forward and
they're not dragging their feet on an
impeachment so they're trying to
basically have it both ways and continue
to avoid the fight within the party
where there's a whole bunch of House
Democrats who were still sort of shaky
about this yeah it's interesting right
so what is the purpose of that and I
suppose what it gives you the space to
do is provide more information kind of
more more what's the word there's more
more supporting more supporting facts
and arguments so that if we ultimately
do have a vote on the House floor
it's one big vote that everyone is sort
of behind while knots not hamstringing
their ability to kind of get to that
place because they would require the
votes of all these vulnerable members
who aren't there yet right tell me what
good Pelosi is sincerely worried and has
told reporters this her team has on
background that impeachment
tear the party apart it could lead to
our political ruin and would just be
terrible so it does seem like Nadler has
done a lot of work to get her to where
we are my concern is that having it both
ways could lead to us not really
understanding what impeachment means in
2019 I saw a quote from Hillary Clinton
who said you know her advice on
impeachment was restrain yourself from
grandstanding and holdin news
conferences and playing to your base I
just think that's the worst advice yeah
our whole goal here is to win a public
argument about the president united
states and his unfitness for office we
are not going to actually win an
impeachment vote in the Senate unless
something changes massively this is a PR
campaign so you got to be holding news
conferences you have to be fighting this
out on cable TV and in the news in every
single day going up against a series of
Trump tweets that will call it rigged in
a witch-hunt and getting his cult to
follow him and in parrot that language
so you know I just hope that if we go
through with this the worst of both
worlds is like a sort of half-hearted
attempt that that either fizzles or
doesn't you know educate voters on his
crimes right if you're if you're afraid
too if you're afraid to actually
full-throated lycée we're doing
impeachment you've defeated yourself
before you've even began right it can't
be a long Twilight impeachment yeah no I
mean your time you're exactly right like
that the reason to do this is to grab
the microphone away from Donald Trump
and to make the public case against him
that is the reason to do impeachment
because as we know the Senate's not
going to convict him and you know as
you've said many times like this is not
about just feeling good that we've done
the morally right thing here I mean from
a political strategy standpoint the idea
is to parade a bunch of witnesses in
front of live television and talk about
all of Donald Trump's crimes now there
is some evidence that that is what Jerry
Nadler has in mind in for one he's not
just sticking to the Muller report he's
gonna go broad he's going to talk about
emoluments he's going to talk about a
whole bunch of other abuses of power
they're gonna go to court to make sure
that Don McGann testifies the
president's former counsel they believe
that Don McGann is their star witness he
was
our star witness we heard from people
you know close to Muller even before
Muller testified you know Muller is
gonna disappoint you people because he's
not gonna go beyond the report he's not
the one you want the one you want is
done began since Don McGee was there and
the star witness for a lot of the actual
obstruction so it does seem like you
know Nadler is it knows what he's doing
here but the only way this works is it
sorry the only way this works is if
Democrats stop whining about impeachment
and worrying about impeachment the
Democrats who may be opposed to it and
the party as a whole makes the case for
impeachment you gotta start talking
about less about the process of
impeachment and more about why he
deserves it yeah it just it can't it
can't just be that you know like I'm
gonna use a sports metaphor but in my
mind I'm picturing like Jerry Nadler
with a football kind of like making his
way down the field right like he needs
her he can't be he can't like he can't
be having to avoid democratic football
players and Republican football player
players I don't know you need blockers
on his team we need a team you know the
Flying V we need a fly on V that's
exactly right Tommy got it
okay so what can people do to hold you
get it to the end zones what can people
do to hold Democrats feet to the fire
here because you know for a while we've
had this sort of impeachment count who's
forward who's against but if I'm a
member who is either against impeachment
or not quite there yet and someone asked
me you know what's your position now I
say well there's a formal impeachment
inquiry being launched by the House
Judiciary Committee so I'm just gonna
wait
I guess the danger is all these
Democrats can just sort of wait this out
and hope that we get to the election and
and nothing happens so what can people
do to sort of hold people's feet to the
fire here I would bet you a lot of money
that nearly every house a nearly every
front desk person in Congress is sending
a report up to the chief of staff every
night about the number of phone calls to
come in in favor of impeachment or not
in favor of the Pietschmann
so now would be a good time to dust off
that phone and start making some calls
that's right that's right all right
let's move on to the news over the
weekend that Jeffrey Epstein was found
dead in his jail cell from what
officials are saying is an apparent
suicide by hanging
Epstein was found dead as he was
awaiting trial for running a sex child
sorry for running a child sex
trafficking ring and shortly after
thousands of documents from civil suit
against him were released on Friday
almost immediately a number of questions
and online conspiracies were spread
about the circumstances of Epstein's
death by people like the President of
the United States who shared a
conspiracy that his predecessor bill
clinton had Epstein murdered guys first
of all what do we know about this so I'm
gonna try the skin guys first of all
what do we know about how this happened
or how this could have happened let's
start with the facts and then we can
move on to the awful people pushing the
conspiracy yeah here's what we know we
know that this was a very important what
sorry here's what we know we know that
this is a person who should not have
been in a position to commit suicide
that this is a person who should have
been watched and monitored because the
case was so important and because there
were already there was already so much
speculation and concern around it and
had been on suicide watch at one point
now after that look it wasn't just by
the way it wasn't just Trump the
internet exploded it was like every
every person was hercule poirot Varro
who's that we know who it is
it's para Agatha Christie's famed
detective okay continue didn't get into
the agony but no but ever but it was it
really was just when I saw the news come
over the transom that this happened it
was really it was like how it was it was
realizing it was seeing a future of 48
hours of every single person being a
conspiracy theorist that's exactly what
happened
Trump is the is the nation's leading
conspiracy theorist but very serious
people joined in the fun to tell me what
did you think yeah I mean everyone who
worked at that facility should be fired
and and I know that treating criminals
with basic decency is in the most
politically popular position but I do
think we should ask ourselves how it is
possible that the US government manages
institutions where American citizens are
routinely beaten
raped killed tortured I mean it is such
a profound failure and utter indictment
of the prison system our criminal
justice system that I hope I hope hope
that will lead us to do some
soul-searching because there's a whole
bunch of victims who are hoping for
justice who wanted to see him tried and
sent to jail there may be other people
who are part of this criminal conspiracy
that I've seen set up who you know we
would have needed his testimony to you
know definitively try and put behind
bars I mean I just I cannot believe it
happened and you know what like
obviously I'm not trafficking conspiracy
theories I'm not retweeting this madness
but I can totally understand why people
hear about someone like Jeffrey Epstein
being left alone with no one in this
room no roommate no guard checks on it
and he's able to kill himself and it
sounds fishy and weird and awful and it
is absolutely infuriating
yeah and part of the reasons that sorry
part of the reason that we have all
these conspiracies is Jeffrey Epstein
was a guy who was connected to a lot of
very rich and powerful people who from
the reporting and the evidence we know
so far seem to get away with really
horrible crimes partly because of his
position of power and wealth and I think
that's what fuels a lot of these
conspiracies but yeah you're right I
mean Attorney General Bill Bar this
morning said there were serious
irregularities in the prison where
Epstein was that he's in looking into so
there's gonna be an FBI investigation
there's going to be an inspector general
investigation on behalf of the
Department of Justice but it's like bill
bar being appalled that this could have
happened like it goes bill bars the one
in charge of the prisons you manage the
Bureau of Prisons buddy right that's his
that's his failure and I was like he
tried to kill himself previously how are
you not watching this guy 24 hours a day
it is outrageous and it does seem like a
quite a coincidence that we just learned
a whole bunch of information about
Donald Trump and a whole bunch of other
important people being on the plane with
him again like I'm not suggesting anyone
killed him or this was set up like it's
unconscionable that they would allow
this to happen and thus this will Fester
for the rest of time so the question is
what can still be done right now to make
sure that the
Timms see justice and also that the rest
of us know exactly who helped Jeffrey
Epstein the extent of his crimes all the
rest yeah so I will say one other facet
of this that was frustrating when the
you know the when the sleuths put on
their their their Detective hats is
there was this sense that like oh they
that that clearly Jeffrey Epstein was
murdered and he was murdered so that he
could take his secrets with him and and
you know there's a there there is much
that Jeffrey Epstein may have known that
we'll never know but his crimes had
victims those victims can speak his
crimes had accomplices and other
perpetrators and other people involved
so I hope that there is you know so it
seems so there will be further
investigations there are ongoing civil
cases there are others who may be
prosecuted in connection to what
happened with Jeffrey Epstein so the
hope to me has to be that despite the
fact that this injustice was allowed to
occur that we were able to get a fulsome
understanding of the of the scale of his
organization and that that prosecutors
and attorneys that are part of these
suits against Jeffrey Epstein's estate
now are able to get enough information
out so that it does not so that for
those who are for those who are
suspicious for those who want to see
this as a conspiracy that enough is done
to undo the good the to undo the harm of
allowing Jeffrey Epstein to be in a
position to die in federal custody yeah
so there's there's two important points
here one is the US attorney in charge
alluded to or said specifically that
there's a conspiracy charge involved in
the Epstein case conspiracy means there
was multiple people involved in the
crime and so hopefully there's
co-conspirators and they can shed light
on this as well and there's also the
ability for the victims to sue Jeffrey s
team Epstein's estate and that's the
more that's a civil case but that would
also bring to light a lot of the
information that might be sealed right
now so there's sort of a couple
different avenues where people can still
find out the truth and hopefully get
some kind of justice here one more thing
before we move off off this like how
does Donald Trump president
estates
get away with like we've all moved on
from the fact that he just casually
retweets a conspiracy that that Bill
Clinton and Hillary Clinton may have had
something to do with Epstein's death I
mean that it's it's worth from any other
present could you imagine but that's if
I can imagine any other president that's
what you go to though you go to if any
other president did that Wow it would be
serious it is because we don't have a
president no one takes his words
seriously because he's a liar and
because he's a conspiracy theorist
because he has so fundamentally damaged
his own reputation and word that when he
does something like this it does not
rise to the level of what would happen
if literally any other American
president or even top American official
American Governor American senator
honestly the same I think that's letting
him off the hook a little bit because it
you say no one truly believes that his
words doesn't mean anything it does to
like 40% of the country I mean like what
when he does that he is continuing to
fuel the conspiracy theories that keep
him as president I mean there is before
Jeffrey Epstein a conspiracy theory
called
Q and on that suggests that the Muller
investigation was a covert campaign to
root out an elite child sex trafficking
ring and that JFK jr. is still alive and
he's going to reveal that he's been
alive all along so that he can take
Pence's place on the 20/20 ticket and
like it's the craziest thing I've ever
heard in my life but there are multiple
deaths and murders associated with the q
and on conspiracy theory and for Donald
Trump to retweet a video that suggests
Bill Clinton or Hillary Clinton have a
body count and and just had this Epstein
guy murdered as a way to cover up their
crimes and cover up for sex offenders
he's putting their lives at risk
yes and it's like it's there are some
crazy people out there who will take
action in circumstances like this and it
is actually you know I do think we
should pause and reflect on how just
unbelievably dangerous that the
president and his words and his actions
between that is a threat to national
security we just had we just saw a
terrorist attack in El Paso by a
terrorist a white nationalist terrorist
who used in his manifesto the same
language as Donald Trump and that
happened to be targeting the Latino
community and immigrants but the
president also ins when we
when something bad happens and everyone
goes back and says oh it's not Donald
Trump's fault how can you how can you
tie this to Donald Trump retweets like
that or why it's Donald Trump's fault
that is the exact that has the
potential to incite violence and this is
again though it's this is what he has
been doing this is not to me a new low
for him he accused Ted Cruz's father of
killing JFK he is the lead birther
conspiracy theorist he has been part of
the conspiracy theory around vaccines
which has killed children in this
country he has been saying for years now
with no evidence that millions of
undocumented immigrants voted in
California which is why he lost the
popular vote there is no kind of
conspiracy theory there is no there is
no story he's not willing to tell if he
if it if he views it as something that
will help him politically no matter how
destructive a me I'm I am doing a little
soul-searching about buying a Ted Cruz
is the Zodiac killer t-shirt maybe maybe
we all shouldn't have laughed at all the
crazy Trump was saying about Ted
Cruz back in the day because it is uh
real bad not going there with you Tommy
no the reason you can feel good about
that is because Ted Cruz likes to tweet
about that himself and so he's in on the
joke too yeah and he did it there was a
clear joke who did it
Amy I mean here's the thing one more
point in this a man who in court last
week said he was directly inspired by
Donald Trump's rhetoric sent a pipe bomb
to Bill and Hillary Clinton and to have
that that that just happened in October
of 2018 and Donald Trump retweeted that
yesterday what he tweeted about a
Clinton body count after after Bill and
Hillary Clinton were sent a pipe
bomb q and on thing is just shockingly
close and similar to the Jeffrey Epstein
think so it makes the whole conversation
just really weird and unnerving but you
know the FBI recently identified the q
and on conspiracy theory as a domestic
terrorist threat so these little online
communities in conspiracy theories that
have been cooked up and that are
festering in places like 4chan or hn
have become dangerous and people are
taking action in real life based on all
the crazy stuff they read online
it's also worth it's also worth noting
too that Trump is not just fan a
conspiracy theory it's a conspiracy
theory about a story in which he has a
connection and so it is it is someone
who is
using a deeper broader conspiracy theory
Fanning the flames of it online so that
his connection to the story seems as
part of this muddled hard to parse
information that's his rubber glue
strategy yeah no he's been doing that
since 2016 yeah it's not me that's the
problem you're the problem you did the
thing that people with no pilot no
puppet yeah all right let's talk about
the 2020 primary but just one thing one
that one also one thing we should just
say too is that a lot of this was
covered and a lot of this story became
public because of reporting by Julie K
Brown in the Miami Herald that I think
brought a lot of this to the national
attention in a way it otherwise wouldn't
have and so a lot of what will help us
understand what happened in the story
will not just be because of the justice
system but will because of will be
because of reporting that's all all
right let's talk about the 2020 primary
the Washington Post was just one of many
media outlets that published a piece
over the weekend about how Joe Biden's
recent string of verbal gaffes are
making Democrats nervous Matt Weiser who
wrote the story gave us a list quote on
Saturday Biden said he met with parkland
students while he was vice president
even though the Florida shooting took
place a year after he left office in his
speech Thursday at the State Fair Biden
bungled the line and said quote we
choose truth over facts he initially
referred to former British prime
minister Theresa May as one of her
predecessors Margaret Thatcher and
speaking before a Latino and Asian group
he argued for challenging students in
underserved areas but said quote poor
kids are just as bright and just as
talented as white kids he cut himself
and quickly added wealthy kids black
kids Asian kids no I really mean it but
think about how we think about it Tommy
how much should these gaffes matter is
this narrative warranted or is it
overblown I mean Biden as gaffe machine
is not a new narrative right I mean we
dealt with this on the Obama campaign
many of his previous presidential
campaigns have been either upended or
ended by Biden gaffe so I was not
surprised by it
it was odd to see all of the national
media tip sheets sort of shove the
narrative down our throats in one place
like a global assignment editor on the
same day and what I would worry me about
that from from if I were on Biden the
team is I haven't been in Iowa long but
I talked to a lot of people yesterday at
the fair
clearly a bunch of people who work on
campaigns and one thing that they're
even telling me is that the national
narrative this time around is more
important than it ever was before you
can have a Iowa caucus-goers who had
some candidate in his or her living room
and it still might matter more to them
what he or she said on natto last night
then that conversation so this could
turn out to be a pretty big problem for
Biden like I hate to be you know just a
pundit and viewing this but it you know
it's a challenge now of course the what
about ISM argument is is quite strong if
you compare Biden's sort of missed
statements or Mis speaking to the things
Donald Trump says or does all day every
day on purpose it's not a question but I
do think everyone is looking for the
most electable Democrat they want
someone who will get up there and win it
won't cause any problems for him or
herself and like Biden has got to
overcome this narrative if he wants to
convince people that he's the guy to
take on Trump love it what's your
opinion on this one I find it
interesting the way everyone has just
put everything that a candidate does
that isn't good into the basket Marc
gaffs because I think it's not really
that helpful is understanding what's
happening right now so it's true Biden
has had you know it is famous for his
gaffes right but you know there's I
would say I'd put these into three
baskets one is just inappropriate
comments and right that that is you know
there was a plagiarism allegation years
ago there have been some insensitive
jokes and remarks and sentences things
he's had to apologize before in the past
that's sort of part of Biden's
trajectory some of the things that
people are pointing out here are just
kind of misplaced words right we need we
need truth not facts right these are
these are that's a very minor mistake
that I don't care about spending anyone
know and and by the way honestly also
him having a brief moment of thinking
that he was vice president when he
talked to the survivors of a particular
mass shooting I don't find particularly
instructive because we live in a
murder scape in which he has met with
many many survivors of mass shootings
over the years so I don't find that
particularly interesting and I don't
care about it
I do think what we're all dancing around
Donald Trump is now saying Joe Biden's
not the old Joe Biden and Joe Biden's
not playing with a full deck that is
what this conversation is
about there's this question not of oh is
the is the old is the old Joe Biden
gaffe machine is it gonna be a problem
in in 2020 the question people are
really asking is has Joe Biden slowed
down a bit and is that producing a
greater preponderance of gaffes and that
is to me a simple question he has to
prove or disprove on the campaign trail
yeah and I think I think what's unfair
about that to Biden is you know he gave
a speech in Iowa last Wednesday about
you know in the wake of El Paso and
Dayton and you know most most pundits
most people who watch the speech said it
was maybe the strongest speech Joe Biden
has ever given and he was very forceful
and he definitely looked like a
candidate who can take on Donald Trump
the problem for him is you know the
coverage around that lasts a day if that
it gets mentioned in with Cory Booker
speech and a bunch of other candidates
and the gaffes end up getting outsize
coverage and I get it from the Biden
campaign's perspective you know Tommy
you mentioned this but the Washington
Post just this morning said that Trump
has averaged 13 false or misleading
statements per day since being president
he's also a white nationalist and a
criminal so you know it the comparison
the comparison isn't very favorable to
Donald Trump when you compare him and
Biden but we are in a primary right yeah
yeah and the tough part for Biden is
there's a little bit of live by
electability die by electability right
so saying that his gaffes will hurt him
with voters basically you know you're
not saying a lot of these gaffes
actually offend you or that he meant
them or he was bad or some like that
what you're thinking is oh well if he's
not up to the task
maybe when he runs against Trump other
people might not vote for him because
they're worried that he's that he's not
as you know sharp as he used to be it's
almost a flipside of saying oh people
will vote for him because moderate white
guys in the Midwest like him I mean this
is particularly acute in the moment
because everyone is concerned about
electability it's the first second third
issue on people's minds these media
narratives get constructed and during
the course of a campaign and they almost
always have nothing to do with the job
of being president I mean it was seen as
a hit on Obama that he was aloof and
professorial because
how that has a downside that none of us
understood I mean it was stupid then
Abidin miss speaking is not necessarily
relevant unless you're trying to suggest
that he's in some kind of cognitive
decline and then that would actually be
relevant but I don't hear people making
that assertion so yeah it's something
Biden needs to fight his way through
this narrative he needs to prove to
people that he sharp and he's tough and
he can kick ass at a debate and I think
like he can put this thing to bed if he
just you know performs really well it at
the third debate or the fourth or you
know whatever the next opportunity is
yeah I think that's right
the speech he gave by the way it was
great it was a great speech and it was
to me the first moment in the Biden
campaign for presidency in 2020 where I
saw an affirmative case for Joe Biden
that wasn't just about electability he
made an argument it was passionate it
was it was just an excellent speech that
I think spoke to the moment really
really well so it's like it's this uh
it's a it's it's not hard what he has to
do to dispel this this narrative he has
to campaign campaign aggressively and
show people that is and he has
to be at the level he was on during that
speech all the time you know like almost
all the time
and it's look it's harder for him but
this is what happens when a narrative
takes hold about you and then different
candidates have different problems that
they're grappling with each of them has
looked you know a different issue but
this is Biden's really and and like you
said ty' may think that the danger to
Biden is the Trump hit right which is
not oh he is you know Uncle Joe and
sometimes he says things that are you
know he's verbal gasps it's more oh you
know he's not fully there or he's not as
sharp as he used to be that's that's the
danger to him and look I I really do
believe and this isn't just an
electability thing I think whoever our
nominee is has to be incredibly nimble
to run against Donald Trump you have to
be nimble as a candidate you have to
have a campaign that gets what the media
is like in 2019 and how information
works and media information sorry you
have to get the media environment in
2019 you have to be quick on your feet
and and I'm not saying that's even an
age thing either because you know Bernie
Sanders is pretty quick on his feet when
he and Elizabeth Warren is is very quick
on her feet she's not as as
old as those two guys but well it's hard
to be as old as those two guys right
well you better say like she hurt she
and her campaign probably understand how
the media works better than almost any
other campaign so it's not just an age
thing but you have to be nimble to go
against Donald Trump you have to be yeah
it's also notable like Donald Trump is
scared of running in Co Biden I mean he
is tweeting about him constantly he is
trying to drive this narrative that Joe
has lost a step that he's in decline
that he is you know fill in whatever
sort of pejorative attack so like I mean
what I would take away from this if I
were just observing the Trump's response
from the Biden campaign is that Trump
doesn't want to run against me and I
would make that part of my message yeah
Tommy how commanding is Biden's
frontrunner status right now and what
does it say that the race is a lot
closer in Iowa and the other early
states than it is nationally when you
look at all this polling um I think that
it's a couple things I mean Biden has a
pretty commanding lead among
african-american voters and in Iowa is I
believe 93 percent white so you wouldn't
see that strength reflected as much here
I also think that Iowa voters are likely
to be pretty well informed watching the
race closely more likely to know that
Elizabeth Warren had a great debate or
Carla Harris had a great debate and to
sort of move around and you know have a
chance to actually see candidates in
person and switch sides and make moves
all that said polling today doesn't
matter it only matters insofar as it's
not just about winning or losing these
states
it's about outperforming expectations
and getting one of three tickets out of
Iowa or whatever early state we're
talking about so I wouldn't sweat it too
much but you know you do need to perform
on caucus day or else the media and
narrative around your campaign is
because and be that you want to
performed that you're flagging you're
not going to raise money and it will be
a problem yeah and I think I think in
terms of national polling and just so
people know the Real Clear Politics
average and the national polling biden
is @ 30.8 Warren's at 18 point 3 and
Sanders is at 16 point five so Biden has
a lead of 12 and 1/2 points in Iowa
biding the 25 point 3 Warren is at 16
point 3 Harris is at 14 point three so
Biden has a nine point lead so it's
definitely it's slight it's about 3 1/2
points lower in Iowa Nash
poling from now almost until the Iowa
caucuses is almost always sort of
garbage it helps with trends so if you
can see where people are moving back and
forth that national polling is usually
helpful there but it's not really an
accurate picture of the race because
what matters at least until the early
vote the early States vote is what's
happening in the early States was
happening in Iowa New Hampshire so the
Iowa polling is really important and
while it is still early right we have a
couple months to go between before
people start voting in Iowa it's getting
it's getting on the later side of early
at this point you know Harriet had a
piece at CNN over the weekend about
Biden standing and he said Jeb Bush in
2016 Rudy Giuliani in 2008 and Joe
Lieberman in 2004 we're all losing at
this point in Iowa and polling at or
less than 15% they had all been the
frontrunners at the time that ended up
losing Biden has led in every CNN
approved
Iowa poll this cycle so basically you
know Harry's conclusion is Biden's
definitely not your traditional really
strong frontrunner like Hillary was but
he's not quite as weak right now at this
time in the race as the Jeb's the Rudi's
the other people and you know at the
beginning of this primary a lot of
people said Oh Biden's gonna be like a
jab or Rudy a Joe Lieberman and just and
just falter and he hasn't yet so he's
he's stuck in this sort of middle place
where he's was not as strong as Hillary
was against Bernie at this point in 2016
but stronger than some of the other
frontrunners who went down it's funny
that you say that is what I was seeing
is like you know he he's not a
front-runner the way Hillary was in 2016
but there's a chance he is a
front-runner the way Hillary was in 2008
there's a there's a I think that you
know the polling has been very stable
and I think surprisingly so I think
there's a lot of people who expected
after Warren or Harris had great debates
that there would be this change but
really what you've seen is kind of bumps
then it kind of goes back to this sort
of stable place that it's been in with
Elizabeth Warren Warren slowly but
surely kind of gaining a few points here
and there and so the question is now
between now and January what's gonna
upend that dynamic so very much a lot of
time for something to do that but the
race has been very stable Tommy yeah it
is not in that super early mode where
you everyone says calm down relax don't
worry about it but I will just I think
I've said this before in the show I
remember sitting in Paul to his office
in
August in our in Iowa listening to a
polling call where I heard we were
losing to Bill Richardson in the Des
Moines media market so you know ya can
turn around tell me any observations
from Iowa about who's who's running a
strong campaign about their let's give
us give us some anecdotes give us some
purely anecdotal evidence yes well I
mean listen they're the thing about the
National narrative I've heard that from
a bunch of people being more important
this time I'm gonna go check out a bunch
of candidates offices and things while
I'm here I mean the conventional wisdom
is that Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker
are building really great organizations
Biden Asur right after them mayor Pete
as well but I gotta go see if myself
before I know it is interesting that
that Kamala Harris you know it seemed
like she was floating with may be
skipping Iowa or having a different set
of priorities in terms of the state she
was focused on she just did a five-day
bus tour or is maybe in the middle of it
right now
across Iowa so you know as we all
expected the election is coming to Iowa
and you know I'm fight it out here all
right well we will see what happens when
we come back we will have Lovett's
interview with Florida congresswoman
Debbie Makar Shilpa
you
