welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Alyssa Mastromonaco what I'm Dan
Pfeiffer look at who we have here at
crooked headquarters today we have
Alyssa as our co-host dan is here today
alyssa is out with a new book so here's
the thing
notes on growing up getting older and
trusting your gut how exciting is that
it was supposed to be not giving a
instead of trusting your gut but
apparently that's derivative there's a
real challenge about having a word that
they can't say on TV when you're trying
to sell a book yeah well can we it was
funnier what is your book out Tuesday
March 5th can you buy it now you can
pre-order now or by your local
bookseller
I mean pre-order your local bookseller
I'm glad you're here this is on all the
crooked media I moved in they can't get
rid of me I'm squatting um also wait
before we move let's let's just do this
yeah by Alyssa's book right by it now
buy it now take a screenshot of your
proof of purchase tweet it
Alyssa might respond to you let's let's
get responses like Pfeiffer sold the
Booker to oh yeah I got a lot of
questions yesterday about how Tommy
hates and tries to murder cats that was
a rough he did it last moment in the
live stream my dad actually texted me
about that we talked about dead cats and
your super PAC then a lot of lot of guys
is there a connection between the two
not just that I wanted to cover in the
super bag later today
dan will also be talking with South Bend
mayor Pete Buddha judge presidential
campaign mayor Pete will be here at
crooked headquarters as well we'll be
releasing that conversation is a
standalone bonus plot tomorrow as well
as all of our 20/20 candidate interviews
from here on out these have all been
longer interviews than we expected so we
thought we'd split them up for you from
the news discussion and now you get a
negative bonus pod with a cool interview
with the presidential candidate so
that's what we're doing from now okay I
seem a little off today yes because
we're interviewing I'm in right after
this it's the anxiety I have about
pronouncing his last name correctly when
we get to the interview I had that
anxiety for a long time then once you
figure it out
edge edge that's wrong butit was Brutus
I'm just saying like when you break it
out but you should have the
pronunciation on Budaj
Brutus I feel like one of his first ads
funny ad it would I've done my research
he did it already he's got little kids
saying it's very okay today's news
before we get into yesterday's Coen osku
P very well I say that we have some
breaking news overnight about the summit
Vietnam between Donald Trump and kim
jeong-hoon here to give us his analysis
on exactly what happened
Tommy Vitor host of POD save the world
it was a disaster John Thank You Tommy
Vitor
yeah guys the summit didn't work so well
it collapsed everyone went home Trump
says he had to walk away because Kim
Jong hoon wanted the United States to
lift all sanctions in exchange for only
partial denuclearization of the of the
Korean Peninsula and that's that it's
the art of the deal
I guess we can all be thankful that we
are still hunted or that nothing worse
has happened there but it does seem like
this is status quo that what Trump has
done has not really worked has not moved
us closer to peace and you know and in
that he has faced the same challenges
that Barack Obama has faced faced in
North Korea that George Bush faced that
Bill Clinton faced well I mean except
they all didn't escalate to de-escalate
that's scare the out of us every
other tweet it's true so we could
actually sleep and not worry about it
too too much yeah the different the main
difference here is that Trump has
pretended to achieve progress here when
no progress has happened so hasn't
gotten worse hasn't gotten better that's
where we are with North Korea still a
dotard if you want to know more about
this for people who are experts Tommy
and Ben Rhodes are going to do a special
bonus pod about everything happened in
North Korea along with there's some
breaking news about Bibi Netanyahu being
indicted there
the standoff between India and Pakistan
there's lots going on in the world and
Ben and Tommy you're gonna take care of
all of that on a bonus pod so be on the
lookout for that okay in a day-long
hearing before the House Oversight and
Reform Committee Donald Trump's former
attorney Michael Cohen testified that
the man he spent over a decade working
for is a quote racist a con man and a
cheat
Michael Cohen accused the president of a
series of Lies and/or crimes involving
false statements conspiracy bank fraud
and campaign finance felonies he
testified about the hush money payments
to stormy Daniels about Russia which
wasn't in the original plan and about
some new investigations and potential
crimes we didn't even know about so I
want to get into each of these areas
separately the hush-money investigation
the Russert and russia investigation and
other revelations but first over all
reactions to the hearing from yesterday
ELISA not a great moment for America you
know when when I guess though my
favorite part of it what I thought was
kind of like a real moment was when
Michael Cohen talked to the senators
there the the members the Republican
members and said that like I am your
cautionary tale that was interesting I
am your cautionary tale I followed him
blindly that is what you are doing
you're gonna end up here and I was
watching it last night and I was like
wow that was deep yeah it's like
you thought you followed Donald Trump
blindly you either end up in jail or
with a Fox News contract right or or a
member of the House of Representatives
because our system is work either way
and what did you think
I think the probably the biggest
takeaway I had is that one of the
president's saz's closest advisors
someone who was at his side for 10 years
sat before Congress under oath and
talked in great detail about criminal
conspiracies that the president
undertook to violate campaign finance
law violate tax law engaged in serious
corruption and no one was surprised and
to put a point on it all three of us
worked for Barack Obama for about ten
years each so that's sort of like us
going like so let us tell you about
Barack Obama we've actually been lying
for him for
years you say he is a criminal in many
different ways that clip is gonna end up
on gateway pundit enjoy hope it goes
viral so one of the big questions at the
start of the hearing was how credible
witness will Michael Cohen be basically
the only argument that Republicans on
the committee tried to make was that
coing is going to jail in part because
he lied to Congress so what did you make
of his credibility so I mean look it's
like 50/50 right I mean he is a liar but
but why would he do this it's kind of
like you know you're going to the
electric chair
that's a terrible take that back he has
nothing left to lose and there was
someone who actually made the point this
is like he's gonna go to jail his family
has been destroyed you know and and and
put in the public spotlight and so this
is his his like moment to try to make it
right right you know at least so that he
can clear his own conscience and sort of
like get on with his life I think it was
sort of like new broom sweeps clean like
he's gonna go out do this say his piece
you know unearth all the things that
he'd been hiding so he can at least you
know leave it to the American public to
deal with yeah I mean Michael Cohen is a
convicted liar he is also an obvious
liar like no one talks to Michael Cohen
just like you were to meet him and think
this guy seems like a real straight
shooter yeah it's just that's not the
vibe he gives off and if we were if he
was talking about if Trump had in like a
public reputations like the Dalai Lama
and then Michael Cohen went out and told
us these things you should be very
skeptical but it all makes perfect sense
any any producer he actually has write
paper
he brought the receipts I think that's
the important thing is that Michael
Cohen said himself many times yesterday
you don't have to take my word for it
I have corroborating evidence evidence
and it's not just the evidence he
brought by the way there's evidence we
haven't seen yet because we know that
the Southern District of New York
prosecutors in the hush-money case and
the special counsel prosecutors and the
Muller Russia investigation have all
said in their sentencing memos about
Cohen in public filings about Cohen that
he is a credible source for them and
they reason that he's credible is
because they were able to back up
his statements with corroborating
evidence and some of that evidence we
saw yesterday that Cohen brought to his
hearing but some of it we haven't seen
yet so it's like you don't really have
to take combs report the other thing I
think that made him credible is he he
did knock down some of the sorry weird
he did knock down some of the
conspiracies and allegations against
Donald Trump and against himself even
you know there was a Reuters story that
Cohen had gone to Prague and had taken a
meeting with the Russians and he said he
never went to Prague there was this is
exactly like someone who went to Prague
right there you know there was this idea
that if someone brought up that maybe
there was this videotape people were
looking for of Trump you know physically
assaulting Melania in an elevator
where's that come he said that never
happened you know so there were a lot of
like rumors about Donald Trump that he
actually knocked down he said that
there's no direct evidence that he knows
of the Donald Trump colluded with the
Russians but he has his own suspicions
so that seems like an honest take right
like if he really was out to just screw
Trump for himself and to just lie about
Donald Trump you'd think he would do it
sort of across the board right I mean I
just was so interested at how like
eloquent he was I mean eloquence not
exactly the right word he had really
thought out points and like moments he
had prepared for himself I just yeah I
had low expectations and he surpassed
them the point isn't whether we believe
him or whether Elijah Cummings believes
or any parts of Congress the most
compelling piece of evidence for his
credibility is that Robert Muller
believes him right right yeah and Robert
Miller's just not taken the word of any
doofus officer right he's gonna like it
he's making a very specific decision
right it's not like he just chooses to
believe him because it's in his interest
is that there's a very likely chance in
the case of Roger stone or some of these
other cases that make out a trial he's
gonna need Michael Cohen to sit on a
witness stand and need a jury to
potentially yes so he that's the
judgment he's making is that Michael
Cohen what Michael come and says backed
up by evidence Michael Cohen and others
have provided is compelling incredible
yeah I also think a listen to your point
one of the reasons he looked so good up
there is because of who he was who he
was going against so before we before we
dive into the testimony itself I do
want to talk about the Republicans on
the committee with the exception of
Justin - not one of them now one of them
asked a single question about the kreb
credible evidence that the President had
state skom it at multiple crimes not one
of them asked about Trump at all they
spent all their time if he was in common
of lying colluding with Democrats and
turning on Trump so that he can get a
book deal and they did it all very
loudly a lot of yelling what did you
guys think of the Republican performance
its we did some microcosm of everything
that isn't wrong with politics for the
last many decades and particularly in
the Trump era is they didn't zero
absolutely zero concern about the fact
that the president states in the leader
of their party the person for whom every
member on that committee will be on the
same ticket as in a year and a half
engaged in multiple conspiracies to
defraud the electorate to defraud the
FEC to defraud the IRS and no concern
zero nothing I mean it is I mean it many
annoying pundit types of look at this
and say politics is broken polarization
and that's not what this is this is
about a fundamentally broken Republican
Party that stands for nothing other than
being serving as a political protection
racket for trouble my favorite part I
had a lot of favorite parts case you
can't tell was when they accused him of
like seeking out book deals and that he
just cares him and that and he's like
wait hold on there's been TV to TV and
movies TV movies I thought that was
funny but wait when did anyone else know
that Elijah Cummings Marcos were best
friends because that was a revelation
from yesterday that is a it's an odd
choice
it's an odd couple he really defended it
at the end whoa that was weird you're
stuck on an island with one person
yelling at you for the rest of your life
mark Meadows or Jim Jordan Mark Meadows
Mark Meadows faces offensive I mean Jim
Jordan would kill you and eat you like
that is the obvious okay so my friend
and I were debating last night like what
kind of criminal he is and we decided he
was like a abusive murderer I just
thought it was I mean he's
you know that they're idiots when you
you know you're following this in the
news you're reading Twitter you're
reading stories about them you see their
 bizarre quotes well you actually
see them on TV at action it's like just
a couple levels worse than you even
imagined
mark Meadows and Jim Jordan just
screaming through the trial make they
they didn't know basic facts they didn't
have a grasp of basic facts there was
what with Higgins was his name there was
one hug post member who said never do
with a vest yeah yeah guy with the
ill-fitting bags were looking
blackjack dealer and at one point like I
didn't even know who you were until
today like if you know where the
Michael Cullen was what were you doing
he should he should be on the jury he's
the only person who's mastered himself
the past year it was really embarrassing
I found myself wanting the Republicans
to just have people who ask better
questions about creepy lurker and chief
Matt gets oh oh yeah oh I want to make
sure I get the tweet right so before
Cohen's testimony Matt Gaetz
Florida congressman human frat paddle
what would cause him tweeted hey Michael
Cohen do your wife and father-in-law
know about your girlfriends maybe
tonight would be a good time for that
chat I wonder if she'll remain faithful
when you're in prison she's about to
learn a lot gates who since deleted that
tweet and apologized to Cohen is now
under investigation by the Florida State
Bar for potentially violating
Professional Conduct rules by
threatening Cohen before his testimony
seems normal right I'm glad to see the
Florida Bar are taking it seriously
 oh and he was like lurking in
the at the hearing is yeah like on the
side and in the back and then apparently
just ducked out when his staff must have
texted him like yo Florida Bar
Association out on you're out on your
ass are you there any doubt that he was
just doing this at trumps behest yeah
whether Trump specifically asked him to
do it or not he's just showing off yeah
or he intuited what Trump would like
that is that's CLE what happened it's
also the fact that he went to the
hearing is like in the early seasons of
The Wire how stringer bell would go sit
in the courtroom
whenever the witness was testifying just
to make sure
make sure they knew with exactly what he
was doing no it seems like Matt Gaetz
maybe not quite as intimidating as
stringer Bell or smart Matt gates will
be the one taking the notes on the
 criminal conspiracy
alright let's dig into the testimony
itself and start with the campaign
finance investigation which is being led
by the Southern District of New York
Cohen who pled guilty to a criminal
conspiracy that involved Jeff rotting
voters by hiding illegal contributions
in the form of hush money payments to
women publicly implicated Donald Trump
Donald Trump jr. and the Trump
Organization in that criminal conspiracy
Cohen also brought receipts including
one hush money reimbursement check
signed by Donald Trump jr. and Trump
organizations CEO Alan Wessel Berg and
one check signed by the President
himself while he was in office this all
sounds very cool and very legal but what
what new information did we learn here
and what actually stuck out at you about
tests about Cohen's testimony in the
hush money investigation he was signing
checks that's crazy
as a president I actually tried to think
about it if like you know like even if
you go back to movies remember the
American president Andrew Shepherd
couldn't find his credit card dr. Holmes
just got a Trump Organization checkbook
lying around the Oval Office it's a
problem it seems like a baby which is
strange because he told all of us right
after the election that he was gonna be
100% separated from the business 100%
which clearly clearly that's not true
it's just they're so stupid
because they went through this entire
process to set up a shell corporation to
space out the payment over a year over a
year in order to make it less obvious
what they were doing so they could claim
it was retainer instead of simply a
reimbursement retainer and then Trump
himself signs a check in the he
discusses
in the Oval Office as president it is
mind-boggling how stupid these people
well and also I mean so there the
defense is and you know they like to
point to the John Edwards case that in
order for this to be illegal you have to
knowingly and willfully conceal these
payments you see I'm sorry and
these to be illegal you have to
knowingly and willfully conceal these
payments and know that you are breaking
the law by concealing these payments and
they say you know cuz you can get away
with it by saying well I was just trying
to hide this from my wife because I
didn't want to hurt my family but I
didn't it wasn't it wasn't to influence
an election but you know when you're
setting up shell corporations when
you're when you're reimbursing people
through all these different ways when
when michael cohen and alan weiselberger
sitting there saying who's ponying up
the money to pay stormy Daniels because
Trump won't and Alan whistles birds like
can we find any big donors can we find
anyone who maybe wants to go to a party
at a club and pay so late when you're
going through these great lengths to
hide this it seems pretty clear you know
that you're doing something illegal and
you're not just trying to keep it from
Milan also what sort of bargain-basement
president do we have that his accountant
and his constantly air are talking about
renting out a club that they own so they
can get someone to throw a party there
and just pay Michael Cote directly it's
crazy
that's like studio 54 right there
also keep put aside whether like what
would happen were this case to go to
trial right where Trump was just some
run-of-the-mill criminal defendant let
us hold the president's dates to a
slightly higher standard than John
 Edwards Christopher from The
Sopranos yeah this is a theme throughout
all this testimony that everyone's like
the bar is now you know were Trump a
private citizen would he be indicted and
would he be convicted because there's
you know evidence beyond a reasonable
doubt that he committed these crimes
like that's not necessarily what we're
looking for here we're just looking like
we don't want to have a president who
was implicated in potential criminality
or has done really shady remember
that that you want a standard for the
press wants Alan weiselberger to get a
subpoena I mean I think that's probably
well so the question is like what's next
on this case like how bad is this
politically and legally for Trump and
you know is this impeachable in itself
if there Moeller said nothing else is
the hutt money payment investigation
impeachable you know I really
wrestle with the question of the
politics on this because there's sort of
two competing thoughts in my head
where one is we shouldn't really look at
this through a political filter like the
idea that obvious and rampant
criminality and corruption from the
president only matters if it affects his
poll numbers is really a stupid way of
looking at things and it's in it's
anti-democratic
right just the mere fact that Trump
committed these crimes whether it
affects them in the election whether it
affects the gubernatorial races in 2019
should be irrelevant at the same time as
a Democrat who wants to win elections
you I do wonder about the fact that
almost no one's opinion has changed on
this right and that over the course of
three years now and that we that the
entire country is spending all of its
time having a conversation about
spending 90% of the time I guess having
a conversation about something that has
very little impact with voters and then
there's this other way of thinking about
it which is everyone seems to be waiting
for there to be this moment we talk
about the politics where like there will
be some revelation where you know maybe
it's a Mullis report or it's in a New
York Times report or something there's
some sort of smoking gun piece of
evidence that will cause a dramatic
political shift because you're thinking
about this in terms of the election in
2020 that's sort of irrelevant in the
sense that you only need a hundred
thousand people to change their votes
over three states and you we have a
different outcome maybe this will impact
that maybe you won't but if you want it
does seem like it's easier to change the
votes of those hundred thousand people
than it is to find what 15 16
Republicans in the Senate
Invicta Trump yes it is impossible to
conjure the the piece of information
that would change the politics so
dramatically that Trump with the you
know fifty sixty seven percent
Republicans would leave Trump creating a
permission structure for Republicans to
impeach Trump so that like that is like
that is not going to come that cannot
happen so how do we really think about
it is I think sort of an open question
what do you think Alissa I mean I just
want Donald J
Jr to go down well I don't think that I
don't think that impeachment it's like
you know if you listen well I mostly I
guess I just listen to you guys but you
know if he were to get impeached or
there would be impeachment proceedings
that's like civil war vibes in the
country you know and he should be tossed
out because he sucks
yeah look I'm 20/20 I think I have but
Don Jr should be indicted and go to
trial in jail yeah well I want to get to
that in a second
I mean my opinion on the impeachment
thing has been sort of what you said Dan
which I don't think it necessarily is
the politically smart thing for
Democrats to do but I sort of worry
about the precedent for the country of
allowing a president who has potentially
with a president who at least there's
credible evidence that he has committed
multiple crimes right to just let that
person go and to not use the one tool
that's in the Constitution to hold the
president accountable which is
impeachment because like what does that
mean for our institutions what does that
mean for future presidents and future
presidents who may do these kinds of
things well I can get away with it as
long as I know that I have all my party
on board and we're in power I can get it
with whatever I want because it's not
the most politically popular thing to do
to impeach someone well and also if you
look back like what Bill Clinton did and
had to go through an impeachment trial
for is arguably ridiculous as compared
to perpetrating a fraud from the Oval
Office
yeah you know I mean he and we haven't
even gotten to the Russia stuff yet
right so I just you know to me that's my
question on my question I Don Jr is so
Cohen has pled guilty to this criminal
conspiracy which means that it was
serious enough and there was enough
evidence that he felt like he couldn't
fight it in court so he pled guilty
he just implicated the president who
according to DOJ guidelines cannot be
indicted he's also now implicated Donald
Trump jr. and Alan weiselberger so why
haven't they been indicted what's going
on there and what will they be or like
what other prosecutors just building a
stronger case like why didn't come and
go down and not those do I think the
question on Don Jr is he seems to be if
you order if you believe the reports in
very real trouble for lying to Congress
about the trumped
our Moscow right project and wine
getting someone for lying to Congress is
a heart it's not easy to prove because
you have to get to mindset you have to
have corroborating evidence but it seems
pretty clear based on what Cohen said
some of the documents have gone on I
imagine other people have said that
there's a probably a pretty strong case
that he you like we know he lied to
Congress right we have reason to believe
that it seems likely they can they
should be able to prove that at least to
the point of bringing something to trial
or getting an indictment I think the
question is you know what Marcy wheeler
was raised with us a couple times is are
they is mother trying to run to ground a
larger conspiracy to defraud America
case you know which is you know which we
stupidly I'll call collusion but is
there a larger conspiracy case that he
is working that holds that piece of it
up which is the reason the Don jr. is
still sort of hanging on out there I
mean that would be something I think we
will probably know that that case cannot
be proven if what ends up with happened
to Don jr. is he simply charged with
lying to Congress that's that's a good
point
all right let's move on to the Russia
part of the investigation first Cohen
told the committee that in July of 2016
he was in a meeting where Donald Trump
put Roger stone on speakerphone and
stone said that he'd talked to Julian
Assange who told him that WikiLeaks was
planning to disseminate a quote massive
dump of stolen emails from the
Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton's
campaign and Trump responded by saying
wouldn't that be great guys what's new
here and what does this tell us about
whether Trump is guilty of conspiring
with Russians to sabotage our election I
mean this is the first time that someone
has said openly and on the record and
under oath that Trump had advance
knowledge right of the leaks and the
source of that hacking but we're where
the documents were coming we're gonna
come from and that there was direct
communication between stone and Asajj
which there's reason to be very
skeptical not necessarily of what Cohen
said although maybe somewhat but that
stone was telling the truth when he told
Trump that if he did that he was talking
directly to massage because they're all
the other information suggests that he
had used intermediary and course he or
someone else to have that conversation
and the timing lined up the way that
Cohen explained it which I think was
always sort of Roger stones defense of
himself it's like well I'm always
talking
you know I'm always talking you can't
always believe what I say and I mean
this like it all sort of like lined up
that you know what was it like a week or
two later yeah and I think it's
important that on the day of the Access
Hollywood tape right in advance now
advance knowledge of this the WikiLeaks
dump alone isn't necessarily proof of
conspiracy because I think for to charge
co-conspirators you have to maybe help
disseminate the emails planned somehow
with Russia or whatever but you know fob
our and others our former White House
Counsel said that it could be a
violation of the election laws that say
you can't knowingly accept help from a
foreign government to help your election
because they would know this health care
election but again this is one of those
things where whether it technically
violates a law or not the fact that
Donald Trump who at that point he and
everyone on his campaign knew that
WikiLeaks was a hostile non-state actor
that has you know was not was trying to
damage United States national security
interests like they had in the past and
decided to put their electoral ambitions
over what was how you know reporting the
whole thing to the FBI because they had
advance knowledge that tells you
something about where their loyalties
lie right right and that they're not
sort of like the moral standard bearers
that you would hope someone running for
the highest office in the land would
would care about I mean Pfeiffer you
probably remember better what did
remember what happened with Al Gore yes
so one of Al Gore's consultants received
in the mail a copy of george w bush's
debate prep book mm-hmm and as soon as
it was opened and realized what was in
it immediately called the FBI we made
copies first right yeah we made copies
we shared them with the free beacon it
was just starting no that's that's what
you do when when you realize when indeed
you don't cheat you don't cheat with a
 foreign organization like
WikiLeaks you know I mean the thing
that's always we just have to remember
about whether it's Trump's knowledge of
WikiLeaks whether it's the
building of the Trump Tower in Moscow
whether it is contacts with Russians the
original Don Jr Paul Manafort meeting at
Trump Tower is that at every stage every
one of these people have wide repeatedly
about it yeah and lied in many cases
under potential criminal penalty right
like Jared Kushner lied multiple times
on his national security clearance forms
which is a crime to lie on those forms
multiple times our contacts with
Russians Jeff Sessions slide Donald
Trump lied and we kissed can't ever
forget that Donald Trump the president
itíd States on Air Force One dictated it
instructed his staff to lie about the
original Trump Tower meeting yeah like
it although these steps like I feel like
sometimes we get in the weeds of like
can you prove this thing was like well
is wiki Lee like did they know WikiLeaks
was working with the Russians than that
the larger point here is that they have
been deceiving the American people about
their interactions with Russia
throughout this command about Trump's
business interest with Russia throughout
this campaign and that in and of itself
is and actively obstructed justice to
the point where the president is using
his Twitter account to intimidate
witnesses as they go forward all of that
together is really an open shut open and
shut case for starting impeachment
proceedings now like you asked about
this little earlier and the question is
should Democrats do that that's a really
hard question which like should you
start something even though you know
it's the right thing to do if you know
it is not going to end with your desired
result I will say that there are some
things that are potentially easier to
prove here like you know one thing that
came out of this revelation about stone
and Trump talking about WikiLeaks is
Trump has reportedly denied in sworn
written testimony to Muller answering
Muller's questions that he never talked
to stone about WikiLeaks and if somehow
in addition to Cohen testifying this
Muller has some kind of evidence that
Trump and stone did communicate about
WikiLeaks and he gave his answer to
Muller that he didn't that's pretty
obvious to everyone involved that the
has committed perjury or at least has a
issued a false statement right the
problem isn't with all of this stuff is
it's he said he said in both of the he's
our Koran wires right right I guess
unless there's phone records somewhere
that Wyler has but but also just
something so much more basic which is
that you know everybody can be
confronted with challenging circumstance
or potentially fortuitous you know like
but at every point in their journey when
they were faced with a choice with a
fork in the road they took the shittiest
Road possible like never did their
better angels prevail never was there a
thought bubble that was like is this a
good idea
and I just that's like sad too like
we're talking about what's criminal and
how they defraud the American public but
like that shouldn't it almost feels like
it's becoming the standard when really
like what happened in the beginning when
they just could have been yeah whether
it be whether it meets the violation of
the statute they certainly defrauded the
American public differently it's and
continue to do so today the other thing
that I took from Cohen's testimony is
you get all the time from sort of
know-it-all reporters who were like very
who covered Trump very closely Trump's
campaign particular and their argument
often is and I think some of the some of
the White House staff will say this on
background which is the Trump campaign
was too poorly run to engage in this
sort of criminal conspiracy and that is
such a stupid Hollywood way of thinking
about how crimes are committed like you
it's sort of like it's the odd complete
opposite exactly right like poorly run
organizations your mark yeah mark for a
hostile for interest like where
corruption and crime happened in the
worse run governments in the worse run
organization where there is no
supervision there is no rules there is
no system in place to prevent that from
happening there's a desperation yes like
it is exist it's exactly an organization
like the one that Michael Cohen
described that is likely to fall prey to
a Russian counter Russian intelligence
operation and to just engage in a bunch
of stupid criminal corrupt behavior the
last thing that Cohen cleared up was
some of the confusion over last month's
BuzzFeed story that Trump had
did him to lie to Congress about the
trunk our Moscow project he said quote
mr. Trump did not directly tell me to
lie to Congress that's not how he
operates
instead Cohen said that Trump made it
clear he wanted him to like woat through
his personal statements to me that we
both knew to be false and through his
lies to the country that he wanted me to
lie any made made it clear to me because
his personal attorneys reviewed my
statement before I gave it to Congress
and he said that they changed that
statement including the length of time
that the Moscow project was being
considered Jay Sekulow one of the
president's attorneys has now put out a
statement denying that but again that's
something that we might be able to prove
cohen probably has cohen said he would
provide the draft of his initial
statement who knows
somewhere there are computer records
that have those changes I mean these
fine Yahoo's probably did it with
comments and a Google Doc or something
right dr so and then so just other
revelations before we move on from the
hearing because there were so many we
should just bring them up Trump says
racist all the time I don't know if
that was a revelation but that is
something really pretty free talk seems
like seems like he's comfortable with
that kind of language yeah the owner
said one person was like grilling
Michael Cohen they're like but do you
have tapes of him saying these things
it's like yeah have you turned on the
news yeah you looked at Twitter like
remember countries remember the
birther conspiracy like yeah he said
remember very good people on both sides
yeah there's definitely tapes of from
saying racist they're out there man
Charlotte's helped Trump has had Cohen
threatened people including physically
threatened them more than five he
ordered Cohen to threaten people to keep
his high school grades in writing and
then there was the big ones might have
been one of the bigger revelations from
the whole hearing Cohen claims to be in
quote constant contact still with
Manhattan prosecutors about ongoing
investigations and declined to provide
the details of his final phone call with
Donald Trump in the weeks after the FBI
raided his office and other places
because he said it's the subject of an
ongoing investigation and look directly
into the camera when he said it so he
knew that was gonna be a thing I have
another one yeah but she and they sort
of got lost because there was a lot of
sort of esoteric conversation about like
home equity lines
and property etc but Cohen did served as
a first person witness to the New York
Times story that should have ended
Trump's presidency but people forgot in
five minutes which is that Trump had
been engaged in for a very very long
time indeed that in finding ways to yes
is tax poor to basically defraud the IRS
to engage in tech obvious tax fraud to
lower the reported value of his property
so he would pay less taxes on him which
is just probably somewhat related to his
refusal to really sort of tax returns so
Michael come and pointed out he had no
reason to believe that Trump was
actually under audit like he claims and
I think that like the president engaging
in tax fraud should be somewhere higher
than the 18th paragraph in the
story about this well in the person who
brought that up was Cassio Cortez who
did a great job and had like one of the
she like came in loaded for bear she did
not have this like grand standing was
the state of the country questions that
she made news she basically asked if
Trump committed insurance fraud right
Michael Cohen said yes and she said well
who else would know who can prove this
and he said Alan weiselberger who was
mentioned more than anyone otherwise the
break down again the subpoena he does
have an immunity deal though right once
the NBC reported yesterday that he had
an immunity deal only for Amy the ami
National Enquirer story that he
testified on his attorneys about to
start looking for a second home yes
Oberg Ron Lieberman and someone named
Matthew calamari yeah who was the CEO of
the the Trump Organization and you know
is Matthew calamari but also just let us
not forget this nugget when he talked
about in the same sort of conversation
that how stupid the United States
government was because he got a ten
million dollar rebate and tax break and
how stupid the government was and cut
everybody's salaries his company by
fifty percent
yeah I mean and we talked about the
election like whether it's impeachment
versus just but I do think some of all
some of what we learned yesterday and
what we've learned about Trump's
criminality and corruption I do think
he's like a potent message in 2020 that
we shouldn't just ignore like what you
just said Allah so we're like he
collects a ten million dollar refund
from the government and
cutting his employee salaries like that
though that's the kind of information
that maybe even more so than Russia
stuff would actually matter to voters I
thought Cohen had a great line in his
testimony that could be like the message
against Trump in 2020 he said Donald
Trump is a man who ran for office to
make his brand great not to make our
country great he had no desire or
intention to lead this nation only to
market himself and to build his wealth
and power like I do think that probably
is the most damaging kind of case
against them yeah I think I've said this
before on this podcast but I think the
best message against Trump is to fight
is to let me try it again I think the
best match is the Trump is to argue that
his political philosophies on America
first it's me first that everything he
does is about Trump it's about lining
his pockets at your expense that allows
you to weave in the the tax cut it
allows you to weave in what he's did in
business it allows you to talk about
Trump University his authoritarian ISM
the farmers that lost their farm when he
treats the press I mean it's very broad
if you can weave it the fact that he is
running a unconstitutional bribery
scheme out of a schlocky hotel three
blocks from the White House even his
moves on immigration right like he is
doing this to benefit himself
politically to to rile up all the white
nationalists also unrelated did you see
that the apple-cheeked hate goblin Jeff
Sessions was at Trump Hotel last night
stop get some self-esteem bro yeah they
all just that's gonna be a dark scene
it's that it's it's Hotel California for
the worst American alright let's hope
with the latest 20/20 development from
the last week Elizabeth Warren announced
a big fundraising change for the primary
which she announced in a medium post
quote no fancy receptions are big money
fundraisers only with people who can
write the big checks and when I think
the people giving to my campaign it will
not be based on the size of their
donation it means that wealthy donors
won't be able to purchase better seats
or one-on-one time with me at our events
and it means I won't be doing call time
which is when candidates take hours to
call wealthy donors to ask for their
support what do you guys think of this
change is it politically smart and can
she raised the money she needs doing
this I think it's smart all around for
the following one she's right I mean how
much time you know I forget where we
were talking about the other day but you
know the fourth court
of 2015 you know Hillary did something
like 50 fundraisers and Bernie did three
which means that Bernie was in far more
living rooms and battleground states you
know then she could because she was
raising the big money so yes it's good
for her time management I do also think
that she probably did the math and
realized she wasn't gonna raise that
much money in big numbers that she
probably wasn't leaving that much on the
table and it does sort of I think help
set expectations for what her first
quarter fundraising numbers gonna be
she's figured that she was not gonna be
spending a lot of time in Manhattan
penthouses with hedge fund managers
giving it was before and big chicks
right like she wasn't even go sweep up
money out here in California and so you
know good for it's smart good for her
its strategic I think the immediate it
is definitely politically smart like
Elizabeth Warren has probably had the
best theory of the case of how she wins
in an execution of that theory of any
candidate who's gotten her race thus far
agree whether that's the right theory of
the case no one really knows but she
knows how she wants to run this race and
how to go about doing and she's doing it
and this is a part of it I think there
are some questions about whether the
substance of this pledge match matches
up to the the political promise of it
which is is call time as annoying as it
is is that the biggest problem in money
in politics probably not you know I
think it's probably the size the
contribution I think to the credit of I
think basically every Democrat running
thus far is that they have taken the one
stance that I think matters the most
which is they're not going to have their
own super PAC
because like the there's too much money
in politics for sure but one of the
giant prompts if you can have someone
like the Koch brothers like Sheldon
Adelson who can write unlimited amounts
of cheque in your name and give it to
this technically separate entity where
you can raise money for them and like
this is how super PAC fundraising goes
you the candidate walks in talks to a
group of people who can write million
dollar checks about their campaign
leaves some other dude walks in and ask
them for money and that is legal and
every Democrat has resisted that and I
think that's most important
I think a more a bolder stance is
whether someone would be willing to put
a cap on contributions below the legal
limit right yeah and I thought about
that because I do I mean here's what an
Elizabeth Warren has made this case
herself for many years and she usually
says like one of the ways that money
influences the system is you just you
end up having to spend a lot of time
with really wealthy people in order to
fundraise from them and the more you
spend time with them like even if
they're liberal wealthy people maybe
they're very socially liberal right and
on taxes maybe they're not as liberal
and the more time you spend with them
the more they're saying oh do you really
want to fight that carried interest
loophole like I don't know about that
right and I do think that's a very real
issue where Democratic candidates are
forced to spend too much time with
really rich people in order to get money
right but you're right that if you did
it if you did a cap that would sort of
fix that like if your goal is to
democratize people's influence you
should limit the amount of influence
they have not limit amount the amount of
time you spend with the influencer right
right someone is still there's still
gonna be some group of people through
some mechanism who are gonna write
larger checks to Elizabeth Warren like
look trust me I would be for publicly
funded elections we get all money out of
politics let's give her Citizens United
I'm not sure someone writing a like a
couple like people writing the you know
whatever the max is now four thousand
dollars to a candidate is the old is the
ultimate problem in politics but it is
like she has done it she has identified
it isn't true like it is true that we
democrat spent too much time raising
money so we should raise more grassroots
money online it is true that spending
all the time with rich people can affect
you I would like to let's pick a
president who has the capacity to
distinguish between those audiences like
is it immediately just like in the
thrall of the hedge fund guy they just
ran into at the coffee shop well and
it'll be interesting one to see what her
low dollar number is at the end of the
month but also she didn't make the
pledge for the general election right
which would she say which is just worth
noting it's like well and she basically
explains that intermedium person she
says because you know it's sort of the
kinda unilaterally disarm argument the
Democrats have made you know why we
didn't take publicly public funding of
elections in the general in O eight you
know all right let's talk about our
friend Joe Biden the former vice
president said this week that his family
is urging him to join the 2020 race for
president but he still hasn't made a
move to get into the primary according
to the New York Times he said in front
of an audience at the University of
Delaware the most important people in my
life want me to run but he doesn't want
to embark on a quote fool's errand and
he laid out his concerns which include
whether he'll be able to garner enough
money and support and the nastiness of
the campaign he predicted Trump would
run against whoever the Democrats
nominate how long can Joe Biden wait and
what are the risks I kind of feel like
he can wait a while I mean he still has
like the number one name ID of anyone
and I do think that you know personally
he's someone who served the country for
his entire life he is like the ultimate
public servant and I think that he does
need to see if he can get the money
behind him in the grassroots support
because I think it would be really like
a disservice to his legacy if he got in
prematurely like I think that he should
wait as long as he has to wait to feel
like it's all lined up right because I
think it would be terrible if like the
former vice president lifelong public
servant came in and like you know six
and the Iowa caucuses I am not sure he
could wait that long because I think
this is not necessarily a take most
people agree with but my my belief has
been that the changes in the primary
schedule that moved California and Texas
and say it's like that up earlier
actually make the Iowa caucus more
important not very important and
therefore and I'm happy to have a longer
conversation at some point about why
that is but if that is the case and we
should have Tommy on who worked in the
Iowa caucuses Brock Obama to explain the
caucus process to people at some point
of a new process but it is incredible is
it it is the most complicated organizing
endeavor in all of American politics yes
you have to build that's for sure a a
very real very serious organization if
you have any chance to succeed and so
time is the only non-renewable resource
in politics and so every day that he is
not out there recruiting precinct
leaders high
field organizers sitting people's living
rooms are going to the pizza ranch and
trying to convince people to caucus for
him he's losing time he's not going to
get those dates back someone else is
gonna do it and he doesn't have in Iowa
organization to lean on right here there
is actually a decent amount of goodwill
for Joe Biden over the times that he has
run in New Hampshire in New Hampshire is
just a straight primary but he I don't
think he garnered a single delegate in
the Oh eight caucus and so he doesn't is
not like there's like a group of 10,000
people he's gonna call now there may
there will be some I think former Obama
organizers who may have who may be
waiting for Biden but it is this hard
things you don't want to run for
president who you're sure you want to
run but the longer you wait to make your
decision you're in some ways making the
decision for yourself to not run yeah
and I think that is a challenge I do
think that people who look at buy-ins
numbers and say that's all name ID are
sort of naively looking at it because
that is with like we've had a lot of
people get in this race with big splashy
announcement Biden's numbers have held I
think it's a mix of three things name ID
for sure
affection for from the Obama base for
Barack Obama's very loyal and amazing
vice president and a group of Democrats
who rightly or wrongly believe he's
electable didn't think he could have won
in 16 they think he is the kind of
Democrat who can win the states that
Hillary lost a trump whether that's true
or not no one has clinics out
there that there's this vague desire for
an electable person which usually means
moderate white man to the point though
that right now the thing he benefits
from is the benefit of the doubt from
everybody that he is the person like
people are really buying into the
numbers for what it means but I want to
amend my earlier statement
I meant that he should wait like if he
doesn't want to do it today or like in
the University of Delaware
you know chat he was doing that's fine
but he does have to like the the hurdles
to get into the DNC debates in June are
not massive but 65,000 unique donors is
something that you know he is not
approved and doesn't online right he
doesn't have a razor so he's prepared
trying to figure
speaking of people who have been waiting
a long time to make a decision the
Dallas Morning News reported on
Wednesday that beto or Rourke has ruled
out running a Senate campaign against
John Cornyn in Texas and that he's made
up his mind about whether or not he'll
run for president and will be sharing
his intentions soon so you know we all
said that on the pod that Beto should
run for president right after the last
election we said the same thing about
Stacey Abrams said the same thing about
Andrew Gilliam what about the people who
argue because I saw some of this last
night after this news that he should run
for Senate what are sort of like the
pros and cons of a Senate race versus a
presidential race for him or for someone
like Stacey Abrams the I mean people
like Beto or Stacey Abrams or Andrew
Gilliam or anyone else you get to run
for that once they want to run for right
it's like you don't have to do what
someone tells you to do and you will
only run a good race if it's now that
you want to run for it
we the worst candidates and I've seen
this time and time again in politics are
when the DSCC of the Senate leadership
has to drag someone into the race yeah
when it's like they just they you know
Chuck Schumer calls him a thousand times
so they finally give in and run then you
run a shitty race like you you it has to
be a cause not a campaign for you if you
just think I'm the most electable
Democrat I used to do pretty well here
we should run that almost always fails
yeah it is a very open question about
what the Texas electorate will look like
in 2020 versus 2018 it's a very open
question of what running against the
demons be running against John Cornyn
and running against Ted Cruz but
ultimately if he were decide he wants
run fresney should do that if stacey
abrams were to say like he would it be
great to see a procession for Senate in
Georgia sure but if they see us want to
run for president
go for it go for it do it she would be
she would add a lot to such a race and
the filing so I know I like I guess I
don't I don't really love people on
Twitter who don't necessarily know about
Texas politics or Georgia politics or
anything else basically just playing
ahead of the DSCC like like they know
exactly what candidates can do and how
they can win like you just you don't
know and the conventional wisdom is the
20 electorate in Texas would be better
because it's a presidential year and
more turnout there's plenty of evidence
that shows that there's actually a whole
bunch of rural concern
who didn't turn out in 18 who usually
turn out in presidential years so it
would be tougher for Beto in 2020 and
also John Cornyn is not as disliked as
Ted Cruz is this like he has lower name
ID so a poll for Cornyn and Beto would
probably show it closer than it might be
because people and a lot of people in
Texas don't or not not as many people in
Texas know who John Cornyn is as they
did who Ted Cruz's because Ted Cruz has
sort of a national profile for better or
for worse and so it's it's not a
slam-dunk in any way running for the
Texas Senate yeah and like I have to
stand up so you know especially like you
know when you guys came out and said the
day after election like Beto should run
and I was like are you kidding me
I've been slogging it out in small
events for Naora trying to remind women
that roe v-- wade can be overturned and
preaching about trigger laws and I was
like I can't listen to this right now
and now I'm for it
yeah we look I think like there's gonna
be a million candidates running right
and we have this situation happening in
other states too John Hickenlooper or in
Michael Bennett both in Colorado are
thinking about running for president I
think Colorado's probably the easiest
State for us it is gonna be the easiest
date for us to pick off for the Senate
in 2020 Cory Gardner's probably the most
vulnerable Republican senator you see
this in Montana with Steve Bullock right
he's popular governor of Montana there's
a Senate seat open there but he's
thinking about running for president too
like the Senate is incredibly important
it's incredibly important that we win
the Senate 2020 we need if we hold doug
jones in alabama we need three seats if
we don't we need four seats you know you
got Colorado's number one Maine's number
two Arizona's number three you see Roy
we're thinking of running again yeah I
did see that and then after that it's
sort of all it's all it makes so we
don't know but I also think by the way
that we can get pretty good candidates
in some of these states that aren't
necessarily the people who are known
better work wasn't known in Texas at all
at the beginning of 2018 no Andy he came
out of nowhere
but like something to that I like to
remember is that you know people in New
York where I live some people were
really against Cynthia Nixon running and
we're like she has no business she has
no right she can never win it's never I
don't really think it's the point of
people running whether or not they can
win people should run for something
because they believe and I think that
New York's
is much better off for having had
Cynthia in the race who I really
supported because a lot of the policies
in New York have already shifted because
of her presence in the race and so I
think that it's good to get all
different kinds of people into the
election except I really don't want them
all running for like the aoc endorsement
primary because it's trite no I mean
we've talked about this before there may
come a time where twenty people in the
field is causing all kinds of chaos that
moment will come right like when the
Iowa caucus has happened or probably
after the Iowa caucuses right at this
day this is the stage when everyone in
the pool can you guys just picture in
the New Hampshire primary like twenty
one candidates with buses trying to get
up to like Berlin and Londonderry
if there are 21 candidates eighteen of
them hanging out buses riding a bicycle
built for two with their field director
will play out like some people will find
out that they can't raise enough money
and they'll drop out before some people
will see themselves at like 1% in the
polls and they'll drop out or they'll do
great right like that's just sort of the
process and the thing though that I
think's interesting to watch is that
with so many people in the race the
amount of money that people are gonna
have you know I would wonder I mean this
is whatever but when the numbers come
out at the end of March I wonder if all
the candidates rolled up to one Bernie
to the done not including Bernie have
raised as much as we did the first
quarter of 2007
oh you think no so we raised twenty so I
think we raised about twenty seven
million dollars in primary money and
twenty seven million dollars and I have
been trying to do the math and I'm not
sure that most people are coming up with
more than a couple million that'd be
interesting I would hire it'll it'll
change it'll change how people are
running it's it is really interesting
because I do think there are a lot of
donors the kind of people who you know
who max out in the primary like at one
event who were probably waiting right
they will kind of want to see this off
play itself out they are they don't have
a specific allegiance to one candidate
and they can't afford to write two
checks let alone twelve checks to these
people so they're gonna kind of let it
play itself out and really only
Berni theoretically Elizabeth Warren
Kamala Harris and betta were he to run
have an email list that can raise money
no one else has anything like Cory
Booker do you think no no I mean I I'd
be I'd be curious you can raise money
probably but maybe not through a great I
think it's gonna be hard to raise
high-dollar
maxed out donations in the permit I
could be totally wrong no but the other
thing to think about too is that if you
look back to our primary you know we had
a lot of donor not not our best donors
but there were a lot of donors that
maxed out to Edwards Hillary and us like
they can hedge they could hedge their
bets three ways
no one's it's like if you have you're a
donor and you had your bet and you give
three well then you're still offending
the other people you know what I mean
it's not as easy
remember our chief of staff Bill Daley I
think had donated to all three yes
interesting okay thank both of our
Chiefs of Staff oh I think that's all
the time we have to do because I believe
mayor Pete's here and you've got to do
your interview right I do okay how do
you say his name
Peter judge there you go nailed it way
to go he is to is to mumble it like
majalis character and true detective
season three it so no one can know if
you're right or you're wrong
Alyssa thanks for joining us today
Rose thanks for having the book is so
here's the thing order it now please I
have read it people don't around
here buy it right now it is to her
advantage so that all of your friends
see that you brought the book like that
is how that's how this game works and so
do it thank you and you'll also learn
about what it's like to be a platonic
life partner which is what writer is to
me because I wrote a Q&A in the book
it's really that's the least funny part
of the book funny I can't wait the Japan
chapters I'm gonna read it this weekend
Alyssa thanks for being here Dan thanks
for being here great to have everybody
it's usually lonely here on a Thursday
don't take it personally Michael Elijah
this table Thursday
all right everyone we'll talk to you
next week and be on the lookout for
Dan's interview with Pete Budaj edge
which will release as a standalone pod
and Ben and Tommy are doing a special
bonus episode of pod save the world to
talk about all the latest developments
in foreign policy bye everyone
you
one last thing Democratic strategy in
2020 New York Times published a story by
Jonathan Martin and Alexander burns this
week built on the narrative the
Democrats need to choose between winning
Beck Rust Belt states where Donald Trump
beat Hillary Clinton are going after
states in the south and west where
demographic trends are more promising
and it's not just a question of where to
invest in spend their time but which
voters they should be going after the
Obama Trump voters in the Midwest or the
younger more diverse voters in the west
and southwest and they write that
candidates have to decide between
whether to focus on kitchen-table topics
like health care and jobs aimed at
winning moderates and disaffected Trump
voters or by elevating matters of race
and identity such as immigration to
mobilize young people in minorities with
new fervor dan I think you have some
thoughts on this story that I would love
to hear okay I yield the floor
first this election is a stressful time
we are all anxious we don't know what's
gonna happen my advice and requested
Democratic strategist would be develop
an inner monologue
do not feel a need to work through your
anxiety by calling the New York Times
and presenting multiple false choices
not backed by one iota of data
as someone who just did 15 episodes of
the wilderness about the Democratic
Party conducted focus groups both in
these Midwestern states and the south
and west south and west states with both
Obama Trump voters and younger more
diverse voters who just didn't vote in
2016 or were Bernie people who didn't
vote it's it's it made me lose my mind
reading this because none of it is what
you actually hear from people on the
ground none of it like this is not to be
clear this is not Jonathan Martin Alex
it burns us fault no this is the fault
of Democrats who tell them this and I
wouldn't couple points about this it is
true that come to the end of the 20/20
election the Democratic nominee is going
to have to make some choices about what
states to spend money and and visit it
like that they're gonna look at polling
they're gonna look at data they're only
analytics and they'll decide can we
should we go to Florida should we get
Ohio should we go to Arizona that is a
different question than this the this is
based in this this just incredibly
stupid idea that there is some strategy
that works in Michigan Pennsylvania and
Ohio that doesn't work in Florida in
Arizona
that is just wrong voters care about the
same things and we are so wrapped around
the axle about looking at this through
this ideological prism that has not been
relevant since 1990 3 that
somehow with like voters think in terms
of liberal or or moderate liberal or
moderate or centrist or whatever like
what vote there is there there
republican and democratic states there
are not liberal and moderate states
right that it is democrats have this
incredible advantage that we refuse to
ever acknowledge and then utilize which
is the message that works and you know
this from your focus groups the message
that works to persuade
middle-of-the-road voters is the exact
same message that works to motivate new
democratic base voters like you have to
talk about the economy you have to be
someone who fights for change and stands
up against corruption that works with
everyone and instead we're like well we
whisper this thing to this you know
fired auto worker in ohio and then we go
visit a young latino man outside of
Tampa and we tell them this other thing
we'll be able to stitch together some
 culture that's not how politics
works you could be able you have to have
the same message in Florida Pennsylvania
Ohio Wisconsin Iowa whatever else and
that is either gonna work on software
you don't pick it is just so we are
addicted to stupid false choices also
it's a Barack Obama won all those
Midwestern states and Florida twice so
just pile on I don't like to be
redundant but also it's not like we lost
those Michigan Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania by millions of votes right
it's like not to be basic but but
Hillary didn't visit Wisconsin in the
general election you know there is a
thought that the strategy that you just
went once we wouldn't have had the
problem which is really just a tactical
problem not that people have lost now
look to be fair she's still she went to
Pennsylvania a ton of times and spent a
lot of money there and came up short
there too but I still think I mean look
Stacey Abrams won more votes than any
Democrat in history in Georgia she is a
black woman running in Georgia as a
progressive and she did better than any
of the other Democrats and
history in Georgia better O'Rourke ya
came got more votes than any Democrat in
history in Texas and in the middle of
the campaign said he supported Bernie
Sanders medicare-for-all bill okay
so like and then by the way in Arizona
Kyrsten Sinema ran as a moderate and
that want that one for the state of
Arizona so we're not just saying like
you have to be like right we don't
ideology is so overrated by pundits by
people on Twitter and it is not all the
things that voters are thinking about
you should run based on what you believe
and like you said you should have a
message that appeals to everyone to all
the states to all the people all the
people politics is not paint-by-numbers
that is that is the greatest
misperception of the reporters to cover
politics is they think because now we
have data that we're just working like
to piece together these little
coalition's with micro messages that is
an absolutely miserable run a campaign
and it's not how it works and if you
cannot win Pennsylvania you can't win
Florida there's not a strategy where you
win Florida and then you lose
Pennsylvania Michigan that's just not
how it works because of the way and you
have to have a certain amount of Appeal
with bass voters and independent voters
and like you put together that coalition
now the percentages of those numbers
differ from state to state depending on
the size of the Democratic base and the
size of the undeclared or independent
electorate but there's not a world where
you're like kick ass with the base in
Pennsylvania and the next day home in
Florida that's just not how politics
works and there's not a world where you
crush it with independent voters in
Florida in Pennsylvania voters are like
not like that's just not how it works no
it's never work that way it's never
gonna work that way all those pundits
see people who contributed to that
article their thoughts they should just
focus on the new season of veep that's
coming out oh very excited about that
okay and then we'll go back into the
phone
you
