welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John love it I'm Tommy Vitor
I hope you're all enjoying your holidays
right now we have decided that for our
last episode of the year we're gonna
talk about our new year's resolutions we
are and not just us
you didn't hear from us for in the next
couple minutes but then we asked a bunch
of the extended crooked family fam to
give us their resolutions to IRA Madison
George papadopolis Lewis vertel she's
resolved to spy more James Comey will be
here yeah he's gonna get taller he said
he wants to be taller and 2019 and more
righteous you'll never guess with James
Comey said about 2019 What did he say
that's clickbait you can't do
that we know oh oh okay all right so why
should we start this does anyone want to
start with some resolutions sure Tommy
you wanna start all of it do you want to
start why don't you guys do a standoff
I'll go first
shake it off buddy shake it off love it
all right I'm gonna die have some I here
we go all right so um listen my diet but
I it's a disaster oh we do a food
section I'm just gonna say this one
quick cuz it is the one I make every
year the only time I successfully
reigned in my diet is when HBO was
hanging over my head like a sword of
Damocles and I just can't live like this
anymore I can I can't have so many
Snickers ice cream bars and you know
what your Snickers ice cream bars Ronin
those Ronin bottom box at five eight one
and left town Jon what kind of monster
Jon love Snickers ice cream I want to
credit you for having Snickers ice cream
bars I wrote down I want to eat worse
smarter okay if I'm home alone in my
house interesting I will have five
peanutbutter spoons without thinking
twice about it that is a thoroughly
disgusting habit you're hoping we're all
being quite a bunch of Charlotte's right
now that is that is like eating an
entire chocolate I don't get what that
means that's like eating a whole cake
it's okay to have a Snickers ice
it's okay to have wings for lunch along
with your sandwich if it was an
accidental order like I just did I ate a
whole pizza for lunch that's true I
guess I want to eat out less and like
post mates less because and and Emily's
always trying to convince me to do this
she's like we can buy groceries we can
cook there'll be fresher foods it'll be
great and I'm always just like lazy and
say oh it's easier to post mates that
can't be good what I want to talk you
into is firing up that coffee maker dude
what I've been doing it this week come
on
because I was finally shamed enough when
we were when we were at the Hanukkah
celebration last week and everyone was
making fun of me for my Dunkin Donuts
coffee and sandwiches everyone just said
the Hanukkah celebration like I don't
know how you made that sound so not
Jewish is the first it was the first
Chanukah thing that I've been to the
Hanukkah celebration
you sound like Mike pence get
like a filter when like I got some
k-cups and I've been making coffee every
morning this other you have a kiss have
a k-cup machine we do it I just wasn't
even using that oh boy okay well buckle
up for the responses to using those
k-cup things oh no is that a prize that
 problem can I tell you a related
one to what you're saying I love it I
want to go to the gym less you don't
need to go to the gym he's not gonna you
don't know you don't you don't need to
go to such people are out there are
throwing their phones
volcanoes I'm not I'm not giving you the
standard this is like this is like
we're not in oh wait when they asked all
the candidates what's your great John
Edwards like I help women across the
street from a toxic I'm doing literally
the opposite of that which is I use
resolutions are like I would like to
read more books I want to go to the gym
less you don't have to go to the gym if
you don't eat the five handfuls of trail
mix every time you walk into the crooked
media kitchen Tommy I so appreciate that
I'm that spirit I resolve this year to
start smoking
[Laughter]
I really want to read more I want to
write more no I'm gonna do it I'm gonna
do I feel like I can keep mine a little
easier yeah going to the gym less that's
a that's a that's when you can knock off
in January and then the gyms are crowded
with the people who made the opposite
resolution let's see I plan to either
keep up with slack more or remove myself
from slack but it's we're good we're
going it's the only way out is through
either way here's how here's how our
company goes Tom we're sitting in our
office and and and we'll all be on slack
because that's how we all communicate in
this company and we'll say something
like can you believe that story about
George pop it out like it sounds like
he's like what was on it's like like two
hours ago
we've been all talking about it for two
hours in this company maybe I was I da
ting I resolve to not use that word
again I was busy I da ting so you want
to so you wanna you select more or not
at all yeah it's one of the other the
the current the current lukewarm slack
use that I'm you offering is terrible
how's your resolution about your desk or
what's happened with your dust you want
to tell me what's happened we laid the
contacts yet John John and I sit
together in a room we have three desks
we have a little couch we have a
speakerphone love it's death has gotten
so covered and but it's no longer
usable now he is real so you sit on the
couch and now two thirds of the couch
and chairs are also covered in backpacks
the other day he sorted his mail on the
character that happened I know he's
trying to push us out of the office now
he now he now resides in like 60% of the
office um look
did I need some lead wounds from yes no
so my desk was messy during the period
of time in which we were traveling
touring doing the HBO show my desk is
now clean and yet I can't bring myself
to go back there I'm a couch man I'm
gonna go back to the desk I'm gonna go
back to the desk but I've loved the
couch lifestyle first of all you have I
can see all the way down the office from
one end all the way to the other right I
can see the whole empire the initial
politics are no I can see the whole
thing and so I like that but I hear you
I hear you
another resolution I have here it says I
will delete Facebook Twitter Email and
tax the only way to reach me will be to
call me whoa
that's not gonna happen I'm gonna have
it out but it is the dream it is the
dream
that's like Jack going to Burma for a
while you know that's just cutting it
all off well so my money's on slack Oh
Jack my big resolution sort of has to do
with social media I I'm not gonna
resolve to not use Twitter I am going to
resolve to use Twitter differently
because it has become I think it has
broken my brain it has permanently
altered my brain chemistry I am an
angrier person when I use it I am more
cynical when I use it
there's too much nastiness on there
there's too much anger on there and I
think most importantly Twitter as people
who do politics for a living as we all
do like Twitter just does not accurately
represent what most people in the
country think about how they feel how
they act how they speak and it is sort
of warping our perception of what
politics is by just following the same
 people and the same
fights all the time can I respond to
your resolution but yeah that ain't it
chief exactly there's also as I just
demonstrated a terrible broken boring
redundant lexicon on Twitter that just
makes everyone in every conversation
dumber your Twitter jokes aren't funny
after people have used them the first
thousand times you told me this in
private I think that's right
like an editor I don't know I mean I'm
taking suggestions on how to use it
differently like already over the last
couple weeks like I'm not getting in
Twitter fights anymore I don't wanna do
that I'm trying to stay out of my
mentions more both of you appeal back
very well I think yeah I'm proud of you
I want to get out of the mentions more I
want to I want to have my tone be a
little bit better on Twitter like I want
to try to have my Twitter tone match I
realized on how I would talk to people
real life I don't go up to strangers on
the street and start screaming at them
about medicare-for-all I just I don't do
that I would like maybe should
start I would like to have debates with
people in real life when I don't agree
my I sit and have a debate or I like you
know we get into it but I don't do what
I do on Twitter half the time I think
that I think two things about Twitter I
think one of the biggest problems of
Twitter is the illusion that you're
actually that it's actually important to
keep up with the stories and information
that spreads on Twitter in real time as
if the world is changing so quickly and
and and so much information that is
important is being sort of released in
real time but if you don't keep up with
it you'll fall behind you'll lose the
thread you won't know what's important
anymore
the world doesn't change as fast as
Twitter it wants you to think it does it
just doesn't like big a lot of little
things happen that we forget about if we
went through some of the things we have
tweeted about in the past year we
wouldn't have retained them nor should
we have because they weren't that
important and so to me like the two
things about Twitter is one it is the
illusion that there's something
happening when there's nothing happening
or when something important is happening
when actually something small is
happening that everybody's talking about
that's one and the other is the idea
that that's it that's the only one no
and that's that's the addictive quality
to it too and that's that's my problem
is like I don't go on therefore the
Twitter mobs and the flame wars and all
that I go on there because I
need to be updated on the news every 10
seconds and the question is why do I
need that update all the time and I
don't think that I do you definitely
don't no one does because here's the
thing if your worldview was so soft and
fragile that it was malleable based on
these tiny little developments every
single day that there was information
that you needed to learn to adjust your
perspective adjust your expectations
yeah you'd be a ridiculous person well
you'd be a ridiculous useless person and
what did people for some reason one of
the worst things about being a public
figure I think is being asked to comment
on silly stuff all the time like it
would drive us crazy when we were Barack
Obama spokespeople but people in on
Twitter take that thing over for
themselves they force themselves to
comment on all the time for no
reason like Tommy Vito's statement on
the American flag being removed from the
scene in first man that buzz aldrin
starts like what are we doing here
of time and the reason I say I want to
learn how to use it differently is
because there are plenty of good parts
about Twitter like you get all kinds of
information you wouldn't get otherwise
you hear from all kinds of experts in
really smart people in fields that you
and you wouldn't encounter those people
on a daily basis so that's fascinating
we some of the best parts of being Erica
media have been like people who went out
to canvass who tweeted us and tweet
pictures and we're voting for the first
time and we're registering people for
the first time like that part's
wonderful I want to keep up with that
part but I can't I can't with all the
and it's just like the Twitter mobs and
the pylons of people and it's like
there's some people and it's fortunately
it's not us but there's some people who
just all day long all it happens is they
get attacked by people they're just out
there and sometimes they trigger it and
other people and I'm just watching it
I'm like wait no one has anything better
to do than like Duncan I'm not
even gonna say yeah we always say in
mind we all need the stage and
intervention for some friend but no a
whole bunch of other people just likes
to you have better things to do then
pick one random personality on Twitter
and just go after them all the time it's
this feeling of like it's this toxic
thing our brains are not meant to have
so many people in our faces all the time
tens of thousands hundreds of thousands
of human beings who get to who who are
basically standing in front of you for
five seconds at a time being like I
think IOC is dumb that man that
person's gone like no no wait wait you
know you didn't say that about these
Republicans who know funny changes
coming also Trump has a crime also
imagine imagine if every tweet was read
one of time out loud to your faces they
were going by you'd have to
you'd have to like it's a lot of
humanity to rivers it did you see that
New York Times well that's a waste of
time
yeah there was bad that's the other is
you lose sort of perspective and
proportionality of like what stories are
important since there's like a leveling
aspect of Twitter so that every story
that comes by your feed seems like it's
the same but they're not the same some
are far more important than other
stories yeah I mean that's why you know
Trump Trump is the perfect embodiment of
the Twitter idea he learns everything
from it and he'll say things like I'm
gonna fire Robert Muller
I'm gonna do trade sanctions megyn kelly
sucks all on the same level all equal
footing Jesse Watters new book yeah one
level you know there was I've talked you
know the podcast right I saw this movie
called the exterminating angel which is
an old film about a group of fancy
people at a dinner party who discover
they can't leave the party and they
slowly go insane and it really stuck
with me it's a great movie
but it really stuck with me as an
analogy for Twitter because all it took
to make this group of fancy people lose
their minds
rip apart the walls attack each other
kill a goat was not being able
to leave spoiler you know all the all
the talk about algorithms all the talk
about monopoly all the talk about the
abuses of these companies their failure
to treat their customers well their
failure to treat our privacy while all
of its valid but the greatest trick they
ever pulled was convincing us we
couldn't leave because the second we
thought we couldn't leave we turned into
 animals I also wrote down and
read more tweet less as I try to tweet
less and spend less time on Twitter I
want to read more I want to write more I
want to play piano more like I have
other skills in life that I want to
actually do maybe watch some movies yeah
we're gonna get you to see some
movies okay or your blind spots on film
are extraordinary I do some self
deprecation on this front please sure I
want to watch more great stuff and I'm
gonna list some shows that I haven't
finished the series of Atlanta The
Sopranos Mad Men dear white people
the Americans Friday Night Lights
insecure better call Saul That's So
Raven why deny yourself why deny
yourself this joy and like watch
the Great British baking show every
night when you fall asleep a great show
it's nice to fall asleep too but I could
I could stand takes me you know I'm very
jealous of you Tommy that you have a lot
of those shows left to watch though what
lane is on my list is amazing so I says
we're gonna use our phones less and
tweet less and not use our phones in
meeting something the three of us have
talked about everything I'm gonna read
some I'm gonna read the first few from
the AFI 100 you to say have you've seen
it Oh
ready Citizen Kane yes nope
yes Casablanca no no yes The Godfather
yes yes yes
Gone with the Wind no yes Lawrence of
Arabia no no Larry no Larry The Wizard
of Oz yes yes the Graduate yes yes on
the waterfront no no yes never even
heard of that it's one with the rabbits
right
I'm the waterfront that's Watership done
I don't know what you're talking about
Schindler's List yeah of course all
right Pro Holocaust we haven't seen
Schindler's List calm the it Johnny
VDS over here singing in the rain no yes
Mary Poppins It's a Wonderful Life yes
yes no it's wonderful I've never seen it
wait looks I I got it
you know we'll see for you it's small
tea it's melted although I recently
watched mr. Smith goes to Washington and
I enjoyed it
Sunset Boulevard no that's how I'm a
gate one because I've seen simplified
all right we made it through 12 I think
sometimes it's hard to feel better than
I thought I had to dig in
have you seen Star Wars yes but Robert
Gibbs tried to fire John because he
hadn't seen like Caddyshack and all
these sort of an animal house for the
comedy sort of cultural scene all about
know and I hadn't seen Chinatown and
then Barack Obama made me go home and
watch that that's not my god that is a
humble brag for all that's a cool
habit in Chinatown so Barack Obama made
me watch it yeah you know I never I
hadn't seen a psycho the Pope had me
what I've never many years of her
speeches a long Lovitz last joke one
things I wrote down was I want to be
more blunt I think there's a delta
between what we text each other and what
we say into these microphones I want to
shrink that gap as much as possible
especially because we're gonna be
talking about the Democratic Party it
does us no good to pull punches well
tell you what the be on Twitter less is
gonna help with that yeah it's actually
it's central essential to it I wrote be
more honest about my criticism of
Democrats and then I said I'll start
right now my threshold but it's not
necessary but not sufficient is for any
senator who wants to be President is to
making sure they don't sound like a
 senator and right now
yikes that's my good one that's my first
I'm gonna dipping my toe in I think
you're right I want to get out of the
office more I think sometimes we get
trapped in here the great thing about
going on tour as you get out you meet
people like Demetrius like folks we've
met along the way who just change the
way we think about things open your eyes
to different issues but sometimes your
work rhythm turns into a rut and you
come in and you tweet and you record and
you leave and I want to do that less on
the flip side of the be blunt and say
what we think about Democrats for the
primary trim your sails no I think about
something to love it you wrote this when
we were I think talking about the
mission of this company at the very
beginning there's a phrase we said we
should be patient with our allies yes
which I think was a really great phrase
and I do think like we should all
disagree and we should have debates and
we should be honest about what we think
but there is something to be said for
being patient and not always questioning
the motivations of at the very least
people who share our goals values
beliefs in a broad way debate policies
not motives yeah and in character too
like I think that we like this is gonna
be a very fine line in the next year is
that there's gonna be some serious
fights and debates on policy among all
these Democrats running we should have
those debates and we shouldn't shy from
them but at the same time like we we
have to remember that we all share the
same broad goal here and we can't get to
the point where someone has been so
attacked or you know by by other people
in primary that we end up with a nominee
who's been you know got the kicked
out of that person by 15 other Democrats
and then Trump uses all those attacks in
the general and we're nowhere good so
good yeah I would say one other thing I
want to do speaking of just being on
Twitter lesson being in that kind of
soup less is not lose the forest for the
trees and you know as much as we want to
cover what's going
on this week what's going on today and
sort of keeping people up to date with
everything that's going on I also want
to remember the kind of longer-term
trends that I care about whether they're
economic or cultural and some of the
hardest things I think to talk about are
the kind of ever-present atmosphere
realities that are hard to understand
and hard to change and so for one of
them that I'm gonna try to do more of is
I want to talk about authenticity less
and I want to talk about integrity more
and I because I think we actually are
using them interchangeably it's
something I've you know I've talked
about it before but I just I'm gonna cyi
even still use it as a shorthand and so
I'm gonna start pointing it out when I
see more and more like when I see this
idea of authenticity as this thing we're
supposed to be striving towards I want
to talk more about why I think that's
wrong and why I think it's been part of
the problem in our politics cool anyone
else got one I want to follow a sports
team in a in an almost psychotic manner
I like I love all things Boston sports
the Red Sox the Celtics of Patriots I
don't really watch the lot Bruins game
since I was 12 but they're good but I
have to admit that I really only watched
regular season Patriots games I don't
want to hear your about how
they cheat they're a fantastic franchise
John loved it so I want to pick a new
team I didn't say a word it could be a
perm you said it last night love or
leave it I heard it it could be a
Premier League team it could be a MLS
soccer going the right way really of the
Rams
well it's week 14 to be tough but um but
it'd be fun just watch them day-in
day-out and other players are the NZ
outs get a little crazy and be that kind
of guy cool
one last one sure please oh I want to be
a bit more grateful in 2019 I was think
about I was gonna have that one too and
I want to do it I want to stop having to
remind myself to do it that I I guess
like you know when I'm frustrated by
small things which happens a lot because
you know we have this company now and
it's incredibly exciting but there's a
lot of moving pieces there's a lot of
people there's a lot of things that have
to go right and people things go wrong
sometimes things don't go the way you
expect things are hard and I sometimes I
think get frustrated we all get
frustrated but I want to remember in
those moments that there's always gonna
be that when a thousand things go right
and
and doesn't go wrong that's good that's
really good yeah this one remember this
is the calm before the storm last year
is the best medicine so don't get your
knickers in two twists and I want to use
fewer cliches whatever oh wow we walked
down a very long pier to get to the end
of that one leave it up so yeah I also
think I want to spend more time with and
communicating with friends and family
because like I think because of our job
and because we're so into
politics all the time that takes up so
much mind chair and then we're tired at
the end of the week and you like don't
have anything to do and you just want to
like read a little bit more and then go
like I need to just get out and
talk to all the people in my life a
little bit more I'd like you to meet
someone someone you might like your
brother John let me meet someone you
know well for the first time he's gonna
text us on the weekends - anything else
any parting words yeah more cliches for
you Tommy
that's all I got I think I think you
guys will enjoy hearing from Aaron Lewis
from IRA from others TBD that we have
been recorded yet we're asking asking
everybody so yeah so here's everyone
else it crooked and happy new year
everyone Happy New Year happy new year
I think I believe this song plays at the
end of it's a wonderful life right yeah
this this um this arrangement really
reminds me of the shining just took it
down which part of the shining when he's
in the the bar when he's in the bar if
tiny is nothing oh yeah when they're
pulling back
I didn't I have no yeah you've got seen
that shiny
oh you know what maybe we'll get you a
sand box little shovel you can play with
while the well the Tommy and I watch the
 shining I do but that was a good
one it's a it's a cycle I feel like
really that's also one of those old ones
I feel like I've seen every scene from
the shining because it's such a cultural
yeah but when you see him in order boy
[Laughter]
you
