so I have wanted to talk to you ever
since I first read the speech you gave
about your decision to take that in the
Confederate monuments
thank you and and I will tell you you
know I spend a lot of my career writing
speeches with Barack Obama and writing
speeches about race with Barack Obama
and that to me was one of the best
speeches on race that that I've ever
read and I was just wondering can you
talk about how it is that a white
southern guy decided to write a speech
like that where did that speech come
from yeah from New Orleans I mean you
know our city
you only have to spend a minute here to
know that this is a city that's that's
deeply rooted in love and caring and
affection and our we bleed diversity as
a strength not a weakness kind of who we
are and so um a lot of people had been
trying to take those monuments down for
a long time and I certainly didn't do it
by myself a lot of people helped I think
about I think about a retic a so Haley
and Lola sealion and a lot of a lot of
really important folks memorial both
memorials worked on it but in the south
and we continue to struggle and of
course nationally now with what's going
on in Virginia with the issue of race
and we've never in this country
acknowledged although there have been
some people that have talked about the
original sin of slavery and we've never
really kind of gone through the
discussion of race and racial
reconciliation the way that we need to
which is why we can't exercise it from
who we are as a country and while we're
never ever going to get to be that more
perfect union that President Obama
talked about and in his echoing of dr.
King about the arc of the moral universe
bends towards justice
we always down here edit but somebody
has got to do the bending and as we were
everybody in probably everybody in here
got beat to death by Katrina some of our
brothers and sisters literally 1800
people City got destroyed 500 thousand
homes her 250,000 gone
everybody in here lost I mean like
really important stuff and as we started
to rebuild the city
one of the things that the people the
city gave me permission to do and which
we all did together was to start trying
to rebuild the city but we had to we had
to really look hard at ourselves and
this was a really a miracle that you
guys should should just Pat yourselves
on the back for we didn't build it back
the way it was we realized that on
August 28 2005 when that storm hit and
it destroyed everything that it wasn't
perfect today it hit and if we're gonna
build it back we kind of started
thinking about what would it look like
if we got it right the first time and so
when we started doing that besides
building back our schools and eye health
clinics and hospitals and the new
airport by the way what you're gonna
love it's gonna be open and mad you're
gonna love it
the public the public spaces came into
focus for us and what happened what
happened to me personally was in 2014
which was a good four and a half years
ago when I started thinking about how to
commemorate the 300th anniversary
because we're older than the country by
the way yeah everybody else is welcome
louia first we were here first
getting it on together having a good
time hanging out mini Jazz Fest a long
long time ago went and I asked I asked
went Marsalis who I grew up with it
helped me curate the 300th anniversary I
mean how would we do it what would it
look like how long would it take and he
said I'll do that for you he says but I
want you to do something for me and I
said what it goes I want you to think
about taking
robert e lee down and i I mean honestly
no I swear and I said no honestly
honestly I swear I said I mean my first
reaction was not good I was like what
what what did you say he goes you ought
to think about taking that down and I
said well well why would I do that I
mean it was such a startling thing and
he said yep this is what he said to me
he said have you ever thought about it
from my perspective and I said I said
went and I've walked by those monuments
every day of my life and no I haven't he
goes would you do me a favor he goes
will you think about it from my
perspective and he said oh by the way he
said you know Louis Armstrong never came
back here and
because of that those monuments and when
he when he said that to me massage being
embarrassed I thought to myself it was
like getting hit in the head with a ton
of bricks because I had known already
about the great diaspora and how many of
our fellow Americans left the south and
took their intellectual capital their
raw material or their raw talent to New
York into Baltimore and to st. Louis and
the Chicago into Los Angeles and all of
our people are like helping people learn
how to cook and dance and being doctors
all over the country and and all of our
stuff like we did post Katrina where we
got up in everybody's pot around the
country that happened back in the day
and so I just thought about how much we
had lost because you know our folks were
not here and so as I started to to do
what went and asked me to do which was
really think about it from his
perspective it became pretty clear to me
pretty quickly number one that those
monuments were a lie that that in
essence in essence what they were were
was revering an individual for doing
something that was contrary to what the
values of the United States of America
ever stood for and and and it was done
for the for the purpose of preserving
slavery so here we were in a majority
african-american city here's a guy named
Robert Lee who had never been here or if
he was he he was here for a minute and
and we were revering him for trying to
destroy the United States of America for
the purpose of preserving slavery and I
and I thought to myself you know that's
not the New Orleans that I know and
that's not the New Orleans that we're
trying to build so if I 300th
anniversary is coming and we're trying
to reflect to the rest of the world that
diversity is a strength not a weakness
and that we're an inclusive society then
that thing really couldn't stay there
but I really did say to myself you know
I'm not sure I'm responsible for that
and then I found out that actually the
city owned it and the Mayor was directly
responsible for it so I was like oh hell
you know how like you try to get out of
my Greg in the leaves but you know
mama says you're gonna do it so you have
doubts when I first started I didn't I
didn't want to spend we were rebuilding
the city right we were building the
streets I was filling the potholes
fixing the lights you know $470,000 by
the way trying and and everybody working
frogs and we had a we felt we fill
470,000 I'm sorry I know we got a lot
more I had to I had to I had to explain
I had to when we decided to take him
down I think I was at I was at a meeting
of racial reconciliation and I said
something really simply I said I think
we ought to start thinking about taking
the monuments down and I'm telling you
all hell broke loose when I said that
and all of a sudden everybody in the
world who wasn't from here that doesn't
own a piece of New Orleans I thought
they could tell us what to do went crazy
and said you can't take him down so we
went through about I don't know two and
a half years thirteen judges seven
lawsuits a lot of yelling and screaming
at the City Council and at the
legislature and we finally got it but I
thought I had to explain to the country
and particularly to the people of New
Orleans why we did what we did and I
intended to write a speech that would
course correct history and that actually
is a was a direct refutation to a speech
that was given on the day that it was
put up by a guy named Charles Fenner and
and I wrote the speech so that when
people read it years from now they would
see that a mayor who was a Confederate
General by the soldier by the way a
Confederate officer who was the mayor
back then mayor behan and Charles Fenner
on the day that they put it up
I wanted to directly challenge the fact
that they had made it a historical error
that it was a lie and that we were going
to course-correct history and then write
the reason for it and that's why I wrote
the speech
so thinking about history my wife always
says that one of the most difficult
things to explain in our history books
is going to be that the first black
president of the United States was
followed by Donald Trump and and not
only that but that there were a lot of
voters not just in the South but in
every region of this country who voted
twice for Barack Obama and then voted
for Donald Trump and I know you spend a
lot of time thinking about this what do
you think about those voters why they
did that and sort of how we can move out
of this place that we're in right now
well first of all I'm very unhappy about
it
yeah we're sure I'm very unhappy about
it I did not vote for Donald Trump I'm
unhappy that he got elected but I did
think like every American should that
when you have a new president that that
hopefully the president of whoever that
person is that occupies that office and
you've been there and you work there you
know what it is and you understand what
I'm saying that every human being that
is that got any sense of humanity in
their body would be formed by the
majesty of that office and even I know
and and it's it's such an ominous
awesome place and it's got so much power
that almost every human being that's
occupied that space has gotten better
over time even though they've made
mistakes it's just it's just that that
weight of that office has a way of doing
that to you and so early on I was I was
hopeful that that was going to happen to
him but it became very clear pretty soon
that this guy is very different than
anybody that's ever stepped in that
office and that he's denigrated it and
he has he has continued to every day
almost in a in a weird kind of way
dumbed down the office of the presidency
lower than anybody would ever think that
it would go
so I think I can't get into the heads of
people that voted for Obama and then
voted for Trump
other than to say that we ought to all
be aware of the fact that that happened
all right and then ask ourselves well
what was the environment we're in
somebody who voted for Obama would vote
for Trump what kind of pain with a and
they obviously were not cast in a racial
vote at that time they were thinking
about something else now having said
that one of the things that President
Trump has done and I think he does he
does it purposefully intentionally in
tact tactically is he has unleashed this
sense that white supremacy and white
nationalism and hatred and racism is
okay and a lot of people have begun to
to speak overtly about this and we
continue to struggle with this in the
country in a way that we have to be very
forceful in pushing back against so
whether it's voter suppression whether
it's mass incarceration a criminal
justice system that doesn't work
black faith I mean all of that stuff is
a it's it's kind of the same string in a
long history of oppression that we have
got to confront as Americans and get
past and get beyond because we're never
ever going to be the country that we
want to be if we don't really value that
proposition that diversity is a strength
and New Orleans I say this to you the
people who want to understand this
really well we actually get it down here
although we have a long way to go and
we're not perfect we kind of like
hanging out with each other and being
together
and it's not that we don't it's not that
we don't have challenges in New Orleans
but it's very very different from other
places but we obviously in a very
difficult moment and we're being led in
the wrong direction by a man that does
not have a good heart and doesn't have a
good mind relating to this particular
subject now last question you have
recently said that you are leaning
against running for president and in
2020 what what's what's maybe you decide
that and then what specific qualities
are you looking for in the Democratic
nominee for president well first of all
you know it's a very hard thing to do
you've been there before there are a lot
of other great people running and and my
sense of it is right now that the field
is really crowded and there gonna be a
lot of great candidates every one of
whom is gonna be better than Donald
Trump so I think that that's that's
alright I struggle I struggle though and
you guys may not like what I'm about to
tell you but I struggle with with a
couple of different things my heart and
my head and y'all were having this
discussion just a minute ago about
policy and what you would like to see
happen and which one of these candidates
you think is going to articulate where
they might be on issues that are great
importance to you I think that
tactically the only thing we ought to
think about is who is the person that
can best and most assuredly beat Donald
Trump period end of story
and that's gonna that's gonna require
what do you think how do you measure
that how do you measure who can that's
that's a well first of all I I couldn't
breathe I could not believe what I was
watching and I would have bet a million
dollars that morning that Hillary
Clinton was gonna be the next president
United States so I think we have to be
very smart and as we struggle with these
these aspirational and very important
visions how do you have a great and
clean environment how do you beat back
climate change I mean look the people in
this audience know a lot about the
impact
of the coast disappearing our coastline
goes away a hundred yards every 45
minutes now and it's shrinking and the
Seas rising and we're not getting any
nutrients into our March from the
Mississippi River and into 50 to 100
years New Orleans as you know it's gonna
look very different unless we do
something dramatically different so they
know right but but I'll say this as we
get into the primaries I think that we
have to be very smart I think there
should be an aggressive primary I think
people ought to have to fight like crazy
to get the nomination I think they ought
to have good thoughtful ideas but I
think we ought to be all smart enough to
make sure that the person standing is
standing well standing tall standing
strong so they can do the thing that we
absolutely need because here's the thing
if you don't win you cannot govern I
mean you just got to remember that as we
go forward and so we're gonna have to
struggle through this tension of how far
and how fast we go on matters that are
really really important to us into the
future the country knowing that the
country is generally split even if there
was another Republican in office so if
Trump's not there the next guy standing
in line is Pence not good I'm just
saying you got you got to think about
these things this is chess it's not
checkers do you think do you think a
Democrat can get elected president
speaking as honestly and powerfully as
you did about race in America well
honestly I don't I hope so I mean I just
think that I mean this is just me I'm
free I mean I'm not elected anymore I
mean I'm a I'm an old politician that's
unemployed basically I mean that's kind
of what I am but uh but I did find I did
find in my later years of elected office
the freedom to speak my mind and you all
gave me the freedom to do that and what
you got from me was kind of like my
unvarnished opinion about what needs to
be I've been doing this 30 years I'm 58
years old and by the way I became a
grandpa today Oh
next actually grace Landrieu was born
this morning at 7:30 and I'm a pop all
y'all call me Papa Papa Mitch but but
once you get to this point you kind of
just have to say to people look I've
been doing this for 30 years I have a
pretty good sense of what works and what
doesn't work
I know the difference between advocating
I was a legislator for 16 years and
that's mostly what legislators do they
come up with big ideas and then they
they're one of when I was in the
legislature I was one of 105 in Congress
you won a 435 you've got to put
something together and you can be
content with just advocating for
something that you know is not gonna
pass so that you can move the ball down
the field but at some point time if it's
gonna become law and everybody's going
to be governed by it you're gonna have
to compromise and that's hard for us to
do and the next president United States
praying that it's a Democrat is gonna
take over a country that is divided at
least 60/40 maybe 55 45 you're gonna
have a Congress that split down the
middle and if you don't want them to
stay in status you've got to find a way
to move forward but you got to get the
votes and if you have the votes you can
do something and if you don't have the
votes you can't so this I heard your
question about Nancy Pelosi who I very
much liked and have tremendous respect
for she we should not we should not
ignore her years of experience she is
the one that put Obamacare over the
finish line in the house when she was
there so if you go when you say as
Democrats we believe investing in brains
by investing in early childhood
education and and primary and secondary
in high school we can even work a
training if we believe in really dealing
with climate change if we believe really
in health care all of which by the way
are a national security issue because
the Department of Defense the other day
said if you really want the country to
be strong I got to have smart people got
to have healthy people and by the way
climate changes are gonna wipe out a
whole bunch of bases so we ought to pay
attention to them there is the
convergence between domestic policy
national security and foreign policy and
it fits very nicely if we're smart
enough about how to actually get it done
and I think the next whoever the nominee
is
should be a person of experience they
should be a person that can stabilize
the country immediately they should be a
person that can restore the nation's
credibility at home and abroad as we
speak and then they should whoever he or
she is begin to prepare aggressively for
the future by reaching down to a young
generation of leaders and lift them up
Mayor Mitch Landrieu's thank you so much
right you guys thank y'all
you
