welcome to pod save the world this is
Tommy Vitor in the studio with Ben
Rhodes but it won't great to have you
man we have a packed show today first
our friend Kelly Maggs men will dial in
to talk about Trump's designation to
designate the Iranian Revolutionary
Guard a terrorist organization so you'll
hear from her she's an expert then we're
gonna talk about the Israeli elections
Chinese spies trying to infiltrate
mar-a-lago personnel issues the
president Sisi visits the Oval Office
from Egypt and then you know Sudan and
some of the Arab Spring to point no like
things we're seeing across northern
Africa and then brexit after that you'll
hear an interview I taped last week with
a author named Patrick Brad and Keith he
is an incredible incredible new book out
called say nothing it's about the IRA in
the troubles in Northern Ireland it's
one of the best books I've ever read and
it also is really relevant today because
brexit could reignite the troubles in
the conflict that really destroyed
Northern Ireland for a long time so pack
shell and let's get into it so go to
Kelly here
you
they'll soon know whether our best
friend Bibi Netanyahu is still in charge
of Israel but of course noah's
reelection would be complete without a
bunch of super up desperate
eleventh-hour haymakers so the first one
was Netanyahu announcing that he plans
to annex settlements in the West Bank no
huge surprise there is entire supporti
party supports that position but no
Palestinian Prime Minister has done that
yet
Israeli I'm sorry no no Israeli Prime
Minister is on that yet but the the like
good party also it was reported today
apparently hired twelve hundred people
to secretly film Arab voters in polling
locations so that is deeply racist as we
were recording this we don't know beb√©s
fate yet but there is a chance that win
or lose he just killed off any hope of a
two-state solution so thanks for that BB
what do you make of this election then
what are you looking for well I you know
I I think people have to recognize you
know it's always kind of strange for me
to see like he'll come out and say he's
gonna annex the West Bank and and people
act like oh my god they're shocked like
this is what the guys been doing for ten
years and the settlements have been
building have been a de facto annexation
he's already said there won't be two
states that's gonna swatch the Golan
Heights annexation clearly foreshadowed
what they could do in the West Bank so
I'm getting a little tired frankly if
people you know in the media or in
politics being like wow you know
shocking moved by be be like know
they've been telegraphing this for a
long time it's not only the death knell
to this to two-state solution but it's
really the transition of Israel
potentially into being an apartheid
state we just just say it I mean what
else is it you know you know when you
have millions of Palestinians living
there without any rights I don't know I
know this is super controversial
language but I well please tell me what
it is if you have millions of people
living and you're within your borders
who have no status who can't vote you
know we have to start talking about that
reality because that's where this is
going on the filming Arabs voting again
it's it's it's like here in the US where
and again to be fair that
singing Israel out we've seen these
anti-democratic practices around voting
and around national identity in a bunch
of Western countries but like again
let's let's kind of not sugarcoat this I
often you know the the standard talking
points about the USA's relationship are
about our shared democratic values like
are those part of our shared values like
I'd like the next politician who you
know stands up at a packing is a an
homage to the shared democratic values
to be asked well when a bunch of thugs
go around you know trying to intimidate
Arabs by videotaping them in as a vote
like is that yeah what part of the
democratic values is that Fitz upper to
democratic yeah I mean so BBB is very
good at solving a near-term problem for
them so let it go in this case to get
elected potentially in creating a much
larger or long term problems so if if
they just annex all these settlements if
they essentially take control over the
whole West Bank that would mean what 2.8
million Palestinians are now part of a
greater Israel UW state solution now the
question then becomes do they have both
voting rights are they allowed to get
dissipate in politics and then you get
to the point that you made earlier which
is how is that a democracy no and it
says this is just uncomfortable but like
because it's 2.8 million Palestinians on
top of the you know Arabs you already
live in Israel I've been somewhat down
created in recent years as the nation's
daily yeah and so we you know people
have been trying to point this out for a
long time and more Obama giving a big
speech about this at APEC intentionally
went APEC saying you cannot have a
Jewish state in a democracy without a
two-state solution because if it's a
Jewish state in which Arabs are
second-class citizens that's not going
to be democracy if you have one state
solution that is a democracy it's not
going to be necessarily Jewish in
character because you could actually
have a Palestinian majority yeah in this
borders this is a conundrum now
BB's whole plan all along we've always
said and I've thought like he wants to
get the next election he makes his
Alliance approval communes but but maybe
this was the goal I mean maybe actually
the method was it he wants annexed the
West Bank and he's on the precipice of
doing that and with the US
administration that will back him in
anything he wants to do
you could see that what we don't know is
what will the Palestinians do how would
they react mass nonviolent resistance is
there a danger of another Intifada you
know there there there other actress
your other than Bibi and Trump and it
could be very volatile situation but I
do think as we've talked about you know
exhaustively on this pot but importantly
people can't like kind of hide under the
table on this issue anymore you know
like they can't just say well I'm for
two-state solution but we can't pressure
Israel and we share democratic values
what I don't we don't share values with
a country that would have 2.8 million
people who've been under military
occupation and absorbed and denied any
rights in that country and so we need to
be having a conversation now about what
it means if that's where this is going
yeah interestingly Pete Budaj came out
and criticized Netanyahu's announcement
about annexing the these settlements
better O'Rourke referred to some of
Netanyahu's comments as racist so I was
then I saw some people being like wow
wow Beto said what is he if he's not
racist like this is the same problem we
go with here with Trump like this is a
man who trashes Arabs repeatedly who
backs settlers who commit acts of
violence against Arabs who's got people
on his behest out videotaping people
voting and and people saying better you
know wow what would you call that you
know what's the polite way of
identifying that feels pretty clear-cut
so we're sitting here I think polls have
closed we don't know the outcome
Bennigan's has been running a pretty
strong campaign it's an alternative to
the Bibi Netanyahu and the way the
Israeli political system works is it's
wildly complicated proportional
representation so you've like I think
for tea parties of running they each
need to hit a 3.25% vote share to get
representation in the Knesset after that
the parties have to build a coalition so
that they can form a government it's
complicated so we'll know more next week
but you know tough way to close out the
election guys yeah and and I will say
you know like I we don't know yet but
your Bibi tends to find ways to eat this
thing out always cobbled together his
coalition and even if
Kahn's kind of matches him and vote
total like you know B B's a survivor for
a reason and it's always because he
moves to the right and I'm not sitting
here with a lot of optimism yeah neither
but I'm I would be happy to be surprised
I would be too
so okay turning to sparse spies in Bihar
Lago so on March 30th a Chinese woman
was arrested trying to Kinnison Lago she
said she wanted to use the pool she was
carrying four cell phones a bunch of
hard drives including some loaded with
spyware so you know standard pool stuff
yep yeah you get the blow-up donut or
whatever in your spyware it turns out
that when investigators went to her
hotel room there's even more gear
including a device that detects hidden
cameras with radio waves that's pretty
cool 9 USB drives and 5 SIM cards I
guess a Secret Service agent put one of
those into his laptop that's not the
best practice they're just everybody
listening so been like this person is
clearly a foreign spy foreign
governments are gonna run spies at us
that's not Trump's fault that's gonna
always happen but we never really talked
about the fact that the president United
States spends like every weekend at a
club in the with 200 grand can
be a member it's like such an obvious
reliable glaring intelligent target like
compare compare mar-a-lago to how
hardened the White House is or Campbell
is why they'll crazy they say this is
why they built Camp David right I mean
the whole reason to build this
retreat deep in the desert if not desert
deep in the woods of Maryland is so you
can go someplace to be totally secure
and private right and and you've got
this club who near as I can tell has a
membership that's a bunch of trashy rich
people grifters like right-wing suck-ups
and foreign spies like that's who's
hanging out at the pool at
marvel at mar-a-lago you know like I
don't when I go on vacation
like I'd like to be around some you know
interesting like-minded people generally
not around a bunch of like
right-wing hucksters in in foreign spies
don't the editor of news Mac well there
were these pictures of Trump like having
meetings about like North Korea in like
the dining room right there's all these
likes of these aging people with like
cell phone cameras like you think
they're not recording devices on samosa
and you think they're not some foreign
spies in there so this is insofar as
people knowing what's going on with
Donald Trump or penetrating our systems
this is a pretty freakin red light yeah
like we got the one spy dumb enough to
carry seven USB sticks and ask for the
pool is there's got to be 400 more that
got exactly and as the Secret Service
isn't isn't protecting the
infrastructure that's not their job and
guess what the Chinese aren't always
sending people who are Chinese you know
like they probably have some right-wing
grifters on their payroll and so well I
mean I don't know that for sure but I'm
just saying that they they have other
people that they can have do this the
important thing is as much as we cover
these issues in a new cycle way if you
stack this with the security clearance
thing right so they're giving security
clearances to people who are have been
deemed to be potential risks by our own
government very serious risk yeah
they've got people hanging out at
mar-a-lago who knows how compromised in
the last two years our national security
information has been like god only knows
like what what penetrations have been in
two systems or what secrets have been
shared that should really worry people
yeah it really worries people another
quick just note on personnel and best
practices so a reminder that we now have
an Acting Secretary of Defense this week
Trump purged basically the entire
leadership team at the department
Homeland Security area including the
Secret Service Director a siege had to
shake hand out till we got to the the
person he wanted to make the acting the
acting head so we also have an acting
secretary the interior acting SBA
administrator acting chief of staff so I
just want to know like there is a cost
in specially in foreign policy world to
staffing the government that way so like
an acting sect F is going to be treated
differently by a foreign leader than
your hand-picked guy a full-time chief
of staff can recruit a better team to
work for him or her they are
hamstringing themselves and again it's
the thing we don't really talk about
there hamstringing themselves and like
you say secretary defense who's acting
news just some Boeing lobbyists is not
gonna be taken seriously by other people
around the world this is not nobody's
gonna think he speaks to the president
nobody knows if he's gonna be around but
importantly Tommy there might be a
method to this
so Kelly referenced that this said
Defense Department was against the
designation of the right RDC we've known
in a lot of these interagency debate
the Defense Department has been against
what Trump wants to do because what
Trump wants to do is usually stupid and
and and they would potentially pay for
it and maybe they want a weak voice at
the table because I can guarantee you
that when they had the meeting on the
IRGC designation and and bolted and
Pompeyo came into that meeting loaded
for bear and the secretary defense has
to come make the case against it and
he's just some Boeing lobbyists instead
of Jim mattis right that's a big change
so they may one not just Trump but
people like Bolden and Pompeyo to kind
of leave this hanging i think that's
hugely responsible given that we've got
thousands of troops at war in harm's way
we've got you know millions of people
that work for the pentagon it shows a
fundamental disregard for this military
that Trump likes to wrap himself in yeah
president of Egypt came to Washington
today president Abdel Fattah el-sisi
showed up in the Oval Office as he's
proposing some constitutional changes
that would undercut the judiciary expand
military control over the government and
you know I guess that's what I trouble
wish lists as well it has been six years
since Sisi deposed Mohamed Morsi and a
coup and the name of stability
unfortunately things have just gotten
worse not better
yeah it has not stopped Tim from locking
up protesters activists including some
American citizens yeah we're in jail
right now okay Egypt's an important
relationship they have been you know the
cornerstone of critical diplomatic work
over the years it's a important military
alliance all that stipulated do you
think Trump should have taken this
meeting no I mean and you don't have to
and it's not like we have some urgent
pressing matter of business with Egypt
and frankly I think we got it wrong we
should have called it a coup when he had
a coup but we'd also kind of ice the guy
and put some limits on what we did with
them but all that said I don't think you
do this it sends a message I mean not
that there needed to be another message
sent from Trump but it sends a message
that we just don't care about these
issues and I'll be honest like even if
even if CeCe's somewhat you know he's
gonna be around you can still make a
difference at least around the margins
and getting certain people out of prison
or getting the worst laws roll back like
there is
two thing as unsatisfactory but you know
still relevant human rights progress by
using some pressure and it looks like
they just don't care at all and so he's
for them to do this meeting as he's
changing the Constitution as he's kind
of increasing his Iron Fist rule of
Egypt it sends this kind of more
chilling message the same when we send
Muhammad Salman that that not only do we
not have concerns about this we're
validating we're actively validating
this repression and again in addition to
just how bad that is for activists and
and democracies supporters around the
world it makes us look completely full
of in Venezuela and Cuba when these
only two countries in the world where we
care about their we say we care about
these issues who's gonna believe that
when he's sitting there with Sisi give
me a foot rub it also just reminds me
that every time a democratically elected
leader comes to town whether it's or
Theresa May or whether Trump goes to
Europe or whether it's macron or Justin
Trudeau it results in some pissing match
yeah every time somehow authoritarian
strongman like Cece comes it's it's all
love in the whole office just think
about that like how backwards that is so
weird
yeah don't like it so Ben let's go to
Sudan for a minute so there have been
protesters holding sit-ins for several
nights in a row to call for the
resignation of to call for the
resignation of President Omar al-bashir
a reminder that Bashir just a
world-class he's the first
setting president to be indicted by the
International Criminal Court for crimes
against humanity war crimes and genocide
in Darfur
so last night security services
reportedly fired live ammunition to
break up the protests there were some
other reports that more rank-and-file
military members were protecting them so
I was interesting dynamic but what's
happening Sudan does seem to dovetail
with our conversation last week about
protests in Algeria calling for a
president bootiful eCos resignation they
seemed materially different than what's
happening in Libya where there's a lord
fighting the un-backed government I'm
just curious if you had thoughts on what
you're seeing in Sudan or Libya well I
think you're first of all in Sudan it is
pent-up frustration with
an awful corrupt repressive government
somewhat similar to Algeria the
circumstance is a little different that
Algiers prompted by the selection and
the weekend at bernie's nature of the
leader but there were commonalities
there in Libya what we have is
essentially the factionalism there that
has been grinding away for years is
coming to a boil where you have this
strongman heft our who's kind of
controlled eastern Libya and Benghazi
and he's kind of backed by CC and and
the Gulf states and kind of trying to
root out some of the Islamists in
Benghazi and he's essentially in you
know baiting Tripoli yeah and see over
the objections of the United States
government by the way Trump probably
hasn't figured out yet know that his
friends are all backing huffed are but
over the United Nations and Europe I I
do think what it does say though to CC
you know particularly Sudan in Algeria
again Sisi looks pretty good and it
looks pretty entrenched sort of Buda
fleeca two years ago so did Bashir a
couple years ago these things can boil
over if you are corrupt and you're
authoritarian even though right now in
this moment today that the trendy thing
to say is oh the the the strongmen is
ascendant you know bolson ro and Trump
and Duterte and Putin blah blah mmm you
know the pot you know takes a while to
boil over and I think it's a message to
us and frankly a hopefully a message to
activists around the world that things
can change very quickly and so CC you
know whether or not he's still there
five years from now ten years from now
you know I think is an open question
particularly if he keeps this
restrictive rule in place so this is a
that this conversation feels familiar it
could be two thousand eleven twelve
thirteen and the initial Arab Spring you
know obviously there the response then
was all-consuming right I mean the the
was it 16 days of protests in Egypt
before they finally forced the
resignation of what this name is
escaping Mubarak thank you Mubarak
before Mubarak was finally forced out
you know is it all coos to anything for
the White House President Obama was
constantly going out and giving speeches
about universal values and that
the protestors knowing what you know now
and you see these these protests in
Sudan and Algeria into a weirder extent
Libya do you think there's a role for
the u.s. to play in terms of how we're
talking about this or supporting people
you know looking for a better life
through protest and democracy yeah I
mean you know one of the things
interesting is is part of the reason why
there was such an interest in you know
what we were gonna say what Obama was
gonna say really in 2011 is it that was
new right then you know now people are
kind of numb to this but also because
people just assumed that Obama gave a
 right there and this is actually an
important point like nobody thinks that
Trump cares about these protesters no so
nobody even let's say they had a press
briefing the White House which they
don't nobody would I didn't even ask cuz
like nobody thinks that they care right
and I think that's sad guy I think the
American president uniquely in the world
has been a figure that gives voice to
imperfectly and hypocritically times but
if we're not speaking up for human
rights if we're not speaking up for
democratic change it's not many other
voices out there I mean maybe
occasionally a European leader but so I
do think there's a role to speak out I
think speaking out you know with
humility is important in a way that
recognizes that we can't dictate
outcomes and we can't control what
happens but I I think you know being on
the side in terms of the things we say
of people who are at least trying to
bring about change and it could be even
a more incremental change is important I
also think frankly we need to consider
in this day and age how do we have a set
of policies that is able in the long
term to support civil society and
support the development you know of
better discourse within in between
countries you know the old tool book
used to be that we funded opposition
parties and
and and as much as I can see why the the
autocrats have kind of figured out that
strategy and they just shut down those
parties and cut off that funding I think
you might want to look at well because
we should still be trying to support the
development civil society hopefully by
working with governments to invest in
institution building but if not like
maybe regional approaches where we're
connecting activists from you know it
kind of hubs in different parts of a
region so they can share strategies we
want to support people aren't even
political but maybe entrepreneurs who
are changemakers in society we want to
support women's rights and participation
in politics and we should be trying to
find new ways not to overthrow
governments but to empower people not so
much to bring about or to to bring about
these moments only the people in the
countries can but to create a better
basis that when these moments happen
your people you know know what what
they're doing you know people have
institutions that they can channel their
energies through or people have a
discourse that has already been more
open so there's the short game where I
do think you have to speak out for these
things
and the longer game is I think we as a
country need to think about how do we
promote in advance democracy in
different ways frankly then we have in
the in the post Cold War years because
the autocrats figured out how to stamp
out those those ways yeah turn to Europe
for one minute so the the UK Parliament
passed a bill that prevents a No Deal or
a hard brexit I believe yeah so that
means they can't leave the European
Union without all the details ironed out
it means the people won't feel screwed
there won't be runs on medicine the
Parliament then approve Prime Minister
Mays decision to see an extension all
right so it looks like they punted this
thing down the road again there's all a
bunch of wrangling happening at the EU
about brexit so I'm never again gonna
ask you what's gonna happen I'm my only
question stays we have a sense of when
these guys might figure out all the hell
out know and but I think one of the
things that will be interesting to watch
so the one new point I'd make from our
discussions about this impasse the Brits
cannot figure this out and I don't see
how they're going to you know they they
don't want to know deal brexit but
there's no brexit that can get
Parliament at a certain so they're just
punting and getting extensions and I
think at a certain point the Europeans
the timeline questions just out of the
British Parliament and just to Europe
how long is Europe going to tolerate
this uncertainty for now Europe is
saying better to extend it and see if we
can work something out because you know
they don't want a no deal brexit but at
a certain point I think this timeline
question shifts to European politicians
and whether you're gonna get the 27
liters of that you to continue to give
the British all this time and space that
is being used to just argue with each
other I think that that that time could
run run out sooner than the Brits think
yeah so we'll go obviously a few more
months here but I think actually at a
certain point when the inability of
Britain to do anything becomes clear
continue to be clear that ultimately the
final decision might actually be made by
your by continental Europeans
speaking of continent Europeans you were
just in Berlin yeah with Obama yeah yeah
we let ask you about that yeah yeah yeah
yeah
speaking of Europeans you were just in
Berlin with Obama yes how was it will
you we learn anything cool will they up
see over there
you know they I think what was cool
about it I mean he saw Angela Merkel
who's still hanging on and like look
part of what she's trying to do is is
before she passes a baton and she's
trying to manage this breakfast
situation too but the manure far-right
problem there couple interesting things
that I struck me though one is we had
all these activists in parliamentarians
and politicians from across Europe come
together for this meeting with Obama and
then I met with a bunch of them
separately and what I'm struck by is how
similar the energy is to here and that
you do have this real renewed sense of
act ISM from younger people who are just
fed up and it's hired of the political
elite and and they're getting into
politics themselves and they're shaking
things up and I met everybody from like
a an amazing Afghan woman who's become a
refugee advocate has an organization to
you know an amazing young
parliamentarian from macrons party a
woman in Switzerland who's beating back
far-right ballot initiatives almost you
know single-handedly with her
organization young people are really
filling the space that need to be filled
in European politics and that that was
kind of inspiring and I think it could
be interesting over time you know world
those out there
for like the American progressive
movement that had been building to kind
of build some contacts and ties across
the Atlantic because frankly as we
talked about here bands doing natural
right wingers well well networked across
the Atlantic and the second thing I
noticed is there's similar debates
happening there so in some of these
countries look we were in Germany the
number two party in the polls in Germany
after Merkel's party is not the
traditional center-left parties Social
Democrats it's the Greens I met this guy
who's the leader of the Green Party in
the Netherlands a really remarkable
young talented politician they just
picked up an historic number of seats
some of that is that the kind of left
center left's argument we're having the
democratic party here and some of that
is just how much people care about
issues like climate in Europe so
interestingly you know they're they're
going through the very similar very
familiar process here where there's a
much more energized left that is in the
process of figuring out what what it is
and how they can both win elections and
what they should stand for well that is
a great hopeful note to end yeah I
thought I'd left more hopeful than I
went which is not always the case yeah
not always the case with this show
either but stick around because when we
come back my interview with Patrick read
and Keith's amazing book amazing books
say nothing I learned more about the
troubles in the IRA in Northern
Ireland's history then I knew previously
in my life so check it out
you
