welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett and Tommy Vitor later in
the pod my conversation with politico's
Tim Alberta whose new book about the
Republican Party in the Trump era
triggered the president to lash out at
former House Speaker Paul Ryan so sort
of who so whose side are you on there I
mean it was the only good news of the
whole watching him just lash Paul Ryan
one last time it was a treat it was a
treat
alien versus Predator whoever wins yeah
this but first we're gonna talk about a
lot of news from Donald Trump's racist
attack on a group of Democratic
congresswoman to the latest episode of
Dems in disarray to some of the new
developments in the Democratic primary
from the Biden and Sanders campaigns a
new lover leave it dropped on Saturday
we had a great episode I her and an
actual seismologist about my problems
with the Richter scale the logarithmic
scale for measuring earthquakes plus
just a fantastic episode Andy Richter
Leary Cheney book Andy Richter on the
Richter scale episode it was it was
happenstance and we did ask Andy about
that and he said that every joke is new
to him IRA stop by Aaron Ryan who's a
great episode also if you didn't catch
it before the weekend started we
recorded a special bonus pod last week
with World Cup champion Megan Rapinoe
who loved it called the Babe Ruth of
telling Donald Trump to go himself
accurate and finally we are on tour this
week we will be in Denver on Wednesday
in Salt Lake City on Thursday with our
friend Aaron Ryan grab your tickets at
cricut.com slash events and come see us
if not you'll hear the denver show is
our thursday pod and the Salt Lake City
show as a Friday bonus pod I think say
that last sentence again yeah
if not you'll hear the Denver show is
our Thursday putt in the Salt Lake City
show is a Friday bonus pod all right
let's get to the news just when you
think Donald Trump has run out of lows
to hit he finds another along with
birtherism Charlottesville and
countries the president has given us a
new entry in his racist Hall of Fame a
tweet where he told representatives
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes Rashidah Talib
Ilhan Omar and I on our Pressley to
quote go back and help fix the totally
broken in crime-infested countries from
which they came Ilhan Omar has been an
American citizen since she was a
teenager and
course the other three women of color
were born and raised here in the United
States but a day later Trump has doubled
tripled quadrupled down on this on these
racist tweets I believe we have a clip
of him responding to a reporter's
question about it just this morning many
people saw that tweet as racist and that
white nationalist groups are finding
common cause with you on that point
doesn't concern me because many people
agree with me and all I'm saying they
want to leave they can leave now it
doesn't say leave forever it says leave
if you want well that's a bet about sums
up the the trump presidency does it I'm
not concerned because many people agree
with me
guys I realize this isn't at all
surprising coming from Donald Trump he
has been he was a racist before he ran
for office he was a racist during the
2016 campaign and he's been erased since
he's been president and we know that
because he continues to say and do
racist things but where do you rank this
statement in terms of how ugly and
dangerous it is that's a hard one I mean
it's up there it's up there when you did
mention was what he had said about Judge
curial which was the idea that someone
who is of Mexican descent can't judge me
apparently
you can find a single phrase but that
but that's it but it's all best to you
know it isn't shocking but it does still
it is still when I saw it come across
the the Twitter transom I was admitted
mitad had this sort of like pre
discussed not just with what he had said
but with what I knew would come right
the the correct description of it by
Democrats and pundits the hand-wringing
that Republicans won't speak out the
eventual arrival of the half-ass
 statements that we've seen
today it's like we've done this before
but just because someone's punchy in the
stomach before and says I'm gonna punch
you in the stomach again
doesn't mean that when you get the punch
it doesn't doesn't suck yeah I
mean he's just thoroughly disgraced the
office again you know it's it's hard to
talk about because he is completely just
himself and the office of the presidency
and all those around him so many times
but like he's a walking Willie Horton
had be like the guy is Rachel grievance
personified and of course none of us
should be surprised the Atlantic did a
piece where they went back like for
decades chronicling all the racist
things he did in business and in did in
politics and and who can forget the fun
birther controversy right sparked this
movement that was fully enabled by all
the media that is now clutching their
pearls and upset at the current
iteration of his racism so yeah I'm
 furious and outraged and of
course right this started because he saw
a segment on Fox and Friends who went on
to then talk about his tweets and said
he was feeling a little comedic today
before then scolding the members of
Congress that he attacked and telling
them that their words matter and then
they needed to take what they post on
social media more seriously so we're in
the dumbest continual loop we could
possibly find ourselves yeah and I mean
the immediate trigger was that Fox and
Friends a segment but even last week I
think he probably took this from Tucker
Carlson did the entire segment on Ilhan
Omar and how she should go back to her
her country and you know he has his
white nationalist our I mean I partly
that's why I would make a case that this
may be the worst racist statement he's
made and it's certainly the most
explicit that's family going
go back to your country if you don't
agree said only to people of color is
one of the oldest racist tropes in this
country there's plenty of people of
color who and people from who you know
are you know sorry there's plenty of
people of color who've heard similar
sentiments comments made to them and I
think it also ties together with very
closely more closely than almost
anything else he said with a white
nationalist worldview which is America
is a white country and if you are not
white then you are here as a privilege
you're a guest here you're a guest here
and you should refer to size it you
should be grateful and if not you should
go back to your love is I mean I love it
is right I think this is the most
explicitly racist thing he said since
the judge curial comment which Paul Ryan
noted coward at that time said it was
the textbook
definition of a race is common he's
telling these women that because of
their skin color regardless of the fact
that they were born in this country that
they should go back to some presumed
country of origin it is blatant it's
also it's the most unamerican thing he's
said I would say write it go back to
where you came from because you're not
white and therefore your lack of
whiteness means you'll never be fully a
citizen that you can't actually be
American never you can never be as fully
American as me like that says unamerican
as it gets it's like it's deeply on
patreon right you don't want to get into
like his hat about this kind of thing
because it's like I found myself like I
got myself typing yesterday was a day of
trying to not type out tweets than
trying to type out tweets and deleting
tweets because I was like angry and I
wanted to say something and I found
myself just typing and then deleting
like Donald Trump hates America I did
and I was like why am I gonna put that
into the world it's obviously true right
his seething hatred for anyone who's not
white and not for him his view that you
can't really ever fully be a citizen if
you aren't white no matter how long ago
you came whether you whether you became
a citizen by achieving it or by being
born it is an expression of a hatred of
this country but of course even saying
that you feel like you're adding to this
endless endless argument in which
everyone just spends all day making
something simple complicated because
there's nothing else to say it's an
incredibly racist unamerican comment it
should be denounced unequivocally people
whether you were born here or whether
you became a citizen your citizenship is
full and irrevocable and everything else
is a subject well it also goes to show
that this is not people like to say oh
this is about illegal immigration it's
not about it's about immigration writ
large
not even emigration is about race it's
about Pope but I think it is I think
what's important about this comment is
you can have racist comments over here
and you can have debates legitimate
debates about immigration who gets to be
a citizen who doesn't who gets deported
who doesn't over here but these are
fused together under this presidency and
so you have to see these comments and
hear these comments through the prism of
the ice raids that have been carried out
over the weekend what
going on at the border you know they
just announced a rule today that will
effectively they'll try to basically end
all asylum protections all together it
seems very illegal and will be
challenged in court immediately but that
is their their goal their goal is not
touring a a touring a group do
Mike Pence walking by a group of men
behind a fence refusing to engage with
them treating this like a zoo right they
don't they don't they're there their
goal is not to try to reduce illegal
immigration their goal is not to deal
with the influx of asylum seekers their
goal is to have no asylum to have less
legal immigration to have you know to
get rid of deport the 11 million people
who are here who have lived here for
decades that is their ultimate goal they
want a whiter country and that is a
quick I never thought I would be saying
that is something that's not an
exaggeration of another party but that
is exactly what they're trying to do
it's completely it's explicit yeah it's
explicit and the other the other thing
that they're doing in their efforts to
clean up after this racist comment is
inserting Israel into the middle of it I
can't which is completely first of all
no one was talking about Israel in this
current iteration right they're pointing
at something that offended them that L
on Omar said months and months ago but
this should piss off anyone who actually
believes that the US should continue
with support for Israel or once support
for Israel to be bipartisan because
Trump is taking support for Israel and
throwing it using the human shield in
the midst of a controversy about a
racist comment he's harming the ability
for us support for Israel to be a
bipartisan issue by injecting here and
his little friends like Lindsey
Graham are doing it to and they're just
as bad well it's it's um the president
said a group of members of Congress
should go back to their country
everything else is small one thing else
everything else is so I don't even want
I don't even want to engage though what
about isn't this time because it is so
like no you don't know if you don't get
talked about is really don't get to talk
about the policies you disagree with you
talk about any of that it's all
Americans that is a we're going back to
their country they were wearing they
were wearing short skirts they must have
been asking for it like that's
that's how it comes that's how that's
what that's what they're saying and if
you and if you're Republican politician
and you can't just straight up condemn
this condemn the comments themselves
what
about doing your equivalency and
say even though though I disagree with
these four women on things even though
they've made even though you know all
this even though even though no
even though just it was wrong the answer
is it was wrong and racist ain't the
only acceptable answer and zero have
done that yeah to have called the racist
who calls raises public and congressmen
have called it racism to me and Collins
are out there being like wow I strongly
disagree with their politics these
comments are beyond the pale don't sink
to their level what do you make of the
Republican response or lack thereof in
the context of how that has changed over
time right like Tommy you mentioned that
Paul Ryan during the judge curiel
controversy said this is the textbook
definition of a racist comment you know
Kevin McCarthy is the leader of the
house now you don't hear anything
haven't heard a from Kevin McCarthy
nothing from Mitch McConnell why has it
gotten actually worse from Republicans
even as his approval rating has stayed
the lowest of almost any modern
president because Trump is cano for
mortal combat he punched through their
chest and ripped out their spines all
the other ones and he killed all the
others right like yeah mark Sanford any
member of Congress who ever stood up to
him is gone now they were not re-elected
so these guys are moral midgets and they
are scared to death of a primary and
that's the only thing they care about
Paul Ryan denounced what Trump said
about Judge curiel back when he thought
Donald Trump was going to lose yeah so
he was he didn't really think there was
any cost to it he was gonna say what he
thought was true but he even hold
countries I think they were a little bit
more forward you know I do think over
time it has and I think this is why it's
useful to you know I think the first
reaction is well Trump's always racist
we shouldn't be surprised and that is
true but I think we are becoming you
know the whole had a lot of talk about
this when he first won like oh don't
normalize trope done don't normalize
Trump it has been normalized right like
bit by bit he is chipping away at what
our standards of outrage they were I
think stronger around shit'll countries
except for Tom cotton who basically
concocted a lie to try to sell that it
was about something else I just want to
correct myself subzero had the spine
ripping that's my bad
- all
that stands out there when I was of
which I am one I will say that finish
him yes I will say though however I
never was a master of the fatality moves
and actually Donald Trump not isn't
either he does do an uppercut over the
pit that is his move he does send people
falling into the pit the other challenge
is the feedback loop is closed for Trump
he hears about these members of Congress
from Tucker Carlson he sees a fox and
friends episode that spins him up they
go on to defend him and the Republicans
know that like that closed-loop will
never be broken that the the racist
circle will remain unbroken then you see
people like britt hume who everyone in
washington pretends as a serious
reporter out there defending the comment
and denying that it was racist right
like there's no there's no way for us to
inject rationality into the closed loop
of awful that he has created with his
buddy the fox yeah declaring it's not
racist i immediately it's textbook like
basically saying nothing can be you know
racism is awful but nothing can be
racist that's sort of the britt hume
philosophy yeah basically for them like
racism is only specific racial slurs
yeah and slavery i guess those are the
only that's the only way you can be
racist reminded me of it when people
like for hume say that's something
obviously races isn't racist which is
the the chris rock line like what do you
have to do to be racist you to shoot
medgar evers like is that what we're
down is that right yes that's yes i mean
on the one hand he's an idiot on the
other hand britt hume works for the you
know the the greatest producer of racism
in our nation so you know maybe he has
some expertise that is an important
point to like that the the pipeline from
tucker carlson directly to the president
united states tiger Carlson who has
become a white nationalist was embraced
this worldview Laura Ingraham too I mean
the primetime hour of Fox is maybe the
most poisonous force in this country not
only for what it's doing to the people
who are viewing it but what but the
pipeline it has to the present United
States the most powerful person in the
country and so you know we go back to
these and you know we've had
this debate before but the Democrats
choosing to go on Fox
or go on the do the Fox townhall like on
a day like today it certainly seems like
Elizabeth Warren had the right idea yeah
I agree
and on a lot of other days yeah is uh is
there anything that is there anything
that Democrats can do
speaking of Democrats beyond statements
have discussed and you know all of our
tweets which I know just a couple tweets
away from from getting this gear Berta's
got just a couple a couple a couple of
headlines in the New York Times using
the word racist away from just ending it
all yes listen obviously I am no fan of
ponderous New York Times writing that
avoids describing things as they really
are I do not hear he's one nineteen here
in 2019 I do not believe it is the
source of our ills but uh yeah I mean I
would look to Democrats in the Congress
to not just let this one go by right I
saw some people talking about censure I
think that that's so the direction to go
so Pelosi is working on a resolution so
you know what do you guys think about
this it's gonna be a resolution of
disapproval which is less than century
and obviously less than impeachment I'm
for something I want to do something and
I'll be for it I don't really care if
it's this or censure because whatever
you know like I'll be I'd like to get to
this later but I have not become fully
radicalized for impeachment and I'm
happy to agree we got all four of us now
so like sensor then seems like a half
move to me well like do something and
make all the monsters on the right vote
against this and like let's let's try to
create a political cost just get caught
trying to make it hard for a Republican
be racist in 2019 openly right III
totally agree with that
I'd be for censured because in the eyes
of the press because it has been used so
infrequently in the past it'll be seen
as a bigger deal but you're right Tommy
like censure resolution you know a
resolution of disapproval whatever it
may be it's not going to have a
substantive effect but we are in we are
at a moment now where it's just do
something use the power you have you
know do something and I think that is
I'm working about to talk about this but
that seems to be where so many of these
problems and debates are stemming from
is I don't think it's fair to criticize
people for not using power that they
don't have I think it is imperative that
we criticize people for not using power
that they do have right and right now
the Democrats Democrats have limited
power they can do you know censure they
can do disapproval they can do
Pietschmann they can do hearing
subpoenas they should do it all because
we are in a we're in a national
emergency right now yeah well and you
know look if when we discover what it is
to overreach you know we'll let you know
you know when we come across we're not
there yet when we see some overreaching
when that day finally comes that tear
there terrifying day in which Democrats
have overreached when the well hit an
alarm but when the president is telling
American citizens and elected members of
Congress to go back to their home
countries people of color then yeah I
think I don't think I don't think we're
in danger of overreaching in the
response to that can be just one small
point about that too and I it's again
another one of those things were you
know you're typing on tweets and
deleting them but I saw a lot of people
say so Trump said go back to where you
come from you know to these four people
three of whom were born in America and
they kept a lot of the news is like
first of all you know this member was
born in Detroit and this man was born in
New York and and it does accede to
Trump's line of thinking citizenship is
citizenship it's full and total and
equal no matter if you were born here or
not it's a bedrock principle of this
country that that citizenship affords
you certain protections and once you
have it it can't be taken away and once
you earn it it is the same as anyone
elses and I just can't stand the idea of
go back to where you came but she's from
the Bronx that doesn't matter it doesn't
matter that Ilana Homar wasn't born here
it doesn't matter at all it's not what
Trump cares about and it's not what we
should care about it's sort of it
reminds me of you know Barack Obama's a
Muslim and the defense's no he's not a
Muslim he's not a Muslim it's like and
and you know famously Colin Powell when
I meet the president said the real
question is so what if he was Yeah right
what if he isn't that's the real answer
I wish you'd given his you what if
he is right I mean and you know there's
a really good argument to be made that
Ilhan Omar who has talked about how much
he loved this country over and over and
over again is probably more grateful for
the United States then most of us who
did nothing to earn our citizenship but
just get born at the right time to the
right person
she came here when she was a teenager as
a refugee and had to work hard to you
know take a citizenship
she took a note she did all this work
she's a member of Congress right
it worked her way up from being a
refugee to representing her fellow
citizens in Congress she isn't him she
is the representation of patriotism and
what it's supposed to mean to be an
American and of course Donald Trump
doesn't get that because he hates this
country and anyone who doesn't love him
because he has never worked or kicked so
you got the tweet up there you go I'm
just gonna yell for another 20 minutes
yeah I'd like to see any of trumps kids
last four years in a refugee camp in
Kenya and then and then be as successful
as she has been yeah
so we'll move on in Trump's racist
tirade he also makes reference at the
end by saying I'm sure Nancy Pelosi
would be happy to arrange the travel
back to the fictional home countries
that's a joke a joke you know just
putting a joke in there so even comedic
this morning and that was a reference to
what head until that point been the
biggest political story of the weekend
which is the continuing intra-party feud
between House Democratic leaders like
Nancy Pelosi and the four Democratic
congresswoman who Trump attacked last
week there were stories about how
members of the Congressional Black
Caucus were getting tired of primary
threats from the Justice Democrats a
group that was instrumental in getting
AOC elected last year and on Friday
night the Twitter account for House
Democrats quote tweeted a week's old
tweet from AO C's chief of staff just as
Democrat executive director joy cot
chakrabarti where he criticized a
representative Charisse David's one of
the first to Native American women to
serve in Congress for supporting the
border bill in reply to another tweet
here's the quote I don't believe
Charisse is a racist person but her
votes are showing her to enable a racist
system the House Democrats Twitter
account responded with the following
statement that was also retweeted by
Pelosi's deputy chief of staff quote who
is this guy and why is he explicitly
singling out a Native American woman of
color keep her name out of your mouth
Shai kaat said he considers
congresswoman David's a friend
encouraged her to run and was merely
responding to another tweet that
mentioned her that just explaining that
fight made me feel crazy
what is this continuing fight between
Pelosi and the squad really about
what's the what's the source of the
conflict here and you want to I don't
want to take this I'm sorry that my
brain got wiped I mean I I think I don't
know it's a hard question I mean I well
I guess we're gonna think where to start
it shut the border Bell is what I was
gonna say yeah but and I don't I don't
think it's I don't think that's the
source I think it goes back to the
committee that AOC didn't wanna get
right so it's like then just go there
well let me just goat just answer
whatever you wanna answer I mean I I
think there's been a long-running feud
between Pelosi and AOC that has started
when she didn't want to be part of a
client committee the Pelosi put together
everything was magnified enormously when
a bunch of Democrats voted in favor of a
border bill that those four members you
mentioned earlier opposed four very
legitimate reasons and then you know
there have been multiple Maureen Dowd
columns now that have taken a gigantic
fan and and fanned the flames of this
 you know back and forth between
them which got us to here yeah I think
you know there there's a whole roiling
debate now about who is at fault and I
mean I feel hearing you describe that
gets my frustration up on all sides but
I land on feeling like Pelosi and
leadership needs to do a better job here
because I think we often give her a pass
because we know that part of her
strategy is to defend moderate members
and keep the majority and take hits for
people that have tougher re-elections
and I think by any measure that strategy
is failing completely right like surance
David's who was mentioned here is a rep
from Kansas she has not helped by being
a part of this controversy I she didn't
treat her name but she also didn't quote
treat it from the House Democrats
account like she doesn't want that to
happen that House Democrats she was
crazy it is absurd and and so like the
challenge structurally is going to be
that Pelosi steam wants unity among the
caucus they want everyone to come
together and to fall in line and for aoc
and and people like Iona Presley they
know that Pelosi and her team never
wanted them to be there in the first
place because they ran primary campaigns
against Joe Crowley or Mike Capuano
people that the leadership would have
preferred to stay in place so I think
that like what should have happened when
that Maureen Dowd piece was
is whether or not you agree that she was
singling out for women of color plus you
should have read that concern from lots
of people online or aoc herself in
kultur and here's what I meant
and I'm so sorry if you took it that
other way take her belief literally take
it sincerely you know that she felt
singled out in this manner because like
these are women who are singled out
constantly by the president United
States and if I had felt like there are
legitimate threats to their lives that
have been increased because of attention
online and nasty tweets and all this
 and like be a little bit more
cognizant of that yeah I think that
Pelosi should I mean you know I tweeted
over the weekend I think they should
it's crazy to have these arguments on
Twitter like this these and and show
quite said that shortcut shortcut said
this himself he's like I'm not
interested in responsible to House
Democrats tweet he's like I'm not
interested in substance lists Twitter
debates of which this was one I think
there are plenty of legitimate fights to
have as a party legitimate criticisms of
Nancy Pelosi legitimate criticisms of
the squad and they should be had in
public right but this sort of when
you get down to that House Democrats
tweet and this and how we're all talking
about this now this is useless and I do
think that all these people should get
in a room together and work this out and
I think Pelosi should be the one who
takes the lead on this because she's the
leaders in leadership
she should invite them to her office and
have a conversation and stop this
 and you know the smart point
that Pelosi made in the caucus last week
was if you have a problem don't you know
criticize people's in you know
motivations and and attack people
personally on Twitter come see me and
then the House Democrats turned do that
which is you know run by the King
Jeffries but and then he they go and do
that and they started twitter fright
which is just it's wrong you don't do
that like I mean it's it's unproductive
so on top of that it's not just about I
think it's not just about the
controversy over a climate change
committee and weather has subpoena it's
not just about a border bill it's about
I think a deeper a deeper challenge
inside of the Democratic Party and you
know Brian boiler said this on Twitter
that you refer to it as a kind of
referred pain
for the fact that there hasn't been
impeachment because there's a sense not
just amongst voters but among sons meant
some members of Congress including this
new younger generation that it was a
that was voted in by a kind of more
diverse more feisty a democratic base
that they are not getting what they had
hoped for out of the Democrats they're
not getting enough fight they're not
getting impeachment they're not getting
the kind of hustle and intensity that
they were looking for and so I think
there's a there's there's a there's a
sense that we're kind of pushing up
against the bounds of what Democrats are
willing to do in Congress and until we
see I think greater action on the part
of the leadership these kinds of things
will happen I think again and again yeah
I do think that the debate over the
border bill is very instructive and sort
of where a lot of the stems from though
I think the ultimate source is the anger
over the lack of movement on impeachment
yeah but on that border but you know
we've talked about this before I think
that Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer and
the Senate Democrats and a lot of the
House Democrats simply did not even try
to fight hard enough to include more
protections in that bill they didn't and
they should have and they should be
criticized for that that said once you
get the final border bill it's either
yes or no and if they had voted down
that border bill and not provided the
funding that Trump asked for
they wouldn't have shut down a single
detention facility the government would
not have stopped what they're doing in
fact they just would have been more
overcrowded they would have been the
same thing so it was both votes were
pretty shitty but too that you know as
AOC chief of staff did to accuse a whole
bunch of Democrats who voted for this
border bill of enabling a racist system
is not fair it's just not fair and like
there's a lot of Democrats who voted for
this bill especially and that's why
Charisse David's got brought up the
first you know one of the first two
Native Americans in Congress she voted
for it Lauren Underwood the youngest
black woman in Congress voted for it
Antonio Delgado voted for it Katey
Porter very liberal voted for it like
you can't just you can't just take a
huge shot at people and say they're
enabling a racist system like that
because it also obscures the truth about
the bill which is it was a shittier bill
Pelosi and Schumer could have fought
harder but it
did provide some small measure of relief
in the only way to really end the
detention of these people of these
children the only reason - the only way
to close down these detention facilities
is to get Trump out of office that is
the only way I think I think you're
right that those members including a
bunch of brand-new really progressive
really great members were handed a
horrific ly shitty political situation I
do think that the public conversation
about the crisis at the border and
family separation in particular has not
fully understood the depth of the
problem my great family separation
sounds like a temporary thing where a
kid is away from a parent and then it
gets resolved when in fact the American
Academy of Pediatrics says no child no
child should be placed in detention
because even short periods of detention
can cause psychological trauma and
long-term mental health risks I am
concerned and I think a lot of activists
who I heard from after I talk to warn
Binford are concerned that we are doing
irreparable permanent damage to children
along the border we are and none of us
should be surprised that these members
of Congress didn't criticize Donald
Trump for being a racist because when
Mike Pence went and saw 400 men in cages
without cots to lie down on without a
single pillow with like tinfoil
blankets Senator Lindsey Graham Senator
Mike Lee and John Cornyn were there with
them and none of them said a goddamn
word they experienced it they smelled
the smell that the pool reporter called
overwhelming they knew it was like 90
degrees in the room they didn't say
goddamn thing they don't care about
these people it is a humanitarian crisis
it is a travesty it is something that we
are going to grapple with her country
for decades that we have let this happen
that we were letting this happen in our
name right now my point is the border
bill has passed and arguing about that
vote over and over again right now is
useless and if I and every member of
Congress who's still upset about it
every activist every person who's still
upset about this should be like okay
Pelosi and Schumer you negotiated a
shitty bill you us what's next
what are we going to do about this
because this problem isn't solved and we
need to do something else and I think we
have limited options here we just have
to be honest about that only controlling
the house but I think the focus now
should be on okay what what points of
pressure can we put on Pelosi Schumer
and then McConnell and
now to get something done and has to
keep the fight moving forward I think
some time and I think when I have these
Twitter fights it is always about
looking backwards and yelling each other
and just becomes completely unproductive
let's put pressure on them now to do
something well that's I think that's the
question that comes out of this right
okay you didn't want to fight here you
didn't fight hard enough here where's
the fight
where's-where's well that's where you
get to impeachment and that's but that's
what I mean that's where you get to
impeachment because let's talk about
that because I do think it's it's um you
know after a while it's like oh we
didn't fight here we're gonna are we
gonna fight on Trump's racist comments
are gonna fight on a people where at
some point you have to choose where
you're gonna have the battle well in the
choice but the choices in some ways made
for you
there is one tool that the House
Democrats have besides passing
useless message bills and resolutions of
disapproval and that is the tool of
impeachment and it is warranted and if
they do not use it then they are not
using the the only power that they have
and so I think like you started by
saying Tommy like so much of this
frustration is about the fact that we
have a lawless president who has
committed crimes and is racist and has a
an embrace to white nationalist
worldview in the White House and we have
the opportunity to at least go on record
and have impeachment hearings that may
may influence the political calculus
enough that it can help get him out of
office in 2020 yeah so you might as well
use it just I want to get to Peter in
one second but I think another thing
we're seeing closely in the Justice I'm
sorry AOC in the Justice Democrats we're
talking about primary a bunch of
candidates including CBC members which
is why when you pick up the newspaper
you see background quotes from
leadership aides saying she's only a
woman color when it's convenient none of
the things she's fought for align with
communities of color and a group is
funded by elitist white liberals she's a
puppet that's that is an insane gross
sensitive disgraceful thing to say so
like I get why don't your name
on I get why the bad blood is put your
name is so so bearable thing to say on
the left but like again leadership said
that right so that's why I think the
onus is on Pelosi and her team to fix
this and get in the game here now back
to impeachment like for a while I've
constantly said that I if I remember
Congress and someone said you should be
for impeachment because you're that puts
you on the right side of history tie
your kids like where you stood in this
moment that would convince me I think I
hope but I've worried about the politics
I am now pretty firmly convinced that
the politics of not impeaching
are way worse because it is resulting in
this because we have looked more
feckless in our oversight capacity than
I ever thought possible and I'm not
entirely sure how we got here or who to
blame but it is a problem and it is
gonna it is going to check our ability
to provide oversight of the things
Donald Trump is doing stop him where we
can and it's also gonna make Democrats
who were rallying and marching two years
ago depressed as hell and wondering why
and I want to look it may be satisfying
to lay this all at the feet of Nancy
Pelosi but it is it is not necessarily
true it just say I don't I don't blame
Nancy Pelosi House leadership aid could
be any one of a number of individuals in
a number of sorry I'm saying yeah it may
be satisfying to lay the failure to
impeach at the feet of Nancy Pelosi and
I think she does bear a lot of
responsibility for it because I think if
Nancy Pelosi wanted to try to whip votes
in favor of impeachment she would be
able to make some headway but a lot of
these new members who we love and who
we've talked about are legitimately
afraid of this because of their
districts because of the polling in
their districts and I think the question
is how do we persuade and convince these
members to come along because if the
votes are there Nancy Pelosi is not
gonna stand in the way but she's clearly
not whipping in favor of it and so I
think sometimes there's you know as much
as we can criticize Pelosi there's too
much of a focus on her and we don't
realize that she is in fact protecting a
lot of members and not just Blue
Dog conservatives people that made the
House Majority that we all like and we
all voted for of who were very
progressive who were afraid right now
and we have to make sure that they're
not afraid we have to persuade them to
not be afraid of this right two things
are true one she is she has said
publicly privately she wants to take
fire for impeachment on behalf of
members who don't want to do it while at
the same time she's not doing enough to
make him pitch when possible you know
Tommy's point the politics this is this
will change my mind too
the politics of impeachment they're
unknown the politics of of almost maybe
someday impeaching our garbage there's
where you're living through is it good
I've been saying this I feel like for
months we are in this Twilight semi
impeached feckless oversight period that
seems to have absolutely no end in sight
no end in sight you know if you had said
to have you had said to people that this
is what oversight would look like if we
in the house before the election people
would have been horrified they would
have been horrified that this is what
they get we we spent so much time
talking about so how important it was to
get that gap how important it was to
have subpoena power how important it was
to do oversight does anyone listening
believe that this is what we meant that
this is the level of oversight we were
hoping for
we might get Bobby Muller up there in a
couple weeks so you know or maybe some
you know maybe some more closed-door
hearings with various Trump
administration I don't know somebody's
been so I don't know what the politics
of impeachment ultimately look like but
one of the cases I'd be making to some
of these members who are maybe more
afraid of it is look at where we're at
now you think this is good
you like living in this permanent state
of being asked whether or not you're for
impeachment if you think impeachment is
bad politics we can do it this fall and
make the big case and then you can
campaign on whatever you want but if we
don't impeach soon we're gonna be
talking like this for a year and it is
going to be ugly and it's going to be
unhelpful and it's gonna be worse than
having done nothing and I think you know
Seth Moulton congressman from
Massachusetts is running for president
made a great case for impeachment over
the weekend and you know Moulton said
look I think we should use the fact that
the Republicans in the Senate are
obviously going to exonerate him to our
advantage by saying we don't expect them
to do the right thing but before we go
into the twenty twenty election we want
every member of the Senate to go on
record
do you support Donald Trump and his
obstruction of justice and his crimes
and xenophobia all that or do you
not and you know I don't think we said
this before I don't think Susan Collins
and Cory Gardner and some of the other
ones want to take a vote on impeachment
now that doesn't necessarily mean that
they will not vote to exonerate Trump
because I don't you know I don't think
they have that much courage but they
don't want to take that vote they do not
want to take that vote all right let's
talk about the Democratic presidential
primary there were several reports this
weekend about how Joe Biden may be
entering a new phase of the race where
more he more aggressively engages with
the other Democrats in the field
especially on health care hey we're over
the weekend he said this about his
opponents who support Bernie Sanders
Medicare for all bill quote I opposed
the Republican Party trying to get rid
of Obamacare and I opposed Democrats who
are I don't know sorry I may just say
that it's Gordian I oppose the
Republican Party trying to get rid of
Obamacare and
pose Democrats who are I don't know why
we'd get rid of what in fact is working
and moved to something totally new
Bernie's been very honest about it he
said you're going to have to raise taxes
on the middle class and end all private
insurance Sanders responded by accusing
Biden of making the same argument as
insurance companies and Republicans who
ignore the fact that what you pay in
higher taxes you'll save in premiums
co-payments deductibles and
out-of-pocket payments none of which
will exist under Medicare for all I want
to get to the health care debate itself
but first Biden is mostly ignored his
opponents and launched his campaign with
a promise not to speak ill of other
Democrats why do you think he's mixing
it up now what do you think the strategy
is because he was winning because he was
working so well and when strategy is
working you change it that's right I
endorse that yeah I mean I clearly I
mean look everyone always says that one
thing when the campaign starts and then
calmly Harris you know through a combo
at that debate that knocked seven to ten
points off is his lead in some places
inviting back right yeah exactly so here
we are yeah she did that Radin of you
know by the way though this is the right
strategy and it's and I think it from
the Rose Garden strategy in a primary I
think it's right strategy I also think
it is you know we just talked about
substance less twitter spots this is a
completely you know legitimate a very
important debate to have that both Joe
Biden Bernie Sanders and every other
candidate argue about health care and
the future of our health care system
it's an important debate to have we
should have it no one should be shying
away from that just because you don't
want to like talk about other candidates
it should be a fair debate it should be
an honest debate it shouldn't get
personal but we need that debate I agree
and I agree with what Dan said on
Thursday pod that I don't want to make a
health care debate about Obama's legacy
or being on Obama's legacy I really hate
that I do think that Medicare for all
versus a public option is a very
important subset of policy fight we
should be having I was at the grocery
store yesterday picking up some milk you
know some yogurt some things that need
to listen to Dan Pfeiffer a lot of dairy
talk to senator Bennett I know and he to
his credit is not doing particularly
well in the national polls but he is
making a compelling argument for the
public option over a medicare-for-all
position I'm not saying I come down on
his side but like
at least is talking about the downside
of what that might mean in a general
election because right now we have the
Trump administration waging a lawsuit
against the ACA that would just
eradicate it all the popular things for
existing conditions everything would go
away and then it's basically making the
case that it will be a harder rejoinder
for us to point that out if
medicare-for-all takes away private
health care from what 180 million some
odd people which is something we should
reckon with today because we're gonna
reckon with it down the road like have
the conversation yeah so Biden today
came out with a plan that would expand
the Affordable Care Act by making the
subsidies more generous adding a public
option and making that public option
premium free for 4.9 million uninsured
Americans mainly this would be the
people who live in states that did not
choose to expand Medicaid these
Republican states and so if you live in
those states and you would qualify for
Medicaid you could go into the public
option premium free for other people
there would be you know some small cost
to buying into the public option but it
would be more affordable than a lot of
insurance but private insurance plans
right now so that's Biden's plan and
what do we think of that and what do we
think of this that the debate with with
Bernie do you think love it
so I think it's an important debate I do
think that there's I think the the
health care debate we were having
between the kind of Medicare for America
plan and the Bernie plan I think was a
really good and important one I think
what Biden's introducing I think
interested some of the complexities that
a lot of the critics of Obamacare point
to which is it's you know it's hard to
know the benefits are complicated they
are diffused it's hard to understand
who's helping who's being helped and
who's being heard it makes the system
more complicated I think that's a
legitimate critique of this kind of a
direction but Biden is making a case for
the kind of center-left politics he's
practiced basically his whole life and
he's saying he's what he's saying is
there is a coalition of voters who
actually want my kind of politics you
know aren't part of this new new and
louder more progressive wing of the
party that there is a there is room for
someone more to the center and he's
going to stake his candidacy on that
which I think is show some integrity
because it's who he is
yeah I I think it's a fair debate to
have I don't I agree with with you and
and Tommy to like I don't like making
this about Obama's legacy if you're for
the Biden plan you're for Obama and if
you're for the Bernie plan you're
against Obama and part of the reason
it's true is because in 2018 when he was
campaigning Barack Obama said that
Medicare for all is a good idea that's
that's one reason why that that debate
sort of silly but I do think getting
into the details of the plans are
important you know like Biden sort of
right now at least rhetorically it's a
bit of a lazy argument that he's making
even though his policy I don't think is
lazy at all his policies are real policy
but the argument is we don't want to
start we don't want to trash Obamacare
and start from scratch and have all
these people waiting stuff like that
it's if we went from Obama care to
Medicare for all there'd be a four year
transition under Bernie's plan things
don't get like people's health care I'm
gonna get trashed in the meantime right
like it's gonna be a transition for
Medicare for all we better go to nothing
first we don't go to nothing first right
Medicare for all is going to be
incredibly difficult to achieve I think
they're both political and substantive
issues around moving to a Medicare for
All system but you've got to make the
case for what those obstacles are both
on the political side and on the
substantive side you know one thing that
as a recline raised this the other day
that I hadn't even thought of is you
know if we have a single-payer system
and the government is the only place
that's providing insurance to people
what happens when there's another
Republican in the White House and
Republicans are running government and
Republicans decide that the government
insurance plan is not going to cover
birth control that it's gonna do this or
that you know like you are by only
having one single insurance system in
the entire country that also raises
challenges just as our mixed system does
right now a private insurance system
does right now right now we are at the
whims of private insurance companies and
they arguably have way too much power
but the question is what happens when
the government is the only provider of
health insurance and I think it's a
legitimate debate to have and I also
think the financing is a very legitimate
debate to have
yeah because Bernie sort of skims over
he's like oh well we're yeah you're
gonna pay more in taxes but you're not
gonna have any premiums co-pays
deductibles any that well how much more
in taxes and how much am I actually
going to save and is it going to happen
all at once where suddenly I'm not going
to pay premium
but suddenly my taxes are gonna go up
like what is the difference gonna
actually calculate out to for the
average American and because he hasn't
had a specific financing plan attached
to his medicare-for-all bill we don't
know that I also do think there's
another side to the argument around what
if the government is in charge of the
insurance system then one day
Republicans will be which is we have
seen what happens when we try to do
something more moderate which is that
they call it socialism and try to
destroy it anyway right so I see the
argument both ways which is they're
gonna try to destroy it no matter what
right and it's sort of like well we have
a bigger problem here what do you do
with a with a Republican party that just
basically like a rearguard action
against any change or modernity at all
yeah and the health care debate will not
solve that yeah but like hey moderators
the next debate can we do like 30
minutes on these details right we not to
skip around to silly stuff like dig in
you said he was lying and you said this
was absurd and you like ya actually dig
into the details that's because they are
complicated but the American people and
and voters deserve an honest debate
about that and not another hand raised
on some of the most CNN's saying no
Henry is good it will do no and one word
no one-word answers and no raisins of
the raising of the hands which is great
good for CNN so there was another Newton
that there's nothing CNN will never miss
an opportunity to just kind of give him
as NBC just a little bit of it just a
little bit of a No
and I'm for it oh I don't mind it there
was another New York Times story last
week about Bernie shifting strategy now
that he's either losing support or at
least stagnant in the polls I think you
could argue that quote while Ms Warren
is making incursions with some of mr.
Sanders progressive backers campaign
aides insist that they view mr. Biden is
a far more significant threat because of
his support from some of the
working-class voters who voted for Mr
Sanders in 2016
does this make sense to you guys is it
as a smart strategy on Bernie's behalf I
don't know and it's hard to tell if
that's an honest political assessment or
a little sleight of hand that you tell
the press little head fake I mean you
got to be concerned about Elizabeth
Warren dropping 19 million dollars in
fundraising and getting a pretty big
boost in the polls and having an amazing
infrastructure built in Iowa like both
things should worry you yeah I think
it's I think it's a super tough position
for Bernie to be in
because and then you know after that
story he was asked this weekend why
should you be president and not
Elizabeth Warren and he said sorry let
me get this right
oh he said Elizabeth Warren is a good
friend of mine and all I can say is the
following what people understand is that
for decades now there have been great
speeches great legislation and great
plans what we need is a mass movement of
millions of people which I am prepared
to lead as president so that is the
argument that is as close as he's gonna
get which what do you think about that
argument of it I think it well you know
it has been very um they're kind lately
Bernie's response to Biden I thought was
actually a pretty fair you know critical
attack on his health care plan I think
that is what he believes he does not
want to criticize Elizabeth Warren on
the merits and I was like the gulf
between Bernie Sanders and his and some
of his staff and supporters is wide why
what very wide a yawning chasm if you
will agree a gaping maw but no but
that's the that's that's a true
articulation of their difference right
that Bernie believes you need a
political revolution whatever that may
be and Elizabeth Warren has I think had
a more substantive critique of power
structures right that sort of been the
difference I think you know and that's
what he's describing there it's
interesting right it's something we talk
about a lot but that ideology just isn't
as salient to a lot of people or it's
less sailing to a lot of people than we
realized that for so many Biden
supporters Bernie's their second choice
for so many Bernie's supporters Biden's
their second choice because you know
these are I think you I think it's fair
to say that Bernie is that furthest left
mainstream candidate Biden is the
furthest right candidate frontrunner and
yet you have all these people that look
at these two people and say I want one
of these two now I think you can make an
argument that there's some lingering
misogyny and other factors that go into
what people view as electable in there
but even beyond that there is a kind of
a kind of confusion in that there are
people who want both big systemic change
and are also worried about big systemic
change that lead them to kind of the
comfort of Biden and the change in
promise of revolution of Bernie yeah
I think a lot of voters just probably
don't really know much about the
distinctions and they're just naming a
couple people they know I mean that is
such an important point that we always
there were always gloss over it's easy
to over think that the crosstabs which
you know I would try to read that Nate
Cohen piece about the vote registration
increase in my eyes just glazed over at
crosstab so I'm lucky very alarming like
them but they just they know them and
they like them both they know them
they've heard of them yeah I mean but
the thing you know you're seeing a lot
of frustration from team Bernie and they
as much as they started in a good
position with name ID and money and a
pretty decent polling average to start
like they feel like they're they're
hurting because they are not new in the
eyes of the media because he ran last
time and because Elizabeth Warren comma
Harris they were seen as new so they're
they're frustrated by that they feel
left out of headlines about polls that
show them doing incredible while greatly
well but the headline is the movement of
some of the lesser known candidates and
I get that frustration and I and I feel
their pain in some ways but in other
ways I do think that making a argument
constantly that is about grievance an
attack on the media is a very tough
strategy for Democrats because
Republicans can do that and they can
attack the New York Times and say it's
shitty and whatever and then go on Fox
and just live in this right-wing
ecosystem Democrats can't do that yeah I
also I mean I think Bernie's argument
that it is going to take more than
speeches plans and all the rest to bring
about systemic change it's going to
require a movement of millions of people
is a hundred percent correct the tough
part for him is he says well I'm the one
who should lead that movement well why
are you the one to lead that movement
Nina Turner who is one of his supporters
in Congress who is one of those people
who's a bit more critical outwardly of
other Democrats even Bernie Sanders to
say the least
but she made an interesting point today
which is you know her argument is well
Bernie has been there forever he is the
original and he was the one who had the
courage to run in 2016 when it was hard
and he didn't look like he had much of a
shot against Hillary Clinton and he
stood up then and that's why you should
be with him now and I actually think
that might be one of the better
arguments that he can use and we'll get
around to but the
and this gets to your point some people
complain about the media in that story
that New York Times story about Bernie
you got Jeff Weaver his you know as
close as Stratus and they're being like
this isn't about making friends or
sharing pictures of your dog or your
recipes or but it's like no no that's
what running for president is it's
getting people to like you and vote for
you yeah I realized that I realize we
wish that presidential elections were
just about who has this policy and that
policy that's it but like we live in the
real world and people need to like you
to vote for you as president so you know
it's sometimes you wonder what the
Sanders people and I don't think I don't
think this is about as much as Bernie
but some of the supporters like do they
want people to join the movement or they
do they just want to be right well also
I think part of those flows from Bernie
himself who is very comfortable making
his argument and as I think less
comfortable with some of them softer
aspects of campaigning and you know it's
not that you can call that his flaw or a
flaw in the system but I think also
there's something to be said for someone
who's like this is what I this is how I
want to campaign and if I can win this
way great if I can't I won't and you see
people around him trying to justify that
but no but even to that argument around
you know he's been there I think it goes
to a central problem here you know he
Elizabeth Warren didn't run against
Hillary Clinton in 2016 but there is no
argument you can make that there's
there's no way you can can faithfully
make an argument Elizabeth Warren hasn't
been in these fights that's probably
long she was ringing the bell on on
bankruptcy before the financial crisis
she created a government agency she
created the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau
she was tapped to lead that Bureau but
was seen as so toxic to Republicans
because of how hard she wouldn't fight
against banks and corporations that she
wasn't allowed to have the position so I
think this is a central challenge for
Bernie there is not it's not just
Hillary Clinton now there's another
person who is an avatar for a lot of
these policies and for this movement and
it forces him to reckon with the
weaknesses of his campaign and his
candidacy and they have as of yet not
been willing to do that and she and she
does the politics and she puts in the
time and you saw that this week at
Netroots nation where she went and a lot
of the activists there very liberal
activists said well yes she's just you
know over the years she's reached out
she's talked to us she's
she's puttin the time to build these
relationships which is sort of the
unsexy work of politics but very
important when you are trying to win a
primary I also think that Bernie Sanders
himself has been incredibly focused and
disciplined about attacking a corrupt
system in the corrupt town of Washington
and and the way money washes through it
and distorts things his team isn't
always quite as precise and there's a
lot of it to say the least but a
shrapnel there's a lot there's a lot of
shrapnel like attacking like Democrats
as corporatist
or saying you know like let's rethink
progress today really like pretty
personal attacks that suggests that if
you don't like Medicare for all that you
don't want like poor people in the same
health care system is you like think
things that I kind of I read them and
I'm like do you really believe this or
is this an effective message because
you're right that like look he's not
there to make friends and that's fine I
mean but this is a reality show this
isn't like the road rules challenge
right like you are you're there to find
voters and and get their support in any
way you can in like over time I do think
this stuff can chip away at people
liking you or being a second choice
candidate yeah well Elizabeth Warren has
been attacking a corrupt system and she
does it without like targeting in a
negative way a lot of the voters that
she needs to help change that corrupt
and her team is super disciplined to
like you don't see them working the refs
nearly as much on on Twitter about
coverage as some of the other campaigns
yeah and it's interesting too because
Bernie especially for this campaign you
know brought in fat Shakira's his
campaign manager and faz who had worked
for Harry Reid in the past he you know
he's of that world
that's Warren's world as well where you
build political relationships you talk
to people so you know I still think
there's sort of hope to have that sort
of influence on Bernie that he's got to
play the game to win the game yeah I
think he can still do it but that's his
that's his challenge I also I read there
was a moment in 2016 I think I think
Bernie launches this longshot candidacy
you know I don't know what he would have
said under a lie-detector but at the
beginning and certainly seen more as a
way to push against some of the
assertions of the Democratic Party and
it caught fire in a way that I think
even his people didn't anticipate which
is I think why that their tone of being
so hostile and kind of grieved kind of
lasted for so much longer than it should
have but there was a moment in 2016
where he stopped wearing the button-down
collars for a second got a nicer suit
combed his hair gave a ballsy speech
there was a moment where you saw Bernie
Sanders say I'm gonna show you that I
actually can do this that I'm not just
here to be a gadfly that I'm not just
here to make an argument and argument he
won by the way on the on policy and on
on politics I'm gonna try to be
president and to me that tension is
always there in how Bernie campaigns do
you want to win you want to win the
argument or do you want to win the race
right I think as people are rightly
frustrated at some of the ways they felt
like the deck was stacked against them
within the DNC in the debate schedule
and some other things that happened in
2016 but it is also true that for a
while he was running three days a week
and not missing any Senate votes and
that's just an it that's an untenable
situation to be in if you're running to
win yeah yeah company I'm sorry okay
when we returned my interview with
politico's Tim Alberta
you
