my guest today is former US ambassador
to Russia Michael McFaul Mike is the
author of a fantastic book on the
us-russia relationship called from cold
war to hot peace that I highly recommend
it's great to have you you were the
first person I thought of this weekend
when I when I read the news because for
the first time in a long time we saw
overt armed conflict between Russia and
Ukraine ibly the first time since 2014
when Russian special forces invaded
Crimea the Russians opened fire on a
ukrainian navy vessels they rammed a
tugboat they seized three vessels and 23
sailors and closed down access to a
shared waterway called the Kerch Strait
which connects the Black Sea to the Sea
of Azov which I totally knew that before
I googled it this morning
like how worried were you when you woke
up to this news and do you think this
was a planned event or a tactical
interaction that went south well your
second question is a harder question I
don't know the answer to that was it
planned or just kind of happened
you know I think I and many other people
have been watching this conflict Simar
anticipated that it's someday there
would be a test where Russia is trying
to assert its sovereignty over this
territory that you just described right
and over the sea and claiming this is
now Russian territory and those ships
that go through that Strait have to
abide by their protocols their alleged
protocols it was a pretty dramatic if
you've watched the video it's a dramatic
you know they're hitting this boat and
if you speak Russian like I do it's good
practice for all your swear words that
you learned when you were 20 years old
because these guys are really worked up
the Russians you know in this attack
mode and and so that's what happened
there I think if you go to the Kremlin
you know Putin is now testing Ukraine
he's testing NATO he's testing the West
he's seeing what he can get away with
it's pretty familiar to me it's the way
he operates right he prides and prods
and sees what he can get away with and
so this is the next iteration in that
prodding game yeah so I
was watching tanios this morning Putin
recently inaugurated a 7.5 billion
dollar bridge across the Kerch Strait
that now connects Russia and Crimea the
symbolism was so important that Putin
himself drove a construction truck
across the bridge on the day it opened
and gave some remarks why is access to
these waterways so important to the
Russians into their broader acclaims to
Crimea well you're right about how
important that bridge was to Putin and
it's important because it's a direct way
to connect from Russia the Russia
Russian Federation that the world
recognizes into Crimea you know before
there was no direct connection between
Crimea and the Russian Federation this
bridge provides that you know the before
you had to go through Ukraine to get to
Crimea and that's why they now having it
they are asserting for you know national
security reasons they have to protect
this bridge against potential espionage
and sabotage and and terrorist attacks
from Ukrainians but if you look at the
map you know your listeners what you'll
see is that you can't get to certain
Ukrainian port cities without going
through that Strait and under that that
you know multibillion-dollar bridge that
Putin built and so over the long run
that's going to create real economic
problems for Ukraine if they can't have
open passage through that straight right
because Putin can just park a big tanker
there and suddenly it's blocked right
right that's what he did I mean that's
you know it's pretty narrow straight
yeah and that's what he did that helped
to provoke this crisis he is clever so
over on the Ukrainian side the President
poroshenko delivered a speech to
Parliament declaring Martial Law
that apparently starts Wednesday and
goes for a month I think he walked that
back from two months which is I guess
good
he also said he had intelligence about
Russian preparation for a ground
offensive which is not good what did you
make a portion cause reaction and do you
share the concerns I'm seeing about him
calling for martial law
well I was surprised by martial law
because there was not martial law back
when Russia invaded in 2014 at the same
time you know far be it for me to sit in
palo alto and judge what the president
of ukraine should do for defending their
national security he's obviously got
intelligence that i dont have about that
threat what i thought was good I
actually think yesterday was a good day
for Ukraine democracy and that the
president said we needed martial law you
know and and people thought well this is
gonna threaten the the scheduling of the
presidential election which is scheduled
for March of next year and yet through a
deliberative process they reached a
compromise in the Parliament yesterday
you know that's democracy at work as far
as I'm concerned so I thought it was a
good outcome and I hope that the you
know the warnings of a Russian military
invasion were you know just hyperbole
but but you know I'm not going to judge
a guy sitting in Kiev with intelligence
that I don't have yeah me there
so let's judge a bunch of bozos in
Washington much easier Trump's response
was typical and frustrating he did a
brief full spray we refused to condemn
Russia specifically saying quote yeah we
do not like what's happening either way
end quote I the UN nikki Haley with
tougher although she's leaving soon she
called Russia's actions a violation of
international law and quote an arrogant
act that the international community
must condemn and will never accept good
Pompeyo condemned the act and called it
a dangerous escalation and violation of
international law curious what you made
of the US response and what tools you
think we have at our disposal to respond
beyond I guess statements and whatever
Trump's decides to say it to Putin on
the margins of the upcoming g20 summit
in Argentina well I mean reading the
words of ambassador Haley or the words
put out under secretary Pompey o--'s
name I agree with those statements but
they're undermined when the President of
the United States says something
differently and you know this is a
familiar pattern now when it comes to
Trump and Russia
the Trump administration seems to have
one policy but the President himself has
another and it is incredible how
consistent he has been and avoiding any
criticism of Vladimir Putin I mean you
know years and years and years it is now
going on and remember this is a
president that changes his mind and
contradicts himself fairly frequently
but not when it comes to Putin and so
you know the Russian media of course
picked up on that there they're saying
you know we know that this is just a you
know we were happy I think is what
channel one said with the equivocation
of the president that shows that he
doesn't really want a crisis here and I
think it's a good lesson for people that
words matter and diplomacy as you may
remember Tommy when we used to put out
these words at the White House and
remember all the drama people used to
have about what level the statement was
at and whether was the White House or
the State Department well at 400
reply-all zli White House says yeah it
was an absolute nightmare editing those
things until they're ready to go out
you're right but it matters when it
whether or not it comes from the White
House or not the whole world and most
certainly the Kremlin is looking to see
what the president says and when given
the chance to say something really
simple like we honor and defend and the
territorial integrity of Ukraine you
know not that complex yeah he he whiffed
he couldn't he couldn't say he totally
with I just saw a quote from John Bolton
saying that Trump and Putin's meeting on
the margins of the g20 will be a
continuation of the Helsinki summits so
that's not great that's not what I want
well that's the great news I mean that's
the problem so it's a great point like
I'm not against president Democrats
Republicans engaging with authoritarian
regimes and enemies of the United States
that is a something one has to to in
order to advance American national
interest what the problem with Trump is
that he doesn't seem capable of
delivering a strong message when it
comes to Putin and we don't need anymore
continuations of Helsinki I mean
Helsinki what
a complete disaster in that he stood
next to Putin and he defended Putin and
did not and defend our intelligence
community and then just to remind your
listeners that's the somewhat where he
said it would be a great idea to hand me
over to the Russians so maybe I take it
a little personal but you know so far
president Trump has proved incapable of
advancing American national interests
when he's next to Vladimir Putin if the
meeting goes forward I hope it'll be
different in Argentina but we don't need
a continuation of ell sinky
we need something different yeah well
I'm very glad they didn't hand you over
and very glad that the Russians and get
control of Interpol which is I guess a
conversation for another day but seeing
that our president never fails to whiff
when it comes to Russia do you think
there's a chance at the UN or NATO will
be able to take meaningful action that
will actually deter Russia and
situations like this un is unlikely of
course because Russia has a veto on the
Security Council their NATO I think has
been has made the right statements and I
hope that individual NATO countries will
provide more military assistance to
Ukraine and then I think the US Congress
should step up there are several bills
already that have been tabled for new
sanctions against Russia that was before
the elections it all got frozen because
of the elections but if the president
proves unable to take more coercive
actions I think the US Congress should
should push those bills forward and dare
the President to veto them yeah those be
that would be great to see final
question it's been four years since
Russia annexed Crimea and it helped
create this rebellion in eastern Ukraine
the issue is dropped from the headlines
but I mean the fighting has been ongoing
between the Russians and the
russian-backed separatists ever since
and according to news reports 10,000
people have died 1.7 million have been
displaced millions more need urgent
assistance I mean there was supposed to
have been the Minsk agreement in 2015
that brokered a ceasefire which has been
violated countless times and wasn't
resolved this but none of it's been
enacted do you think what do you think
it takes to actually resolve this crisis
like what is missing diplomatically
well I'm not optimistic because I think
Putin sees it in his interest to just
keep this thing going
and our instruments of leverage are weak
so that's my baseline having said that I
referred to these these bills that are
floating around both on the Senate and
congressional side the House of
Representatives side for new sanctions
and I think you have to increase
sanctions for you know lack of momentum
on Minsk right so there's this notion
that we got to wait for them to do
something negative in order to increase
sanctions I actually think it's the
converse that continued occupation of
eastern Ukraine is the predicate and
that should be the trigger for new
escalatory sanctions and you keep doing
that even if Putin doesn't change his
behavior right there's this long
discussion in my world well sanctions
aren't effective they're not working and
I think sometimes you just have to have
punishment for crimes these are crimes
these are international crimes including
what just happened 48 hours ago and for
crimes there have to be punishments even
if it doesn't alter Putin's behavior in
the short run yeah Mike I wish you were
still sitting in Moscow was the
ambassador this would be I feel a little
better about what's happening but thank
you for helping and explain this to me
because you know I guess I'm not as
nervous as I was when I woke up this
weekend and read about you know ships
shooting at each other right
that's good thing maybe we walked it
back it's and they walked it back today
but I you know Tommy I think I I think
there's a real possibility at some point
in the future that this this kind of
low-level simmering conflict will become
hot and Putin's going to dare us to try
to stop it and I'm worried about I want
to be clear we dodged a bullet and
literally Ukrainians dodged some bullets
today a couple of days ago but but this
hasn't been resolved it's not going away
yeah well now I'm terrified again so
thank you let's keep talking I
appreciate it thank you again
you
