this week world does want to know about
China and North Korea Andrew asks we
know what the United States wants in
North Korea but what does China as the
dominant power in the region 1 do they
want the same goals as us or do they
want the North Koreans to remain a
perpetual thorn in the side of America
so Andrew here's what we do know the
Chinese have backed the North Koreans
pretty strongly since the 50s during the
the Korean War
China is North Korea's biggest trading
partner they're their biggest source of
food and fuel like absolutely critical
things they need to keep the regime
alive North Korea's nuclear ambitions
are the us's biggest priority like
rolling them back or stopping them from
getting a nuclear weapon or more nuclear
weapons and certainly that nuclear
ambition is strained their relationship
with Beijing to the point where China
has put sanctions on them in the past
even at the UN Security Council but they
certainly haven't taken steps that would
definitively stop them from advancing
their program so ultimately it seems
like China's main goal is to keep the
the Peninsula stable I think they like
the fact that North Korea sits between
their border and 28,500 US troops who
are sitting in South Korea more than
anything else they want to prevent the
North Korean regime from collapsing
which is why they probably won't
sanction them too hard because if the
regime collapses that could mean
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
refugees end up flowing across the
border into China which is enormous Lee
destabilizing and a problem of for all
involved so that's my sense of things
but what do you think that first they
probably want their best friend back
because Kim is now you know it's a great
question one way to answer it too is to
just go through what do they not want
the word of the worst case scenarios the
worst is a unified Korean Peninsula in
which the north is essentially swallowed
up by the South u.s. troops are still
there and you have this kind of u.s.
friendly unified Korea on China's border
tied for the worst would be a collapse
of North Korea and floods of refugees
and instability both of those scenarios
are worse for the Chinese than the
status quo where you have this kind of
crazy
running a nuclear-armed country in North
Korea and that's precisely why there's
been this problem of getting China's
cooperation to pressure them because
frankly they're more afraid of some of
the scenarios that involve a collapse of
North Korea or a swallowing up with
North Korea than they are of this D
stable regime with nuclear weapons I
think in an ideal what world what they
would want they want the United States
off the Korean Peninsula so they want US
troops out and they you know want a
Korea that they can kind of dominate you
know that's their long-term objective
you know and they have reason to believe
that they just kind of wait this out
that maybe the inevitable direction of
things in 10 or 20 years yeah so they're
not exactly aligned with our values in
that position here no and so what people
should understand when Trump talks about
pulling troops out of South Korea he's
literally talking about what the Chinese
want more than anything which is the
u.s. out of that region and China being
able to dominate well there you go world
us now you know
