welcome back to pod save the world on
Ben Rhodes and I'm really glad to be
joined by enes kanter a big fan when
you're on the Knicks especially
unfortunately our roster is downgraded
because you're not there anymore the
next starting Center for the Boston
Celtics but also someone I was a really
interesting story as it relates to a
country we've talked a lot about on the
podcast turkey so anis I thought I'd
start with you know your passport was
taken away in 2017 rendering you kind of
stateless in a way why did that happen
what is the root of this a feud between
the president of Turkey ty Bedouin and
you so well I have a foundation I try to
do a charity work all over the world
when I could travel and I was actually
had a big event in Romania it was like a
6,000 people was gonna come and then I
landed in Romania I give my passport to
this lady and then she looked at my
passport she said hold on a second yeah
she went in the back and then ten
minutes later police came and told us it
was me and my manager he said your
password has been cancelled and then I
was like why he said we don't know but
if you want to call the Turkish embassy
then you can learn I was like those are
the one caste in my passport I'm not
gonna you know I just call him and ask
him why and then you know after I
canceled my password I actually took a
video and saying because I want the
whole world to know what's going on and
said hey I'm being held in Romania two
policemen was watching us they were
actually boss two basketball fans to
their yeah took a picture while they
were gone it was it was weird
and then while they talked they told us
we cannot get in the country yeah and so
we had to leave the Europe and come back
to you know America but it was very sad
because I was gonna throw a big charity
event for the kids and I just it didn't
happen and you know from that day it was
I think it was like three three years
ago from that day people calmly homeless
yeah and were you scared I mean did you
think that they might actually try to
take you back to Turkey
of course that there was a secure part
because I know what could happen if they
could have you know just send me back to
Turkey but I was just so you know wow I
have faith here because I know I didn't
do anything wrong and you know I see all
the Turkish media right after that oh we
are bringing in us we are about to bring
in NSS Romagna is about to send an s to
Turkey or whatever so even my family was
so scared my brothers were so scared
back then I was playing for Oklahoma
City Thunder so my teammates were
texting me oh my you know coaches were
texting me if I'm okay or not so of
course it was a very scary moment but
like I said I was like I know I didn't
do anything wrong so I was like there's
no way that Romania will send it back to
Turkey yeah and so you know they they've
cancelled your passport they've you know
criticized you very strongly they've
caused problems for your family at times
in Turkey it's just because you know
just because you've been an outspoken
critic compared to one because you've
been associated you have a friendly
relationship with Fethullah Gulen leader
of obviously you know a spiritual
movement that everyone you know I tried
to crack down on particularly since 2016
coup coup attempt what why do you think
there is this grudge against you well I
am first of all I'll say this you know
even when I talk about these issues to
some of the words that I use that I
never even use in my life because I'm a
basketball yeah if you look at it in the
end I'm not a politician or journalist
some of the words I talk to I never even
use that in my life before but just
because of I have a platform you know I
played an MBA I'm trying you just
platform to be voice of all those
innocent people who don't have one
all right now if you look at the turkey
is number one cut accountable in the
world I'll put on most rooms in any jail
yeah and there are over 17,000 woman and
over 800 babies on a chair right now
yeah and you know it just is very sad
because a lot of people are getting you
know five my dad was a genetic professor
yeah and you got fired my sister was
what medical school for six years now
she cannot even for financial yeah it's
very sad because if you look at
my country there is no democracy
laughter they you know the government is
using their public debut human rights
violation and you know the thing is just
there is no freedom there's no freedom
of speech I mean obviously if like in
America you can't criticize or you can't
even make fun of the President
yeah there is a freedom of speech but in
Turkey even even even if on social media
you say something against them then he
said he's a bad guy
yeah and his whole family is a bad guy
put him in a jail and do you think did
you find that you know friends family
people you know in Turkey are they're
kind of nervous to be in touch with you
because the communications might be
monitored or they might become a target
yes well I mean three years ago there
the police came to my house in Turkey
and they raided the whole house my dad
my mom and my sister well I wasn't house
and they took every electronic way
phones away computers away laptops away
they wanted to see if I am sitting
contact with my family or not and if
they were to see any single text message
or email or miss Cole they will be all
in jail because my family had to put a
statement out there and said we are this
owned and Annis so the Turkish
government will leave them alone yeah
but now all this stuff's going on it's
just it's it it just not even just
travel to Turkey I can't even
communicate with him because I mean if I
do they'll listen their phones and it
would be very dangerous move so you know
you're describing essentially you know
government that as you said is
imprisoning all these journalists
hundreds of thousands of people but
they're also you know disrupting
people's families and I noticed that
they didn't even let the Western
Conference Finals that you played in and
be broadcast on television in Turkey so
that you know ordinary Turks who like
basketball couldn't watch a game because
you have to be playing in it and it's a
country that loves basketball do you
think that this kind of heavy-handed
authoritarian approach is gonna is it is
there a backlash building against that I
mean I have to imagine people get sick
and tired of the government telling them
you know you can't watch a basketball
game or if your family has different
political views they could get in
trouble it's very sad because like the
when the news came out
because we made it wasn't come and find
us with Portland Trailblazers and when
the news came out and said even NS make
it to the NBA Finals we are not gonna
show any of his games or babies they
just block my every news or every name
from all over the turkey they just don't
want the kids to see my name and that
shows that how much you know the
government was scared of an NBA player
that's that's that's very very sad may I
remember that morning I was going into
the breakfast and then all my friends
all my coaches were just looking at me
be like did this really happen yeah so
the whole country is not gonna be able
to watch our game just because of
because of one guy because of you I was
like yes it's very sad but my coach said
something very smart
he said do they not know that when they
do things like that they give you more
power yeah because I feel I mean it's
very sad that people can now I mean wash
my games and it's not my fault because I
read all the comments and say yeah we
cannot watch watch NBA because of Anna's
of like what I what did I do
I didn't do anything you know but uh it
just said because like that that shows
us how much scare there and they give me
a power to talk about these issues even
more and that shows that there is a
dictatorship kohonen in Turkey and you
know we saw earlier this year you know
elections local elections and places
like Istanbul that went against air duan
and then he tried to essentially annul
cancel the result then they held the
elections again and he lost again do you
feel like the tide is turning I mean do
you feel like some of the fear of arid
Juana's is breaking or at least people
are willing to just stand up to this
more I think so because I remember when
the election happened first and he lost
in the three major cities a mayoral
election he wanted to redo it and the
Istanbul especially and then he redid it
and then he lost it even a bigger care
was like I think over over kocoum
million that and then after that people
get more confident and they started
talking about these issues more and more
before that no celebrities no act there
is no any athletes or no movie stars no
singers was talking about this it's just
because they were scared but after this
mail
action that he lost and his party lost
people gained a lot of confidence and
now they're more comfortable talking
about all these issues and I feel like
it was like an eye-opener now people
started to understand more yeah and they
just saw that economy is going down and
all that stuff so now I think I loved it
well and for you as you said you know in
a way it makes you more powerful because
if someone looks this afraid of you then
more people listen but also just for
your security I mean you know you've
been afraid to travel to countries like
the UK where you thought that the
Turkish government could try to offend
you the Turkish government could try to
use you know red notices to apprehend
you that's when you give a notice to
Interpol what is the NBA or your team or
the NBA Players Union done look who is
essentially responsible for how trying
to protect you in this situation where
you're vulnerable well whichever team I
go to hell with the first team before
even like that mean with the coaches or
players yeah I sit down with the quality
security first and talk about all these
issues and then I'm just I'm so blessed
to have a have a people like like NBA
commissioner or my coaches my teammates
you know all the fans it would they were
just so supportive of me that they gives
me so much confidence yeah to talk about
these issues even more because like I
remember when I couldn't travel to you
know London with my team NBA
Commissioner Adam Silver did an
interview I said whatever his Ennis is
doing we are behind him you actually
texted me with his personal phone to my
phone and say hey and as we are with you
we are your family and whatever you
doing is right just keeping the keep
doing what you do me sir we support you
and then that shows that you know I was
like wow even like so like an NBA
commissioner the high level guy or like
they my teammates or my coaches that can
support me this much yeah it's a very
the confusing conversation I had to sit
down and talk to him or one-on-one at
least thirty minutes so they can have a
better idea of what's going on but it
was an amazing amazing experience for me
that is how MBA they're helpful in this
but in this process and you know it's
interesting you know like you said
you're a basketball player you know
Minh yet during this political drama
what about your teammates I'm curious
like when you you know you play with
some really great players too you know
that's a Westbrook and Damon Lillard and
CJ McCollum and you know wish the Knicks
had had some better guys but but I mean
is this do you talk about this in locker
room or do they learn about Turkish
politics because this is happening in
the background a lot I remember so the
argue has like the recently example CJ
McCollum yeah his brother actually
played in Turkey and then his brother
was watching our Western Conference
Finals game and life to it in the same
time and he said something about me he
said oh yeah and it's got a good good
offensive rebound and then Turkish
people start to attack him and you told
this brother he told CJ and CJ come to
man in a locker man said oh yeah my
brother's was live tweeted while you're
watching our game and then you got
attack why
you know just buy some Turkish fans it
just it just so sad because I feel bad
because like if you go my social media
like Twitter I don't I'm scared to
follow my teammate yeah because my
teammates have told me that whenever I
follow him Turkish people send him
threats so I'm scared to even follow
anybody yeah it just it just sad because
like like I said I'm just saying and be
a player I just want to play basketball
and I want to represent the my country
my flag my family the people I love
people I care about by just because of
all that stuff happened and it just
people are asking even like my teammates
yeah when they hear about this
conversation first
are you crazy I always get this question
are you crazy my family is back in there
my broom my brother my sister mom and
dad I told them no that is my mom and my
dad I understand is just one family
there are thousand families out there
are getting tortured getting killed
getting kidnap and getting you know
suffering in jails and I'm not just
saying that there are lots of reports
out there anything that I'm misty
International Human Rights Washington
right foundation so it's just very
confusing for my teammates to understand
it but I get a lot of support from from
all over the league
remember one time I'm playing in this
I'm playing in the NBA game I'm actually
a guard in the sky it's a very funny
story his name is marcin Gortat by the
way and he was playing for DC so I'm
actually guarding a minute in the game
during the game he asked me what side
are you on
I'm like what are you talking about I
said what side are you and I was like I
don't understand what you're trying to
say he said are you impressed inside are
you an other guy said other guys with me
circular I'm like wow you asked me that
during the game was like yeah man I
think what you're going through is this
crazy and I thought I was like I'm on a
other guy's side we said like a form of
trash talk he was very weird I remember
one time one of our guys gonna shoot a
free throw the RAF came to me I was like
hey what you're doing is so important
man keep doing what you do no micro but
it just shows that how much the NBA just
supported special defense
I'm not saying enough the fans that how
much they've been a supporter every time
I go to a game they just said hey this
is your home you know you you know just
you should be you should become a
citizen and stuff I'm actually becoming
citizens seriously you're on track 2021
it's very weird because it was ready for
funny story again so three years ago I
was gonna become a citizen and my friend
told me hates five years but if you made
an American woman it's only three years
so I said it on the interview right I
was like oh yeah it's one of my friends
told me that if I made with an American
woman it's only three years the next day
all oh yeah and I so I'm single if you
want to get married I'm an American
citizen not just the girls guys
everybody just like oh yeah hey if you
want to get married I'm like out there
well and your brothers play too right
they and we're the NBA prospects right
oh well he was actually just sound would
that one be one of the biggest Spanish
team okay a couple days ago he was
actually traveling yesterday yeah so you
know so maybe more Cantor's improve all
I hope so
well what do you what do you when you
just look back at Turkey
I mean are you hopeful that this is
gonna change you know in the near future
in your lifetime
do you hope to be able to return home to
Turkey and well I mean people love what
I talk about these issues people always
think that I have problem with my
country I love my country my problem is
not with my country now with my flag my
problems with the regime in Turkey and
Turkey could be the bridge of modern
Islam and West but now all that stuff
going on going on in Turkey is
impossible and of course you know I miss
you know America gave me so much of
course you know the people here you know
the I mean the the whole my for all the
fans my teams mm they gave me so much
but of course in the end that is my
country and there's my people and my
family still lives there of course one
day I want to be able to go back yeah am
i hopeful yes I'm hopeful and I know one
day people going to understand the
people until you're going to understand
what they're doing wrong and what kind
of people that are doing is and they
this is definitely going to turn around
but we just gotta just keep believing
and just talking about what's going on
and and pray for it and you know back
here do you feel like what's happened to
you in Turkey makes you kind of more
politically involved
I mean you've met with some politicians
yes I mean do you see yourself as
someone who's gonna play some role in
raising political awareness about these
issues in the US and meeting with
members of Congress and other things
well I mean I got it was it was so
amazing to see all the you know the
senators and Congress is and everybody
was just shown a lot of support I have
him like mad with some other people like
like the Clinton families and everything
they were showing a lot of support and
not just you know it's the one side of
public institution that I support the
Democrats show a lot of support it just
it just shows that it gives me a lot of
like I said confidence just show me that
I'm in a right path you know because I
talk about these issues to all this you
know people they stop me in the middle
yeah it's like don't worry about of you
already know all these issues yeah what
can we do for you how can we how can we
help you yeah so
it definitely means a lot to me to see
in all this you know support from from
all the political guys well just for you
and here what about what about the
Celtics this year oh yeah I'm playing on
some good teams how does this one rank
against Oklahoma City Portland yeah I
haven't met the guy he's guys yet
actually I met Gemma Walker
I know how good of a player is I met you
know Gordon Hayward well he was my
teammate and I'm out
tako fault 7-7 gonna he's probably the
most one of the most famous guys already
in the whole league is 77 I'm six or
seven eight seven seven but I'm very
very hopeful about this team and I feel
like we can really we have a really
special team that we can beat everything
whatever floor schedule just came out
today and mercy I'm against Philly and
then I'm a Knicks fan you know oh
during the next home opener man yes oh
it's gonna be amazing man you feel like
you want to get some revenge there condo
god no but November 26 I'm mark that day
you know I was like I've gotta bring my
A game because MSG I know a lot of
celebrities gonna be there yeah and they
know all my team all my X team is we
wanna go wanna go out there and just you
know destroy me so the here follow me
yeah but I'm gonna be ready for that
game for sure well you know it something
tells me that a Celtics gonna do a bit
better than Nexus I hope so which even
though I'm gonna go I wish you the very
best on that well look admit is great
talking you will follow this people on
these issues and I'll be rooting for you
out there
you
