welcome to pod save America live what's
up team here John loved it here with
Priyanka Arab Andy we're ready to take
some questions what are you looking at I
look I was gonna retweet the stream so
um we should just call this retweeting
the stream don't retweet the stream Ben
Rhodes for pod save the world
interviewed a basketball player and it's
painter and his Cantor obviously Jesus
and the picture of him sitting at this
table is so funny and I looked at it and
I realized that if in a million years
they found his bones next to my bones
they think wow these two kinds of humans
lived on earth at the same time I wonder
if they were able to communicate I
wonder what this smaller version did to
survive in a world with such Titans and
it would only be because we had not
enough bone data millions of years from
now that they wouldn't realize that we
were in fact just people anyway welcome
welcome welcome to the live stream we
have news to talk about yeah wait before
we get into the news mm-hmm we had a
very cool guest today we have a little
sneak preview for all our loyal live
stream viewers yeah Alexandria Ocasio
Cortes stopped by what she said heard of
her stuff bike wicked media she she sat
right here interviewed her for a little
while she was fantastic we talked about
immigration race the economy we talked
about Democratic messaging candidates
talked about storytelling you forgot to
say that she endorsed one of the
Democrats she endorsed one of the
Democrats so it's going to be a pretty
good day for Steve Bullock she did not
but she
she was wake up wake up you'll never
believe what happened huh huh
she was uh it was Rapinoe levels of
excitement here among the snow a lot of
excitement a lot of excitement on the
south I was on the phone with Brian
actually for our newsletter run down and
I was like oh I'm gonna need to call you
back I got that call so sorry Brian was
like no we're taking picture now ya know
well that the interview will be out
tomorrow and and she was fantastic so I
think you'll I think everyone will enjoy
it
oh also you can retweet this dream now
the tweet is oh I did it
they got my right handle this time so
here we go question all right all right
here's question this week big news the
Trump administration just released a new
regulation to deny green cards and visas
to illegal immigrants if they have used
public programs like Medicaid food
stamps and government subsidized housing
can we talk about what this is why they
would do this who this affects and just
your general reaction takeaways to this
role yes so this is a law in the books
about what they call it being a public
charge so if you're not this has nothing
to do with the legal immigration this is
legal immigrants who are here and the
law has been on the books since the
Chinese Exclusion Act which was also an
extremely racist and discriminatory law
that we passed to exclude Chinese
immigrants from this country back in the
1800s and so it's been in the books for
a while but past administrations have
only used it very narrowly so that if
you're someone who is here on Social
Security supplemental income for a very
very very long period of time they would
say okay well you've just been you
haven't been working you've been on this
for a long time and it's been used very
narrowly Trump administration decided to
expand it to include like you said
Medicaid housing nutritional assistance
for infants and children and look it is
hard to argue anything else but the fact
that they decided to widen this rule and
broaden this rule to deter low-income
immigrants from coming here and not just
coming here because it also affects
immigrants who are already here legal
immigrants who are
here now have to choose between I need
health care my family needs health care
should I sign up for Medicaid should I
make sure that I can get housing
assistance so um my family's not
homeless should I feed my infant child
or should I risk being deported from the
country
I think people facing the vicissitudes
of life that everyone faces right like
just people who are working doing their
best and then hit hard times like just
this is just a two target people and
make being an immigrant in the United
States more insecure more less reliable
more uncertain just to make the lives of
immigrants worse it's to send a message
to Trump base voters don't worry don't
worry we're going after we're going
after the brown people we'll take care
of it you know we've got your back we're
doing the things we said we do yeah I
mean if they really like this is not
your sort of typical Republican
where it's we want to cut food stamps
for everyone we want to cut Medicaid for
everyone which they all do which they've
been doing in which they've been
proposing to do and trying to do for
some a long time now what the Trump
administration is trying to do and
obviously a Stephen Miller brainchild
here is to say okay the poor white
people even though we are cutting all of
their benefits too we're not gonna make
a big deal about that we're gonna be
quiet about that what we want to be loud
about is that we're gonna cut benefits
for immigrants and not immigrants who
are here without documentation legal
immigrants because we want poor white
people working-class white people to
know that we're cracking down on these
people even though they're trying to rip
health care away from the poor away
people as well yeah it's a transparent
you know their political fate depends on
convincing millions and millions of
people who are being heard by this
administration that they're greater
interest lies in Donald Trump's and
Republicans policies of targeting
immigrants targeting urban areas
targeting people that don't look like
them and as long as this election is
fought on that access they believe
they've got a better chance of
and so everything that they're doing is
a part of that so of course that is very
horrifying
I also found yesterday when we were to
newsletter stuff
the acting immigration had Ken
Cuccinelli yeah said had like an update
to the Statue of Liberty
he said that basically I don't know it
the context of it was basically like he
was quoting it then he was like give me
your tire in your poor who can stand on
their own two feet and will not become a
public charge yeah the reason Emma
Lazarus didn't see fit to include that
poetic line I also it's um very
frustrating obligee would always talk
about public charges and spend a little
bit of effort Ken in following the
rhyming scheme of the poem your
door free me come on the couch the
Cuccinelli comments basically just they
give away the game right and this is
like saying that and they're just like
doubling down on it right it's not like
they're making any effort to lock them
even further he said yeah he said um I
mean look when she wrote that poem it
was about Europeans but it's it like I
said it gives away the game I mean think
of how many poor Europeans over the
course of decades and centuries have
come to this country with a dollar in
their pocket and tried to evict the
whole American dream is that you
can come here from anywhere in the world
with nothing and work your way up and
have opportunity for your family and
that's the American Dream and over the
generations that that dream was achieved
not just through the individual hard
work of people but through our
collective struggle and our ability to
help people go to college on the GI Bill
get Social Security get Medicare and
those were all services and a safety net
that was offered to immigrants who came
here for decades and centuries and also
I would just add that um I think if you
go back in yeah you go through the files
and yet you check
you check the the records you will not
find that when Italians Irish and Jewish
people were coming into this country
that the that the people who were
already here were like oh good Europeans
right the poem is aspiration huh and you
know the original poem not the Kucha no
no no not good
give us your oligarchs looking to park
money in Manhattan real estate give us
your Chinese eb-5 visa investors
purchasing them to pretend to create
jobs in the US through a Kushner company
yeah earning to breathe free
I thought use a public charge Donald
 Trump hashtag Moscow Mitch that
guy's been nothing the system
since birth on believe talk
about a weight on the country
I'll lift your lamp beside the Golden
Door all right moving on more ridiculous
things that awful people have said in
attempts to justify not allowing
exceptions for rape and incest in
anti-abortion legislation that he tried
to pass in Congress Rep Steve King
decided to chirp up today said if not
for rape and incest asked would there be
any population left question here is
their hope of getting rid of Steve King
in Iowa has the tide turned enough that
was wild
yeah and that was not I was like I heard
I saw the tweets about it and I was like
I don't have to read this whole story
because is this like a half taken out of
cut oh no no no now the context the
context is exactly in worse which is
like yes but throughout history there's
been Wars and raping and pillaging and
what would happen if all the people who
were products of all that raping and
pillaging we didn't exist anymore and
you're just like what sir I'm sorry
so yeah Genghis king this guy
there you go that's a hat there's your
hashtag right there right on our Moscow
mich hashtag
so anyway he's back white nationalist
Steve King still has a seat thankfully
JD Shelton is mounting a rematch in I
the Iowa force it was very close last
time right it was it was much closer
than people thought
yeah and JD is an outstanding candidate
we've gotten to know him a little bit
and gosh give your help throat throw JD
a few dollars this guy please
Steve King was unacceptably racist and
misogynist before he let us in on his a
facet of his worldview that up till now
he had not shared so publicly so uh you
know and it also I mean at the you know
the the views of people exceed King on
abortion sort of now dovetail with a
larger white nationalist view that the
the birth rate among white people in
this country is a real problem that it's
you know that one of the reasons to be
against abortion is because we already
have a low birth rate in this country
and we can't have all of the you know
immigrants who are coming to this
country they have high birth rates
it's the replace mean it's crazy to
replace our Carlson white national it
all fits it is very dangerous so it's
almost as if there is this connection
between
ingrain misogyny and in great white
nationalism that combined into a kind of
Steve Cain revanchist ideological view
in a way in a way right yeah we're gonna
transition into some twenty twenty
related questions but before we do
Elijah has a PSA for us all you could go
like the stream I would be crate like
the stream like not you guys then we're
watching on YouTube sorry sorry sorry
but yeah you guys can like this room to
like the stream helps with the algorithm
that's what we're all about here here's
the D algorithm alright
we replace God with an algorithm so far
it's going terribly but the tech
companies have have reassured us that
they're working you gods aren't you gods
have reassured us that they are working
out the kinks took seven days to create
the world given time taken Mark
Zuckerberg a lot longer to fix any of
the problems we created yes but good
news this thing you didn't know was
happening which is they're transcribing
if your private messages has recently
been stopped so sleep well America
there's a recording device in your room
that your child uses to play schools on
the bus your question question how can
we push moderate Democrats like because
Sheryl and New Jersey eleventh being
more progressive without ruining the
chances ruining their chances of winning
in 2020 should people challenge them in
primaries so you know I am of the view
that primaries are healthy for the party
and if you want to challenge someone in
a primary you know I'm not in the
d-triple-c camp where you got to like
blacklist firms they're working for
primary challenges challengers I think
the most productive useful primaries are
primaries that take place in blue
districts where it seems like a
Democrats gonna win anyway and so we
might as well try to fight for the most
progressive Democrat that we can if
someone wants to mount a challenge in
New Jersey to are more moderate members
or moderate members that's fine but I do
not think you are going to get someone
it's unlikely that you will get someone
who is further to the left and I think
what's more important than I think it's
important to create an environment on
the ground through organizing not just
around an election but every day where
you're talking to voters and you were
sort of pushing the issues pushing
progressive issues so that you create a
political environment in that district
where someone like a representative
Cheryl can vote can feel comfortable
voting for more progressive positions
because that's what
people on the ground are saying and you
know we saw this in - 2018 right there
were a lot of places where you know no
one would have known would have
predicted that you know Katey Porter
being for medicare-for-all in a County
or in a district that's only voted
Republican forever in Orange County
would be a position that would be okay
why was it okay why did she win anyway
not just because Katie Porter is an
excellent candidate because there's a
lot of work on the ground there from
indivisible from swing laughs from all
kinds of groups that talk people through
some of these issues that talk people
through medicare-for-all and so there
was a political environment where she
feels now like she can be progressive in
Congress and isn't worried about pissing
off some you know moderate voter someone
who can piss for her I feel partially
responsible for that and you anyone
anyone I want I wasn't really serious
because you are yeah so I really look I
realize it's frustrating and I think you
should you know push your members and
call your members and put pressure on
them when they're not taking positions
that you believe it progressive but I do
think that a lot of the work to create a
progressive environment happens on the
ground
cool got it noted all right so if you've
been following cooking media on
Instagram this is a plug
Tommy has been in Iowa and he sure has
yeah it looks quite fun but this
question is about it looks quite fun
like sorry like a middle aged like I'm
like a middle aged wealthy woman looking
at a carousel well he's not really
instagramming like I mean looks like fun
like a very Lucille Bluth my goodness
what a row you know he's doing he's
going to campaign things they look fine
give you I'm just having fun
I'm sorry Instagram okay go be Instagram
follow the Tommies instagramming up a
storm I've never seen this much yeah
yeah he's taking a lot of initiative is
it every year happening in Iowa it's on
Tommy's Instagram check it out you can
follow him at Tommy Vee tour or else
anyways how important is the good
performance in Iowa relative to how
you're doing nationally can we talk
about why we're talking about Iowa so
much yeah national pulls of garbage Iowa
polls are the only ones that matter yeah
yeah the they're gonna vote in Iowa
they're gonna have a caucus in Iowa and
it's gonna change the entire race
outside of Iowa which is the country
where the polls are being done so we
cannot conceive right now because we
live in pundit world just how much
everything will change once there is a
result in Iowa like the entire political
context the conversation everything
that's happening if someone someone
surprises in Iowa if someone wins we
thought we're gonna win it changes
everything it's funny it's what happens
is whatever questions people are asking
that day before Iowa is the question
everyone decides Iowa answered right
like whatever it may be like Ted Biden
falter is kamala building enough of an
organization does cory booker have a
shot is people to judge still in it
whatever though like punditry questions
are and it could be any of them the
answer will be Iowa no matter what
happens in like it just is the answer to
all the uncertainty that comes before it
yeah so the Iowa and I mean the reason
that the Iowa polls so there's one
reason it's important because Iowa is
important the other reason that the Iowa
polls are more important and more
reflective of what's actually happening
in the campaign is that is the state
where most of these candidates are
spending their time and so when when
polling comes from a state or a place
where people know the candidates more
they're paying attention more closely
they are seeing the candidates in person
you're gonna get a more accurate
reflection of how people feel about the
candidates then a lot of these national
polls which basically just take the
temperature of what you've seen on
Twitter cable and anytime you've paid
attention to the news just casually yeah
I know you guys don't have numbers in
front of you right now but I'm gonna ask
you about the many ways sure do you have
like just an idea of how right now Iowa
polls are differing from like national
polls yeah is there much of a difference
at all I think the difference is it you
know Joe Biden is still in the lead in
Iowa but the margin between him
and Warren is much closer than it is
nationally I think it's so you and and
it I shouldn't just say Warren either I
think Biden Warren and Sanders are all
you know have a lead in Iowa that is
pretty close and then after them I think
you've got the other difference is I
think Pete has been doing a little bit
better he's often in fourth in Iowa
where he's in fifth or sixth now he's
sort of fallen to fifth or sixth
nationally in other places so Pete's a
little bit stronger and then you have
sort of Kamla and Cory Booker and then
the rest of the crew so that's sort of
what's going on in Iowa right now but
you know I was just heard this somewhere
but I was on the Kerry campaign in 2003
September of 2003 people were calling on
John Kerry to drop out of the race he
fired his campaign manager there was
this huge staff shake-up when he was
polling behind he was pulling behind Joe
Lieberman who was in the lead Dick
Gephardt and it's like who's Dick
Gephardt al Sharpton John Kerry's behind
Al Sharpton when does John Kerry ride
onto the Tonight Show on a motorcycle
and I can never remember if that is
considered the last gasp of the failing
part of his campaign or the the way he
reset his campaign I hope it's the
former but like we're not even it's
August right now we're not even in the
in September where that's where John
Kerry was left for dead and then he goes
on to win the nomination
that said I do think these the last I
think what we've seen I think like
there's been a couple trends one of them
was Pete Buddha judges just sudden
emergence after CNN Town Hall and the
other has been the slow rise of Warren
but a lot of this has looked pretty
stable nationally and in Iowa too so
that doesn't mean it can't all change it
certainly can but it's I think people
sometimes say well in 2016 Trump wasn't
even on the stage when they did the
August poll and that's true but once
Trump did get in kind of led the polls
pretty stable Eve through the rest of
the race people assumed that that would
change so I think it's the kind of thing
where we just don't know like this could
be a very stable race or it could be
something that gets upended by an event
we just nobody knows yeah
nobody knows so looking at the date it's
in February we have a few debates until
then obviously with different thresholds
and whatnot so generally would you
anticipate more people obviously the
field won't be like twenty at that point
but it'll call down a good amount before
then right or is that gonna be like the
deciding I think it should I think if
you don't make this next debate and if
you don't make the October debate and
there's maybe some people who don't make
September but do make October is very
frustrating today but I think if you
don't make either I heard I you know
read some pieces that say Oh so-and-so
still considering staying in even if
they don't make either debate and I mean
everyone is free to do whatever they
want free country free country is sort
of mostly I don't mostly if I was
running for president or I was on a
campaign for president I don't know that
I would want to be on a campaign that
didn't make either of those debates
because those debates right now are
pretty much the only way that you can
get any oxygen or you know make your
case to voters on a national level
look I guess you know some people can
decide oh I don't want to be part of the
debates I can just go live in Iowa
candidates have done that in the past
with varying levels of success but I
think in a 20-something person field if
you have not made either the debates and
you've been campaigning for this long
and it's hard to get attention anyway it
ain't happening
it may happen and if you're not making
either those two debates well and
certainly what is so galling about that
is not only has it not happened so far
you don't seem very interested in
changing to make it happen so it's sort
of like what what what are what are we
missing what have we done what what have
what have the voters have been paying
attention not gathered that you're
trying to show them yeah I know what
would their campaign staffers will tell
them is the fall is when everyone starts
paying attention and even people in Iowa
who are you know super into politics
will start paying attention more closely
and in the fall so they keep thinking in
their minds this is what it happens and
this is my chance and you know that can
be true to an extent but we have a more
nationalized environment than we've ever
had before
and also like if you're not on stage in
these debates you're not going to be in
people's minds and also we just went
through an exercise of two debates in
which you had an opportunity yes you
make your argument and one thing to say
it's one thing to say oh you know I'm
seeing momentum but it's not there yet
I'm gonna keep at this but there's so
many candidates in this race that have
just you know it's fun
they just haven't they haven't resonated
even when 10 15 20 30 million people had
their eyes on it so yeah people just
need to kind of you know face the music
speaking of these upcoming debates do
you guys know how many candidates are
qualified and how many it takes to split
into two nights again parentheses for
the love of God please know I'm starting
to feel very nervous towards two debates
which obviously is bad I think for the
process but also for me personally very
important what affects love it
obviously it's not the most important
thing it's not even on the top 15 most
important things but it is happening
I think we're at 10 are we officially
late are we at 9 dier dier doesn't have
the polls yeah so I could no steyr makes
10 or star makes 11 I think some 110
sorry makes 10 yeah but they're over 10
it's definitely ABC hasn't said for sure
what they're gonna do but I think I had
heard that it was if it was over 11 if
it's yeah if it's 12:06 insects although
now put that you know maybe not I mean I
don't know that a debate the two nights
of 6 & 6 you know first I didn't want it
I still want a single debate stage I'd
rather that but two nights of 6 & 6
means you're gonna get you're gonna hear
a lot from those six candidates each
night and you're gonna get a lot more
debate better than I mean at least the
last debate that we watched what the
Wednesday night was yeah yeah I which
was whoo yeah I got two nights of like
10 people on stage is garbage I'm so
glad that's not gonna happen no matter
what like we I think 12 is probably
because Stiers close and I do I think
after steyr like maybe Castro could be
close I'm not sure and maybe tulsi
gabbard but I think beyond those two
like no one is really close with the
polls because again you need four polls
where you're 2 percent or above or 130
yeah I think it's an interesting
trade-off like what is actually better
would you rather have all the candidates
on one stage or split them up into two
groups like I think there's something
deeply unsatisfying and unhelpful about
having frontrunners split up between two
nights and you know we've now had two
debates and Warren and Biden haven't
stayed together that's true and if that
were to happen again
it would be profound disservice to the
voters so that's that and again not to
harp on it
love relieved it Radio City Friday the
13th hoping to get one of these
candidates gonna be harder
Friday the 13th huh yeah look at the
date was available are we superstitious
now no one said anything yes well I just
says yeah yeah we are we are we are we
are all right speaking of Tom Steyer
well or with Tom Styer and his quote
grassroots and quote campaign reaching
the donor threshold how likely is he to
get to the polling threshold to make it
into September's debate how would that
change things overall look he he you
know he so he hid the donor threshold
and he's been on TV he spent more on
digital ads and he's on television than
any other candidate and that translates
to more name recognition more people
knowing who you are and better poll
numbers and when the threshold is only
2% it's very likely that Tom Steyer will
hit that you know hit that number and
which means that he has essentially
bought his way onto the debate stage
kind of wet it's like he is their
candidate of choice at that point that's
so crazy yeah well look I mean again
when we talk about voters we're not
talking about people like us who pay
attention all the time we're talking
about people who are going about their
lives like politics is in the background
and they turn on their TV or they look
on their Facebook page and then they
hear about Tom Steyer and then when if
you have enough people that see that
when a pollster calls you and you do you
want for president oh yeah I saw that ad
from Tom Steyer he's a progressive
message say it from memory or do they
give you like a list they usually give
you a list Washington Post does an
open-ended one which is weird but or
some of them they do but most of that
you get a less yeah and they also think
it's you know we talked about this like
it's it's deeply uncomfortable that
someone is purchasing
the donors list they need and purchasing
with airtime you know the the name
recognition it's a it's a it's a it's an
unfairness inside of our system it's
it's not right and yet it's not as
though he's he's not Howard Schultz
right looking to upend the process
because of his own Picayune he's not
done moderate he's not Donald Trump you
know his his message is compelling his
message is not very dissimilar from
Elizabeth Warren's message he's just
compelled on on offering it himself and
and claiming that his biography and his
resume makes him a better carrier of
that message of all the people I mean
john delaney has bought his way into
this as well I'm much more interested in
what Tom Steyer has to say neguin Tom
Schneider has spent a lot of his money
over the last several years funding
progressive groups for visit progressive
organizations helping elect Democrats up
another ticket so yeah totally we're not
totally dismissive it's just no I I feel
conflicted about it because it is it on
some gut level it feels gross to buy a
spot on the debate stage I also know Tom
Stiers work and what he's done for the
party and very much appreciate that so
it's sort of good stuff all right moving
into the healthcare debate Leah's asking
isn't the healthcare debate between
single-payer and Medicare buy-in really
just a known employer-based insurance
versus unknown Medicare for all do
people truly love their private
insurance or is it just what they're
familiar with we don't know for sure I
think you know there I'm sure there are
some people where it's just what they're
familiar with there are some people who
genuinely like their insurance I don't
think anyone's running around loving
their health insurance I think at best
you have people saying my insurance is
fine when I'm sick it's there for me and
it's and my employer has provided pretty
generous health insurance that's some
people a lot of people hate and
there's a lot of people by the way I
think you have a positive view of their
insurance in part because it's not been
put through the wringer of a true crisis
in their lives right and so they've
liked their experience of it through
their kind of routine medical care but
don't know presume or don't know exactly
how it would perform if they had a true
medical emergency I might discover that
it left and vulnerable in ways they
don't know like that is just a
possibility and all of this I think the
other confusion is when people here
lose your private health insurance go to
some other pro health insurance plan
they think well then I'm gonna lose my
doctor and you know what I think
Medicare for all advocates should be
talking about more is under Medicare for
all and a single-payer system there's
only one network one nationwide network
so your doctor is always in that network
so in saying in a single-payer system
you can keep your doctor you lose your
private health insurance plan because
you now may be a government health
insurance plan but you get to go to
whatever doctor you want to go to and so
I do think that's part of the confusion
here but I don't think I think we've
been focusing on this part of the debate
private health insurance versus
single-payer and we sort of obscured
what I think is probably the real debate
here which is how we finance such a
system right like the Bernie Sanders
plan for Medicare for all is more
generous in its benefits and the fact
that it eliminates all co-pays
deductibles premiums whatsoever than any
other system in the world right now
even other single-payer systems don't
offer as many services and benefits as
Bernie Sanders's does and the plan has
been around for a while there is no plan
to finance it there's a lot of options
to finance it that does still don't
necessarily add up to what it really
costs and so I think the debate is gonna
come in the financing of this plan who's
gonna pay more in taxes even though your
premiums go away what does your new tax
bill look like who does that hit who
pays more who pays less you know and and
what services does the government
provide for health care under a
single-payer system because the
government chooses which services are
free which which can be provided in
which not yeah I also think another
facet of this debate that has been not
very present certainly not in the
debates is I think we've seen a lot of
unfair attacks and a lot of like sort of
kind of more you know this is what
Warren says others had the sort of
conservative talking points used to go
after single-payer which has men on the
one hand we've not had that conversation
John's talking about about actual kind
of nuts and bolts how to pay for it but
also there are in the debate between a
kind of private system plus a public
option and Medicare for all there are
advantages to Medicare fraud that
haven't been part of the debate actually
I think in over four nights of two
debates the only person to actually talk
about the only person to talk about it
substantially was Andrew yang talking
about the advantages of no longer having
insurance tied to work so I think for
people that are worried about Medicare
for all even before we get to thinking
about cost they're worried about how
it'll affect them personally in this
transition but there are real advantages
to Medicare for all in that you're your
employer no longer determining your
health care and you feeling is that you
can leave your job leave your job for
leave your job maybe for another job or
maybe to try something else work out of
your home become a private contractor
whatever whatever whatever you want to
do with your life there's real
advantages to the Medicare for all model
but like that.i that Harris who has
become an advocate for it has not done
has not provided or discussed very much
Bernie doesn't talked about it that much
at least I he has talked about in the
past I haven't seen it that much lately
Warren hasn't talked about it that much
so I think part of the issue too is I
think people are scared of it and they
don't understand what the advantages of
Medicare for all is versus a public
option because no one's really making
that case not about why we all need
health care which is where it's sit but
like literally why is going why is
everyone in the system better than a
public option yeah I found that a little
frustrating in the debates just I mean
because there was so much time to go to
health care but it seemed like no one
was really effectively not that they
were doing it effectively but like no
one was thinking to make that case and
it was kind of yeah well I think people
are leaning on simplistic arguments
because these debates are set up for
sound bites and thirty second things and
that's unfortunate because it's an
incredibly complex and nuanced debate
and if the debates just gonna be if
you're for a public option you're shill
for the insurance companies and if
you're Medicare for all your social
he'll take there is healthcare I think
that's an unfortunate to be fate yeah
it's um and part of it too is it it's an
we just accept it's just it's it's so
part of the the the atmosphere of
politics that we just accept that when
people are going to talk about their
positions they are going to want only
focus on the upsides of their views and
the downsides of their opponents views
like we just there's no intellectual
honesty I mean there's you know our
debate is certainly more honest in the
Republican debate but there's no actual
kind of engagement there's no there's no
there's no reflection of trade-offs both
of these plans have trade-offs and
nobody is going to engage on those
trade-offs in any kind of honest way and
so the debate
becomes quite frustrating on that note
actually we still have another
healthcare question so this is Dennis's
question not mine
considering no Democratic president will
be able to get meaningful health care
change the Republican Senate don't you
find it a bit of a waste of time that so
much attention is paid to their policies
throughout this campaign instead of
Foreign Affairs etc question mark no I
don't I don't find that to be a very
compelling argument I want there to be a
foreign policy debate I want there to be
a climate debate I want the health care
debate to be more fulsome than the
version of it we've been getting there's
a lot more to health care than just the
specific axis of what's been debated in
these debates however campaigns are not
just about winning they're also about
creating the groundwork the momentum the
the the public support for what you want
to get done Republicans spent years
lying about health care in order to win
elections it worked they won some
elections but then they had to actually
govern and after trying to repeal
Obamacare what 72 times roughly during
the Obama years they win and have the
actual capacity to pass an Obamacare
repeal but they couldn't build the
coalition to do it because all they had
was a lie which is all the attacks and
unfair insults they had been leveling
against Obamacare with no actual
substantive proposal with what they
wanted to do instead and so when that
actually happens when you win when
you're looking for the opportunity to
govern if you haven't been honest with
people you hadn't had the conversation
it is incredibly difficult to get
something done I do think it's a good
question though and Dennis makes a
decent point because I'm always
defending Dennis like you know we should
for all the reasons love it just said
and for you know long term movement
building and public opinion moving we
should be talking about the central
challenges that we face as a country and
that people are facing in their lives
whether it's health care whether it's
housing whether it's climate change but
I don't think we have talked enough
about what each of these presidential
candidates have the most power to do
once they're president which is set
foreign policy and take action through
executive order and staff their
administration with people who they're
going to pick for all of the
cabinet posts who are they're gonna pick
to run agencies which are incredibly
powerful and make a huge difference in
people's lives and so I think there
could be more conversation devoted to
okay so say you do have a Republican
Senate which is very possible you're not
gonna pass healthcare you're not gonna
pass climate Green the green New Deal
what are you gonna do about health care
what can you do on your own as president
to improve people's health care what can
you do on your own as president to do
something about our climate emergency
and what will you do around the world
considering you have a huge amount of
power in foreign policy we just we
haven't been asking those questions
enough and they're very important
because there is a very good chance that
that's the power that the president's
going to have and they're not going to
be able to pass a lot of things through
Congress all right we have one last
question for you to the fun stuff and I
think this question is like something
that I've heard a lot of people ask so
Joe wants to know Democrats running for
president are criticizing Obama era
policies in their attacks against Joe
Biden should they be wary of this and
how democratic voters will perceive them
considering there is still major love
for Obama and his presidency yes because
Obama is perfect and has never done
anything wrong um look I think I think
this is a narrative that has been way
overblown in the media when you look
back at that debate where this narrative
was born Bill DeBlasio and no one else
but Bill DeBlasio turned to Joe Biden
and started criticizing Barack Obama on
deportations totally legitimate
criticism we have talked about Obama's
record on deportations numerous times on
many programs in crooked media it is
something to be debated Barack Obama
himself would tell you that in the first
term he did not do enough on immigration
to stem deportations where his policy
ended up in the end of the second term
was quite good on deportations I believe
and I think a lot of other candidates
are basically in line with that policy
right now but it's fine to critique one
policy I don't think these candidates
are critiquing the affordable care act
at all because or if they are they're
doing exactly
a Barack Obama did which is say that it
is a very good start and that we should
build on it in 2018 Barack Obama said
Medicare for all is a good idea so I
don't think that any of the debate
around health care is unfair to Barack
Obama and then the only other critique I
heard in that entire debate was around
the trans-pacific partnership a trade
agreement and do I think that the TPP
was a good deal yeah
you can disagree without a lot of people
do a lot of the candidates do but that's
a disagreement over a trade agreement I
don't think those three things those
three in that says add up in any way to
a bunch of candidates running around
critiquing Obama's record and I'm
someone who's pretty sensitive about
critiques know Obama record Obama's
record and if I heard them and I thought
people were being unfair to Obama I'd be
pretty pissed and I'd be out
there talking about I don't feel that
way I didn't feel that way after the
second debate it was surprising we
talked about this like the next day when
when Biden was asked about and all of a
sudden I was I was like what I watched
that debate what I'm where was this
where is this coming from and I know
where it came from the Beltway yeah I
have I have not I've not talked to the
our former boss but I can almost
guarantee you that he was not pissed off
by that debate I think there was there
was some source in a political story who
would actually talked to him and said no
he thought it was all pretty fair and by
the way also it's like yeah the next
Democratic president is gonna do
different things and have different
views than the last Democratic president
because politics has shifted the country
has shifted the problems have like
that's what it means to be a changing
and progressing nation you want to talk
about an attack on a Democratic
predecessor look what we did to the
Clintons Inouye but the Obama campaign
was arguably much more critical of Bill
Clinton's record and style of politics
than anyone has been of Barack Obama and
it was pretty effective maybe there's
something there's somebody cleaned here
but the the other is also you know when
like you know when when you build on
Social Security and the the New Deal it
is not to quit is not saying that FDR
was a failed on Social Security yeah you
know it's just that you keep making
progress you keep going further all
right before we get to the fun questions
I just got an email but I think you are
gonna be very interested
Roman actually emailed me about the
upcoming ad in today's what a day yes
this is a plug features a Jif of your
dog the one and only Leo Favreau for nom
nom now
so yeah tune in I looked at Elijah I
looked at I looked at Elijah because I
thought there might have been a chance
that pungent missing a photo opportunity
with AOC a well it's heart just broke on
the live stream it's funny you know
Emily was going to keep Leo today but I
said hey Oh seats in the office and
there may be a photo opportunity do you
really want pundit to seize that
opportunity and that was the fastest
Emily's ever changed her mind about
anything it's been very hard because
obviously pundit doesn't have a PR team
she doesn't have an operation you know
she doesn't have a flack on retainer and
though the the kind of attacks coming
out of Emily's war room fully staffed I
mean god only knows what they're doing
all day it's been quite relentless the
smears transparent smears just so
transparent it's trying to denigrate
pundit you name it her dog the page was
nicely for the PR the page six item the
page design aim is the PR value the page
six items against pundit pundits
relationships are on the rocks could
have just named her fluffy but you know
any other questions Priyanka I love all
these dogs as if they're my own all
right I used to feel the same all right
Paul why don't you guys rate the
different campaign slogans we had a
radio sorry Paul you guys hey hey hey
one message from today's live stream
Paul Dennis eat someone I think it
would love it maybe propose that we read
the slogan and maybe have you guys guess
whose it is and then when there will
yeah we're gonna raid them we're gonna
break them and then find out whose they
are
okay building opportunity together oh my
god don't like
get don't like it is feel like it'd be
helpful if I had like a list or
something or somebody I'm building
opportunity together but it's been
coming up with the is that a Steve
Bullock Tim RAL together back in Captain
pretty good it's the yeah it felt like
it felt like a a moderate yeah it's uh I
like it a lot we like that in it bad
that could be a couple people very old
school working people first first first
uh Tim Ryan that's a good guess
Klobuchar mmm-hmm BBB oh yeah yeah yeah
that makes sense yeah what do you think
about it it's fine it's better than
building opportunity together but not by
much I don't hate it
I don't know that working people first I
like the putting people first was Bill
Clinton's people have been trying to
copy that forever I guess I guess is
maybe it's a little too close like
America first working people first you
know I don't know it's fine it's it's
it's fine it's a message that at least
it gets the message across look right
things are not like very creative but it
is a message you think okay he's gonna
put working people first you know
building opportunity together like what
does that even mean what does it even
mean all right uh lead with love oh yeah
no no wait oh is it Booker I think I've
heard that I think this is Tulsi Gabbard
isn't it you're right what is it I saw
that leave leave
oh I they said leap with love Oh lead I
lead with love that's not yeah well no I
leave with love with so crazy I thought
it must be Mary Ann anyway
lead with love lead okay I don't
it's an that's one where it is not a
direct message but it is an interesting
slogan but I don't know that it has
captured Tulsi describe your if your
campaign slogan is gonna be lead with
love like you it should be clear based
on though yeah when you take a
sledgehammer to calmly debate
know that necessarily screaming bleeding
with low when you reach into it when you
read you to Tim Ryan's heart take out
his beating heart and show it to people
to demonstrate your power because it's
leading with something all right
our best days still lie ahead what our
best days still lie ahead who's doing
that oh my good that could be a couple
of them there's so many candidates are
best gonna be surprising still way ahead
lie ahead or later fly go ahead sacra
Medical lotta bull ik no liver
Joe Biden oh really
go by I haven't heard that from him
that's his slogan interesting okay
focus on the future
focus on the future I feel like this one
does make sense yeah Oh booty judge no
I'm a made sense in the sense that it
was death
they says it was what bad bad focus on
the future
I had to someone to take a little break
John Delaney it's like some the ones
that are so indistinct it feels like
just guessing randomly which tells you
the slogans not very good just come
together what but just come together
that's it come together
I'm just keep guessing cuz ya know that
one second Lewbert sounds wild yeah not
good it's like come together that's it
ah it's in two other slogans already
this one's a high school musical song
we're all in this together so that's
three together we're all in this
together so has a solidarity vibe um
Tibet oh yeah nice they're good
alright we'll close that last one let me
find a good one what do these have the
names in them which I do think is
helpful Oh brave wins
oh that's Jill that's Gillibrand Lisi
Minard fine all right
how do these all day give us some more
having fun I don't want to stop okay
one nation one destiny whoo
uh loopy
it's loopy one nation one destiny I
can't see anyone saying that out loud I
think they would know we've gone through
a lot of the Tim Ryan Seth Moulton one
nation one Marion no alright this one -
us that Moulton's is just Seth Moulton
for America what was that again 100
Coulee on Castro oh okay okay let's find
another give us some give us like the
frontrunner now and see if we can get
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I don't
think we should about doing all the
front-runner yes okay smart smart smart
mark this one has three we persist we
will rebuild the middle class and I'm
not gonna be the last because there's a
name it's a warrant Laurie yes um
alright let's see not me us Bernie
yep a good one great one I think I think
that's one of the best ones I've heard
for the people comma
great which is actually you know what
the fact that we just know it tells you
there's something too good to it I also
feel like you just told me like oh give
me like frontrunners and now you're just
like okay yeah no but if you you could
if you say for the people for the Biden
when I certainly didn't whenever unless
you say the reason for the people and I
wouldn't gotten the warrant it's a great
easy thing online for people to be like
bad Logan bad something bad slogan about
slowly I think for the people like I is
it the best one I've ever heard no but
like a you know I think it very
transmitted it's very kind of you know
it's a little bit manufactured but this
idea like that's what she said when she
was a prosecutor it it brings in that
like the the moment we're in about
fighting for regular people like there's
I see it I like it I like it as much as
I do likes it
no but I like I like for the people and
I also by the way to voc's I mean just
to i you know the the labor the labor
slogan that they've been using for the
many not the few I like and I like that
that it's been invoked by several
candidates
it ties her prosecutorial record which
they want you to know about together
with populism which is an important
message it's it's good it's good it's
good
all right last one a fresh start for
America that's Pete oh now you got it
and I think I think that I get what
they're trying to convey there I think
Pete Buddha judge is much better than
that message the net slogan the message
that he's a fresh start is a good
message it's a very powerful message but
fresh start
well it's sort of like a good like a
it's like a cleaning product or a
deodorant my issue with is that it's um
there are many here you know you can
have a good fresh start you can have a
bad fresh start you know you shake that
just to catch you can draw whatever you
want after but will it be good like the
the only thing that fresh start to me is
just sort of like we're gonna get rid of
Trump and have a young person kind of
cool and new in this job but people who
- has also been one of the best like
message people that the party has seen
in a long time he's brilliant at that
kind of stuff so a fresh start doesn't
really maybe maybe we're wrong maybe he
maybe he cracked it
maybe you practice maybe that's it oh
wait we got people on the stream who
want to know humanity first humanity
first yeah yeah there's people in the
stream yeah oh yeah yang yang yang yang
gang yeah yeah hey yeah I want you to
know something I want to know something
you are seen okay I look I know we saw
all your your comments on Twitter we
were neglectful in talking about Andrew
Yang's today perform we were it was arts
are bad and you know what do it again
you know what no it was true I'm sorry
on the first four hundred tweets but
when I got that four hundred and first
tweet it really clicked for me
just a quit okay yang gang I you know
why we talked to yangju yang you talk
did you talk to her
I do not Tommy did oh look at that
signed signed by your Silicon Valley god
Andrew yang bye everyone bye
