Kim jong-un took a 60 hour train ride to
Vietnam for a second summit with
President Trump on Axela
how I would love to see what that train
looks like and I imagine a bunch of
Intel services have it pretty well wired
but maybe we can yeah I mean there were
Wikileak that's us well there were
reports in the past about you know from
like leaked you know the chef who defy
yeah of like the finest French wines are
brought in and all this food is shipped
in and they're women and yeah it seems
like a kind of bad Netflix series right
so Kim jong-un has made it to be a nom a
Trump I think his n route as we speak
but before he left there's a whole bunch
of but before he left there's a whole
bunch of shaping the battlefield and the
press Trump's advisers who they're
downplaying what they hope to get out of
the second meeting or you know the John
Bolton Trump's national security adviser
his camp was spinning that they were
worried about their negotiator being too
eager to cut a deal or even Trump being
too eager to cut a deal so I curious
like what do you think Trump would need
to get out of Kim jong-un in the second
summit to make it successful or Alicia's
worth the time so in my mind if we're
grading this not on a curve forget right
what we need to see is verifiable
progress in rolling back North Korea's
nuclear or missile program that's it
again I've said I don't think that we
should expect him to eliminate all
nuclear the nuclear weapons in North
Korea that's not going to happen quickly
however with this level of diplomatic
engagement with this level praise of Kim
jung-un with clearly they're kind of
fraying of North Korea's international
isolation we should be getting something
on the issue we care about which is the
nuclear program so put aside all the
symbolism and talk of peace are they
letting international inspectors into
their facilities are they taking steps
to rollback pieces of their nuclear
program
that again can be verified by
international inspectors are they taking
steps to dismantle parts of their
missile program if they're not doing
that then the the the reason we went
into these negotiations we're not making
progress on it and by the way it's not
enough for North Korea to say well
there's a building that
it's really important in our program and
right we're gonna blow it up like no we
need an inventory of what their program
is and we need international inspectors
not North Koreans you know giving a show
to the media right to assess are they
actually taking steps to roll this back
and if they're not doing that then we're
making absolutely no progress against
the stated objective of this diplomacy
in the first place you mentioned
something important which is one of the
first things we were supposed to try to
get was an inventory of all their how
many nuclear weapons you have all of us
where where they are you know you're
like this missile silos yeah you know
what a weapons testing sites we've I
don't think we've gotten anything we
haven't even gotten that what are we
gonna even check progress against that's
right and and we cannot and I implore
listeners if the North Koreans are the
ones who are vouching for what they're
doing
don't just Olli discount it right I mean
because they've done this in the past
where they they take a bunch reporters
to some building and say this was really
important to our program and then they
blow it up in front of everybody and
what what the do you know about
what's in that building they probably
moved everything that was important that
building to some other place right yeah
this is why there are entire
international inspections regimes and
organizations like the International
Atomic Energy Agency that did the Iraq
the Iran inspections that need to be
involved they also tried to do the Iraq
construction if we let them keep going
we might have there didn't have weapons
that's right that's a good point
2002-2003 trip down memory I've been
I've been reading fiasco by Tom Rix and
it's making me you're really diving to a
rock yes I feel like I should let
everyone else for that book 14 years ago
I feel like I'm a little behind the
curve but it's he's a it's a great book
yeah well and there's a whole library of
those books on the rock that were
written that talk about books the blob
is yeah forgotten forgotten right right
so you sort of hinted it at this but
according to various leaks the Intel
officio is still whirring on background
to reporters are worried that Trump
could offer to formally end the war on
the Korean Peninsula which is
technically been ongoing since the 1953
armistice agreement he could open or
offer to open an interest section in
North Korea which is basically a step
down from an embassy and let them do the
same in Washington
he could offer to pull us troops out of
Korea although the Trump officials are
trying to shut the door on that even
being a possibility I mean when I look
at those things you know an interest
section or more dialogue it feels like a
good step maybe but I mean how much do
you worry about him giving away the
store here or maybe the press being
distracted by these other things that
are not related to the program well
those two things are directly connected
right because like it's been very clear
since Singapore that all Donald Trump
really cares about is his ability to
create a spectacle and his ability to
look like he's winning something right
so again the question was always is this
going to diminish North Korea's nuclear
program in any way all these other
things are secondary now I think that
these things are much easier to get
right because North Korea what do they
not want to do they don't want to give
up their nuclear weapons or their
missiles they don't give a whether
you know we say in fact they have wanted
to declare to try to pursue a peace
treaty because to them a peace treaty is
the first step to removing US troops
from South Korea
right so part of the reason why there
are US troops in South Korea is because
you know we never signed a peace treaty
technically there's this kind of state
of war but everything you know it's not
like we've been fighting a war for the
last several decades but the risk there
is that you know Trump wants to say I
achieve peace so on a piece of paper he
could sign a commitment to reach a peace
treaty but number one that does nothing
to address a nuclear program number two
that could be the predicate to removing
troops from South Korea even though you
haven't dealt with this threat from
North Korea and then leaving North Korea
as the stronger party on the peninsula
right you Jeremy with a couple million
man yeah yeah I mean which also sends a
signal to anybody else in that part of
the world who kind of counted on us
Japanese Japanese Taiwan you know and
and so to me it's quite likely that
Trump goes in for this symbolic stuff
the press you know look I'll give you an
example I remember when there were these
exchanges of remains right mm-hmm the
North Koreans gave back us brought some
remains from
the Korean War or at least they said I
mean we sell to verify this and it was
like a massive story and look it's
important and I hope for the sake of
families that those remains are found by
DNA to be matches with u.s.
servicemembers who were lost but again
it's in the scheme of American national
security interest in the nuclear program
this is not what Trump said he was
getting into this diplomacy to do yeah
and so my worries that the North Koreans
are using these symbolic things to play
Trump yeah they want to be legitimized
as a nuclear weapons state and they can
give up everything else except their
nuclear weapons and Trump is falling
right into that trap look the fact that
we even having this conversation if
Brock Obama or Hillary Clinton were
president we wouldn't be like this would
be unacceptable when Congress would be
freaking out the media would be holding
us to a much higher standard the media
holds Trump to a much lower standard on
this and I think there two other points
worth making
this man has called Trump the Iran deal
catastrophe when Iran shipped out 90% of
its nuclear material and submitted to
inspections how can people account for
the intellectual dishonesty and
inconsistency of essentially a bunch of
symbolic concessions but nothing
substantive with North Korea and a lot
of concessions from us by the way
because we're legitimizing Kim and the
sanctions regime is falling apart how is
that okay and and it makes any sense to
be pulling at Iran deal but the other
thing is Trump is sending a message to
every other country that might be
considering whether or not to get
nuclear weapons that you should do that
because look we're opening the door from
North Korea to walk into the nuclear
Club he's heaping praise on Kim jung-un
so if you're one of these countries that
has been at that you know decision point
with the lesson you're taking from this
is okay if I can just get this nuclear
weapon then the United States will
welcome me with open arms and then we
you have India and Pakistan all
replicated all over the world it's scary
and meanwhile The Washington Post wrote
up this piece this morning about how
Trump is back trying to sell people that
he's executing a madman theory of
foreign policy where you know he acts
crazy he sends a bunch of shitty tweets
about fire and fury and nuclear
annihilation and some of that brought
Kim jong-un
to the table I mean I think it's it's
laughable on its face but you also point
out that Kim in in previous North Korean
leaders have always wanted these talks
it benefits them and and by the way like
Kim Jung hoon he's been kicking his ass
at the table ever since he came to the
table right I mean we have given a lot
up you know we have two heads of state
summits total legitimization of kim
jung-han
you know this praise for him that I'm
sure is playing on a loop in North Korea
on state-run television the Pollard
States military exercise exercises I'm
sure that the international isolation of
North Korea is been lifted
probably the sanctions regime is fraying
and have gotten literally nothing in
return on the nuclear issue right so
yeah maybe the madmen stuff like had
something to do with the beginning of
this but the Kim jung-un then has
basically been running struggles around
Donald Trump at the negotiating table
ever since yeah
you
