welcome to pod save America live we're
here to take your questions as always
with us asking us questions is Priyanka
Arab Indy that's me and we have at least
the gutierrez is here
that's not Travis an improvement on
Travis major improvement why'd he get
kicked off area so can you dab okay guys
we have a a big stream plan for today so
uh a lot of questions a lot of things
happening a lot of mic adjustments yeah
we good yeah we're good
thanks uh Kyle - I'm good I'm good sweet
all right let's start off with the
Wisconsin Supreme Court election last
night currently too close to call
conserved a candidate has declared
victory the question here is is there a
better election process for Wisconsin
and more and can there be more
information available in advance of the
election
how should Democrats listen to voters
and respond to Wisconsin voters concerns
I'm disappointed by the results today
and we should all be because this is a
bad sign for 2020 this person says us
too he went deep on this
we are also disappointed by the election
results yeah I mean we this is we tried
to talk about this a couple pods ago we
were trying to get everyone in Wisconsin
to get out and vote we also did it sort
of a targeted get-out-the-vote message
in an in our last podcast so the deal
with Wisconsin is this is a it was a it
was an election for Supreme Court seat
and you know it's an off-year election
and it's not in November and so those
are those tend to be lower turnout of
fairs the other tricky part of Wisconsin
when you're voting for judges is they
don't have Democrat and Republican next
to the two judges names and so one is a
liberal a more liberal judge one is a
more conservative align back judge and
so it's not as clear-cut as a normal
election would be with like a Democrat
Republican that said in April of 2018
when a seat was up in Wisconsin and it
was a statewide election the liberal
judge won
convincingly and so a lot of people
thought that Judge neubauer who was the
liberal judge in this election was going
to win convincingly as well but instead
she finds herself about 5,000 votes
behind a conservative judge who called
the n-double-a-cp a disgrace called
Planned Parenthood an evil organization
started a school where you could turn
away teachers and students for being in
same-sex relationships well that's the
kind of of judge that Wisconsin could
have elected so yes Democrats we need to
be pay far more attention to down ballot
races between now and 2020 to special
elections whether it's state legislators
whether it's governors races whether
it's state supreme court whether it's
district attorneys we have to pay
attention to these races yeah also last
thought Wisconsin is gonna be a swing
state in 2020 we all need to be ready
for that we all need to do some
infrastructure building now and also
it's worth noting Benwick low friend the
pod he pointed out that Americans for
Prosperity the Koch brothers they're all
taking credit for this win so those
disgusting big moneyed interest groups
are all over this as usual as they
always are in midterm in down ballot
elections the thing Republicans do so
much better than we do they fund the
hell out of State Legislative rates
judicial races in off years and we need
gotta get better at it and and just one
last point on this
you know we saw obviously we said
Democrats have to pay more attention
like what is paying more attention mean
because a lot of people until we're like
oh we just didn't turn out enough you
know that's actually not true
judge Newberry got more votes than
Justice dalit who won last April in this
election got more votes than Justice
dalit did in Milwaukee and turnout was
up from the 2018 Supreme Court election
and yet she's still lost so what
happened the Republican base turned out
more and in the suburbs outside of
Milwaukee the margins were much better
for the Republican and even though
turnout was up in Milwaukee the margin
in Milwaukee was a little better for the
Republican so that should tell Democrats
as they're looking to Wisconsin in 2020
it's not just about turnout we lost some
voters who voted liberal before two
Republicans in the suburbs of Milwaukee
and even in Milwaukee and we have to ask
ourselves why some of these voters who
voted for Democrats and liberals in the
past we're voting for this conservative
Republican judge and maybe that's you
know being outspent at the very end no
not all though not overall maybe it's
you know just giving people more
information about these justices or
making our argument better but these are
votes we should be winning
I just took notes so I can write that up
for ya making a good good section all
right we will move along next questions
about the Muller report can we do a
quick update about where we are in this
process fighting over the release of the
Malheur report knowing that we know of
has read it it's still frustrating it's
still a pain in the ass I think you're
gonna subpoena and if they haven't
already
yeah Judiciary Committee voted today to
allow dan Adler to subpoena the report
any time now J nads
we love for that to happen and it is a
subpoena so yeah we got to fight this
out 80% of the country wants the full
Mahler report released basically every
single member of Congress voted to say
that the Moller report should be
released so we need to hold their feet
to the fire got it okay so this next
question is about Adam Schiff and the
attacks on him made by Republicans what
is the best strategy for him to use
against these attacks to step down as
chair or resign should he keep doing
what he's doing or start to attack back
can you explain what's kind of going on
why Republicans are attacking him and
then what he should be doing about it
yeah I mean so Republicans on the the
House Intelligence Committee are going
after him for doing his know I'm very
yeah doing his job in being very
forward-leaning on his belief that Trump
is guilty of collusion even though
that's not a it's a distinct issue then
the prove ability of a conspiracy to
defraud the government via collusion II
elements whatever sub-point he's been
Trump's been calling him a pencil-neck
so some thoughts are Adam Schiff
one shrugs you just go up and straight
up just a little bushing like that I was
in high school football practice you
would have the other guy grip your face
mask and then you lean in an angle and
you do all four sides so you get the
neck good and strong there's also good
advice know if you've ever seen some
real real tough guys at the gym who put
on like the headpiece thing and then do
you like the cable presses that's
alarming that is some embarrassing
so that's the kind of you know physical
exercise on a piece of this the other
thing he should be doing is like when
Donald Trump attacks you you're doing
something right yeah you should
investigate the out of them that's
what he should keep doing cuz that's his
job as mandated in the Constitution yeah
but get into their skin
yeah the newness tell you what to do I
would say if I can ignore him it's like
also they can beat up on Adam chef all
they want he is in a safe district here
in Los Angeles no worries for you Adam
Schiff do your job they can beat up on
you all you want just keep it up Adam
shifts name ID among liberal donors went
up 50% stupid attack he's gonna raise
more money than any other member of
Congress people love Adam Schiff I think
yes great getting into a back-and-forth
of these guys is always you know it no
one ever wins on that and Adam Smith
Adam Schiff Smith had leadership should
just continue doing his job keep keeping
his responsibilities to you know have
oversight and investigate keep doing it
cool also in the news this week shifting
gears a little bit we stopped a u.s.
stopped aid for three Central American
countries can we talk about your
thoughts on this and what the
implications are what's gonna happen
because of this yeah so we stopped
president Trump cut off we're like the
all sniffles all-star team both stream
we're gonna use us also I'm drinking out
of a like a like a beaker or something
Bunsen burner why is this in our kitchen
does anyone know cool I don't know
Elijah thank you
there's not a lot of Cubs in there I
think why tutorials losers
always have answers so half a billion
dollars in aid was going to Guatemala El
Salvador and Honduras the the money goes
to mostly nonprofits or non-governmental
organizations that administer programs
that are designed to make it safer there
to create jobs to help people living in
these countries because we believe that
if you can make it less dangerous to
live in a place there's more like less
likely that you're going to migrate to
the United States and there are some
evidence that this has worked I mean in
2015 like 40% of people who left those
countries to try to get to the United
States said they did so because they
feared for their own lives
so clearly the conditions on the ground
need to change because if you think your
kids gonna get killed no wall will keep
you from emigrating you're gonna get the
 out of there so what Trump did was
cut off this money through these
countries and what it's gonna do in
practice is make conditions less safe on
the ground and make the immigration
problem worse and I think he knows that
it's not complicated he did it because
he claims it's for retribution because
he says these countries are setting up
more caravans again the money doesn't go
to the countries themselves it goes to
others so he fundamentally doesn't
understand the policy but ultimately
what it seems like is he wants to make
the immigration problem worse and set up
a series of actions that he himself can
take that seem drastic and get press
coverage and draw attention from
reporters who don't usually take the
time that I did to walk you through the
details so that's where we are it's all
about the other right like don't you
know we're given all this money to these
Central American countries and the way
they thank us is by sending all these
people to our border yeah that's
basically the Trump argument and it is
the worst people yeah it's it goes well
right back to his nonsense speech it's
completely backwards it has no
understanding of the policy but you know
I'm sure if you're just tuning into Fox
News and that's the message that you
hear it could be compelling unless your
people like Tommy walking you through it
and and you know Democrats should talk
about why
you know assistance to these countries
could actually help decrease you know
migrants coming to this country yeah
tarios got worked what else you got
alright so Madison is asking literally
five weeks ago this administration said
they were gonna take a stance on the
world stage to decriminalize
homosexuality oh yeah maybe I missed
something but we're supposed to Brunei
like what's going on here
they solved it did they solve it and son
no more discrimination globally against
no more so that effort is gonna is
allegedly gonna be led by a guy named
Rick Grinnell who we've talked about
probably too often on this show
he is a Twitter troll that became a
human and then was nominated to be the
US ambassador to Germany was not real
life except when one of the trolls
becomes an ambassador that when he grew
in a dish and he's an ambassador to
Germany and basically he landed in
Germany and pissed everybody off and now
no one will talk to him so he's
ineffective PUD who just does Fox News
interviews from Berlin is that not a
word I could you have whatever
sucks so anyway the goal of
decriminalizing homosexuality globally
is an incredibly good and noble goal but
this was clearly a an effort designed to
give them yet another reason to attack
Iran and criticize Iran which is fine
it's a very legitimate place to
criticize a run but they're not holding
the Saudis for example to the same
standard in fact you know Jarrod's going
over there they're murdering journalists
the Trump doesn't care so you know my
sense is it was all for show but we'll
see maybe they'll prove me wrong got it
all right gonna move to democratic
policy our first question here is about
debates ongoing between Democrats over
policy implementations there's health
care environmental policy etc how do we
as voters and non experts evaluate who
has or what is the best plan for going
forward it's a great question
voxcom but you know obviously read
stories in at places like box there you
know if the New York Times will do stuff
Washington Post BuzzFeed there's all
kinds of places we'll have
good deep dives into what a lot of these
policies mean I would say is a voter you
sort of evaluate two different things
one is do I like this policy do I feel
like this is a good idea
like after you know figuring out what
what it is and understanding it and then
I think the second big thing is what is
the likelihood that this can be achieved
and what is it and has this candidate
offered a path to achieve this policy
and to pass this policy right and so you
know there's different ways of doing
that some of these candidates will say I
can achieve this policy goal through an
executive order so I won't even need
Congress well that's great that'll
happen pretty fast as soon as that
person gets elected president others
will you know most of the policies they
will put forward have to be passed
through Congress and then you have to
ask yourself how is this policy gonna be
passed through Congress if Democrats
control it like we'll be able to get
Republican votes if not will we be able
to do enough you know do you think the
filibuster could be issue and so where
this is leading me know it's like if you
if you're out there saying I'm gonna
pass Medicare for all and but you also
are not willing to eliminate the
filibuster for example that's Bernie
Sanders position you're not really gonna
pass Medicare for all you know and also
Cory Booker in his conversation with you
seem to suggest he would get rid of the
filibuster but then I feel like he might
have kind of backtracked later he's
going back and forth these little
worried but yeah and in fairness to
their candidate because I've been tough
on all of them on the filibuster thing a
lot of this is up to the Senate
Democrats right the president can't
order the Senate to get rid of the
filibuster so talk to Chuck Schumer
right talk to the rest of the Senate
Democrats because you know if they don't
get rid of it then nothing's happening
but Mitch McConnell I think is on the
floor today
it just has shrinking the amount of time
that we're there you're asked to
deliberate a judge from 30 hours to two
so that he can just Rim as many
conservative judges through the Senate
as possible right yeah that's correct
they seem to be cool with making some of
these changes yes oh and then the other
thing that you should use to evaluate
these policies is does the candidate
have a plan to finance these policies to
pay for them because I think we would
all agree that Democrats have probably
cared too much about deficits over the
last several decades and so we shouldn't
worry about you know if we are invest
in an important policy whether it's
teacher pay whether it's healthcare and
we think we're gonna get a good return
on that investment it's fine for the
deficit to go up a little bit but
there's a point where where you actually
have to finance something you have to
pay for it you can't just increase the
deficit forever we could be in some
trouble there so figure out how they're
gonna pay for it some of them are gonna
pay for it with raising taxes on the
wealthy some of them are gonna tell you
how they're gonna pay for it but I think
that's another way to evaluate these
policies yeah cool
Cheryl's actually asking about what you
were talking about earlier with a
nuclear option she wants to know supreme
court reform aside can the next
Democratic president do anything to undo
the damage of all these partisan
right-wing judges that Trump and
McConnell ramming through and packing
the lower courts with and can we talk a
little bit about what happened today as
well only if Democrats win the Senate to
be perfectly honest if there's a if
Mitch McConnell is still in control in
the Senate when there's a Democratic
president in power the only way we're
gonna get any judges past is by
negotiating with Mitch McConnell which
is going to be very difficult and you
could see a lot of vacancies just be
left open the whole term yeah right yeah
I don't I don't know what's gonna get
Mitch McConnell and the next Democratic
president to agree on a set of judges
nothing maybe you know like no no these
vacancies might have to be filled but
you could see it being held open for a
while and I just think people obviously
the president's the most important
position we should be focused on that
more than anything I do agree with that
but the Senate is so so so important
because that is the only way that we're
gonna undo some of this damage what do
you say got it okay
gabrielle wants to know if you guys can
unpack the break-up big tech
conversation what needs to be done and
why what can be done and what are the
obstacles and should politicians be the
ones to take this on can they legally do
it well so the first thing is that
Elizabeth Warren has taken this on and
has a proposal for breaking up a lot of
these big tech companies she wrote a
piece on medium I guess yeah ironically
well now medium is not that big she
wrote a piece on medium about the way
she would do it so I'll refer you there
because I don't remember but um you know
I think one of the challenges here is
that our antitrust laws were written in
the 1910s you know yeah there are
written to deal with places like
Standard Oil which was monopolizing you
know 90% of the oil in the country and
then making things more expensive for
consumers there's this consumer standard
that goes into a lot of the antitrust
regulation that talks about whether a
monopolistic country is our company is
driving up the price of a good and
obviously that's a complicated
conversation when you're talking about
Facebook Google things that don't have
an obvious cost like on their on its
face so you know I think if you look at
a company like Facebook for example I
mean so you start with Facebook and
Facebook messenger then they acquire
Instagram which is growing massively and
also as a messaging component then you
acquire whatsapp which is a global
billion plus user messaging component
and suddenly you have the biggest
messaging company on the planet and I
think you could you could make an
argument that that's a monopolistic
company you would regard some messaging
and so I think what's gonna have to
happen is one thank god we elected some
younger members of Congress who like
understand the internet because they
tend to embarrass themselves when tech
CEOs testify before the remember would
like Mark Zuckerberg was asked how they
made money you had to be like we sell
ads dude so you know they're I think
they're good in interesting arguments on
both sides they well I think we could
probably stand to update our
monopolistic practices laws but there's
probably an argument to be made anyway
based on existing law that some of these
companies have grown too big and too
powerful and I think that's also why
you're seeing some of them go to
Congress and putting forward ways they
now feel they should be regulated after
thinking they shouldn't be regulated for
years and years and years because
they're trying to get ahead of and I
think it is you know it's important
understand so what's the problem
with a few companies tech companies
controlling everything right like Google
and Facebook I think control or that
they are connected to 70% of the
Internet traffic that exists Amazon is
just jayegi
everything and so you take it two
different ways the problem with Amazon
is you know Amazon owns the marketplace
and now it's also owning some of the
products in the marketplace so if you're
a small business that wants to sell on
Amazon Amazon will just replicate what
you sell and sell it for cheaper and so
again look what you earn what the
consumer centers that might be good for
some consumers but if you're a small
business owner if you want to break into
the market it's hard to do with Facebook
and with Facebook for example Facebook
gobbles up Instagram gobbles up whatsapp
if people are concerned about their
privacy on Facebook and Facebook looking
at their information and not being
secure with their data Facebook can be
like yeah you know we hear your concerns
but really you because we own
everything if you have Instagram and
whatsapp as their own companies and not
owned by Facebook then Instagram
Instagram and whatsapp have the power
then to compete with Facebook and by
saying we're more private you know like
they can compete on privacy and stuff
like that and that that's why it's a
it's such a bad idea for Facebook to own
all these different companies so I think
you know and I think Elizabeth Warren's
proposal is whether you agree that they
should be completely broken up or just
regulated her proposal is at least the
starting point for the conversation per
usual yeah yeah and she's bringing it to
like other industries as well yeah you
have a culture a gag she wants to break
up Monsanto and some other place as well
cool
okay this next question is about
fundraising I know there's been a ton of
talk about numbers it'll come out this
week
Marjorie is asking or is saying I'm
really concerned about how much weight
is given to fundraising and evaluating a
candidate's popularity particularly
given that none of the Democrats are
accepting PAC money can you talk about
how this is going to work and where the
candidates can accept money from and how
all of us can keep from going broke
before 2020 Thanks good point so I agree
that I think too much is made of
fundraising numbers or fundraising
success generally it's a little bit of a
sugar high thing for the press to report
on it's another horse-racing metric that
said if you get a hundred thousand two
hundred thousand three hundred thousand
people to donate to you that's a big
deal did Bernie get nine hundred
thousand
was it donations or don't I think dozen
agent 500,000 donors like so that is an
incredible advantage
it's incredible advantage and good for
him he earned it by running last time
and creating this big grassroots base he
doesn't have to waste his time you know
making fundraising calls or going to big
events and raising money like he can
just do it all online so it's a relevant
metric but it's also an imperfect metric
like there was a big debate online Chris
ELISA tweeted that Kamala Harris raising
12 million dollars made Pete Budaj
raising 7 look even more impressive and
then a lot of people spent the better
part of the week just dunking on him as
hard as they could and call it talking
 there but there's some truth to
that argument like Bernie Sanders
raising whatever he raised was it 28:18
raising 18 then he transferred 10 for 28
Bernie Sanders his ceiling like Bernie's
the ceiling right he's you have to look
at all fundraising numbers in context
with the people that running against so
Bernie raises 18 in my mind given that
he ran last time that he's this huge
base and it's a grassroots appeal that
made khamel Harrison number look even
more impressive to me because she's
never done this before and then so blah
blah blah um what the hell are we
talking about
just like how I mean here's the thing I
think that it's it's more it's more
impressive now than it used to be and
more tied to how well a candidate might
do in the election then it used to be
and here's why in the first quarter of
2007 Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton
raised 26 million dollars
Barack Obama always raised 25 million
dollars so both of those totals are way
ahead of what anyone - this year now
this is more candidates in the field but
part of the reason that they raised
numbers so big is because back then what
you did is you went to these high-dollar
fundraisers so you went to LA you went
to San Francisco he went to Manhattan
you went to Dallas and Houston in
Chicago on the AdWords campaign we
cold-called through the trial lawyer
booklet that you do that right litter so
you do these high-dollar fundraisers
with very rich people and that's how
you've raised most your money and then
2008 was like the first selection where
you started to see a lot of grassroots
donors - actually our dean did that a
lot in 2004 also sure so you saw
a lot of grassroots donors now because
we have all come to the realization that
too much money in politics is gross
most of these candidates have raised
this money purely a Bernie has Bernie
has not done any fundraising event so
all of his money has been most of his
money has been online most of better
O'Rourke's money has been online small
there are small dartle donations Comella
about half right because she has an
advantage she's the senator from
California so there's a lot of you know
bigger donors that she has and in San
Francisco in LA Olive Warren right all
of Warren online grassroots so we don't
we don't know her number we don't know
her number yet but that's how she she
hasn't done any big she will do a take
money events and Buddha judge has done
both he's done some fundraisers with
donors and he's done some but so it I
think the number of contributors what
you were just saying about Bernie it
tells you one thing about that candidate
support now isn't everything because to
win a primary even in one state you need
millions of votes right yeah but when
you have a lot of supporters out there
who are donating a small you know
average donation of twenty thirty forty
dollars whatever it may be it tells you
something about their support yeah and
ironically Democrats are taking all
these reasonable steps to get money out
of politics they won't take lobbyist
money you won't take PAC money but
because we moved up the calendar this
year we made California in Florida
earlier money might be even more
important because you're gonna need a
shitload of money to run TV ads and
build campaigns in those states so we'll
see how it all plays out but look don't
over look at fundraising because you
could run a really grassroots like
slimmed-down campaign in Iowa and still
do incredibly well but ultimately it's
gonna take cash to play in some of these
Super Tuesday states and the last
question about how do we not all go
broke don't give to them yeah just don't
give you don't have to I mean wait wait
if you're if you're worried about
donating too much think about you know
to think about how long we have to go
right it's not till November of 2020
these candidates are going to spend a
ton of money now you know fighting
against each other and then they're
gonna need a whole bunch of money to go
against Donald Trump who's gonna have
more money than any of them and
you know you can contribute to the
Democratic nominee you can also
contribute it to plenty of down ballot
races whether it's state legislature
whether it's the Senate whether it's the
house a lot of people need your money
but a brief aside for all the people out
there the showrunner for veep tweeted
about how in the first episode they
accidentally land in the wrong City and
he said does this story sound familiar
Barack Obama we borrowed a few yes that
happened remember that event we're for
that someone acquaintance I was not in
the plane I heard about it because I was
in Chicago but as soon as I saw veep on
Sunday I thought that that was based on
us I was sitting in Cedar Rapids no it
was you you were talking snowstorm and
you're like guys wheels down and then
Marvin and Reggie get off the plane with
Obama and they look around and like
where is everybody and they landed in
Des Moines how the hell does that happen
that would be a man that happened today
who gasps wait our end all gasp big
gaffe the person wouldn't recover the
end of the campaign is there really
quick before we move into the next
question I'm just wondering is there a
strategic time if you're looking at this
primary where it's like a candidate
could use obviously like when there is
one nominee for sure but is there a time
before that point like to get your
candidate to the debate or is there like
you know when will your money go the
furthest when if you are looking to
donate or have people that you like your
money will go the furthest probably the
soonest do you give money tends to be
get more money right so like Pete Budaj
edge if he'd raised 1 million dollars
not 7 people probably like I don't know
if he has a chance now that like oh man
that's just like this is a real thing
yeah so that at the end of core
fundraising quarters there's always
people tallying up like we just did the
relative scores there's the debate issue
I mean look if you love a candidate and
you want him or her to win give money
but don't feel like you have to give to
multiple candidates or give a bunch of
times and don't think you have to give
because you know the fun rising the
fundraising deadline and the media that
the candidate gets from the fundraising
deadline is yell and end-all I think
what you just said Priyanka which is
obviously there has to be a threshold of
you have to have 65,000 donors to get on
the debate stage so if your candidates
not there yet give for that and then
other than that like you said it just
earlier in general is better but that's
about it
Danielle wants to know about the stories
about Warren's campaign finance issues
specifically with her finance director
leaving and her policy about meeting
with donors I think not taking the
bigger fundraisers is this an actual
problem or is the media just making it a
problem for clicks how do you see this
specifically being an issue or is it not
I don't know yet
yeah remains to be seen she a little bit
more ins making a bet that you know she
can fund this campaign without doing
what Democrats have done in campaigns
forever which is to have these
occasional high-dollar fund raiser
events just so people don't know what
that is
you know someone hosts and a bunch of
people come and instead of $5 $10 $15
that you might send online it's like
well you know to be a host you have to
do the maximum mm whatever
donation and then you have you know 40
50 people in a house and they've all
paid $2000 to hang out with Elizabeth
Warren and now she has to talk to all
those people and she said I don't want
to do that because that means I'm
spending more time with rich people than
I am with everyone else and that is a
very laudable move the question is can
you fund a presidential campaign with
without doing that yeah and look in the
contrast to the last cycle was even more
stark because on the Republican side it
was all about let's find the 10 grossest
Republican billionaires and then let's
crawl as far up their asses as we can
fund 1 2 5 10 million dollars for our
super PAC and you saw Ted Cruz do it Jeb
did all these guys did it
Trump was the only one I think who
didn't really I mean ultimately had the
Mercer's and those creeps on his side
but you know Warren's doing something
pretty radical here hopefully she'll get
the money she needs to continue because
we want people to do things like this
right and as far as like monies that she
needs to fund her campaign she does have
the advantage of should ten million
dollars in her Senate account that she
transferred over so she should be able
to keep the campaign going with that but
you know I mean birdee-- is basically
doing the same thing but Bernie has a
much bigger list of grassroots donors
than
Warren does because you know Warren
hasn't run for president before okay we
have someone on YouTube who is Canadian
and it's asking if they can donate do
you know what no you can't yeah it's
like the same thing as Russia sorry I
think it's Russia no all right this next
questions from Nathan he wants to know
what changes you would make to the
format of primary debates his idea is to
get rid of the audience so candidates
don't have to play for applause or pull
questions directly from campaigns
published platforms rather than horse
race what do you guys think would make
primary debates more effective
especially looking at ours where it's
like the first one I think is build to
twenty candidates like kinda gonna be
crazy
I say Nathan's idea about getting rid of
the audience is great love that I love
that I playing to the applause is just
Nathan for DNC chair T because it's not
just that the candidates play to the
audience but then if you're watching
just naturally if a but if you see a lot
of applause for one candidate and
another one doesn't get as much applause
then you think oh the other candidate
did better but all they might have done
is just like they packed the
thing yeah or they might have like
delivered a dumb zinger about Donald
Trump and that doesn't matter
you know
I think them having the moderators be
policy experts activists even could
improve upon some of these debates
because sometimes some journalists do a
fantastic job with these debates I
should say but sometimes you know the
questions tend toward what are you gonna
do now the only raise two million in q1
yeah you know and they're and they're
more horse racing's ask questions it's
good when moderators encourage debate
among the candidates but it would be
great if they try to do that on policy
to the greatest extent possible and not
like I don't know horse race personality
original attacks or yeah whatever
watch the latter stage Hillary Clinton
Obama debates to see what not to do and
then we'll just reverse it just the
debate in South Carolina between Barack
Obama and Hillary Clinton and John
Edwards the worst thing was so nasty and
none of us and I'm sure
friends in the Clinton campaign would've
said the same thing left that debate
feeling good about what happened what
was the one that spawned the YouTube
sensation yeah gets him young oh that
bad Charlie Gibson that was Charlie
Gibson in Stephanopoulos and and Clinton
I'm gonna put that in the stream that
was a nasty one nasty debates in 2008
well all right this next one is about
Pete Budaj as he has faced some backlash
because of his quote/unquote elitist
background Harvard Rhodes Scholar
speaks foreign languages reads in
Norwegian why is intelligence and
scholastic achievement being attacked as
a negative how do we convince people
that it's okay to have a really smart
president novus question did not come
from chastened buta joes good I don't I
guess I haven't really seen the ton of
this I mean I think it's come from
people who prefer another candidate
that's fair to be perfectly frank so I
think it's reasonable to say to not
fetishize the school you graduated from
is some symbol of smartness right as I
think autumn Erick Cox pointed out Jared
Kushner went to Harvard
yeah we don't think he should be
President we don't think he should work
for the president he's a doofus but I
mean I think mayor Pete has proven
himself to be an incredibly hard worker
an incredibly smart guy now my criticism
of mayor Pete is okay so you're
objectively brilliant how is that
translated into new and interesting
policy ideas I have not seen that yet so
that's what I'll be looking for but he
is like I think I think most people at
least who vote in the Democratic primary
want their president to be smart I
really don't think it's a probably I
think it's a problem that people should
work you know like and we have some very
brilliant candidates Peapod edge from
everything I've heard is brilliant
elizabeth warren is brilliant a lot of
these candidates all of them are very
smart I've been impressed by the
intelligence of every Democrat running
and so I don't think you should try to
hide that if you're a candidate I think
you should be who you are if who you are
is a smart person then go be a smart
person do not dumb yourself down for the
sake of this campaign I think that is
that is very silly I can't find the yah
gifs and Yahoo so annoying
all right this is the last one before we
get into the fun stuff and we kind of
touched on this a little earlier how do
we make sure that local and state
elections don't get lost in the shuffle
in the next 18 months and are there any
plans from crooked media parenthesis
this is asked in the least accusatory
way possible I promise there are gonna
be plans lots of plans we're not going
to announce them just yet on the live
stream backwards no we haven't crossed
all the T's and dotted all the eyes yet
but yeah there's gonna be planning for
future like for where you can help with
down ballot races all kinds of down
ballot races redistricting state
legislatures Senate House we're gonna
have it all Wow save America it's cut
it's gonna come back for 2019 and 2020
don't you worry and we'll be talking
about those races on the pod too
don't you worry exciting okay on to the
fun stuff those first ones from me and
Yael
we were wondering did you square dance
in high school did you have to learn how
to square dance in gym in high school
yes or no square dance elementary school
I think we did not high school that's
different than the Box step I think it's
close to the box step isn't it that's
what I was thinking like dancing oh wow
yeah that's like that's like oh can you
demonstrate oh no they're gonna come for
me
I did don't think I ever square dance
like I have this vague memory of being
in gym in elementary school and having
square dancing as a thing once yeah
school I went to school in Chicago you
went to school in Buffalo we both the
obvious square dancing capitals and
everyone else was like you guys are what
like that is not a normal thing that
happens in gyms yeah we think you're
weird you played a lot of capture the
flag too that was fun
that was a fun elementary school or
hockey go dodge ball dodge ball kick
solidly kick ball not a lot of Hoops no
no way yeah I really was not a lot of
basketball in like high school gym or in
like any gym like yeah yeah climb ropes
remember climbing ropes
remember the Presidential Fitness Test
yes phone oh honey I'm will get through
this there's a body mass index
yeah not too well I did not know one of
them let me have to sit down and reach
it's a it's a to reach how far you go he
would not be able to reach past his
upper thighs I missed I know all right
that was question number one mark wants
to know John Fabri what's your favorite
menu item at Kitty's for the rest of us
can you explain what that is I don't
know Kitty's is the premier premier most
famous restaurant in North Reading
Massachusetts the small town where I
come from oh so that is very funny I've
not heard Kitty's in a long long time
and my favorite menu item there is keno
the lottery game that you can play while
you're at keno Tino state lottery it is
you look it up it's a type of lottery
game I used to go and play one smile
with my grandfather who would come when
he came and visit us at North writing he
would love to come play keno you bet the
ponies grandfather my grandpa would bet
the ponies did you ever go to the
greyhounds we went to Wonderland
Wonderland Wonderland did you guys get
scratch tickets in your stocking still
do still do you still do Tommy yeah
scratch tickets in the stocking yeah I
think it's in an orange for somebody or
like a Clementine interesting all right
this is in the fun section but it's a
little it's like also kind of serious
okay where do you guys go to get your
news how do you stay informed Twitter
hash that's why I'm on as much as I hate
Twitter I'm addicted to it because it is
the best I think it's the best way to
get news up to the minute every single
second there's that there's none which
is actually a better way of still using
Twitter and nuzzle I've talked about
this before gives you the top news
stories that are being shared by most of
your followers but you don't have to
have the scrolling anger of Twitter you
can just see the stories and then of
course our selectional about news yeah
when everyone's just putting in news
stories in our channel that's so I
personally or crooked media pays for the
New York Times Washington Post Wall
Street Journal they for The New Yorker
or we pay
for Boston Globe online comfort
so yeah I mean we try to try to skin the
best articles weekly basis I don't know
it's great
I don't like long for the days of
newspapers that never was like a real
newspaper reader but it was helpful
sometimes get a sense of proportion when
you would like having your time do you
see what's on the front page and you
flip open and that's the International
section first there's a bunch of
you wouldn't necessarily have read and
then you get the politics and gets a
domestic and then opinion and gets a
good way to do it and the place where I
don't get my news anymore since I've
moved to Los Angeles is television I
never watch TV we have televisions in
the office we unless there's a big event
we rarely have them off there's someone
funny who's like gonna show up on TV and
do an interview yeah we watch like the
CNN Town Hall's yeah we do that I was
thinking on Murrow so that was we uh we
airplay various powerpoints that's what
we use around a music video
I'm ariana grande yeah we did that was a
big big event or us it's no yeah Gibson
odd things okay my last one I'm curious
is there anything fun that you guys have
been reading or watching and are into
lately anything at all reading or
watching watching Tommy would have an
immediate one I feel you're always
watching something like cool thank you
yeah beep is back veep is back and it's
super funny Barry is back I got a very
very billions I love oh and I am beyond
excited for game of ferns to come back
me too I am listening to binge mode the
ringer podcast that goes through all the
Game of Thrones episodes and Mallory
Rubin and Jason concepción just go
through all of the episodes and talk
about their figures I am a game of
Thrones nerd yeah me too
I'm gonna get I reminds me I'm been
meeting to pay for Showtime I thought I
did but I need to now because I want to
watch DC's and maro
yes I want billions the clips they put
online are like incredible they're so
funny they came here and they just like
hung out for an hour once and then they
did an interview for keep it and it was
like the most entertaining hour of my
life and then Black Monday supposed to
be great yes
I got how much the first two episodes
but I got it home to you I'm pumped to
watch that up pen15 on Hulu is
tremendous as is shrill
both Hulu shows fantastic I highly
recommend none of the things I'm reading
are particularly fun
I don't read I bring a book about
reading a book about Afghanistan and the
capture and subsequent hostage swap for
Bowe Bergdahl Oh gonna interview this
guy Patrick rad and key from The New
Yorker who I've talked about probably
too much about his book say nothing
that's about the troubles in Northern
Ireland and the IRA that was really good
keepa this week interviews damon young
yeah who we've met with before
he's awesome hilarious author wrote a
book called what doesn't kill you makes
you blacker it's very funny very sad at
points but it's a really good book oh I
finally got around to reading how
democracies die that's pretty depressing
Oh Alyssa's books really fun yes it's
such a quick read it's like literally
Hannah fought me for it and that she
stole it and I was like I have to do a
book event tomorrow on this and she took
it and Chelsea Handler's new book that's
coming out this week is very funny oh
it's on we get so many busier she'll be
in here it's opal if you guys are ever
in the area library email Priyanka
awesome out of the window area don't do
that
Tennessee Blues we have a follow-up from
the people before we leave they want to
know some specific Twitter who should
they follow on Twitter if they want like
news who do you think on Twitter is like
giving you solid reporting and do you
like following yeah I mean jokes but
like you can follow the accounts of the
news outlets like I follow the New York
Times The Washington Post but then
there's like all the political reporters
I think the political reporter team at
the New York Times and The Washington
Post and I would add BuzzFeed to that as
well accident they're fantastic yeah or
just follow all those reporters and
that's like moat and in the folks at NBC
CNN like there's just there's reporters
on the trail and the reporters like
covering Muller and all that kind of
stuff we're just
so yeah all of those reporters I'd like
to follow those are good ones I think
The Daily Beast has really good
reporters I got out of that swing and
Lachlan Sam Stein same sign they do the
political beat and then they have this
guy Ben Collins who does I'm really
obsessed with the like dystopian
up corners of the internet key one on
psycho conspiracy theory world so like
it's got Charlie Wartell who's uh for
the New York Times opinions really good
it's got Jared Holt who works at right
wing watch I'd like to read his stuff
because you just like it's a whole crazy
literally in some cases community of
conversation that otherwise I would
never get would never read about or
learn about that is bubbling up in a big
way and like you see it Trump rallies
and stuff it's weird Pfeiffer always
says is but Maggie Haberman
Twitter feed is just she keeps up with
everything all the time if you just need
like one person to check in on not only
for her tweets and her stories but like
everyone else's Maggie is like always
has it covered like Kyle Griffin and
Yashar are both really good they're
there so I'm like wow I'm like I don't
get how you can do this sharra less cuz
he tweets about personal things too but
like Kyle Griffin I'm like you're an RSS
feed like I believe you're a person
really is and also the the the people
that just excerpt and highlight like
blocks of rock quote some interviews and
things are so so helpful like Daniel
Dale Dale which are everything from does
Ashley Parker at The Washington Post is
great very funny Ashley Parker burned me
harder than I've ever been burned by a
reporter though why back in um back in
2006 or five so Ashley was Maureen
Dowd's assistant at the time before she
became a stellar political reporter for
the post yeah and she called over to the
office and I was 25 from the time that
full of myself and she said this was
June awesome at Barack Obama how do you
spell hussein brock his name is Barack
Hussein Obama I'm like why you notice
bellick saying with a google it
she's like no how do you spell hussein
like come on actually what are we doing
here so i need to ask you how do you
spell hussein and i said like the
dictator right
your times next day open it up you call
barack obama's office and ask how you
spell his middle name the response is
like the dictator classic maureen dad
college you I thought we were friends
so Ashley Goodwin forgot burned me super
hard I forgive you and on that note I
hope that answers the question yeah yeah
that was great thanks guys
alright everyone we will we'll see you
next week
you
