welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vietor
later in the pot Tommy's conversation
with politico's and Natasha
breaking news about Trump using the
government to keep his hotels afloat we
have a ton of news to cover first from a
new allegation of sexual assault against
Brent Cavanaugh to the politics of the
climate crisis and the latest twenty20
primary news in the wake of last week's
big debate in Houston before that a few
housekeeping notes I love it I believe
you put on a show two quaint venue in
Manhattan on Friday evening Radio City
Music Hall it's out now the one that was
very fun that's the one Stacey Abrams
teases and Miro Alyssa Mastromonaco
Wyatt Cenac Dulce Sloan a special
appearance by Michael barber oh damn
right
Mikey Barb's one of the coolest
experiences I've ever had and you can
have it too the big announcement from
Friday's lover leave it is our
partnership with fair fight 2020 which
is the organization that Stacey Abrams
recently started to fight voter
suppression in 20 different battleground
states
she needs to raise five million dollars
by November 5th and we have promised to
help her raise at least a million so
we're gonna be bugging the out of
all of y'all but first let's let's just
talk about why this issue is so urgent
and why we thought it was so important
to help out Tommy yeah I mean I think
people should understand that Stacey
Abrams would be the governor of Georgia
if not for voter suppression she made it
she said something you loved it that
really stuck with me which is that the
insidious part of voter suppression is
that people try to make it feel like
this is user error and that voters are
failing to live up to their
responsibilities and not doing things
right when it's actually determined
deliberate effort to use techniques that
get spread around the country to strike
people from the voter rolls or make it
harder to vote and otherwise keep mostly
Democrats mostly people of color from
voting so Stacey Abrams doesn't take any
 so she has launched this effort
to actively combat voter suppression
efforts going into 2020 and it is so so
important yeah I think you know a lot of
people know about what happened with
Stacey Abrams election in Georgia I
think fewer people probably know that
those exact efforts are happening in
states all across the country as we
speak states that we need to win
in 2020 and you know you're seeing in
Ohio they're trying to purge people from
the voter rolls if you haven't voted in
an election or two they take you off the
rolls without telling you there's
basically a poll tax in Florida because
now people who are newly enfranchised
after serving time are having to you
know pay all kinds of fees before they
get the right to vote so this is
happening in states all across the
country in 2020 you know ever since the
Supreme Court sort of nullified a key
part of the Voting Rights Act states can
change their voting laws without getting
preclearance from the federal government
and make it harder for people to vote
and I think the biggest missing piece in
the Democratic Party's strategy right
now is that too few people have been
focused on that and so thank God Stacey
Abrams is gonna be focused on that yeah
so what does her group gonna do that she
can set up state-based organizations
that can staff a hotline to troubleshoot
any issue of voter might face before the
election or at the polls they can flag
voting irregularities that could have
been caused by suppression they can
challenge voter suppression laws and
tactics in court and they can work with
the campaign staffs themselves to ensure
that voters get to their polling
locations so while we all sit around and
watch the baits that make us depressed
infuriated maybe inspired from time to
time I'd be richer if we sign up for a
rant a lot oh you know there's all right
I got there we can yeah we can donate to
Stacey Abrams fair fight 2020 effort now
to insure that the Democrat whoever it
is has a better chance of winning in
2020 it's so important yeah and it is
important and it's also it's important
to understand that this is something
that we can overcome like I think when
you hear that there's voter suppression
that these laws in place you think okay
well what can we do about it we're just
 but when you have teams on the
ground and Stacey Abrams knows this when
you have and she's gonna have like teams
of full-time people who are hired from
the community that they're trying to
protect the right to vote in when you
have when you have people on the ground
sort of watching these tactics when you
have hotlines to help people vote in
like they're making it harder for people
to vote but that doesn't mean it has to
be impossible for people to vote right
like voter protection teams work we know
they work they're a proven method and
the only
we need to do now is help Stacey Abrams
fun them and she needs to raise a lot of
money by November 5th and but if every
single person listening to this right
now only donated $10 we would get their
$10 $10 nothing and it's vote save
america.com / fair fight this is so
important we are spending a lot of time
on this in the next month to help Stacey
Abrams raise this money in November and
we would we would love you all to help
because it's probably the mean the
single most important thing you can do
between now and 2020 certainly between
now and we have a nominee yeah just
remember that Wisconsin Michigan
Pennsylvania these are places that were
decided by tens of thousands of votes
and they are actively right now trying
to suppress hundreds of thousands of
votes you know in those states this
could determine the outcome of the 2020
election and one of the lessons of 2016
is if you start paying attention to this
a few weeks a few months before the
election it's too late stay attention
now to prevent these losses now yeah we
need the teams in place early next year
which is why the money has to be raised
by November because you do it a couple
weeks before the election you're
also Stacey ever told me she was setting
up a food truck I'd want to fund that I
want to be a part of anything she's
doing so thank god it's actually
something pertinent to awaiting
elections I bet it'd be an improvement
on the food trucks that come to work of
media HQ on Tuesdays this Lobster tastes
like it's right out of the ocean great
in this role you know I'm talking about
Stacey's boat save america.com slash
fair fight go there right now and please
donate whatever you can all right we
have a lot of news to cover today I see
Abraham's was a lobster food truck it
was like a lobster roll truck that's the
truck that she was running Oh was
running now that's keep going so we have
a lot of news to cover today but I do
want to start briefly by asking you
Tommy what the hell is going on in the
Middle East after a series of strikes on
Saudi Arabian oil facilities over the
weekend the Trump administration is now
making the case that Iran is responsible
and the president has been hinting at
military action in a Sunday night tweet
he said quote Saudi Arabia oil supply
was attacked there was reason to believe
that we know the culprit are locked and
loaded depending on verification but are
waiting to hear from the kingdom as to
who they believe was the cause of this
attack and under what terms we would
proceed
tell me why does the president want us
to go to war on behalf of Saudi Arabia
it's a really good question so as you
said over the weekend there are these
two major Saudi oil installations that
got hit maybe there were a drone attack
maybe it was a combination of drones and
cruise missiles I don't think we'd
necessarily know yet there's a rebel
group in Yemen called Houthi rebels who
have taken credit for the attack the
Trump administration says it's Iran
they've leaked out to The Wall Street
Journal that they have some sort of
evidence that they want to provide to
the Saudis that say that Iran was
responsible we haven't seen anything
publicly yet so we don't really know
what happened there's some people
suspect that maybe this weaponry was too
sophisticated to have been used by the
Houthis or that the point of impact
makes it look like it came south from
Iraq and Iran not north from where Yemen
is either way this is really worrisome
to me I think it's more worrisome than
the drone incident you know a normal
administration would maybe go to the UN
General Assembly and and try to create
some sort of international effort to
re-establish a deterrent on the Iranians
but you know Pompeyo and Trump just sort
of left - locked and loaded or some sort
of military response and who knows what
will happen if that if that goes down
yeah I mean I would that's what I was
wondering like even you know we don't we
don't know what the intelligence is
gonna show yet but if it showed it what
Iran was responsible I wouldn't imagine
that in a normal administration the next
move would be to go attack Iran right
away would it or I mean I don't think so
I hope not I mean the Saudis spent 70
nearly seventy billion dollars on
military equipment in 2018 so I would
suspect that they have the means to deal
with this on their own but I don't know
I mean look if this happened during the
Obama administration I think there were
probably voices in the Situation Room
telling him that he needed to respond
military to Iran to ensure that they
don't do this again it's assuming that
Iran actually is responsible for these
strikes but you know right now we're in
this weird place where Trump is trying
to meet with the President of Iran but
the world is actually divided against
our policy because we pulled out of the
Iran deal so it's not clear it's not
clear what's gonna happen and it's just
creating massive instability and I think
fear among people so we're just waiting
to take us and marching orders from
the the guy who had a journalist
murdered over in Saudi Arabia's that
would say yeah how are good friends of
satis very sweet okay well we will we
will keep you all updated on the
developments there over the weekend to
New York Times reporters Robyn poker min
and Kate Kelly published a piece based
on their new book about Supreme Court
justice Brett Kavanaugh in which they
share new evidence that corroborates
claims made by Deborah Ramirez a former
yeild classmate of Cavanaugh's who told
The New Yorker last year that Cavanaugh
thrusts his penis into her face at a
party when they were in school together
The Times also reported that a different
classmate of Cavanaugh's max tire told
senators in the FBI last year of a
separate incident where he says he saw a
quote Cavanaugh with his pants down at a
different drunken dorm party where
friends pushed his penis into the hands
of a female student though the reporters
say that the female student has no
recollection of the incident we also
learned that Ramirez and her legal team
last year quote gave the FBI list of at
least 25 individuals who may have had
corroborating evidence but the bureau
and its supplemental background
investigation interviewed none of them
though we learned many of these
potential witnesses tried in vain to
reach the FBI on their own so before we
get to the substance of this awful and
fairly predictable development I want to
start by talking about how the Times
handled this story which was unorthodox
to put it put it most generously love it
you were tweeting about this over the
weekend what was your take on this yeah
so you have to go back to when New
Yorker Jane Mayer and Ronan Farrow
published a piece with the Deborah room
that published a piece with the Deborah
Ramirez account
it was immediately attacked from the
right for some of the caveats that were
in the piece and then The Times run
something really peculiar at the time
which is they said they could not
corroborate her story and that they
tried to very rarely does a newspaper
publish a story saying they don't have
the story and that was immediately
weaponized by the write at the time it
was an incredibly influential story from
the times that undermined the
credibility of not just the New Yorker
but Deborah Ramirez and some of the
other investigations of Cavanaugh at the
time The Times
Dean Beck hey had to put out a statement
sort of adjusting what the times meant
The Times published a story the next day
pointing out that they didn't have an
interview with her and that they did not
actually dispute her accounts now a year
later
Brett Calvin is on the court the New
York Times publishes this excerpt of a
book by these two reporters who did an
incredible amount of investigative work
to uncover what happened with Deborah
Ramirez and with some of these other
incidents at Yale they now are actually
saying the opposite of what The Times
had once said saying that they did end
up corroborating with this and they
obviously point out all this other
information including another incident
but it was so strange is they publish it
as a book set excerpt in the basically
the opinion section of the Sunday Times
under a headline that basically says boy
it's hard to fit in at Yale and even
worse tweet yeah well the tweet was
insane and incredibly bad judgment but
the fact that they would bury this
incredibly important piece of news
inside of an opinion piece has sort of
been it just another chapter in the
strange behavior The Times has had
towards some of this cabinet reporting
well and also then the New York Times
had to update the opinion piece I
believed to reflect the fact that in the
book it says the the female student
involved in this subsequent incident
declined to be interviewed friends said
she didn't recall the incident in
general which that doesn't mean it
didn't happen but how do you leave that
out of this initial account and have to
update it with this big correction
that's now getting screenshotted and
shared by every conservative online yeah
you sort of wonder why that's part of
the how that's part of the problem sorry
you sort of wonder if that's another
problem with treating this as an excerpt
from a book in the analysis section as
opposed to and look these two reporters
are times reporters it's not like they
did a book review and they broke news in
the book review you know like they're
Times reporters they could have very
easily I would imagine had a straight
news story from this in addition to sort
of a longer piece and the analysis
section which it was news which is what
The Times did around some of the
Weinstein reporting that the writers did
Rob but you know it's money
that to me the the the way the way in
which the times has failed to account
for its change on the Deborah Mira story
is more important to me than where this
ultimately ended because the truth is
the time is taking today for how
they ran this and fair enough deserve
but the truth is in in a Twitter
environment the news was found the news
has become the news the fact that it was
in a different section of the paper I
think is ultimately not as important
other media outlets wrote it up as news
of course it was sort of they're these
bizarre there is something happening
inside the times that that I that I
think is a pattern of just some sort of
systemic issue with how the important
work that they're journalists are doing
are translated into the paper and into
their social media platforms that's just
a problem I mean the tweet about
Kavanagh was just so beyond the pale and
the headline that this story ran under I
think was just really unfair to the
journalism and that's it
yeah the tweet the tweet that they they
tweeted the story out the New York Times
opinion account and it said having a
penis thrust in your face at a drunken
dorm party may seem like harmless fun
but when Brett Kavanaugh dated to her
Deborah Ramirez has it confirmed she
didn't belong at Yale in the first place
just like holy literally couldn't
believe that was true it speaks to
something so there there really was such
misogyny rooted in the tweet that like
that when a penis is brought to you
close to you you better switch colleges
you know it's like that the pits the
penises school it was and you need to go
elsewhere the whole thing was
awful now we should say like two hours
and then the times deleted it and then
they had a tweet sort of saying it was
said hey it was poorly phrased which
then they also had to delete because it
was much more than poorly
phrased and then they finally issued a
full apology for it said it was bad
judgment they were looking into who did
it all that comes get a public editor
guys like accountability is good for
every institution clearly The Times is
suffering from not explaining incidents
like this clearly and having readers
feel like there's accountability again
I'm not in the cancel your time
subscription group I will read the paper
till the day I die but this is bad
and as well as it's hurting the very
fantastic reporters and reporting that's
done by the times that's that's the
issue yeah and actually you know putting
the time one of the main issues with
that tweet is that it kind of feeds it
let me set again and it's worth pointing
out that you know the times issues aside
one of the one of the problems with that
tweet is it feeds into a kind of
mentality which has been kind of half of
the pushback of this of these Cavanaugh
stories you know they've sort of tried
to have it both ways which is you know
we've seen conservatives tweet various
versions of this defendant in some way
which is these are drunken minor
insiders that everybody goes through on
the one hand that also this never
happened on the other they're trying to
have it both ways but don't feed into
that don't feed into that into that
interpretation that this was just sort
of drunken drunken fooling around not
worthy of investigative attention yeah
it's also speaks to the fact that in
conservative circles they think that
Cavanaugh's confirmation on the closest
party line vote I think ever for a
Supreme Court judge suddenly means he is
absolved in some way when the reality is
the FBI investigation into these
incidents was fixed it was a sham was a
sham The New Yorker just confirmed that
Senator Chris Coons a Democrat
personally alerted the FBI director of
an additional eyewitness alleging
Kavanaugh exposed himself to a second
woman at Yale but the FBI never
interviewed the witness max Dyer who was
the source in the New York Times for the
second instant how is that possible I
mean the the this tells us that the FBI
investigation was a sham and that
Kavanaugh very likely perjured himself
during his testimony which we already
knew I mean you know news organizations
have pointed out all the ways that brick
Cavanaugh lied during his testimony
false statements mistake whatever you
want to say just tell the truth
and this is just more evidence of that
remember he's said during the hero this
would have been the talk of the campus
if this happened well it turns out it
was because there's now corroborating
witnesses and a separate incident with a
witness
it's Brett Kavanaugh did not say in his
testimony I am so sorry for the mistakes
I made when I was young these were
inappropriate incidents in which I was
foolish and immature and drunk and
treated women poorly it's one of my
great regrets I'm so sorry but I do know
believe it should be disqualifying I've
grown as a person I'm a different kind
of man now they dismissed him live
through it they dismissed them
completely and I think you know there
there is been a kind of internalized I
think they've successfully can on the
right even serious or semi serious
what's left of serious on the right the
these commentators have convinced
themselves of Cavanaugh's having been
railroaded so thoroughly that they now
dismiss everything and they can't see
the the complete picture they can't see
how obvious it is that you you attack
any one of these stories you try to find
an out out of any one of these stories
are you telling me you're looking at the
complete record and you're not seeing a
man who behaved drunkenly and
inappropriately towards women during his
time in college and perhaps after you're
actually going to look at all of this
and dismiss it completely that takes an
incredible amount of mental gymnastics
he behaved inappropriately at the
hearing itself
when asked by Amy Klobuchar if he'd ever
gotten blacked-out drunk
he decided to berate her and asked her
if she drank beer when she is a you know
spoken movingly and openly about her
family's history with alcoholism and how
hard it was on her I mean the guy was
he's terrible so the real question is
what happens next
of course Trump immediately took to
Twitter on Sunday to defend Cavanaugh
saying he should quote start suing
people for libel or the Justice
Department should come to his rescue a
conflict of interest there yeah I
believe a Bulls do that other
Republicans like Mitch McConnell and Ted
Cruz also responded by defending
Cavanaugh and attacking the media and
most of the Democratic presidential
candidates explicitly called for his
impeachment with Bernie Sanders Amy
Klobuchar and Joe Biden calling for
further investigations so what can
Democrats actually do about this they
could impeach him I mean the Supreme
Court justice can be impeached it's you
know I think it's a multi-layered
question about a strategy here if we
should impeach a Supreme Court justice
before the President of the United
States yeah and also we runneth of
course the same problem we have with the
President and look even if that you know
the difficult thing here is say we keep
a Democratic House we have a Democratic
president and the first order of
business is alright let's look into
these additional Brett Kavanaugh
allegations and let's begin impeachment
proceedings you do that in the house you
have a Democratic president
you're gonna you go to the Senate and we
have the same problem you don't get 67
votes because we barely we couldn't get
any Republicans to vote against him when
it was when it wasn't that many votes so
you know if there's a real problem here
but of course it does open up the
possibility that you say when you get to
that point all right either Brett
Kavanaugh resigns because of all these
additional allegations and these
investigations that we've done or with
our majority in the Senate and our
majority in the house and our Democratic
president will just add two seats to the
Supreme Court or some of the other
proposals to rotate justices like those
justices I will see there's also another
aspect of this I think Trump immediately
went to because of his you know
self-preserving it which is he was
immediately seeing this as trying to
work the refs at the court there's a you
know the Supreme Court is gonna have an
incredible influence over I'm say again
Trump looks at the Supreme Court and he
sees only either a tool that will help
him whether it's take money to build a
wall or protect him from investigations
or what-have-you and he immediately was
worried that stories about Kavanagh are
going to make him reluctant to side too
thoroughly with Trump because he needs
to look like an even-handed person not a
right-wing partisan who was such a dumb
it was it uncharacteristically quickly
dumb thought yes but it usually has us
when I say I'm character say I mean
usually has some sort of a sense of how
like raw politics works but like the
idea that Brett Kavanaugh could convince
Democrats that now he's good because he
lobbed a few good decisions and after
he's done that is not really getting
what's going on yeah I'm it's right but
at the same time he looks Trump looks at
this and says all right Kevin is not
going anywhere
he's not getting 67 votes in the Senate
so so what is the what is the bad that
can come for Trump out of these kinds of
stories and it's Cavanaugh being a
little bit reluctant to be a straight
right wing you know judge vote and
that's the only upshot that Trump could
see from this so it's worth keeping that
in mind all right let's move on in in
one week the United Nations will be
convening its climate action summit and
we hear cricket media have signed on to
an effort along
more than 170 other media outlets to
cover the climate crisis in the lead-up
to the event as part of the covering
climate now initiative which was
launched by the Columbia Journalism
Review and the nation at the climate
summit on September 23rd governments
will submit plans to meet the Paris
agreement pledge of keeping global
temperature increases well below two
degrees Celsius although you know Donald
Trump is trying to pull us out of the
Paris agreement though it is though it
will not take effect until after the
2020 election and very notably so I
guess my first question is why does it
take an initiative like covering climate
now to get us all talking about the
climate crisis why do we why do we start
every democratic debate with a 30-minute
discussion on the intricacies of
medicare-for-all versus the public
option and then we end up with one
question somewhere if we're lucky about
climate change
I mean look we've talked about this
before climate change you couldn't
design a tougher problem in a lab if you
tried the effects are just few diffuse
the the the actual impact of climate
change is revealing itself slowly over
time no one terrible storm no one
terrible fire can be explicitly
connected to climate change and yet the
cost of climate change are evident over
time the efforts to deal with climate
change require collective action on a
mammoth and global scale and all of this
creates a sense of fatalism that makes
people unattracted to the conversation
yeah
we're also asking people to do something
that could be difficult in the short
term for an enormous benefit in the long
term and we as human beings aren't
necessarily graded that in general
there's also decades of anti climate
change science that has been funded by
the Koch brothers and fossil fuel
industries which has led to skepticism
about the existence of climate change
which has been adopted by the cult of
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
for many many years that's made it a
difficult conversation you know in sort
of doing some research for this segment
one of the best things I saw though was
that one out of four American teenagers
have engaged in activism
around climate that's a remarkable
number yeah a 5% of any demographic
doing something with walking out of
something attending a rally writing to a
public official to express your views on
climate change that's exactly the kind
of activism we need to drive this issue
to the fore and to get people to
actually care and to get our government
to do something I do think that the good
news here is that the politics of
climate change have begun to change
themselves fairly drastically over the
last several years now the bad news is
the reason I think that they've changed
is because we are starting to really see
an experience all over the place these
extreme weather events and droughts
floods fires the record heat waves I
like it's just happening all over the
place now and you start you know there
was a there's a good piece we were
reading in preparation for this in Time
magazine about how the politics of
climate change has affected the race in
Iowa because there's so many farmers
there who are like there's been floods
that have cost me you know a lot of
money and then there was drought that
cost me a lot of money and so now all
these farmers who are in the middle of
the country you wouldn't think be big
climate change people are now climate
change people so there was a CBS News
poll recently that said a majority of
Americans believe that climate change is
a serious problem and more than 25
percent would consider to be a crisis 56
percent of those polled said that we
need to address climate change right now
and 7 and 10 think human activity
contributes a lot or some so you know
that the politics are changing and you
know we saw this in our Change poll of
Wisconsin we've seen it in polling
across a whole bunch of different states
and around the country in the Democratic
primary climate is now after health care
in many of these polls the second most
important issue to democratic voters and
yet while everyone came out their
climate plans it still seems like we
haven't had a couple news cycles on
Democratic candidates talking about
climates except once they roll out their
plans you know yeah it's interesting I
mean I think there's a connection to
with how I think it's interesting
there's a connection I think between the
way in which health care and immigration
have dominated the debates and climate
and the economy
have been given second billing and
they're connected in that I think one of
the good shifts we've seen in part
because of the green New Deal you know
when the green New Deal came out the
Republicans immediately latched on to
that one set of talking points that
talked about cows and the talked about
plains and then talked about cars in
ways that I think they're right found
very helpful and it's worth remembering
that you know when we talk about climate
change as things you'll get as ways
you'll be helped as ways there'll be
jobs and new technologies I think we're
on solid ground the right understands
that they are more successful talking
about climate change when they're
talking about things that that that that
people want to take away from you
whether it's cows or airplanes or cars
or what-have-you and so I think or the
frame that Tommy was talking about which
i think is the real problem that climate
change is all about sacrificing
something in your life now for benefits
that you may never see and if it's
framed that way we will not succeed I
don't think yeah and so I I do think
look I'm not talking about the science
I'm talking about the politics you know
I think one of the most important stats
we've seen is that seven I think it's
more the recent study found that that
more than 70% of global emissions since
I think 1988 have come from I think 100
companies and I think when we re sort
this whole issue when we reframe it less
as a collective action conservation
problem and more is a corporate
malfeasance technology and investment
problem I think we're on much firmer
ground I also think like I'm glad we did
these climate change forums I think they
were valuable but I do think a debate
would have actually been better because
conflict gets news coverage and there
was no sense of a contrast between
what's in one plan versus another I do
think that for too long the the
conversation around climate change was
like the polar bears are gonna drown and
things that felt very far off the IPC
the IPCC report that said we're
basically in huge trouble if we don't
drastically fix the problem or reduce
emissions by 2030 that change the
context but I also think people need to
understand that climate change is not
binary we don't fix it or not we can
make things better or we can make things
worse based on our actions and I hope
that under
standing will reduce some of the
fatalism you hear that's like well if
the US doesn't do anything
the Chinese are just gonna continue to
use coal fire plants and put all the
smog into the air and we're screwed no
matter what so what's the point actually
that's not the case we can make things
better and I do think and the reason
that I've always thought that the green
New Deal is actually smarter politics
than some of the more moderate proposals
that don't include proposals to sort of
you know sustain economic justice I
think the green new deal is smarter
politics because we need to talk about
it as within this crisis there is great
opportunity to create an economy that is
fair and just and produces all kinds of
wealth good-paying jobs and people can
get training for all these new jobs and
they can be guaranteed that you know
they have a federal job guarantee in
there and they can make sure that they
have benefits and people on the
frontlines of communities who are
getting devastated by climate change can
be helped now not ten years from now but
right now I think we need to talk about
this as look we have a dirty energy
economy here in the United States and
around the world and in the transition
to the cleaner energy economy to a
renewable energy economy that we have to
make if we want to survive there is
plenty of opportunity to have an economy
that is more fair and more just and
still productive and growing all around
the world this is this can be a win-win
and it doesn't just have to be do all
you know make all these sacrifices now
and hopefully things in the future will
be better well that's why I think when
when Warren in in the climate change
time all was asked I don't know what was
asked about straws and what have you she
said this is what they want to talk
about they want you to think you're
they're coming for your hamburgers
they're coming for your plastic straws
because because that is a that feels
like the kind of old confiscatory
conservative your personal sacrifice
version of the debate when the green New
Deal makes this about infrastructure
yeah and an opportunity and jobs and all
the other good things people inherently
understand comes from new technology
renewable energy in what have you all
right let's talk about the primary last
week's debate was the first where Joe
Biden Elizabeth Warren were on stage at
the same time but aside from an initial
exchange on health care the two
frontrunners didn't draw too many
contrasts with one another and a few
pieces over the weekend
tried to dig into why and what might
happen next the New York Times noted
that Biden delivered a veiled swipe at
warren at a fundraiser the day after the
debate saying the country needs not just
plans but quote someone who can execute
a plan and Politico reported that some
of Biden's allies in Warren's home state
of Massachusetts are going after the
senator on electability with one state
rep saying the grave concern of many of
us Democrats in Massachusetts is that in
many infants re that in many of the
counties were senator Warren
underperforms they are demographically
and culturally similar to voters in key
swing states as for Warren the Times
notes that her goals in the near term
are to consolidate her backing from
liberals and expand her appeal to lower
income voters and minorities attacking
mr. Biden might not serve either goal
let's start with Biden here what do we
think about his strategy of largely
avoiding direct conflict I'm sorry what
do we think about his strategy of
avoiding direct conflict and what we
think of the argument he's making about
Warren through the veiled swipes and
through his supporters in LS I think the
we don't just need plans we people who
can implement them while true is
probably not going to be the most
effective attack I do think that trying
to go after Warren on electability
grounds is probably their best bet
judging on my conversation with people
in Iowa where it's literally the only
thing they think about now it's we
talked about this before it's an unfair
comparison it's an ill-defined term we
don't really know what it means I think
looking at data from NASA chooses Senate
race where Elizabeth Warren didn't run a
single TV ad is probably imperfect at
best but if you can sow that seed of
doubt in a potential or current Warren
supporter it might be effective anything
I think going look when when you said
like well we need someone who can get
something done immediately what I
thought I was the Consumer Financial
Protection I thought the same thing
Elizabeth a weird one to go after her on
it's something so frustrating about that
kind of what the the the the access that
these debates have been on health care
this one is very similar and that okay
Elizabeth Warren doesn't I get things
done she created a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau some of the most
influential policy makers of the last
half century on dem Akane Democratic
side like okay fine let's debate it on
those terms but then it's similar to the
health care debate and that Biden
attacks Medicare for all no
I think with what is I think the
ultimate motivation for some of the
supporters of a public option which is
this is the thing we can get done
single-payer might be a better outcome
in the long run but it's politically
unfeasible I think that that is the
undergirding argument for a lot of the
public option defense but he doesn't
make it on those on that frame he makes
it on a pure policy frame that that
actually his plan is fundamentally
better not just more politically
feasible and I think you see the same
thing like electability is ultimately
the the readout for Biden and Biden
supporters and they are trying to find a
less political and a more inspiron
inspiring way to have this conversation
you know maybe it'll work maybe it won't
but that what that was what I was
thinking yeah I think Warren has
understood so far that the best way to
prove electability is to win right it's
show not tell and yet I also think at
some point I imagine she will turn to an
argument about not necessarily why she
is the most electable but why she can
win you know what are the qualities that
she brings to a race with Donald Trump
they would make her a candidate who is
able to beat him and I think because of
what you said Tommy this is the mitts on
the minds of everyone you talk to an eye
oh it's on the minds of the electorate
we know from poll after poll after poll
we can all yell about it all we want on
Twitter about electability and yet
that's what Democratic voters are
thinking about and they're very scared
the Donald Trump's gonna win again and
so if you want to be the nominee at some
point you have to make an argument about
why you can win what maybe it's your
issues that you're talking about maybe
it's the contrast that you have with
Trump you know Bernie Sanders has
actually been making an argument for his
policies in himself and his electability
visa Vee Donald Trump from the beginning
not sometimes the Sanders campaign
throws out a lot of polls which I think
are sort of useless to do that but
there's a lot of times where Bernie is
contrasting like his background with
Donald Trump's background you know in a
speech and his policies with Donald
Trump's policies and he's sort of trying
to get you to imagine him and Donald
Trump on stage together and I think I
imagine that at some point Elizabeth
Warren will pivot to an argument similar
to that yeah I mean there's Isis like
there's two levels there's that which I
think is the kind of public facing less
intellectual
less data-driven argument basically
saying see me on the stage with Trump
see me battling Trump it makes sense
here's how I'll do it but I I do think
one one piece of this is the fact that
consistently when you look at
head-to-head polls in states like
Wisconsin often those polls show Warren
defeating Trump khamel Harris defeating
Trump Joe Biden defeating Trump but
consistently duh Joe Biden has a bigger
edge in those polls and I think when you
get under the the the kind of
conversation around Biden never totally
gets past that and so I'd be interested
in a in a Warren campaign argument about
why I shouldn't care about that
distinction now maybe it's because she
believes she'll do better over time or
maybe she believes that those numbers
about Biden in Wisconsin are actually
soft and concealing some of his
weaknesses but I just haven't seen that
argument fully spelled out meanwhile
she's in a great position I mean she's
got she is an SLA glove on Biden she
knows that if she attacks him her
unfavorables will go up and you don't
want to do that this early but she's got
a whole bunch of people just laying
broadsides on the guy at every single
debate so I if I'm Elizabeth Warren I'm
wondering how I got so lucky to be
positioned as I am right now I was gonna
say I was gonna ask us what you thought
about her strategy of largely avoiding
attacking him and I do think it's quite
smart
I think his strategy of not directly to
I mean he's doing it through veiled
swipes and his allies look like that but
look there is a reason that Joe Biden
and Elizabeth Warren at the top of the
field right now and even to an extent
Bernie Sanders are not all going after
each other fine Sanders is a little more
directly confronting Biden but there's a
reason that Warren and Biden aren't
doing it is because they are both very
well-liked in the electorate right like
we these differences are magnified on
cable and Twitter and everywhere and in
the media but if you look at
favorability ratings for Joe Biden and
Elizabeth Warren they are both very very
high same thing with Elizabeth Bernie
Sanders too in within the Democratic
primary and a lot of people know them
then their name ID is at the top of the
field as well and so and when you look
at second choice for Biden or you look
at second choice for Warren you look at
second choice for Sanders but there's a
lot of mixing their supporters that are
going to each other so you don't want to
be the one who's attacking a
their candidate who is people have a lot
of affection for whether you're
Elizabeth Warren or Joe Biden you know I
don't think Warren needs to beat Biden
right now I think she needs to be the
sole alternative to Biden in the minds
of most voters especially progressives
and she will be well-positioned now if
this whole conversation is stressing you
out
vote save America calm slash fair fight
there go build out the election
infrastructure we need to win in 2020 no
matter who wins the primary yeah and I
also I do think that Warren's task now
is to really make inroads with voters of
color and non college educated voters as
well because she's not broken into
either of those groups the latest CNN
poll here's the white vote in the latest
CNN poll Warren 23 Biden 21 Sanders 15
here's the non-white vote in the latest
CNN poll Biden 28 Sanders 19 Warren 12
and that Biden number has hung on
despite many months of a lot of
criticisms thrown at Joe Biden about all
kinds of issues how much do you think
there's a connection between the
electability conversation which has
generally been about how Biden has this
advantage and these kinds and these
kinds of polls that show a strong
support outside of the kind of liberal
white college-educated voters that have
been more favorable towards Bernie and
Warren that there's a that there are a
lot of people out there that are looking
at this an election and just view Trump
is such a tremendous threat that they're
just gonna go with the safest choice and
I guess what I'm getting at is how much
of Elizabeth Warren's problem outside of
what her current base of support is is
route ID back to that electability
problem I think it we don't know how
much of a problem it is right now but I
think that is gonna be her biggest
challenge I think if we were in 2008
right now and it was the end of George
Bush's second term and he was a horrible
president everyone's looking to see who
the next president is and this was
instead of Obama and Hillary Biden and
Warren I think Warren will be would have
been close to overtaking Joe Biden right
now because the risk tolerance in a way
on trying something new and different
and big structural change was higher
than it is now because Donald Trump is
sitting there as president and I think
the Warren campaign and all these other
campaigns whether it's
Hera's better or Cory Booker people to
judge they have to reckon with the fact
that the risk tolerance among the
Democratic electorate or people who have
voted Democrat in the past is much lower
than it has been for a while because of
who is in the Oval Office it's
interesting I do think that's part of
what you're seeing there's a different
but connected calculation from Pete as
he shifts to a kind of more center-left
moderate alternative very quickly might
I add he sware he's worked pretty fast
into that way but but it's now it's also
I think they're still they're still this
question is not just will Warren defeat
the not not whether there will be a left
alternative to Biden but will there be a
center-left alternative to button and
there are still a few candidates just
right right below the top three saying I
want to be the Biden alternative for
those looking for the safe option I
think the challenge there is if you're a
voter who wants a safer option who feels
that want someone that you feel I'm
pretty positive this person could be
Donald Trump do you see that in a Pete
Buddha judge a Kamala Harris a better or
work a Cory Booker even a Bernie Sanders
even a Bernie Sanders and I don't know
that might be a harder case to make than
just a case for yourself in your
candidacy in general not a case that
like I'm gonna swerve to be the moderate
alternative to Joe Biden like I just
don't know that that calculation with
Biden's name recognition and leave space
yeah he occupies right now is and sort
of like waiting for him to collapse is
the is is a calculation that you should
make especially if look if you are a
much I think of your Amy Klobuchar of
course that's a good calculation because
that's what you are that's what you
believe yeah you know that's who you are
that's what you've always been people to
judge I don't know that that's who he's
always been yeah I think of it I'm
actually paying attention to it less as
what it means for people to judge than
what it means for Joe Biden's you're not
there are a number of Democratic
candidates who believe Joe Biden's
support is softer than it looks or at
least are betting that if it is they
want to be there yeah all right when we
come back we will sorry when we come
back
Tommy's interview with politico's
Natasha Bertrand
you
