mmm-hmm welcome to pod save America I'm
John Fabri I'm Jon Lovitz on Tommy Vitor
later in the pod my interview with one
of the architects of the green New Deal
Rihanna gun right there's a lot of news
to cover today as well from the
escalating situation in Venezuela and
Trump's upcoming summit with Kim jong-un
in Vietnam to Muller's endgame and the
kids who showed up on dianne feinstein's
lon I'll tell you guys I'd really like a
green book New Deal because isn't the
best movie of the year you know there
wasn't a real joke to that you just
wanted a green book New Deal the green
book New Deal
I'll find a joke around it green book
New Deal okay I love it you're too show
Thursday I heard it was fantastic great
love it or leave it fantastic love it or
leave it you should check it out good
takes oh Emily Heller IRA Madison Hari
Kondabolu
great panelists great conversation we
talked about all the things cool cool
cool cool check it out
also a reminder you can watch parts of
America every week on our livestream at
youtube.com slash crooked media pretty
thirsty Elijah make Elijah happy and
smash that subscribe button that's what
we're that was in the copy that's in the
copy Michael put the item to copy all
right let's get to the news the crisis
in Venezuela grew even more serious this
weekend when violence erupted along the
country's border with Colombia where
Nicolas Maduro regime blocked the
delivery of humanitarian aid supplied by
the United States and other neighboring
countries the Trump administration has
recognized opposition leader Juan Guido
right as venezuela's President and Mike
Pence to the rescue is scheduled to meet
with him in Colombia on Monday Tommy the
White House has made pretty clear that
they want Maduro gone and there was a
report in Axios the Trump takes a
markedly different view of Venezuela
than Middle Eastern countries which he
views as hopeless a senior White House
official also said quote it's a
real-life example of the failure of
socialism and there's an appeal in that
what is Trump strategy here and how do
you think Obama or another
kradic president would be handling it
differently right now another
interesting anecdote is apparently in
McCabe's book he talks about trumpet
briefings saying that venezuela is the
kind of place you should go to war with
because they have lots of oil and we'll
take that that was alarming yeah
although not remotely surprising since
he says that all the time about Iraq so
you know look there is a very dire and
legitimate humanitarian crisis happening
in Venezuela nicolas maduro i came to
power several years ago but his
reelection last year was fraudulent he
locked up his opponents there his vote
rigging and votes stealing like he is
not he's a horrible person he's starving
his own people there's serious questions
about the legitimacy of his election so
what one Guido did was he looked at the
Venezuelan Constitution and essentially
exercised a provision that says if the
person in charge takes power
illegitimately the head of the assembly
becomes the president so now I'm the
president and then the international
world recognized him as the new
president Guido so Trump is just
pressing the case on this as as much as
he possibly can he gave a major speech
in Miami I think it was last week where
he was trying to threaten military
officials to try to get them to peel off
and come to the opposition side over the
weekend there was this clash at a bridge
between Colombia and and then as whele
where opposition forces are trying to
force aid into the country so there's a
very legitimate humanitarian reason to
want to push aid in there but it also
seems like this is setting up a pretty
serious clash which if quite Oh can get
aid in it basically says I'm in charge
I'm the one who can deliver for you I'm
the president so like I don't think you
could divorce the politics here for
Trump there's also Florida politics
which is why you see general Marco Rubio
tweeting once a minute about a
Venezuela over the weekend and there's
also this broader anti-socialist pitch
so that guess he's trying to make which
is to say Venezuela socialist that will
be your future of Bernie Sanders and aoc
are the next president and vice
president United States yeah so if
Maduro has called the international
shipments a potential Trojan horse that
would lead to military intervention so
is there truth to that how would that
happen and wire I noticed
some international humanitarian
organizations like Red Cross yeah didn't
aren't sending I'm trying to send aid in
there like what's going on so like Jose
Andres is organization the world central
kitchen is down on the border trying to
get aid in there I don't think that
Jose's organization is a Trojan horse
for the CIA Jose wants regime change but
I think it would be naive to suggest
that the Trump administration was trying
to send aid into the country just at the
goodness of their heart I think that
Elliott Abrams has been traveling on
these planes with humanitarian shipments
he is someone who in the 80s worked with
some of the worst right-wing
organizations in the world to help lead
coos and so of course that are
questioning our motives like it would be
like sending Don Rumsfeld or Paul
Wolfowitz to a humanitarian mission in
Iraq rail it doesn't matter how good the
policy is like the wrong messenger if
they say the least
just say the least what should what
should Democrats be saying and doing
here like Bernie Sanders who got in some
trouble last week for refusing to call
Maduro a dictator then tweeted over the
weekend that Maduro should allow
humanitarian aid into the country and to
put it mildly many of his supporters and
folks online were very unhappy was
placed at Bernie's tweet why is that is
that is that justified what you know
what's the right what sort of the right
stance for Democrats who want Maduro
gone but also are very you know
cognizant that the kind of
sabre-rattling that Trump's doing could
lead you know the United States into
another intervention that we don't want
to be part of so Ben Rhodes and Senator
Murphy wrote a great op-ed on this they
talked about some steps Democrats should
take one we should call for offer
temporary protected status for
Venezuelans seeking asylum there's
literally millions of them flowing out
of the country I saw Guatemala Harris
did some well Harris came out for over
the weekend is very smart we should be
giving aid and support to countries like
Colombia who are dealing with millions
of migrants coming over the border
target sanctions on Maduro and his goons
but we should also be cognizant of the
fact that through the 50s through the
80s the u.s. meddled in like a half a
dozen country's elections coos in some
really dark chapters of their in our
history and I think
Burnie is hesitant to jump into the fray
because he knows the history in the
region because clearly Trump's motives
are not humanitarian and like I
understand and agree with the play to
recognize Guido as the president it
makes sense constitutionally in
Venezuela but I think the next step on
in in that process has to be free and
fair elections and like he also doesn't
want to play this gotcha game of like is
Maduro a dictator or not declare it says
CNN pundit or whoever the it is
right now what do you think listen all
right I do think the been and and Chris
Murphy op-ed was very smart and one of
the things that's very hard in this
situation is that this is one of those
rare times where Trump isn't getting
everything totally wrong you know this
is a situation where just because Donald
Trump has an ideological interest in
proving something in Venezuela and just
because he is not he has shown such
deference to dictators around the world
and has such authoritarian tendencies at
home doesn't mean that there are places
where we align I'm trying to remove
Maduro it's just that we might have a
slightly different approach yeah I mean
look Maduro like people are starving to
death babies children dying like people
can't get you go to the hospital and you
can't get literally anything like cotton
balls like basicnet is ceiling drip so
yeah it is a crisis it's an absolute
crisis I think it's just a question of
tactics and the best way to to get to a
better place for the people of Venezuela
and not necessarily overthrow a
government because what we're very good
at in this country is the innovation
portion of regime change and then we
literally don't plan for the part that
comes next we saw that happened in it
happened in in Afghanistan it happened
in Iraq like we just have to remember
the history destabilizing a place is a
lot easier than stabilizing we concede
and I guess and that's why you know what
Marco Rubio was doing over the weekend
seemed so egregious because there didn't
seem to be any purpose for Margaret
Marco Rubio tweeting pictures of you
know
Moammar Ghadafi being captured other
than to to do what to beat his Chet like
what what dip
maduk or strategic purpose was that were
those tweets over the weekend no I mean
like a long like what love it was saying
I see the situation down there and I
sincerely want this is a human being to
have aid to this country and I would
love for there to be a clean policy
whereby we could just make that happen
but as recently as 2002 the United
States back to cue a coup against Hugo
Chavez right um and so that's obviously
sitting in the back of everyone's mind
and organized by Ellie Abrams organized
by yeah like so in the back of
everyone's mind that's there and then in
addition john bolton the national
security visor goes before a press
briefing with a little notepad that says
5,000 troops to colombia so that is
another not very subtle message and then
psychopaths general marco rubio tweets a
photo of a Gaddafi who in that moment or
shortly after the photo that's depicted
he was murdered in cold blood sodomized
with a bayonet apparently and he thinks
that that is an appropriate thing
between and I say this as someone who
was working in the White House at that
time it was part of the policy in Libya
that led to his death and and thinks of
that moment is something we should all
deeply regret and he's like chest
something on Twitter about it and not
the removal of Gaddafi the fact that it
is something that happens with chaos on
the street and someone being dragged
through the street and murder well
that's a complicated I mean it's sort of
a two-part thing like the Libya
intervention was part one stopping tanks
from rolling into Benghazi and murdering
an entire city and then there was part
two where it got the mantle got picked
up by the broader national community and
it really did turn into a regime change
strategy which led to his ouster and now
there is chaos right and these regime
change strategies and invasions do not
seem to turn out so well no and I don't
know how many examples we've now had
throughout history of infinity well that
I feel like this is why I think
sometimes Democrats struggle is because
I think under george w bush and for a
long time before that that that military
intervention is seen as a clear choice
it is seen as a clear direction you can
go and it is a it is tough and it is
also you know in the case of venezuela
or iraq it's saying look at how horrible
things are for these people look at what
this dictator is doing to their people
we should intervene and i think
democrats have not always been very good
about talking about why there's an altar
and that if the only something is
military intervention that everything
else sounds like nothing and so I think
one of the things we struggle with even
in these kinds of conversations is okay
so the Trump sabre-rattling isn't right
the Trump aggression isn't right the the
Trump the Trump kind of old-fashioned
intervention in Latin America isn't
right what's the alternative and it
always is seemed to be defined as
something less as opposed to something
different all right let's talk about one
of the many dictators that Trump
actually likes North Korea's Kim Jong
hoon who he's scheduled to meet with in
Vietnam this week as a follow-up to a
first come first summit that was so
successful the White House memorialized
it with a series of commemorative coins
Tommy over the weekend Jake Tapper asked
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo why he
believes that North Korea is a nuclear
threat when the president says it's not
what if any progress has been made since
the last summit no no that was a
remarkable interview because Jake who's
like president Trump tweeted the
following words and Pompeyo his response
was knighted yeah Jake's like here's a
here's an image of the tweet no I can't
see that uh here's and repeating them
verbatim at an event last night you're
standing next to him I don't know what
you're talking what the President
believes then disbelief what the
President believes is this well let's
not what the president please because
this is that's what that's not what he
tweeted he was like on the plane flying
home and he basically tweeted I don't
have the exact words in front of me but
there is no longer a nuclear threat from
North Korea was I believe the summarized
version so there's been so there's been
no substantial progress at all since the
last no we never hammered out a shared
agreement on what the term
denuclearization means and the follow-up
talks which should have happened before
the head of state talks where you sort
out like we have a demand for complete
verifiable and irreversible
denuclearization Pyongyang called that
gangster-like demands so what's happened
though is you know as we've been engaged
in these lower levels hawks and North
Koreans keep blowing off Pompeo or Steve
Egan or all the people we send over he's
our negotiator Trump is now saying well
he's in no hurry because there's not
additional weapons testing that doesn't
mean their program has stopped like a
Stanford University study estimates that
over the past year they have may have
the North Koreans may have created in a
fizzle material for seven more weapons
CSIS has found additional testing sites
so they
are increasing their stockpile which is
challenging in terms of giving them more
negotiating leverage there's a
non-proliferation threat where they
could give them to other bad actors in
the region there's a whole bunch of
problems here and so like again I don't
want there to be a war but he's
accomplished nothing and he's willing to
let a great event with good optics and a
nice headline sweep the rest of it under
the rug it seems like they're already
lowering expectations for this summit
what what would a good outcome be a
relatively good outcome b of this summit
like just another agreement that maybe
perhaps has more teeth I don't know I
mean I think if they froze a production
of fissile material and any weapons
testing while they carry out these
additional talks that would probably be
a good thing yeah but maybe unlikely I
don't know man
you know Trump tweeted something he said
so he said something like look at all
these people who could never do anything
good another you're gonna tell me how to
talk to North Korea yeah and and you
know it's funny because it's it's it's
true it is true right it is true that
you know Donald Trump is confronting the
same problem that Barack Obama
confronted that George W Bush confronted
that Bill Clinton fronted which is the
the the incentives for North Korea
remain exactly as they always have been
which is to make as many nuclear weapons
as possible while pretending you are
going to stop at some point or being
open to talks to keep the kind of
aggressiveness of the international
community off your back and it won't
change the conversation it won't change
for being nice it won't change with
Donald Trump's negotiating skills that's
for sure but of course the criticism of
Trump is not necessarily as negotiating
skills it's that he's lying about the
progress well of course there's lying
about the lying about the progress aside
right
the idea that jonald Trump has found
some new way in to solve this just isn't
true because unless you come up with
something that changes the fundamental
incentives that incentives that North
Korea has why would anything change yeah
well in this brings us back to general
Rubio who was a and and Gaddafi
went Gaddafi after the Iraq war gave up
his entire nuclear weapons program and
he died in the streets and I think a lot
of dictators since that happened have
looked at that and as an example
for why you cling to the strongest
weapons you have for as long as humanly
possible so it's just a another reason
why the neo composition is not always
the brightest so probably that's not
getting solved this week probably not
let's I mean he could do something big
and splashy everyone should be ready
that yeah he might declare that there's
now peace on the peninsula for the first
time and that could be literally true
because in 1953 when the Korean War
ended there was an armistice but never a
formal peace agreement so he could say
now there is peace right and it will
look good sound dig and important and
he'll is any credit for it and I'm in a
Peace Prize and all the things he wants
but it will be meaningless look out for
that look out for that second coin okay
about that you know one of the things
that's been I kind of like an
undercurrent to these conversations
about North Korea for a very long time
as the u.s. position has been that is
unacceptable for North Korea to have
nuclear weapons and yet the kind of
whispers behind the scenes is it is
acceptable we're accepting it is is
there a chance that what we're marching
towards is Donald Trump being the the
weak the weak kind of soft appeaser
where we land in a situation where
there's some degree of normalization an
acceptable level of nuclearization of
North Korea and we just move on from
there yeah I mean I think there's a
chance that they can't become a de facto
nuclear weapons state the same way
Pakistan is in a whole bunch of other
places and it's uh it's a major failing
of the entire non-proliferation regime
that we've been trying to uphold for a
long time now it's like not entirely
Trump's fault but certainly his big bold
play has not solved the problem than if
he gets to a place where he just
concedes that right it's not good I mean
the Japanese won't be happy the South
Koreans will be a but a lot of people
will be in a much riskier neighborhood
if we go that route the US troops are
there you know 27,000 troops all right
let's talk about the Mahler
investigation I thank God on Friday
prosecutors submitted an 800-page
sentencing memo 800 pages describing
former Trump campaign chairman Paul
Manafort as a quote hardened criminal
who quote repeatedly and brazenly broke
the law according to the New York Times
prosecutors cited sentencing guidelines
of up to 22 years for a wide-ranging
conspiracy involving obstruction of
justice money laundering hidden overseas
bank accounts and false statements to
the Justice Department
oof
all mana for maybe going to jail for the
rest of his life what did we learn from
the memo guys and maybe more importantly
what should we not learn it doesn't seem
like there was a lot of new revelations
inside of these memos right now so I
think you know one of the things that we
can many people and many people thought
that like he had done in previous
sentencing memos whether it was Cohen or
Michael for Michael in sentence yet
sorry
whether it was Cohen or other people
that that Muller would sort of spell out
more details of the larger conspiracy of
potential conspiracy with Russians as he
has before and even by the way in the
recent trial or the recent court
appearance where mana forts lawyers and
molars lawyers squared off with in front
of Judge Amy Berman Jackson about you
know why mana fort had broke his
agreement by lying and they went into
great detail about some of the lies
including you know sharing polling
information private polling information
with a constant kill McCallum Nick who
is alleged to be a former Russian
intelligence asset and a meeting between
colum Nick and mana fort where they
discussed a peace plan and lifting
sanctions on Russia so all of these
juicy details were made public during
the hearing over the lies and yet in the
memo itself we learned nothing more well
you one thing one thing I took away from
it was that you know I feel like there's
a lot of expectations sitting on Robert
Muller's broad shoulders broad square
shoulders but he's not worrying about
that he's doing his job right and what I
took away from the sentencing memo is
the news maybe looking for new
information observers and and and
pundits like us may be looking for the
new next part of the story but this was
a document designed to say hey
everything you know already it's a big
 deal and he's a despicable
criminal and deserves a lot of
punishment and you don't need to learn
anything new for that to be true yeah
he's a crime connoisseur is a crime
aficionado he there he was first warned
about potentially violating the fara
violations
the foreign agent Registration Act back
in 1986 and he has just been brazenly
breaking the law since then so we know
that Paul Manafort is a incredibly
greedy hardened criminal and we know
that that's the guy that Donald Trump
chose to run his campaign for a long
time right well doesn't mean again we're
always gonna we're always looking for
the the tape recording between Donald
Trump and Vladimir Putin where Putin
says hey you want to collude and Trump's
like yeah let's collude yeah and again
what we have here is the president
states his campaign manager and then
deputy campaign manager are both
hardened criminals hardened criminals
who going away for a long time as well
and his and his national security
adviser also lied to the FBI
yeah know it he's going away and his
personal lawyer he's going away he hired
a bunch of criminals to run his campaign
and staff his way knows with and then
that seems to be pretty bad and they
didn't like it wasn't a crime hiatus you
know it wasn't like okay man affords
most recent crime problem and affords
most recent crime was in 2018 when he
was tampering with witnesses after
already being indicted and I must say
you can really tell in this memo that
that was frustrating to Robert he found
that off-putting not take a crime gap
year yeah you did not pause in any way
yeah it's unbelievable I still you know
um Marcy wheeler and and and talked
about it with you guys I believe and
she's also been writing a lot about this
and you know we're still we're still
starting to see we're not we still
Charlie Stadium we still don't fully
understand Paul Manafort span we still
don't fully understand Paul Manafort
motivation for lying so brazenly when
his life was on the line right and it's
some combination of protecting Trump
protecting himself from the Russians we
don't fully know but it's a reminder in
this how dangerous and risky and
reckless it was for him to do that well
and again so nothing we still don't know
more about Manta for sharing sensitive
polling information from the Trump
campaign with Kalume Nick and nothing
about the meeting with columbic about
sanctions relief which we also know are
two things that molars prosecutors told
the judge was quote at the heart of the
special counsels investigation and the
judge then agreed with that
so the
question is when do we get to learn
about this Marcie writing over the
weekend she says you know by choosing to
leave the record where it stands by
choosing not to describe what the
evidence shows regarding the August 2nd
meeting in the sentencing memo Moller
has deviated from the approach he's
taken in every other instance where he
had an opportunity to provide a speaking
document that leads me to believe he's
certain he will be able to provide a
report in some public forum presumably
in the same kind of detail he has
presented in all his other statements
so that's Marcy's belief you know other
people may not agree with that but what
we're dealing with now is this this
situation where Department of Justice
guidelines say you know you don't put
out and make public a lot of derogatory
information about American citizens who
are not actually indicted unless it's
Hillary Clinton five days before but the
other big exception for this case is if
the DOJ guidelines also say you can't
indict a sitting president
and there's derogatory information about
a sitting president does that mean no
matter what kind of wrongdoing Trump
committed may have committed if even if
it falls short of a crime that he can be
indicted for them and he can't be
indicted then what are we all supposed
to do if the president has committed a
crime it's quite a catch-22 or we're
dealing with here I mean the clinic the
the sending of polling information from
man fort de cologne Nick to me is still
the most interesting massive piece of
information we know about collusion
there's all the criticism of the Moller
investigation is that there has been no
collusion with the US and the Russians
with Trump's campaign and the Russians
unveiled well in fact there has been and
I remember when that news first broke
the New York Times reported it as some
private some public polling and I was
trying to be really skeptical and say as
a campaign professional is is some half
public HAMP half private polling
document that Manafort forwards over to
some goon could that really help you
actually intervene in our election at a
precinct level the way we all thought
this might have happened like a really
sophisticated level and I was skeptical
and then the more we learned about that
polling information this video is highly
detailed stuff that was so complicated
that most people couldn't understand it
and the clinic was needed to sort of
explain what a meant and then within day
maybe weeks the russians hacked
Hillary's internal data so her analytics
again like we can't gloss over the the
forwarding of the polling data from man
afford to clinic who was a former GRU
and again linked perso with the
willingness on behalf of the Trump
campaign on behalf of multiple
high-ranking officials in the Trump
campaign from Paul Manafort to Don jr.
to Jared Kushner to all the rest room
willing to collude willing to take dirt
on Hillary Clinton by going to that
meeting in June and you know and look
asking Roger stone wins WikiLeaks gonna
dump the next next tranche of emails if
you just hack Hillary Clinton alright
that's not all the information you need
because they didn't have Wisconsin they
didn't even know it existed so you need
the internal Trump data to find out
what's going on in parts of the country
the Hillary campaign didn't know about
you need a map his twitter handle is
john love it listen I know I know I know
it's first of all write me don't
tweet at me it's trite it's boring at
this point and I couldn't help myself I
hate myself more than you ever could
okay so what's next on Sunday House
Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff said
he'll subpoena Robert mullahs report if
it's not made public and get him to
testify about what he found the
Washington Post also published a piece
this weekend about how House Democrats
are preparing to fight for access to the
evidence Mahler has uncovered in any
underlying investigative documents he's
produced and that they're prepared to
argue that the amount of material
released in the Clinton email case has
set a precedent for the access they can
expect here with Muller so that seems
good that's great I look I love the idea
that we're gonna pretend that
president's gonna make any difference in
these Republicans minds but I'm glad
they're making the case what could what
could make a difference is just that
finally we have power yeah we have power
you know I mean ken starr's Report was
hundreds of pages long and I very
detailed and countless footnotes it was
written in a narrative format for
maximum impact with the public so I mean
that's a recent precedent we could also
look at but we also know that whatever
is in naina forts report will not
discuss the hush money payments yeah
that Michael Cohen made that's being
handled separately it will not discuss
any efforts to investigate the
inauguration and all the dirty money
flowing into that bad boy so there are
other reports to come yeah I mean it's
it's not just Muller building a case
here it the House Democrats really
to put together a case here but well the
lizard we also have separate legal the
SDN wives Yorick are building a case but
then yes the the Democrats should
investigate all the areas that they feel
need well because I think the question
is if there are no more indictments and
if Muller does not make an actual
conspiracy charge against anyone the
House Democrats have to figure out
whether they still want to proceed to
impeachment hearings and so far there's
already plenty of evidence including
particularly the fact that federal
prosecutors has have implicated the
president in a campaign felony for
directing Michael Cohen to make those
hush money payments let's not forget
about that
so like House Democrats still have all
this wrongdoing and potential
criminality out there that they have to
deal with
we should note before we move on that
today according to The New Yorker and
The Washington Post
more legal trouble for Trump a staffer
from Trump's 2016 campaign is suing him
because she says he kissed her without
her consent before a Florida rally more
than a dozen women have publicly accused
Trump of sexual harassment or assault
but Alva Johnson is the first woman to
come forward since he's been president
yeah and I think well so I think that
the this story I think is important in
part because it may help undermine the
the NDA's that have locked up a lot of
people around Trump yeah including
people that have worked at the White
House you know so I think to Tommy's
point so the Sen why I said they could
charge Manta for if Trump pardons him so
I think that's a really big deal and a
very good thing because it means that
mana forts not gonna squirrel out of
this right that's gonna that's gonna
land right but I think one thing we
should be thinking about and I'm glad
that shifts everybody said you know will
will will subpoena whatever we need to
if we have to but you know I feel like
the the sentencing memo is a small
example of the worst-case end to Muller
right there's a lot of speculation of
sentencing memos coming the sentencing
memos coming is gonna be so much cool
cool in there holy I can box
can't wait unbox the sentencing memo
it's got like a new kind of camera it's
awesome and it's like portrait mode and
very still sucks but uh and then and
then it comes out as like nope there's
not that much new in there maybe some of
the redacted stuff could be interesting
detail but no it wasn't a big revelation
and I think one thing we should be
thinking about is
what happens if this expectation isn't
met that Muller isn't building some
short some big grand report that reveals
a lot more than we already know hey what
does that mean for for Democrats and B
what does it look like if it no longer
looks as though Muller and investigators
in Congress are on the same team you
know where we're now subpoenaing Muller
trying to get Muller to do things he
doesn't want to do and I think it's just
worth thinking through the implications
of trying to force Mahler's hand as
opposed to how it looks right now which
is kind of two things happening in
concert yeah I think that's pretty easy
I think it is and you've seen some of
the House Democrats especially the ones
in the Intel committee taking this line
over the weekend which is like we we
just want the whole truth to come out
like we what the American people deserve
to know all the details of what happened
when a foreign power tried to conspire
possibly tried to conspire with the
campaign and and the candidate that they
eventually helped win when the
presidency and also by the way there are
a whole bunch of other federal
investigations like Tommy was just
saying into the Trump Organization the
aggregation everything like that and we
need to let those investigations go and
we need to learn the truth and by the
way like like we just said even if
Muller comes out with nothing else even
if there are no new details the
president noted States was implicated by
federal prosecutors in a campaign felony
it happened and like if there had been
no Russia if there had been no Russia
story that would be potentially one of
the biggest news stories of the year for
any other president president was
implicated in a crime not by you know
witnesses or this evidence by federal
prosecutors so that they were so sure of
it that they put it in their documents
that they filed an SDN why and I think
that Democrats have to wrestle with like
yeah what do we do with that and and I
don't think I mean the only people not
on their team on that one are
Republicans in Congress and and in the
White House yeah no one else is no one
else is questioning the federal
prosecutors an SDN why for implicating
the president in the campaign felony I
also I also have just been curious too
about the various jurisdictions right
because one thing you have the you have
the House Judiciary Committee which
would be in charge of things related to
impeachment you have the Intelligence
Committee that's looking into the kind
of intelligence related aspects of this
and I wonder what happens
this ends what gets fed from muller to
the judiciary committee something that
Marci we're speculating about and what
you know are that how much are they
coordinating you know how much are they
gonna be able to do this as one one
effort yeah I mean the the language
about the report that should be created
says just at the conclusion the special
counsels work he or she shall provide
the Attorney General with a confidential
report explaining the prosecution or
declination decisions reached by the
special counsel so it's like brief and
pretty vague and you know it could be
really long it could be short it could
be nothing so this this will be a battle
and I think prepare yourselves yeah for
Democrats it's just we want the truth we
want the details and the American people
wrote that okay let's talk about the
green New Deal Green Green book new deal
there you go a video start again that's
so stupid is let's cut it except to
again all right let's talk with the
green New Deal the green new deal of it
yep a video went viral on Friday that
showed a group of children who had gone
to California Senator Dianne Feinstein
San Francisco office to ask her to
support the green new deal in the video
which was posted by the sunrise movement
a relatively new organization that's
been pushing members of Congress on the
green New Deal Feinstein tells the kids
the following quote the resolution will
not pass the Senate and you can sorry
the resolution sorry let me try again
that resolution will not pass the Senate
and you can take that back to whoever
sent you here I've been in the Senate
for a quarter of a century and I know
what can pass and I know what can't pass
I know what I'm doing you come in here
and you say it has to be my way or the
highway I don't respond to that I've
gotten elected I just ran I was elected
by almost a million vote plurality so
you know maybe people should listen a
little bit now guys the sunrise movement
later posted a longer video where
Feinstein finally says she may vote for
the green New Deal resolution after all
and she even agrees to give one of the
students an internship in her office did
that change your view of the interaction
or just what did you think in general
the interaction I tweeted I quote
tweeted the shortened version of the
video that quote everyone knows it's
good politics to tell little kids to
 off I was obviously making a joke
she didn't actually say that but I do
think and you don't think it's good
politics
thank you thank you
walking me out of that trap but like
I'll but you know add then I then had a
lot of people tweeting at me did you
watch the full video watch the full
video and I watch the full video and I
don't think it's better within three
minutes as John read she accuses that
kids have being sent there by someone I
don't think that's an appropriate way to
treat a child there's a little girl who
is talking about her sincere concerned
that climate change could ruin the
planet for her as we know it and in
Feinstein basically says to her we're
not gonna solve this in a decade despite
the fact that the UN report says that's
the time frame we have left to to get to
work so I don't think this is how you
should talk to little kids
I don't think telling little kids I've
been around for thirty years
trust me is is an appropriate response
like and she shouldn't have to resign
not the worst human being that she's not
the worst lawmaker that ever walked the
earth she was incredibly let me say she
was not there's not how you treat kids
their kids it was just a bet it's like
be nice the reason it you know and and I
tweeted the next day like I can't
believe like 24 hours later you know
everyone's still screaming at each other
over Dianne Feinstein Riley because I
think it's it's not a huge deal like
what happened was she was she handled it
very poorly like that was that was clear
but also like I actually think the whole
situation worked out as it should right
in order to push these lawmakers and and
some of them that includes Democratic
lawmakers who have been there in the
who've been in Washington for a very
long time and and a look a lot of them
fully believe most all of the Democrats
actually believe in science they believe
that climate change is happening and a
lot of them have a sense of urgency
Dianne Feinstein you know people have
made the point well she's very old and
she's not gonna have to deal with the
effects but like she's a grandmother
right she has a kid she knows it she's
been she has like a near perfect
environmental record she's been fighting
this a long time but she's also been in
DC for a long time and so her vision is
sort of limited by public politics that
is in DC right now and I think what
those kids are saying is we have to
expand our horizons here because this is
an urgent threat and what you need to do
in that situation is direct action is
called for you do need to go and sit in
and
press your senators and your
representatives and push them on these
things and get and it may have worked
because by the end she's saying like
yeah maybe I'll actually vote for the
green new deal resolution after all
so what those kids did was great and it
was greatest and I'm glad that they did
it and she didn't respond well but
that's what you do you keep pushing
you know you know you don't sit there
like there's there's no version of this
where dianne feinstein just won
reelection for six years and like
suddenly she's gonna step down over this
or or we're gonna push dianne feinstein
out hardly like we need her vote so the
question should be how do we get her
vote should we sit more in her office
should we fight more like how do we do
it here's the thing you know you know i
thought Heather mcgee on Meet the Press
was really strong on this you know and
she was clearly very emotional about it
you know pointing to your environmental
record when we haven't done enough on
the environment for thirty years at well
you've been in office not your fault
the consensus has been too far to the
too far to the right we haven't cared
about this enough and what's happening
right now and you know I feel like one
of the lessons too right now is you know
all these senators and all these people
they've been watching a long time saying
you don't understand what's possible you
don't understand how we get things done
have narrowed their own sights
I mean even the resolution she was
talking about that she was in favor of
was more limited right well so this is
an interesting this is an interesting to
talk about so I read her resolution you
know and it basically says zero
emissions by the middle of a century
2050 right which is what the
International Panel had said the green
new deal the AOC resolution is more
ambitious and then it says let's do it
by 2030 right and then Feinstein says
let's do carbon let's do a carbon tax to
get there also let's make sure that the
transition is just an equitable
let's use some of the money to help
communities to deal with it
she is also by the way as Senator
presided over you know she represents a
state that has gone further in meeting
its commitments to Paris than any other
state right and so that's part of it but
like now all this said her it's it's
possible and it seems likely that her
plan does still not does not meet the
urgency at the moment it's not that it
doesn't just meet the urgency a moment
it is not aggressive enough to move the
debate right like that is a that is a
resolution where the debate is already
over this is the consensus place where
we need to land right what a OC is
with some of the more progressive
members in the house have done is shown
that Democrats have been failing to do
something quite basic which is move the
 window move the debate call talk
about a well tax talk about a seventy
percent marginal tax rate and all of a
sudden the entire debate but that's
what I'm saying
that's why this is so this this outcome
is so good right because if dianne
feinstein's plan is probably a bit
bolder than where we were just a few
years ago but if that's now seen as the
plan that is the shitty compromise plan
then alexandria kasnia cortez and the
sunrise movement has already achieved
something but dianne feinstein she's
very look she is she is already she's
very unlikely to be seeking another turn
she is probably yeah run her last race
anything she advocates for she should be
what she believes the place we need to
land right saying let that the green new
deal goes too far i of my own version
like the point that I think these
activists are making the point that
Heather McGee is making is this isn't
any other issue this isn't one of the
one issue on the list of things you're
gonna care about this is an absolute
emergency and crisis everything should
be focused on it and and if you and if
and if what you're gonna say to people
is what they're advocating is too far
you're making a mistake right or even
worse in this instance if if a little
kid is saying but you represent us you
have to listen to us we voted for you
and you say how old are you kid I'm
sixteen you're not a voter that is it is
so focused on the wrong thing there's no
reason to be chiding Joe Murray for
caring so much about an issue that
they're going to legislate god we need
more kids like that no kidding no reason
at all my thing is just like look we
need Diane's to find signs vote so how
we're gonna get the vote right like I
think that you don't think we have her
vote on on these things
you don't you think she's gonna be one
of the people that stops us from getting
somewhere uh we did we clearly don't
have her vote yet on the green New Deal
resolution that they brought to her
office we don't have it at all and so my
here's my thing you need an outside game
and an inside game to get this done
right those we need those kids showing
up in democratic offices and Republican
offices in there they're they're doing a
great job outside Mitch McConnell's
office today right we also need an
inside game of persuasive arguments
and pressure and people who know the
legislation works to make sure that we
get and we're not gonna get 60
votes in the Senate on climate change
legislation how do we get fifty one
votes maybe if we eliminate the
filibuster among Democrats to get
something like this passed that's what
we need to figure out and like you know
it can be unfair that we have to deal
with this and that we have people like
Dianne Feinstein who were not great to
the kids but as the sunrise movement and
aoc and others have pointed out we got
10 years and so we all have to sit and
figure out how do we get the votes but I
think here's what do we need to do to
get the votes but the Kootenay the
criticism of Dianne Feinstein that is
this like she shouldn't be one of the
people we have to persuade
states in a country of course not I just
find the defenses of her very
frustrating it's like you I've run your
last race this is the most liberal state
is the state that leads on this issue
you claim to lead on what are you why
aren't you in front why are you behind
what I'm saying is you know for
activists and organizers it's not about
defending her or attacking her it's like
we just need her vote that's what
politicians are like we ought we hold
them up as like sure way they have to
have the best care nor this that they
just need to get the vote so
what do we do just I'm saying one of the
ways you persuade giant Feinstein is
persuading the people that are defending
her that they're wrong that I'm sorry
that like this is you know it's another
round of kids to the office yeah I just
that that's like way more effective than
yelling about her online that that the
traditional yeah I just I that's all and
I also think this all got kind of
wrapped up into a broader defensive
institutions that was part of the
civility debate like in Andrew Mitchell
who I think is one of the
hardest-working smartest reporters out
there like I used to love talking to
Andrew Mitchell but she tweeted ask
yourself if you would use your kids to
ambush the senator working on climate
change resolution with demands that
don't include actual legislation now
that is I think so silly I think it's a
very silly defense of process and the
status quo that that doesn't reflect the
way you actually get politicians to move
on things which is generally through
fear fear of losing an election fear of
losing support from donors or
constituents or whatever and I think or
or that path in the case of you know
Dianne Feinstein who doesn't fear losing
another election because it's love it
said she's probably not gonna write on
emotion right like and you know maybe
those kids got third or maybe the next
round
we'll get through there no I thought I
let Andrea Mitchell's who again exactly
it's a great reporter but her responses
to Heather McGee on Meet the Press we're
also just like she's like well they're
not doing that outside Republican
offices it's like well they are doing it
outside Republican offices yeah no we
just didn't see the idea
and again it's also this sort of like
this is part of the part of a central
problem that it's not that's that that's
that reporters the reporters covering
these issues struggle to deal with which
is if what it can pass is what's defined
as reasonable nothing is reasonable
there's nothing reasonable because one
of our two parties is co-opted and as a
kind of a rearguard action against
Planet Earth right the Republican Party
in the United States is an outlier it is
a fringe and it is the most detrimental
force on this issue so like and we
shouldn't end and we shouldn't forget
that I mean the Trump administration
just this week is creating a group of
their own scientists who dispute the
overwhelming conclusion of every other
scientist in the world including a guy
named William hopper who has said quote
the demonization of carbon dioxide is
just like the demonization of the poor
Jews under Hitler so that's what we're
dealing with on the other side I seems
reasonable that's a that's a thoughtful
better take that's what we're up against
I mean exacting people like why are
people bugging poor Dianne Feinstein
she's on our team it's like the reason
they are is because there's no
conversation to be had with the
Republicans yeah they are climate
tonight well we need a we need to we
need a hundred percent accuracy on our
side because they are at zero on their
side I mean the woman that they're now
nominate to be the UN Ambassador says I
think they're smart people on they're
smart I like the science on both sides
and of course it's because her husband
is a billionaire : secular yeah I
understand there's frustration when you
see lefty Twitter liberal Twitter
including many people were very good
friends with attacking someone who you
think is more your ally than your enemy
on this issue I get that like fair yeah
but um you know I don't think we should
be too precious about it means just
cruising but also like underpinning all
of this as you said you know there are
they're setting up new working groups on
climate science to sell to sell a lie
that dovetails with our previous
conversation about North Korea right
because when the top intelligence
officials went before Congress and they
said that North Korea is unlikely to
give up its nuclear weapons program
Trump hauled them into the Oval the next
day
operated them in front of the cameras
and then had them all say they were
misquoted so like we are facts are are
are being shaped and skewed and
manipulated in really dangerous ways
like stuff we saw a prio rock war the
science around climate like on every set
of issues and that's why I think people
are approaching this issue with you know
some real emotion in fear about what
could happen if we don't act well and
one of the reasons it's so difficult is
because while people are just you know
making up and lying that run the
government
we're also like every you know people
all over the world are starting to see
climate devastation and yet for a lot of
people who aren't yet seeing the climate
devastation in their own lives they're
thinking like who are all these people
yelling about something's gonna happen
in the future and telling me that I have
to pay more or change my behavior right
now and changing those minds is you know
the most important obligation
responsibility of anyone in politics and
activism over the next four years eight
years ten years because we know that we
don't have much time and I do think it's
like it's it is incredibly important we
need more people showing up in offices
like this we need more activism because
this is gonna be hard we
couldn't we couldn't pass a
cap-and-trade bill when we had
Democratic majorities in the House and
the Senate Nancy Pelosi got a whole
bunch of House Democrats to vote for a
cap-and-trade bill which was you know a
market-based solution to the problem a
lot of them ended up losing their
re-election and in Assassin it didn't
pass in the Senate because a lot of the
Democrats in the Senate are from
Southern and Midwestern states that
depend on coal and they're worried that
you know people are gonna lose jobs now
in their state for something that
they're trying to fight in the future
and we're gonna face that again and we
should be realistic about the challenges
that we face and trying to get this
stuff done but that should also make us
figure out you know sharper strategies
like I said both on the outside and the
inside okay well we're gonna talk about
this more after we come back with one of
the architects of the green New Deal
Rhianna gun right all right I everyone
think we need a green book New Deal
that is gonna be the title isn't it I
think so the choice
do we need to do
you
