now it's time for okay stop roll clip
and the panel can say okay stop at any
point to comment Bernie Sanders he's
more than just mayor Pete's cool grandpa
he's one of the frontrunners for the
Democratic nomination well this week he
did a town hall on Fox News and he left
the host a bit confused let's watch I go
out and I listen to the people they say
give me they ask me questions
those questions are often very very
different than the issues being
discussed by media on Capitol though
okay so all right senator we want to get
back to audience questions I do want to
say that we understand and we're very
grateful that you're here we are giving
you an hour of substance and talk on our
airwaves so we can get over the Fox
thing if if you're all right with that
okay I want to be stopped he said get
over the Fox thing the way Tom Hanks
asked meg Ryan to get over him shutting
down her bookstore ask the audience a
question if you can raise your hand here
a show of hands of how many people get
their insurance from work private
insurance right now how many get it from
private insurance okay now of those how
many are willing to transition to what
the senator says a government-run system
for those at home we got a lot of hands
reminds me of when I ask people to hang
out millions of people every single year
lose their health insurance you know why
they get fired or they quit and they go
to another employer you change insurance
every year millions of workers wake up
in the morning and their employer has
changed the insurance that they have
maybe they like the doctor is up people
are nodding their heads okay so this is
not new every year now what we are
talking about actually is stability that
when you have a Medicare pearl it is
there now okay stop
I just memorized speechless I just want
to say this has Bernie been on queer I
his hair is better his hair looked good
it's sure and it's whiter its whiter yo
those caught those collars do not button
down no that was good he looked great
sharp it's fascinating to watch someone
me a case for medicare-for-all on fox
yeah yeah well I feel like he loaded the
crowd which is cool but that those
weren't those weren't those were in
Arizona and baby-boomers driving they're
in there a golf cart like they usually
get those were those are Bernie people
how many of you land on the we should do
everything we can to undermine the
legitimacy and Democrats should not go
there camp and how many of you land on
the side of we have to fight Fox by
bringing our ideas to them and by Bernie
going on Fox he exposes people to
another point of view and maybe that's
the first step on on how we change
things so so I I watched somebody in the
front row just wait for a chance to yell
out Bernie does it well but the rest of
them not so much
and that's another third option what do
you guys think you know I would have
said no cuz you don't want to lend
legitimacy to a propaganda network right
you don't want to go on and say oh this
is an actual news network I'm gonna
actually engage in any kind of
conversation but I do think there's ways
in which Democrats are talked about and
lied about on Fox News that if they do
see them in the flesh even if they're
undermined or misdirected or whatever it
is at least I get to hear them and see
them and that's a great example of them
hearing and seeing Bernie Sanders in a
way that they they're only seeing him
with his hair up like this and with the
button-down collar you know they're
never seeing him like that and not just
because of how he looks but I think it
is in a way it's kind of it both and
it's like don't don't legitimize them
but I mean have you seen the Chiron's
when they when they're on there I mean
it's it's it's socialist you attacks
Church right basically it's not the
usual it's unreal so the coup de jedge
burns down Notre Dom that's I saw that
yesterday
did Johnny gonna try to get him for that
okay but he did secret fox news bureau
not-so-secret check out my new show
it's ticket and that's okay stop
[Music]
