I'm Jon Favreau I'm Jon Lovett Tommy
Vitor I'm Dan Pfeiffer we're all here
for the big big debate analysis before
we get to that a reminder that our Los
Angeles live show is taking place at the
Greek on August 17th with performances
from Maggie Rogers Amanda seals Best
Coast and Jim James proceeds from the
show will be donated to organizations at
the forefront of the fight to protect
the vote across America so grab your
tickets now at crooked comm slash the
Greek also we have a great new episode
of with friends like these that's going
out on Friday you can hear an interview
that Anna Marie Cox had earlier this
week with eg and Carol it's really
powerful and you should and you should
subscribe to the show and be on the
lookout for it okay America has just
endured two straight nights of
Democratic primary debates hosted by CNN
in Detroit for the first reaction we go
to Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
and what a night I've loved it a lonely
opinion I was sitting in bed last night
like trying to calm down watch little
Netflix I was like man that sucked yo
didn't feel good we're gonna get what
did you watch we're gonna maybe watch I
don't remember something boring on
purpose
I watched John wick three Oh how's that
the plots hard to follow if you're
looking at Twitter yeah well you know we
watched two broad cities first to kind
of get a laugh we're gonna watching
shits Creek
anyway we're gonna get to why the second
I felt so horrible let's start with the
first night what you watch blended lets
over the first night which featured the
following candidates Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren Pete Buddha judge
better or Roarke Amy Klobuchar John
Hickenlooper Tim Ryan John Delaney
Marianne Williamson and Steve Bullock
the evening began with a feisty debate
about Medicare for all that Pitt warned
and Sanders against John Delaney here's
a cliff congressman Delaney just
referred to it as bad policy and
previously he is called the idea
political suicide that will just get
president Trump reelected what do you
say to congressman Delaney you're wrong
[Applause]
okay he's wrong all right who do we
think made the better case for their
health care plan on the first night and
why Warren dig Warren yeah I don't think
I think Bernie did a very good job but
Warren was able to explain the policy in
easily understood terms but she also did
it by telling stories about who would
affect who would it would affect in hell
yeah I think she also her point she kept
coming back to the point about insurance
companies and what everyone really hates
about insurance companies which is
you're feeling out all those paperwork
you're calling them 50 times to try to
get something paid for and their whole
business model is to take in more in
premiums and they pay out in actual
health care and the reason they make you
do all that paperwork is because they're
trying to screw you why do you think
that the non Medicare for all folks are
having such a hard time making the
argument for their plans so I actually
think what's happening it left the real
substance of the policy difference
between the Medicare for all advocates
and the Medicare for all you want it all
who wanted public option advocates and
so John Delaney's broadside against
Medicare for all I think is very kind of
it is using Republican talking points
and it is sort of attacking the idea of
doing something this big and the
response from Elizabeth Warren sort of
attacked him on that level but there was
no real substantive debate about why
switching to a Medicare for All system
and the cost efficiencies that come with
that and the access that comes with that
and the the fact that you remove it from
from employers and businesses and from
the backs of individuals is a better
approach than keeping the private system
and having a public option in place you
kind of live that debate entirely and so
then it becomes a debate about values
and the debate about values is
advocating for Medicare for all you can
just take such a strong position and say
it so plainly and you're left arguing
with moderate saying wait wait wait we
should do something more practical less
expensive go go not as far I mean I
think Delaney's argument was not even
values based was political and there's a
reasonable case to be made that taking
people's private insurance away is
incredibly unpopular the significant
evidence to suggest that that's
a hard case to make to a Democratic
primary audience and the rejoinder from
Warren at all as you said was I don't
run for president to do small things I
run for president do big things and you
kind of sound petty and small in that
moment when you're responding to that
I'd say on top of that Delaney was kind
of annoying in the way he went after it
it just sort of like didn't land well
yeah I mean I I did cringe at both
Delaney and Bullock saying things that
did sound like Republican talking points
that I don't think we're fair Delaney
talked about taking health care what
taking health care away not not changing
your health insurance but taking health
care away which no democratic plan is
taking health care away it's just false
and telling half a country quote your
insurance is illegal which is like okay
and then Steve Bullock
this is wish list economics it just it
used to just be Republicans who wanted
to repeal and replace wish list
economics isn't a thing right no one
else had heard that phrase now that's
like a you know some consultant from the
90s feta Millian
yes if you do economic cute to do on
stage it's um it's a classic example of
something we all should keep in mind in
our daily lives that a brainstorm can
get out of hand inside of a brainstorm
something can make sense it's a real
it's a trunk we have a trunk on our
hands which those economics is a classic
trunk you talk for a long time you end
up at something but if you didn't see
the steps to get there you sound like a
dweeb yeah I mean look I think the heart
of this debate where there's real
differences and it's fair to go back and
forth on is the taxes and how much this
costs right and and you sort of got
there but you know and ends happened
both nights the non Medicare for all
people are trying to say okay well
Bernie at least is being honest that
this could be an you know up to thirty
trillion dollar plans and it would
require tax increases on anyone making
over twenty nine thousand dollars a year
now what they say is the taxes go up but
you're not gonna pay anything in
premiums anymore but you know that's
still that's still an argument to have
and you know Warren was they tried to
pin Warren down on this both on stage
and then of course Matthews did later
which is like but there is gonna be a
tax increase no Bernie says yes but
whatever
Warren was like we yes what total car
we'll go down which is a true thing to
say but the only thing I mean it's funny
that no one made this case if your your
employers paying for your health care
coverage and your employer is
contributing to it and suddenly they
don't anymore because the government is
you're not gonna and your pay now you
have to pay more in taxes yourself to
get that single payer you're not gonna
really feel like you're paying less in
premiums because your lawyer was
covering a lot and there are some people
whose health care costs are less than
the amount of tax about their taxes will
be increased yeah and every policy has
winners and losers it's incumbent upon
the advocates that policies who make the
argument for why that is that why the
the winning outstrips the losing but I
think the overall point here is there is
a legitimate good-faith debate to be had
about Medicare for all as advocated by
Sanders and Warren and some of the other
plans out there just you can't have that
debate if the chosen fighter to make the
other case is john delaney who is
essentially a rich guy who paid millions
of dollars out of his own pocket to be
on stage he is the he has raised almost
as much money as anyone in this campaign
because he's given it to himself yes to
buy facebook ads to be on the stage and
so we were sort of denied the health
care plant debate we deserved because
Biden Harris have different plans we're
on the other stage and better work and
Pete who have different plans that sort
of split the difference between well I
guess bad those plan splits the
difference in pitas for a public option
they were doing everything they possibly
could to avoid getting the middle of
this fight because they had no incentive
to do so and so we didn't really have
the real conversation about the puts in
the takes and the trade-offs that come
with these various things and also less
thing you can't have the debate in a
vacuum because what how you weight the
amount of money you spend the amount of
political capital you spend on health
care affects the other elements of your
agenda all which is also exactly and and
this is why it's it's I think it's
really annoying that the non Medicare
for all candidates continue to use the
force you off your private insurance
take away your private insurance link
because it's just it's misleading you
know you're like under a
medicare-for-all your private insurance
becomes a government planet it's more
generous like it's not like anyone's
really gonna lose anything there are
costs and people should be debating
those costs and those trade-offs but
that language is pretty lazy though it's
an easy political hit you know yeah it's
um it is frustrating I do think that was
the look Elizabeth Warren's face had was
like I can't believe that there are so
many more serious candidates who support
a public option and I get to basically
punch the monopoly man in the face her
face said I have been blessed tonight
but yeah and you know it's funny too you
can kind of like this is one of the
reasons I think it's very good that this
will be the little ideally the last time
the candidates are split into two nights
because I do think that there were other
arguments made in the second part of the
immigrant abate on night 2 that might
have been a good part of the the more
substantive and I think ultimately
better debate we had in night one you
know because the debate I think hinged
on uh on some of these attacks that
aren't necessarily fair we didn't get
into the actual substance like I've
actually yang in night two made a strong
defense of Medicare for all and what it
would mean for people and why why it's a
good thing to separate insurance from
employment that I think should be part
of the substantive case that the
single-payer advocates make but of
course that didn't come up in night one
it only came up at night too so a big
theme in the analysis of the first night
was that it hit the most moderate
candidates in the race like Delaney
Hickenlooper and Bullock against the two
most progressive candidates Sanders and
Warren that led to a debate over
pragmatism versus idealism that gave
Warren two of the biggest lines of the
night here's the clip you know I don't
understand why anybody goes to all the
trouble of running for president of the
United States just to talk about what we
really can't do and shouldn't fight for
do we also the clip of when she talked
about not being a why we can't be afraid
let's play that one too I get it there
is a lot at stake and people are scared
but we can't choose a candidate we don't
believe in just because we're too scared
to do anything else and we can't ask
other people to vote for a candidate we
don't believe in Democrats win when we
figure out what is right and we get out
there and fight for it
I am Not Afraid and for Democrats to win
you can't be afraid either now we talked
a lot about electability
that's her electability argument and
that is gonna be probably the central
argument in the homestretch of this race
as we get down to whether it's Elizabeth
Warren or anyone else who's more
progressive versus a Joe Biden or
possibly anyone else who's an
alternative to Joe Biden what did we
think of Warren's argument there and did
any of the moderate candidates make a
decent counter-argument to that I mean
look I think it's a it's a good line
it's good sentiment it's hard to argue
with there's a pretty big straw man
buried in there and there's also the
fact that like we should debate now the
upsides and the downsides of various
policy proposals and candidates and word
we are fooling ourselves if we don't
have a tough conversation not just about
what we believe in but the realities of
those plans their impact on people and
what Republicans will say about them yes
I agree with Pete that we shouldn't
worry about what Donald Trump will say
Donald Trump will lie but like that
doesn't mean we should be blind to the
political realities of the things were
we're taking on as a party yeah it's
like we've gotten crazy yeah we
we shouldn't worry about what Donald
Trump says we shouldn't worry about
Republicans say we shouldn't worry about
what the insurance companies say we
should worry about what voters say yeah
because we are trying to AZ talk we are
trying to win voters so like don't pay
it we've said this a million times on
this podcast what Pete said you know
which is they're gonna call you
socialists no matter what so don't base
your policy on them that's true do base
your policy
at least in part on what the American
people want yeah I just want to wake up
in October of next year and see the most
devastating ads possible run on purely
policy grounds that would be a bummer if
they were accurate I think they're you
it is worth exploring the premise of the
question
yeah which is as is discussed pragmatism
is tied to winning and idealism is tied
to losing and there is not a lot of
political history recent or otherwise
that says that trimming your sails is a
great strategy to win elections yeah and
so I think the pragmatism vers idealism
is it a very important governing
discussion right like what is the what
is the the best policy we can get
through the system what are the
consequences politically within
governance of trying to push for
Medicare for all of us in middle-class
tax cut versus anti-corruption
what can the system bear in terms of
actually implementation because the
Obamacare which is a fraction of the
complication of Medicare for all in
terms of the number of people it affects
was a huge undertaking to get done so
trying to do for at least trying to do
Bernie's Medicare plan in a four with
each four year transition period is
going to be hard and that's worth
exploring that but just in the terms of
the pure politics the idea that
middle-of-the-road
pragmatism means winning is not I think
we should not accept that premise yeah I
think that's right so I think the part
of the problem is right idea also
idealism versus pragmatism also becomes
a stand-in for left versus center and
popular amongst Democrats and broadly
popular but of course that's not true
you know there are would have become you
know mainstream Democratic positions
previously thought of as too idealistic
or too liberal things like a well tax
that are now broadly popular amongst
Democrats Republicans and independents
to me though what I found really
important about that moment with what
Elizabeth Warren said there and I think
ultimately if she is the nominee it will
have been a pivotal moment or at least
shows the argument that she was going to
make to put herself on a path to
becoming the nominee is there's
something under girding what she's
saying she's saying you like me you like
the policies I promote you think I'm
smart you think I'm ahead of some of
these other people you know you tell
posters I made up you know implied in
the polls as I may not be able
but you but you like what I kind of
present and I would be I'm a leader on
policy take the trust you have in me
there and trust me that you don't need
to be afraid of making me the nominee
trust my judgement on the election that
you trust me
that you trust that I have on policy and
will win I mean and I think whether or
not that's true I don't know but I do
think it is the first time she has
head-on said I'm not you know you like
me and you think I'm smart you think you
can trust me on these incredibly
important questions come with me the
last part of the trip the last part of
the trip yeah and it's look and it's
electability argument because what she's
saying is I think it is easier to win
with everyone backing a candidate they
truly believe in than to win with a
candidate that we are only backing
because we believe that they're the most
electable person and that they thin
she's and she's making the argument that
that passion that intensity will help
bring out more voters than purely
focusing on who I think can win and so
that's our argument and again it's we
don't know and it's also you know you
see it in her conduct right like she is
incredibly feisty and energetic during
that debate you know she stays to go on
television till all hours of the night
she does the selfie she stays online
she's like everything she is doing is
signaling that she is but she is fully
committed and vested in the fight and
confident in every step that she's
making and trying to inspire people to
have the same confidence so Delaney's
response was you know I think Democrats
win when we run on real solutions not
impossible promises when we run on
things that are workable not fairytale
economics so the whole exchange actually
reminded me of exchanges that we used to
have that Barack Obama used to have with
Hillary Clinton in 2000 and Bill Clinton
and Bill Clinton and it just you and
love it you should talk about this to
being on the other side of it but you
just knew that we had her when one
person in a primary one candidate in the
primary is arguing for like you know
idealism and fight for what you believe
in and the other candidates response is
just constantly throwing cold water on
the head and saying like you know she
used to say Barack Obama's giving people
false hope you're making promises you
can't keep
I'm doing real solutions I think that
was one of her slogan
use this exact argument very effectively
against her you almost won with this
this line of attack I mean the
challenged everyone's gonna have to have
is the yeah I like I totally agree
trimming your sales is not an effective
governing strategy it hasn't seemed to
be an effective political strategy I'm
trying to hold that thought side by side
of my head with polling that says like
66% of Democrats don't want to lose
their private insurance right so it's
like how do we or Democrats or its
people over people sorry people overall
do what was a private insurance like how
do we balance those things is very hard
no and that's what I'm saying it was
like what the the trick for the moderate
is I think there's a case to be made for
the moderates but it's it's tough to
make that case from the standpoint this
other candidate is promising you
something that you can't have believe
less you know like I think one thing I
think you can say is one of the reasons
the American people are so cynical about
politics is that politicians over and
over again have made all these promises
and then the elections over and they go
to Washington and nothing gets done
because they over promise things and if
if we really want to make progress then
we have to persuade the American people
and you know it's a tough fight and I'm
gonna fight for it but I want you to
know that I'd rather take something than
nothing at the end of the day there's
missing sort of like the you know I
think sherrod Brown would have been the
candidate to do this right because he
would have you know you can't I don't
think you can attack sure
sherrod Brown uh bona fides as they say
on being a progressive but so there's
like there people would there's a
heartfelt argument to be made by someone
who say supports a public option versus
medicare-for-all saying this is I
believe in this not because I want to do
less or help people less because I think
well pizza that right well Pete it is
the one who I think has made that the
bet the closest to that argument Pete is
the only person who is making the
moderate argument on moderate policy
grounds not political calculation
everyone else is calling himself a
martyr yes which is why it's unfortunate
we can't have a full engagement of this
debate because you don't no one wants
this to wear the Scarlet M for moderate
they just want to like maintain their
electability but also still seem super
progressive on Twitter
but this is why you know I think it is
important that we get to the next debate
we're kind of everyone on stage because
a debate between Kamala Harris about her
plan Joe Biden about his public option
plan and then Bernie and Elizabeth is a
much better debate than John Delaney is
a stand-in for or something else just
doing RNC talking points yeah so quick
takes just about some of the other
candidates how do we think that Bernie
did he did not he chose not to go after
Warren or contrast himself before in any
way he sort of locked arms with Warren
has everyone's been saying and sort of
took on everyone else how did he do
compared to the last debate did he help
himself yeah thought he was good yeah I
think he was a little sort of reticent
or not really he wasn't really present
in the first debate in this debate he
was he sort of reminded people of why
they really liked about him 2016 right
there's a charm to Bernie right when he
says I wrote the damn bill yeah it's
funny you like him I like that guy like
that version of Bernie and I thought it
played yeah he was he was he was tough
would he need to be but he was more
happy warrior he's happy to dunk on Tim
Ryan for a minute yeah I thought he did
I thought he did a great job hey totally
forgotten Tim Ryan was in that debate
until just now what do we think about
mayor Pete we just talked about that you
know a bit he came in fundraising leader
he's fifth in the polls last bit he was
okay I didn't get a much stronger debate
this time than last time you know to me
there was basically kind of there was
there was Warren and Sanders who I think
both did well but I think Warren did
herself more favors but I think making
the same similar arguments but doing it
with a bit more strength than Bernie
then you had the moderates kind of I
feel like that was a bit of a hash
especially cuz John Delaney stole the
microphone and and then you know put a
hotel on Park Place and then but then
separate from the moderates I think Pete
had was kind of alone and didn't
participate in that debate but kind of
stood outside of it sometimes he does
his pundit tree thing where he says
here's what's really going on here and
that has some value but I thought he did
well from something everything about
Pete is kind of soothing you know even
the way he talks he was sort of trying
to calm it all down talked a little
slower I thought he did well I think
someone prepped him and someone prepped
him after the last debate to jump in
more and make sure you get your message
out
even if the question doesn't lead you
there naturally because there were a few
moments where he just jumped in inside
of ink I'm sorry there are a few moments
he just jumped in and sort of pivoted to
his electability message or something
else and I think sometimes it felt
forced but overall it made him more of a
presence in this debate and you know
what he stands for more so I think it
worked for him I are you saying that it
was a slightly awkward segue when he did
a question about climate change and
turned it into the political benefits of
being a veteran running against yeah
that was a little forceful but you know
then people hear that speech they're
like okay well now I know the message
yeah he did it he did it well I mean as
far as that transition goes I was in I
don't know he does it is very best when
he's doing set pieces right what he gets
to his core message and the moderators
will not lead you there and so he went
there on his own and I think sort of
both Pete and Beto as the two other
candidates on stage who had qualified
for the third debate were sort of sort
of their strategies their performance
reflected that fact where they didn't
need to hit home runs and they kind of
it felt like both of them were happy to
be there they took advantage of moments
that came but they were sort of in Bella
Chuckie and fashion keeping their their
plays their best place in the playbook
until the game that matter I'm coming
along for this I thought she would be
there I was hoping it meant cheating by
stealing the other team's bet oh did
obviously way better in this debate than
the last debate I mean that was a low
bar but also I think I saw better work
up there and I was reminded why I liked
him so much during the Senate campaign
yeah he's a thoughtful like decent
reasonable guy I think he still has a
few too many canned lines I don't need
to hear about the courage of his
convictions ever again please erase that
from the prep book and throw it in the
trash but other than that it's pretty
good I think he I think you're right and
that he didn't need as much but he
needed to do better which he did but he
didn't need much of as much of a
strategy in this debate I think the next
debate he really has to figure out where
do i position myself among these
candidates and again the question he
hasn't answered why should I be
president at this moment in time as
opposed to all of these other characters
on stage you know and I don't think he's
nailed that yet yeah that's right it's
the it is he has an argument like they
all do but the why his argument is
distinct has not been fully fleshed out
yet the September debate with nine or
ten other people will be the moment when
he has to do with that yeah anyone else
help themselves
Steve Bullock's first time up there how
do we think Steve Bullock did I someone
who expressed some frustration that
Steve Bullock was not in the first
debate because he was a cause he is a
sitting governor from a red state yeah
you were as excited about him as you are
about the loop I got stopped being got a
set being disappointed by these uh
Mountain state governors I just you know
you've fought so hard to get to this
stage you complain so much about not
being on the last stage and you came
there with a with a smile and a talking
point and nothing else and it showed I'm
very frustrated it's like you have a you
you you you could be if you were if
there was more substance there an
alternative to Biden you could basically
say you know I offer all the
electability argument that Joe Biden
does but I'm actually one in a red state
and I expanded Medicaid I mean there's a
case that he could be making he just
doesn't make it yeah he's got a really
effective electability argument just
kind of sitting there and it didn't
totally come through for me I thought he
did okay in the beginning was fine
dusting off some cobwebs but then he got
in this exchange with Elizabeth Warren
about when you used nuclear weapons and
just like exposed by the end of it that
he literally didn't know what he was
talking about she was like I've never
she was so happy to be in this exchange
cuz he just was literally getting it
completely wrong her the moderator asked
the question of her and then I think
what then a Jake or whomever just
asserted that he disagreed I think was
Howlin and he said quote we need to get
back to nuclear proliferation that was
anyone below you said so then he said I
mean deep proliferation and
non-proliferation once is less nukes
everybody right if it was look Steve
Bullock and loved it I get why you're
right about Steve will look on paper
wins a red state stilled you know took
on campaign finance reform was able to
expand Medicaid with the Republican
legislature we have a lot of friends in
politics who've been like pushing Steve
Bullock for a long time people who I
respect her very very smart and so I've
always been sort of interested in
- but when I don't know both when I
interviewed him and then when I you know
some on stage it's just it's a little
underwhelming for me and I know some
more the moderate pundits out there
thought he he did well but I just I
didn't see it it was a little too like
there wasn't a lot of substance there
was just a lot of talking points and not
a lot of substance for his due but he is
a good typical politician and that's why
I think a lot of people who have been in
politics for a long time really like
Steve Bullock but this is not a time
that calls for typical politicians
that's a good good way to put it
um should we end the first night debate
by talking about Marianne Williamson who
gave a stirring answer on reparations
and ended up being the most googled
candidate following the debate you know
think about Marianne Williamson I feel
like I wanted to take set aside the
answer on reparations because I did
think she offered a lot of honesty and
clarity about the history our nation's
racial history and how awful it is and
how unresolved a lot of it is is setting
that aside I thought what frustrates me
about Marianne Williamson is she does a
very good job of diagnosing the fact
that we can't be Trump with just white
papers and with our brains there has to
be some emotion and some you know sort
of gut-level connections with people and
then she goes on to offer absolutely no
path forward for how to do that and just
dismisses everybody else up there it's a
bunch of nerdy eggheads and it's
offensive when you haven't given a
about the Democratic Party until 15
minutes ago yeah she definitely has much
more of a been watching politics on TV
and hear my opinions vibe yeah we just
very trumpian after the datum was like
now you're talking about foreign policy
so you're like what experience do you
have she's like oh my family they were
world travelers that was a verbatim
quote right like that is disqualifying I
just also it's it's forget pingjin into
politics for 15 years 15 years 15 I'm
sorry forget having forget the fact that
she's only been paying at up politic
forget the fact that you don't even
paying attention to politics for 15
minutes I don't think she's been been
paying attention to the ongoing primary
in which she is currently a part because
I am very sick honestly of her going on
that stage and saying no one on this
stage is talking about love
no one's speaking to the deeper
emotional trauma that the country is
going through Cory Booker does that yeah
he does it it's his campaign I just I
find it very frustrating because he's a
far more serious
thoughtful candidate than she is and she
originally pretends he doesn't exist
because she thought of the three
sentences she wanted to say on the
debate so that is very specific to her
problem but I really probably you're
right it really frustrates me I mean we
gonna be in the next debate yes oh I
don't know is she I was the polling yeah
I mean look and you know Fox had this
story afterwards the the other issue
with Marianne Williamson is because she
hasn't got a lot of tension because
she's been at 1% you know she does have
some views that are troubling why why
are they troubling so you know she did
call mandatory vaccinations or well in
and draconian she later apologized
pointed to statements in the past where
she said everyone should get their kids
vaccinated she did say that it's just
it's very she's one of those people who
goes there and then doesn't go there and
is so it's sort of and then she no she's
also talked a lot about antidepressants
being overprescribed though on that
she's also said of course people should
take antidepressants I think they were
prescribed so like there's a debate to
be had on these things but you you dig
into her views on medicine and stuff
like that and you're like it's not it's
not complete crazy but it's it's
troubling she is not like it is unfair
and ridiculous to compare to Donald
Trump they're like basically opposite
people but there is this element of a
person with no experience and seemingly
limited knowledge pontificating for
years right on what is happening in the
world with no consequences for being
wrong or changing their positions now
running for president yeah and you see
that in all the in all these quotes that
come out from her books yeah I don't
need someone with like a you know a
Bachelors of Arts telling me when to
take antidepressants or not right it's
not really how this goes
yeah well MD should we talk before we
get to the second night about the format
and the moderators we can yeah I will
say I will I am NOT I find I don't find
myself when I've been watching these
debates thinking that the moderators are
really responsible for the quality of
the debate we're having and I think you
actually can make make that case based
on watch we what we watched over two
nights because I came in from the first
night thinking yeah the rhythm was weird
in the beginning and there was an maybe
there was too many times where people
got cut off but I thought it was
ultimately a substantive debate that I
came away feeling kind of good about the
field and how they behaved that night
and night - I went direct
two of McDonald's drive-through to get a
to get McNuggets cuz I was felt it was
like sour combative small and they may
think we were gonna lose so and I don't
and it was the same group of people
moderating both nights so ultimately
when people have a problem with
questions I do think mostly it is a
problem with how the candidates
responded there's always an element of
somewhat overcorrecting from the
previous debate right there was too much
interrupting in the first debate so CNN
set a set of rules to do that there was
people really hated the one word
answering questions of CN got rid of
those I think the debates were moderated
fine I agree there in the very beginning
there were a little overly doctrinaire
about the time limits when you're
cutting off Elizabeth Moore in the
middle of a story about addy Barkin
that's probably not ideal but they
adjusted for it and it was better as the
debate went on and it was better the
second night and I think generally like
we can disagree with the framing of the
questions we can disagree with so the
perspective they bring to it but
ultimately all of the debates as far
have been about policy and there have
not been a bunch of the sort of
political gotcha questions that have
dominated debates in previous cycles I
think that is impossible
yeah that's right it was a moderate a
little bit tight in the beginning and
they relaxed that I mean people are I
think rightly frustrated by the framing
of some of the questions Bernie called
them Republican talking points but it's
incumbent upon you the person on stage
not to take that bait and to answer how
you want to answer and if you want to
learn how to do that watch Elizabeth
Warren she could teach a master class
I think the beef I had with the CNN
debates generally is just like the
amount that they are milking them for as
much cash as humanly possible starting
with the Powerball pickup process and
then the 15-minute pre roll into a
commercial break before we start the
 questions like that's a little
ridiculous and so yeah I mean it's not
it's not Jake it's not Don Lemon it's
not Dana Bash they're great journalists
they're smart people they're doing their
best it's hard yeah like do I wish that
all debates were moderated by people who
are issue experts in the areas and
activists and then maybe they'd be more
substantive and we get in the weeds on
policy yeah but as long as they are put
on by networks and moderated by
journalists I think that you know
journalists are going to and and and
networks are going to search for
conflict between the candidates now some
conflict is important to have these are
important debates and we need to have
them some seem like they're a little
sillier but
when you are a candidate your job is to
reject the premise of a bad question
yeah or an unfair question and to pivot
to something that's you know more
important and more substantive like
that's your that's what you learn in
debate prep when someone asks you a
stupid question you say that's a stupid
question
I also think what there were a few
moments to debate and in the throughout
the two nights of debates where you saw
candidates take advantage of the format
and the kinds of questions that were
being asked it was honestly de Blasio
did this I think Warren did this I think
Booker did this Pete did this to some
extent which is take a moment and say
I'm gonna step outside of this current
debate that's unfolding and put this in
the larger context of the fight that
we're having to save the country and to
me what was missing him the first NBC
debates that was a bit more present now
was a room was a candidates willing to
kind of step outside of the format to
kind of remember that
yeah the moderators from CNN or embassy
are NBC are in charge but you're running
for president of the United States you
were supposed to be commanding and you
were supposed to be able to hold the
stage and sometimes that requires taking
taking the microphone and resetting the
debate and showing that you can do that
in part because we need them to do that
as president and because we need that we
need someone who's gonna be able to do
that when they face Donald Trump I I
think there is a broader discussion to
have at some point about the wisdom of
the Democratic Party handing over the
ten most important nights of the primary
process to media entities whose
interests are very different than your
I'm gonna try again whose interests go
far beyond informing Democratic voters
about the Democratic policies of
Democratic candidates yes there is no
reason in the in this age that the DNC
could not put this on itself stream it
offer broadcast quality streams to CNN
MSNBC Fox we would almost certainly take
it and then have the debates conducted
by progressives subject matter experts
the it it is ultimately in CNN MSNBC ABC
whoever else's interest to make it good
TV because this is a profit-making
enterprise for them they have to get a
return on their investment you could do
it in a different way and I think I wish
there were been more outside of the box
thinking about this instead of rerunning
the same play that we've been running on
debate since the 60s
yeah I totally heard that alright let's
talk about the second night which
featured the following candidates Joe
Biden Kamala Harris Cory Booker Andrew
yang Julian Castro Kirsten Gillibrand
Tulsi Gabbard jay Inslee Michael Bennett
and Bill DeBlasio this is a night where
most of the candidates took at least one
shot at the former vice president and it
started once again with an exchange over
health care between Biden and Harris I
think we have the clip and to be very
blunt and to be very straight forward
you can't beat President Trump with
double-talk on this planet no response
center absolutely unfortunately Vice
President Biden you're just simply
inaccurate in what you're describing the
reality is that our plan will bring
health care to all Americans under a
Medicare for All system our plan will
allow people to start signing up on the
first day babies will be born into our
plan and right now four million babies
almost are born every day in America or
every year in America under our plan we
will ensure that everyone has access to
health care your plan by contrast leaves
out almost 10 million Americans so I
think that you should really think about
what you're saying but be reflective and
understand that the people of America
want access to health care and do not
want cost to be their barrier to getting
it so in general Biden hits Harris on
the cost of her plan 30 trillion dollars
Biden's 750 billion the 10 year
transition he says you know be wary of
anyone who tells you there's gonna be
something good but it's gonna take 10
years random this I know it's weird the
fact that you lose employer-based
insurance and then double talk as you
heard on the plan because she signed on
to Bernie's plan originally and then
changed to this other plan last week and
then Harris has hit on Biden is that it
leaves out 10 million people and she
also mentioned the Kathleen Sebelius who
was Obama's health and human services
secretary during the ACA endorsed her
plan how do we think this exchange went
compared to the first night exchange
over healthcare I mean my very
simplistic takeaway was it felt like
Harris had a hard time explaining her
own plan which men I imagine most people
had a very hard time tossing out the
differences yeah and Biden too I
both of them sort of both of them did
not have very sort of strong defenses of
their plan and it got into the weeds
very few gets that the the challenge of
almost single-payer almost Medicare for
all versus the clean Medicare for all
rights but just much easier to tell
people what it is right for Bernie and
Warren yeah would you think Jane I agree
neither of them did a great job of
making the case for their plan for the
sake of their plan it was just sort of
defending the individual parts of it I
am curious about what led Warren I'm
sorry I'm curious about the political
rationale that brought Komal Harris to
this version of the plan too because the
part it I think it's a I think it's a
good plan I think for me like it it from
a governing perspective arguing that
it's gonna take ten years rather than
four years to get to sit to universal
coverage through a medicare-for-all plan
is a very it's a very rational argument
of which you can make a case for but the
part where Biden is hit or four
doublespeak is on private insurance in
the getting rid of private insurance but
she has developed a plan that still does
that and so I'm not like I don't know
why you wouldn't just I don't think she
has solved her political vulnerability
that she got from solved from signing
onto Bernie's plan
I think perceive on her like she clearly
thinks that there was real political
risk in having signed on to Bernie's
plan so she adopted a plan that is less
aggressive but maintains most of the
same political risk but allows you this
talking point about Medicare for
Advantage plans which is different
people are not people want some people
are afraid of losing their private
insurance they are not dying for the
opportunity to buy an additional private
insurance plan that serves as a
supplement to Medicare for all yeah so
Biden is technically correct when he
says her plan would eliminate
employer-based insurance you employers
would not be allowed to give insurance
to employees anymore but employees then
have or every American has the choice at
the end of this ten years where you can
either enroll on the government Medicare
plan or you can buy a private insurance
plan that is heavily regulated by the
government and has the same regulations
almost as the government plan so it's
like
yeah you can choose that but it does do
away with the system of employer-based
insurance which you could say like okay
fine yeah it is it is genuinely
interesting and honestly more bold from
Kamala Harris than I actually expected
based on you know she's signed on to the
Bernie plan but I think a lot of
Democrats did and then had the same
political concerns that Dan is raising
so when when she was coming out with a
plan I would have been less surprised to
see her end up where mayor Pete is or
where some of the other candidates are
on a public option this is not that this
is in credit it almost feels it it some
with a 10-year window and the keeping of
options for people when they're signing
up for a Medicare plan it feels like
it's many in many ways answering
practical governing questions more than
it's answering some of the political
questions which it I kind of respect in
terms of this in terms of reaching it
but then what I found striking during
this debate which I think speaks to the
flip side of the strength she showed in
the first debate was she's a tough
debater
she can make she can hit a line but like
what I didn't feel was like someone
dying to get out there and kind of pitch
her plan and explain why it's the best
plan it just was a lot of very the the
the argument between Biden and Camilla
around health care reminded me the part
of a comedy when went to dads who've
never fought before I start fighting you
know and they're like pulling at each
other and like rolling around on the
ground but not really landing punches
and they both stand up and they're
covered in - dad what movies this
my two dads like you know what I mean
like you know movie the movie where -
like kind of like pudgy dads who've
never fought before end up fighting paul
blart mall cop I did the the hit on
Biden's plan leaving 10 million out is I
think a fair head that interesting one
because own plan says it yeah well what
happens is now that the individual
mandate has been repealed in the
affordable care act that was the tool to
make sure that everyone buys insurance
and you want everyone to buy insurance
because if a whole bunch of wealthy and
healthy people don't buy insurance then
costs go up for everyone else now
there's no individual mandate it doesn't
seem like Biden's plan will bring back
the individual mandate so while he has a
public option well health care would be
available to every single person in
America there's a lot of people who
might choose to go without it and that
could
I'm new over all insurance pool so it is
a very it's a figurehead and he sort of
was like my plan covers everyone that's
not true it's like well your website
says 97% of people say that you know the
other thing that was that was what part
of this debate was soaking so
frustrating is like you know Biden also
tried to launch I think a hit on
single-payer that no one had made in the
previous debate which is it's true that
no one would pay a copay or deductible
but because taxes go up for everyone
according to Bernie in a way everyone
does have a deductible is out of your
paycheck in the form of tax yeah you're
gonna pay more taxes fare hit it's a
fair hit everybody's gonna collectively
pay a yearly cost for everyone's health
care which is how how it should work
but he just there's a kind of lack of
facility in delivering some of these
punches that I just you you're not
really following it yeah I think Cory
Booker did a good job when he sort of
jumped in and said you know Trump is
enjoying this fight more than anyone and
we are dividing our party in the face of
the real enemy here Elizabeth Warren had
said something like that the night
before then he stands by to the face and
he stabbed Biden in the face so there
was this exchange over criminal justice
reform the Biden and Cory Booker let's
say that clip pressing the syringe
balance of the arm
[Laughter]
why did you announce in the first day a
zero tolerance policy of stop and frisk
and hire Rudy Giuliani's guy in 2007
when I was trying to get rid of the
crack cocaine mr. vice president there's
a saying in my community you're dipping
into kool-aid and yet don't even know
the flavor and see the reforms that we
put in place the New Jersey head of the
ACLU embraced reforms not just an action
but indeed sir you were trying to shift
the view from what you created there are
people right now in prison for life for
drug offenses because you stood up and
use that tough-on-crime
phony rhetoric that got a lot of people
elected but destroy communities like
mine who got the better of this one and
and what do we think about Booker's
performance in general I thought it was
quite good
it's core of all credit great second
debate
yeah he really did and you know it's
funny he is a happy warrior he's smiling
big he's laughing he even then when he
was hitting but even that he kind of
reminds me of when Biden would debate in
2012 and 2008 that big Cheshire grin
right like we saw that once last night
from Biden the rest of the times he
looked pretty unhappy to be up there
understandably so I think Cory Booker
went in with probably lower expectations
and far exceeded them he also didn't
take a punch from anybody right this is
my little quibble with the moderation
like on the foreign policy questions you
could have asked Cory Booker why he's I
think the only person on that stage who
doesn't support getting back in the Iran
deal and starting up negotiations with
Cuba and returning it to that diplomatic
agreement and yet we didn't really get
at that contrast point for him what do
you think about burger Booker was great
I think he had the best debate perhaps
of anyone and I put a small asterisk in
that because Elizabeth Warren was
phenomenal in the first debate but it's
just not we need to see her debate
somewhat other than John to lady right
to know for sure right like it's just
not I think she'd probably be great with
anyone but we haven't seen her debate a
top-tier contender she's been a bit like
when Cramer has to fight those kids in
that karate class
no I I think Booker did what love it
would annoyed you about Marianne
Williamson which is you say the Booker
always talks about sort of the healing
and the bigger problem with Trump I
think he does do that but he's because
he had been taking on Biden in the press
over the last couple weeks that part of
his message has sort of been lost and I
thought it was back last night is
opening and closing statements which are
usually awful for everyone or quite good
for Cory Booker I thought and then he
had he had this balance where he got his
message out his positive message out but
he did draw contrast with Biden when he
needed to draw a contrast with Biden and
he didn't do it none of it seemed too
small or too nasty it walked up to the
lion a few times but I think it was all
fair and he did it with a smile humor
play and humor I mean that was vaunteth
who a line was the most tweeted line of
the entire which means he's president
yeah I also you know I was very
frustrated with Cory Booker after the
first about because I think other than
his opening is closing there was no
actual delivery on that message around
healing and love and being bigger and
then I think he actually had a
Yukie moments throughout this debate did
that and it was incredibly welcome in a
debate that was otherwise very small and
very sour yeah so surprised that Biden
has not figured out a way to talk about
the crime bill yet in a satisfactory way
which is like yeah there's a version of
this where he could say yeah you know
what it was wrong it was wrong a lot of
things we did in that bill and it was a
bill that was supported by the
Congressional Black Caucus at the time
by a whole bunch of Democrats we all
made a mistake and we've learned over
the years and I spent my entire career
since then trying to fix those errors
and you know trying to end the
disparities between crack and a crack
cocaine sentencing and all the rest of
the stuff he talked about like there's a
way to do that but it it sort of speaks
to his larger problems like you've got
to get back to saying starting with and
he did this on the Iraq war vote later
yeah I was wrong then but now here's
what I've done since then that rejoinder
is so much more powerful than hey Barack
Obama vetted me in 2008 he didn't have
any problem with any of this stuff like
that sounds like you're using Barack
Obama as a human shield and I don't
think it's gonna work
winner Biden I wonder if I think I
wonder if that works with some group of
people though I think it I think it
probably does but Biden would make his
life so much easier if he could just use
the line he used in that Charleston
speech when he was doing cleanup on his
comments about working with
segregationist wishes times have changed
in some are not so if I yeah right it's
like just saying that voters will give
you a wide berth for things that
happened a long time ago so the most
interested in what you've done recently
and what you can do if you're president
and Biden has a good story to tell there
on all of these issues including
criminal justice reform which he tried
to do in perhaps not he seemed more
interested in attacking Cory Booker
about what happened in Cory Booker City
than making the case for himself and I
think that is a mistake is I don't I'm
not sure what political goal that serves
other than showing punch will punch
someone in the face yeah yeah there's a
there's a weakness actually shared by
Biden and Camilla which is they're
making their case against Trump that's
what their openings and closings are
about you know and Biden saying this is
a fight for the soul of this country
the piece that I think I'm missing from
Biden is this statement of you know I've
been in the arena and I've been in the
arena for 40 years and I've made
mistakes and I've succeeded I've and
I've and I've failed but
you know I you know I'm not I don't need
to run for president but I'm running
because I care about this country I want
to defeat Donald Trump and there's some
really important things we need to do
there's no he doesn't go from saying
we're in a fight for the solfege soul of
this country a fight we win if we win
the election right I mean that's
basically what he's saying and so it
leaves him vulnerable when someone like
Cory Booker comes after him because he
doesn't have that that that that kind of
high ground to return to of the kind of
president he's telling us he's gonna be
rather than just arguing about the past
, has the exact same problem because
when someone comes after her when she's
attacked she can't take it she can't run
up the hill and say here's my larger
case for myself not just against Trump
not just about the past but what I will
do from day one the best politicians
turn their weaknesses into strengths and
Biden could take his long public wife
which like these arguments about what
Biden did in the 70s and the 80s are in
some part about policy but they're also
a way of these politicians making the
point that Biden is a old and be part of
this political system you hate forever
mm-hmm and Biden should if Biden could
say a version of what love it just said
which is I've been doing this my entire
life and I've made mistakes and I've
learned from them and the been and that
experience and the things I've learned
is going to make me a better candidate
against Trump and a better president
yeah like may make your your age and
your experience and advantaged on a
disadvantage then unwilling to do that
because you've been all he and sorry
he's been on the defense the entire time
in these debates and part of that is
because everyone else is taking shots at
him we're gonna go through everyone else
doing that too but and so it's hard
it's a hard thing to do but in your mind
you have to be saying okay I'm going to
defend this attack and then I'm pivoting
and I'm gonna talk about my positive
message he didn't get a chance to do
that really one of the tensest moments
was when Biden was criticized repeatedly
by Huli and Castro and Bill de Blasio
over the Obama administration's record
on deportations and Biden's support for
the law that makes crossing the border
illegally a criminal violation versus a
civil violation here's a clip first of
all mr. vice president it looks like one
of us has learned the lessons of the
past and one of us hasn't let me begin
by telling you
let me just sort out by answering that
question my immigration plan would also
fix the broken legal immigration system
because we do have a problem with that
secondly the only way that we're going
to guarantee that these kinds of family
separations don't happen in the future
is that we need to repeal this law
they're still going to be consequences
if somebody crosses the border it's a
civil action also we have 654 miles of
fencing we have thousands of personnel
at the border we have planes we have
employees we have helicopters we have
security secretary cast what we need or
policy you're Chinese I have some guts
on this issue Thank You secretary so do
we think the critique of button on
immigration and deportations in the past
is fair yes I think Biden has in the
most unsubtle way possible wrapped
himself in the cloak of Barack Obama as
part of the selection and so you like
and I think either cory booker i think
Cory Booker made this point on stage was
you can't have the good and not have the
bad right now
I think the there was more nuance to
that critique than was apparent on that
stage last night because what is true is
that and I think Barack Obama himself
would say this was we did not do a good
job of having ice take a humane approach
to deportations and win though in the
first in the first in the first four
years four straight years but after that
point Obama took aggressive executive
action not just on dreamers but on a
broader class of immigrants later on it
changed over time and so I think you can
write it as a fair critique of those
early years and Biden has vice president
has some response it has a
responsibility for that and he must he
should answer for that but it we have to
be I think fair and appropriate to
everything else that happened under
under Obama comes to deportations the
other thing I was surprised about from
Biden is he was unwilling to defend any
deportations whatsoever right by the end
of the Obama administration there were
two catter there are only two categories
of people who were targeted for
deportation dangerous criminals which
everyone to agree with and recent
arrivals people who just came over the
border and then they're caught and
they're then they're sent back and you
should be able to stand up for
deporting recent arrivals because if
you're not willing to deport recent
arrivals to this country people who just
cross the border illegally then you're
not gonna deport anyone then it really
is open borders and I but I think there
is a fear on that stage from Biden and
others to defend any kind of
deportations whatsoever though when you
hear Julio and Castro talk about you
know we gotta do this I can debate about
1325 again you know you hear castro say
look whether the weather 1325 is
repealed or not we're still going to be
able to detain and deport people who
come here illegally and you're like oh
yeah that's correct
so then why are we having this huge
debate or like the thing that's driving
me crazy about this immigration debate
on stage is there is so much agreement
between all of these candidates on the
major planks of immigration policy and
immigration reform stop Donald Trump's
inhumane policies stop mass detentions
stop mass deportations stop family
separation you know make sure that
asylum seekers get fair proceedings and
then by the way legalize 11 million
people who are here who were
undocumented they all agree on that and
all of them would push for that as
president yeah it's um once again we
were left with Bill DeBlasio actually
being the one to stand up and say what
are we doing here you know let's talk
about the actual reality of our broken
immigration system and what we have to
do for the millions of people who are
already here you know we have become
trapped in this 13:25 debate in part
because of what John is saying the sort
of fear of stepping out of saying
anything
that runs counter to the to the to the
to the left position but also because I
think the candidates don't largely have
a kind of strong like a lot of those
candidates don't have a strong argument
they feel comfortable making around
broader immigration reform they're just
not comfortable inside of the issue but
if they're comfortable in the 90 percent
agreement part right and that's the
problem this is a it reminds a little
bit the health care debate in the 2008
campaign which is health care was the
most important domestic issue in that
campaign at least until the economy
collapsed at the end and Obama Clinton
and Edwards had very very similar plans
and we ended up fighting about the
individual mandate of which I would note
Obama and all of us were on the wrong
side of but like that became the issue
when it was like auto-enrollment verse
the
individual mandate was the core debate
and in a world where Donald Trump is
locking kids up in cages right and
trying to basically put in place bans on
immigration for all non-white people the
idea that we're arguing about a section
of the law that is only quasi related to
the thing Castro says it's related to
yes is I think he's huge it's a it's a
huge problem for the larger narrative
well what's coming out this primary yeah
and I've said this before and I think
people judge did a good job of making
this point the first night like you can
make a good argument for Julian Castro
his position that we should repeal 1325
you can make a good argument against it
but either way it's not going to change
a president's ability to either end
family separations or still deport
people who shouldn't be here in fact
made both sides of that argument right
no no say Pete Pete was the only one who
made have created some problems for
himself on this issue because it seemed
like he was all for getting rid of 13:25
in the last debate in this debate
he didn't say so explicitly but it does
seem like he's maybe walked back what
position and he ended by complaining
that's what's wrong with raising your
hand type questions which you can tell
is him saying he didn't really want to
be on that position right I mean you
know look fundamentally the the the what
who in Castro says the only way we can
stop a president from conducting family
separations in the future is by
repealing 13:25 when it seems like
that's not true you could just pass a
law as part of comprehensive immigration
reform that bans family separations
there are a lot of things you can do
legally because executive order legally
without introducing this very I think
politically risky criminalization versus
civil debate you can pass a law that
says no asylum seeker ever will be
subject to criminal prosecution and no
family will ever be separated you can
you can still say that it'll be a
criminal violation just for people who
are not asylum seekers and not coming
with Jill and you don't have to wait for
conference immigration for me Dan
suppose we could pass that tomorrow yep
in a president by the way through
executive action could do most it's been
on the books since like 1920 and it's
only happened once right okay so
in last night's debate Biden wasn't the
only candidate who took some incoming at
one point Tulsi Gabbard unloaded the
opposition research file on Kamala
Harris's record as a prosecutor let's
take a listen Oh senator Harris says
she's proud of her record as a
prosecutor and that she'll be a
prosecutor president but I'm deeply
concerned about this record there are
too many examples to cite but she put
over 1,500 people in jail for marijuana
violations and then laughed about it
when she was asked if she ever smoked
marijuana she
[Applause]
would have freed an innocent man from
death row until the courts forced her to
do so she kept people in prison beyond
their sentences to use them as cheap
labor for the state of California and
she fought to keep bail system in place
that impacts poor people in the worst
kind of way uh was Tulsi gabbard's
attack fair where did we think of that
exchange no yeah as a little unfair I
mean I think we were talking about this
earlier in the office I mean Kamala
Harris has been criticized roundly for
not supporting the death penalty in the
case of a police officer who was
murdered in San Francisco on the flip
side when she was Attorney General in
California she defended the policies of
the state so it's a hard thing to be a
lawyer yeah I think I think gabbard's
attack was like half fair in places
right having like really dug into Komal
Harris's record for when I interviewed
her for our series it is very
complicated and there's some parts of
her record as a prosecutor she should be
very proud of and she was out ahead I
mean that's tainted that story about the
death penalty thing I don't know if you
realize this like she so she declined to
seek the death penalty for this cop
killer at the funeral Dianne Feinstein
stands up and says this is not just a
tragedy this is a tragedy where the
perpetrator should have been subject to
the death penalty while Harris was
sitting right there at the funeral and
everyone turned to her this is like late
into her at a funeral and Harris took
and said this is what I believe so like
that's a very greatest thing to do later
is she's Attorney General she defends
the Department of Corrections in the
state of California on behalf of you
know pursuing the death penalty so it
wasn't as great when she said well that
was my job that my client was the state
of California had to follow the law this
is sort of what what Kahn was dealing
with I think is when you're the Attorney
General and you're not just purely a
political figure sometimes you you know
you have to defend things you don't want
to defend yeah I gotta say I mean I
think it was in a very effective attack
from Gabbard though I mean just to be a
shitty pundit for a second um I was
surprised at how hard it landed I was
surprised that once again no one on that
sage was willing to say to Tulsi Gabbard
I don't take criticism from someone who
hangs out with Bashar al-assad very
seriously like that is coming the debate
they all keep doing it out of it in the
spin room now I'm not saying that's a
fair substantive critique right I mean
like we're sort of in the pundit in
pundit land now but you could punch back
really hard now also think the Tulsi
Gabbard is gonna reach a swath of the
left that likes her anti-war anti
interventionist Pro marijuana
legalization world and I think she'll
get a some some traction out of this I
really do I would make the point that
Tulsi Gabbard is a very good debater
yeah she is good in these moments she
delivers her points clearly and
succinctly and strongly I mean she
crushed him Ryan in that first debate we
kind of forget that because we tend to
forget Tim Ryan but I just I forgot him
in the last five minutes since you last
my job right Tim Ryan was dunked on
twice once by a once by a Tulsi Gabbard
the other time but like a 77 year old
Brooklyn view just sort of just just
getting batted around the court yeah how
do we think that Kyle Meyers did in
general I mean I don't think her
performance in general was as strong as
it was the first time at all she's and I
think part of it was you know she wasn't
as comfortable debating Joe Biden about
health care as she was about the busing
issue from last time and I also think
because she took some incoming herself
as now a leading candidate you know she
was along the defensive a bit more yeah
I don't think she had a very good night
I don't think she did terribly but I
think expectations are really high and
her case is when you're not going to
have a really clear vision for the kind
of present you'd be I mean you're not
gonna lay out exactly why you care so
much and are gonna fight so hard for
this nomination when you're cases about
prosecuting the case winning the debates
you have raised the stakes for yourself
in those debates and she has to meet
them and I think she can but last night
I don't think she did last person to
pile on Joe Biden was Kirsten Gillibrand
who sort of had an attack out of the
blue on and kind of out of the blue kiss
her staffer accidentally previewed it
yeah this attack was previewed in the
press before and she she used a camel
Harris answer on equal pay to then pivot
to an op-ed that Joe Biden wrote in 1981
where he argued at
against expanding a child tax credit for
wealthier couples let's play that clip I
think we have to have a broader
conversation about whether we value
women and whether we want to make sure
women have every opportunity in the
workplace and I want to address
Vice President Biden directly when the
Senate was debating middle-class
affordability for childcare he wrote an
op-ed he voted against it the only vote
but he wrote an op-ed was that he
believed that women working outside the
home would quote create the
deterioration of family he also said
that women who were working outside the
home were quote avoiding responsibility
and I just need to understand as a woman
who's worked my entire career is the
primary wage earner as the primary
caregiver in fact the second my second
son Henry is here and I had him when I
was a member of Congress
so under Vice President Biden's analysis
am i serving in Congress resulting in
the deterioration of the family because
I had access to quality affordable day
care I just want to know what he meant
when he said that so the fact checkers
have waited on this and have pointed out
that she has completely mischaracterized
the op-ed in his position he never
specifically mentioned women the what
his argument was in the op-ed was that a
childcare tax subsidy should go to
middle class and poorer families and
those families should not through their
taxes subsidized childcare for wealthier
families and then he went on to say that
basically if you're a wealthier family
who can afford child care but you and
I'm sorry
basically did say like if you're a
wealthier family then if you're just
always leaving your children daycare
then you are somehow maybe shirking your
responsibilities which is certainly
something to take issue with but it was
not but the other thing and then you
know Biden responded it was like you
know I had one wife who was deceased my
current wife now both of them work they
worked while I was in office we had to
parent two families two parents working
our families and also by the way I was a
single dad and raised both my kids and
so I know what it's like to be a single
parent having to work you know so I
don't know that it landed at all I mean
two points one just in general don't
Telegraph your attacks like Biden knew
this was coming he was ready he had a
scripted answer it's just like be smart
about this right this would be like if
Doug Peterson wrote a medium post about
the feeling special before the Superbowl
like what are you doing like it's just
so stupid and - its Biden's record is
sorry Biden's record is filled with
problematic stances over a long period
protected a lot on choice in issues
women's reproductive freedoms and I need
a hill that's totally fair to talk about
that it just don't understand why
Gillibrand picked this one overstated
the case and when after it just it made
no sense and then so she did interview
at this morning on CNN where she tried
to defend this and they played Biden's
were joined her where he said you said
all these nice things about me before
and the only thing is she's never run
for president and they asked her about
it she's like you know I still love Joe
Biden respect them it's like you can't
love and respect someone but then also
think that they have this horribly
problematic for you about women that is
misogynist it's misogynistic and
outdated etc it just it's very it's it
just wasn't great yeah I mean look
there's a reason I think cory booker's
exchange with biden redounded to cory
booker's benefit and this exchange with
Gillibrand blew up in her face and it's
because when you're gonna go into
somebody's record when you're going to
somebody's history you're not doing it
because you're trying to you know trying
to get them to it let me say like this
you're not doing it because that one
incident all those years ago
is incredibly salient and important
you're doing because you're trying to
build a case against the person today
this is the kind of person they are now
this is the kind of leader they'd be now
this is what's wrong with them now and I
don't think Gillibrand could conceivably
stand by the argument that Joe Biden in
2019 believes women shouldn't work out
of the home he didn't say the 1981 the
op-ed 1981 is bonkers right it is it it
is very old it's like it's a
people putting you know the existence of
nursing homes and daycare centers is a
statement about our lack of taking
responsibility for our our families it
is very old-fashioned but you you have
criticized it in that way sure a weird
op-ed yeah I was definitely weird but
you're bright like if you're going to
put together this big hit and
essentially accidentally preview it you
have to be as precise exactly possible
so this morning her point was Gimme a
Break who in 1981 was gonna stay home to
watch children it's obvious typical
family and typically in most families it
was women fair okay sure but last night
you said that it's in the headline of
the op-ed that you said that let me find
the exact language but in in the debate
last night she said that he wrote the
op-ed that he believed women working
outside the home would create a
deterioration I can't talk I'm sorry but
in the debate she said he wrote in the
op-ed was that he believed that women
working outside the home would quote
create the deterioration of family and
it's like you just can't be that
imprecise you cannot put those words in
his mouth that that fundamentally
changed the meaning of the op-ed and
think you can get away with that Kamala
Harris when she went after him on busing
in that first debate she liked the
prosecutor she is locked that down
she had it was precise and again it's
the problem of like when you get to
present day what do you do well busing
in segregation there were problems there
but in terms of what she said about him
in the past it was she made sure that
she had it mostly right and I think the
children did not deliver and to not do
that it was uh I have never I like
senator Kirsten Gillibrand it was not a
sincere case she was making it was not
something she sincerely believed she
could stand by as evidenced by what she
said the next day and what she said
about Biden in public in the past it was
an attempt to find a moment in a debate
in a campaign that is not really working
and it is not not working because she
has failed to land punches on Joe Biden
in the past it is not working because
she has not articulated a reason for her
to be a candidate she has offered
bromides and talking points and and and
various arguments over the course of
these debates and over the course of her
candidacy and I was just mad about it I
just
like this is this is your this is your
final play to get to the third debate to
find an op-ed from 1981 and launch an
unfair attack against Joe Biden on that
stage when you couldn't stand by
literally the next morning we all over
learned the lesson of the first debate
and everyone was looking for their
qumola Harris dismembering Joe Biden
moment and it led to a whole two and a
half two hours and 45 minutes whatever
it was that just felt ugly and list
sucked
look I said there's plenty of things to
criticize Biden about you know Kamala
Harris picked up after Gillibrand attack
on him on his past support for the Hyde
Amendment and it was fair right you just
changed your position on the height of
it because you were running for
president it was a fair attack on Joe
Biden's record on reproductive rights in
the past she did it was totally fair
yeah and you know what else it you know
even in the clip you played of
Gillibrand in that debate it actually
spoke to the larger problem of what she
was doing during bait like she says we
need to have a broader conversation here
at every moment when she has asked a
question in that debate even when it was
in the midst of a heated argument on the
stage she avoided it completely there
was a moment where Biden and and calmly
were going at it they go to Gillibrand
on health care she avoids basically the
question and then when they go back to
calm elope she just disregarded
Gillibrand entirely and went right back
to the debate with Biden because that
was the debate taking place on that
stage when Gillibrand refused to enter
did anyone help themselves in this
debate and why why did we also feel so
bad after this debate
I mean cory booker as we mentioned yeah
i mean was it was a great debate perform
and see if we assume debates matter and
since we're all sitting here today we we
must assume they do then cory booker did
himself a lot of good yeah and I think I
think for the two nights I think
Elizabeth Warren did herself for sure
quite a bit of good because now she's
had two very strong debate performances
and now we're waiting for the main event
where she actually is on stage with both
Kamala Harris and Joe Biden and Bernie
Sanders all of an NP Buddha did all of
sort of the top five candidates yeah I
find it argument a little personally
frustrating and maybe touch unfair but I
do think Castro probably made a pretty
good case for himself again
in the debates and didn't didn't take
any punches he was solid last night yeah
he was so last night I mean I I think I
don't think he had any like big moments
like he did in the first one but I think
he made his case for himself you know
de Blasio again had a good message
delivered quite annoyingly when he when
he told doesn't Biden the quote we
believe in Redemption it was just so
smart and obnoxious and it really bugged
me
de Blasio makes the best points in the
worst way yes I think Bill de Blasio and
John Delaney in the same vein is the
kind of person whose response and not
getting invited to a party is showing up
anyway so why do we feel so bad about it
in general I think I mean for me there
was just you know this was the debate
where because everyone learned from the
Kamala Harris hit on Joe Biden in the
first debate they all took shots at
Biden and in the first debate they were
also fairly contentious as well it was
just it was way too much Democrat on
Democrat and I was it felt like a debate
that if some other Republican was
president or it was an open race you
know and it would have been like oh what
a silly debate they're just going after
each other
Donald Trump is president and then this
happening on stage people talking about
you know records in the 70s and this and
that over and over and over again it
just started feeling like guys what are
we doing here
we're a hundred and eighty six days out
from Iowa too like we have a long time
for this thing to heat up normally at
this stage we're talking about things we
believe in we're celebrating our
colleagues on stage with us it just got
a little too ugly this is the unintended
consequence of the DNC's debate
threshold which is on that stage last
night which was what made it different
from the first night is only Biden and
Harrison Booker had qualified for the
next debate and everyone else doesn't
have a great path to get there with the
possible exception of Castro and so this
was do or die for everyone they had to
empty the chamber with every attack
every strategy everything they had to do
to have a chance on us I think this one
was hard for the reason you point out I
which is you wouldn't know Donald Trump
was president like it we did not talk
about it that's why I think Booker did
well is he brought it back to that we
had this debate the debate seemed small
and
and also we know a lot of the people on
that stage right like we worked with
Biden we worked with Castro
we've known Kamala Harris for a long
time and they're just like savaging each
other at this world in which Donald
Trump is doing insane to make this
country worse every single day I will
say that even why I will say that even
about some of the purely positive
messages Elizabeth Warren who we praise
all the time there are still times when
Elizabeth Warren is talking where I'm
like you could be saying this in 2016
2012 2008 about the massive inequality
in our economy economy in the fact that
it's rigged which I completely am all in
for but and I we've also said to people
you don't need to be talking about Trump
all the time but everything is about
balance and while you shouldn't be
talking about Donald Trump all the time
I don't think it's a good idea to
overcorrect and pretend that somehow we
don't have a president in power who is
not just a racist sexist xenophobe
buffoon but is endangering our democracy
and the planet every single day he's in
office and and you know as we all say
he's not just he's a symptom you know
he's not sorry and you know we'd say the
Donald Trump is a symptom of a larger
problem what is the larger problem I
start talking about the larger issues
that we're dealing with right now yeah I
mean that is I think ultimately it I
think that's the reason the first the
night of the first debate I think felt
better to wash in the second because
there were moments in that first debate
where Elizabeth Warren as the kind of
strongest and and and and candidates out
there kind of took the mantle that comes
along with that and set the stage for a
you know I'm sorry and set the stakes
and reminded people how big this fight
is and how important this fight is and
you know with the language about
idealism and and optimism rooted people
in the conversation on night 2 that was
the job of either Biden or Harris and
neither one of them did it
and so Booker did it at times and
 Bill DeBlasio did it at times
and it did it to Bennett did it to
Bennett did it too and I think that
Bennett did also have I think ultimately
I think a better night for himself than
maybe one of the better moderate
arguments of all those candid anslee who
I thought had a great
a charming figure up there but in that
this is I think why you know look Biden
did better than he did previously but if
we hadn't seen Biden have such a
terrible night I do not think we would
be describing what we saw as a
front-runner maintaining his position he
did better than before but still not
well he simply does not have control of
that stage and it is very very
unsatisfying as a result because he is
the extensible frontrunner of the
Democratic Party and he cannot command
the stage he did it for one moment at
the very start of the debate when he
made a really lovely point about
everyone being oh yeah I really that was
one of his best moment it was one of his
best moments it was his only great
moment and for the rest of the debate I
watched somebody on their heels try to
keep up and basically make it all the
way through but when you're supposed to
be the front-runner of the Democratic
Party there's a reason we have a knot in
our stomach at the end of the debate I
mean you guys probably remember I think
was the ABC debate in Iowa in 2007 when
every single person went after Obama on
foreign policy was the foreign policy
debate and it was about his Pakistan
policy and negotiating with Iran and all
of these things that are now the policy
of Democratic Party and the Republicans
but it's just very hard when everyone's
coming after you yes so like I want to
put buy-ins performance in that context
that if you were taking incoming from
nine people on stage it's very hard
having said that it is holding at times
it there I mean there are a lot of
warning signs in it I mean let's we
can't ignore the fact that he just in
the most classic
old person thing possible mangled his
website at the end right I mean I
thought about three three oh three Joe
yeah I think that's like yesterday Trump
successfully browbeat the Fed Chairman
into cutting rates to help him
politically and then lashed out at navy
prosecutors because some right-wing
caused soul AB means you have to support
a Navy SEAL who probably murdered
someone in captivity and it's like you
juxtapose that with what we saw last
night and it didn't feel like we were up
to the task of kicking his ass because
we need to that's I think I landed in
feeling like Biden had a worst night
then the DC pundit redid in part because
I don't think his challenge in the first
debate was really around the substance
of the busing question as important as
all that is
was that he kind of looked old and
unprepared to take on Donald Trump and
there were a bunch of moments last night
where I thought he was halting like Dan
said the messing up the website thing
but also just sort of didn't seem to
have a handle on the rebuttals he needed
to have a handle on and that doesn't
mean he's like old it just means he
wasn't ready to play and he should have
been yeah I think what Biden improved on
between the first and second debate is
you know he has some of the best debate
prep people in the country you know Ron
Klain I needed done and I think he on a
some of the rebuttals
he ran the PlayBook that they gave him
and he got the lines out and it was
effective but I think when you are on
stage with all these candidates and most
importantly when you're on stage with
Donald Trump you have to be nimble and
quick and off-the-cuff and a lot of
times the PlayBook that happened in
debate prep is gonna go out the window
because there's gonna be a new issue and
you have to be ready to fight and I am
worried that he is not there yeah and by
the way you know the good new who is
there
the good news is before we get to Donald
Trump Joe Biden is going to have to be
on a stage with Elizabeth Warren Kamala
Harris Cory Booker and Pete Budaj among
others and I think that will be a higher
level challenge for him because uh
Warren's not gonna let not gonna let
punches go by you know she's gonna she's
gonna take her chance she's gonna take
her shots I agree I think we think of
all these debates in the context of who
would be the best person to stand on the
main stage against Trump and I do worry
that that is the not the exact right way
to think about it right well since
Hillary won all that's why Hillary won
all three debates against Trump and
still lost and there's not say the
debates are not important but I think
there are other things that we should be
looking for in there that both give us
confidence or concerns about various
candidates this is where I think
Elizabeth Warren has done very well thus
far but it's like you see Carmel Harris
in that first debate and even in moments
last night where you're like she would
disembowel Trump just like and he would
be scared shitless of her there was no
doubt that he would be very afraid to be
on stage with our which is why he
doesn't really attack her as much as
other people
but there are other parts of her debate
performance that give me concerns about
her larger candidacy which is she makes
the best most powerful argument against
Trump but our argument for herself thus
far is that she makes the best most
powerful argument again yes and you want
candidates who can both make the case
against Trump but the case for
themselves not just on the debate stage
but on the stump every single day from
the data of the nominee into election
yeah your 3:00 a.m. agenda is not the
case it's an agenda it's good it's
important it is not that case for your
candidacy and I say this is someone who
likes Komal Harris so much and think she
has like limitless potential yes I know
and I think you could even put together
a theory in your head as to why she is
the person if she can meet that
threshold who is best able to put the
other the electoral coalition to get to
270 of anyone running and she's so good
and so smart and it's like right there
now and you'd like the caveat as it is
early candidates grow all of them do
Obama was not great at this at this
point no he sucked in some of these
debates early on oh he was Turkey was a
terrible debater yeah I think you're
right yeah that's what I found myself
that was part of my as I was driving to
the McDonald's drive-through that was
like part of my like what I was saying
to myself was like like like Kamala
Harris can take this nomination if she
wants it she can't she can take it and
there is that missing piece and it's so
important and I'm very frustrated that
were another debate in and that weakness
is still there dude you're totally right
let that ultimately this won't be won or
lost in the debates but when we're
evaluating the debates we have to were
evaluating based on who's gonna go
toe-to-toe with Donald Trump and that's
the piece that's still missing for her
that that like gut level is why the
health care part it's not just that she
wasn't I think as uh you know live in
describing her own policy positions it's
that when she describes her plan it
feels very much like she's running
through the points of her new plan that
that she came up with to answer some of
the criticisms she proved she offer
previously not this like gut level
here's what I'm fighting for last thing
I'll say is I do think that in the
September debate there's going to be
room for someone on stage to say enough
of all this fighting Donald Trump is
president let's focus on that I think
someone who does that consistently like
Warren Booker and Buddha judge all did
at times in these two debates I think
that person will do really well and and
we've lined with us before it may be the
case that these things sort of wax and
wane here like the next debate could be
a much friendlier affair because this
one was so nasty I that my plea that I
would make to all the candidates make
the stage and September is you're gonna
have ten plus million people watching
that debate everyone take a little bit
of your time and make the argument
against Trump because it's not just a
merc of yourself yeah but like if we yes
make every one for yourself but instead
of arguing with you don't spend as much
time making the argument against Trump
as you are against Biden or Harris with
Warren or Sanders like it's so rare that
we actually get to hold the microphone
in Trump's America that let's take
advantage of it to articulate a case
against Trump it's so lost in this it's
like there's no that was that was why
the Biden moment at the top of it was so
good it's like hey guys ultimately this
is a team of people coming together to
try to pick somebody to represent us
together in the most important fight of
our lifetimes
yeah and just that has to be there
because otherwise you leave feeling like
somebody punched you in the face got to
keep trying to end on a high note
listen if you want to hear more about
this go to pod save America 3 3 dot net
will tell you do you see that Buddha
judges campaign bot yeah what do you
think to Hamilton just by in those ok
[Music]
all right everyone we will you know
we'll have this again in September and
when we just have so far there's just
seven candidates on stage in September
and a couple more my qualities we I
think we're I think we could be down to
one day we get to 12 it's two nights
according to the rolls Bob yeah here's
the thing we also you know if we get to
this to September we did not discuss
Andrew yang who's climate policy is
moved to higher ground my god yeah that
is right well that's well that says a
lot that's what we'll remember Andrew
yang for in this debate that he talked
about moving to higher ground for
climate and he said he's gonna give
everyone a thousand dollars and then you
move to higher craft wake me up when
September ends right guys right right
then yeah
a reference low is this how you kept
referencing last night Oh humble one
written all right let's all right
everyone bye-bye
