during this primary we're pinning
presidential candidates down on issues
that matter to me most in a segment we
call queen for a day on day one do you
pledge to eliminate daylight savings and
never let the American people see dark
before 5:00 p.m. again cuz I thought
that I want you to know how I agree I am
one of those people that and I the nerd
that looks at the data that literally
you have more accidents or happening as
a result of this I mean bad things are
happening because of daylight savings
yeah well because because we don't
remain at daylight savings that's right
because it shifts back and forth I think
this is archaic I think it is people
think it has something to do with
farming it has nothing to do with that I
would love to get rid of it I will not
make you a promise that I'll do it but I
will tell you it is a pain point for me
probably equal to the pain point for you
so I will
I am the Pro eliminating daylight
savings time person yes if you go to a
vegan restaurant and they have items on
the menu with little quotes around it
like chicken parm or carnitas is it okay
for antifa to break some windows no let
me translate that into Spanish for you
no joke it is annoying when it says like
chicken fingers and it's misspelled let
me tell you I it was late night New
Hampshire and it's like one of those
things you just you're you've made it
through the whole day you leaned on the
spirit of every person that you that you
talked to who gave you energy and now
you're going home and I'm telling my
team we're going to Burger King because
they were going to try the impossible
whopper okay it called whopper quotes
yeah and we go in there and all of my
non-vegan folks I'm preaching the gospel
how great this is but then I asked the
guy that manager how's it settling and
he looks at me and he goes you will
never believe this but the sales of the
actual hamburger are going down actual
whopper and the sales of the impossible
bigger are going up is a guy that knows
the ills of the industrial animal
agricultural industry I don't give a
damn if you put quotes around okay
taking meat out of our diets and having
more people choose a healthier option I
am all for it for decades Grover
Norquist the love child of an R and @ al
Borland isn't that I brought him up
already I know that's amazing he's as
Republican candidates for office a sign
his pledge to commit them to his core
values no new taxes no elimination of
tax deductions no making fun of bootcut
jeans and since I consider myself the
grover norquist of people who buy
high-end luxury edibles I favor what is
a high-end luxury edible just a very
fancy cupcake Oh senator it can be a
cupcake okay it's Matt I'm talking with
marijuana oh it's a weed talking about
drugs but this is great he tells me the
number one pro pot person in the in the
Senate people tell me all the time that
I am the corniest guy I've never drink
alcohol for crying out loud I yeah I
would say you will be the number one pro
pot senator until I become as that you
told an interviewer that your comfort
food was okay this is veggies and I just
want to give you an opportunities to
save your dignity candidacy future
career whatever you want to save because
that was a terrible answer I want you to
know I was resoundingly mocked yeah by
my own campaign staff that in a moment
like that I would answer vegetables and
I'm gonna tell you exactly this is I'm
gonna be sharing this is very personal
oh let's hear it I am a guy that that is
like on the wagon and then falls off the
wagon when it comes to food yeah and
when I'm off the wagon watch your
fingers
actually I'm a vegan so you don't have
to worry about your fingers but if
you're holding a vegan cupcake I might
tackle you for said vegan but this is
why I find you answer so okay but let me
finish before you judge me okay Neal no
bullying I feel bullying right now yeah
okay so they that was an interview when
I Spit towards the beginning of the
campaign and I am freaking on the wagon
I am like eating healthy so when I
answer that question they asked me I was
feeling strong I looked at him I said uh
vegetables and and and I thought you
know didn't think too much of it so I
admit to you that there was a few very
low moments of my campaign mm-hmm and
this was sincerely one of the lower
moments and you've given me a shot at
redemption you named a city I can tell
you the great vegan spots that have the
most incredible vegan comfort food from
champs diner in Brooke
the crossroads here in La Crosse hurts
it's good it is so good and and you can
go like crosswords crossroads brunch I'm
talking about vegan chicken and waffles
I mean it is it is unbelievable and so
the problem is with that is junk food is
junk food I may not have any cholesterol
but you you you gain weight and and so
for me as a guy who was always go it's
gone from chisel there's a Stanford
football player to jiggled where I was
at the highest I'm sorry man Jago cory
booker story desire this need to say dad
jokes i don't know it's another
incontrolable habit i have like when you
said that shits Creek which you were
watching i immediately popped up a great
III make the Senate pages tell me their
best jokes and I go joke for joke with
them and the Senate page told me this
great joke there was a zoo they'll take
us out take us out with this joke
there's this zoo that has no animals in
it you walk through it there's nothing
there but this one dog it's a shih tzu
well give it up for Senator Cory Booker
thank you so much this is so fun I
appreciate you
[Music]
