on the pot today is congresswoman elect
uhand omar she will be the US
representative from Minnesota's fifth
congressional district congresswoman
thank you so much congressman elect I
already got it wrong thank you so much
for joining the show
no you gotta just right that's fine
it'll be congresswoman in just a few
days but thank you thank you so much for
for having me and hello to your
listeners well they're they're thrilled
that we had you I can assure you of that
um first question I mean one Congrats on
winning I mean how does it feel now that
the elections a few weeks away you've
gotten a few weeks of orientation under
your belt and your closer getting sworn
in I mean what is this experience been
like for you haha
this experience really has been a great
experience it's been a long journey and
overwhelming journey and I'm really
honored to have the opportunity to serve
the people of v and make good trouble in
Washington yeah what what is good
trouble what is good trouble mean to you
good trouble means that we are finally
going to have people who are really
awakened from the the complacency of
their day to day life we're going to
have folks who are grounded in in their
communities and good trouble means
shaking things up in Washington and and
having our processes and our policies be
representative and reflective of
everyday folk that's right I mean if
you're a listener right now and you want
to learn more about some good trouble
Google John Lewis and good trouble and
you will learn a whole lot of very
important history
what do you which is really interesting
that I get to serve with with someone
who write is just such a historic figure
it's one of those really bizarre things
to to walk into Congress for training
and and run into a living icon that you
will soon
call a colleague I mean allow me to geek
out on that for a second like what is it
like to walk into a room and to see John
Lewis there and he's your colleague I
mean that must be just mind-boggling
we were at one of those you know
welcoming dinners and I was sitting and
then I saw him walk in and I don't know
what got into me but I got up and rushed
towards him and there are all these
people and as I was getting closer I
started getting choked up and I said to
him you know sir my name is Juan Omar
and I'm remember Alex Minnesota and I
make sure I read about you in in the you
know in middle school and now I serve
with you and and he laughed and he said
well I'm excited that you get to serve
with us welcome and it is one of those
really surreal surreal moments that you
no one ever prepares you for I can't
even imagine so um when you think about
what you hope that House Democrats can
accomplish in the first hundred days ago
what kind of prioritize what kind of
priorities are you identifying for
yourself and for your district I mean
I've noticed that you and some of the
more progressive new members are already
pushing leadership in very interesting
ways to adopt a more progressive agenda
is the house freedom caucus a helpful
model to follow in that regard
oh no they they really were you know I
think the the antithesis to to what we
are about they came to to obstruct and
we are coming to rebuilt and so for us
you know we're really focused on pushing
for for legislation that restores hope
in the democratic process one that
creates a democracy we can believe in
one that is transparent and accountable
to to the people and second I think for
for us the the Progressive Caucus and
the members of the Progressive Caucus we
are interested in making sure that
people recognize that we are the soul
and the conscience of
the American electorate in a time where
our country really is at a dangerous
crossroads just to resist they are also
sending us invest on a set of values to
make sure that we take this opportunity
to get Medicare for all for folks to
make sure that we people have access to
education that we are freeing students
from the shackles of debt that we have
investment in infrastructure that allows
for us to move towards investing in 21st
century infrastructure things like
expanding broadband and and making sure
that we have folks like myself who don't
have blind spots when it comes to what a
humane immigration system looked like
are in the forefront fighting fighting
for that and reminding folks here in the
United States the ideals that this
country was formed under to make sure
that we are a country that is inclusive
welcoming and one that couldn't
guarantees justice for for all of its
citizens over the weekend and last week
we learned a lot about the the vast web
of crimes committed by Trump and his
cronies over the weekend House Judiciary
Committee ranking member Jerry Nadler
raised the prospect of impeachment Adam
Schiff congressman timeshift said that
the day Trump leaves office he could be
arrested which was stark do you think
that the house should start the
impeachment process is that the right
use of time and priorities so this this
weekend was really an eye-opening I
think for a lot of people and I don't
even think that most people comprehend
how detrimental some some of the things
that came to light were I think it will
be important for us to to move as as
fast as we can once we have all all of
the facts on the table I do agree with
congressman Schiff that it is going to
be
necessary for us to be that that check
and to provide the balance as members of
Congress to to this presidency and this
administration that that really isn't
one that is serving the the interests of
the American people so is that a TBD on
whom Pietschmann do you think that's an
okay answer lot to learn so I have said
long before we even had the full details
that and and an impeachment was quite
possible for us because you could see
where we were headed and I think we are
getting closer every single day to
really believing that that process needs
to start and we need to make sure that
we are holding the interests of the
American people and getting this this
president who is corrupt in so many ways
to to not be the the face and and the
leader of our nation yeah speak about
speaking of ways we would like him to no
longer be the face of our nation I want
to get back to your personal story for a
minute because you know as a young girl
you listeners might not know that you
and your family fled the Somali Civil
War and spent I believe four years in a
refugee camp in Kenya before arriving in
the u.s. in 1995 what did that
experience teach you about the way the
u.s. treats immigrants and refugees and
how would you want to change u.s.
refugee policy so you know when when we
were coming to to this country and I
think it's a little-known fact maybe
it's something that now everybody is
paying attention to because I talk about
it so much but the United States when
folks are going through the process of
relocating here as refugees as part of
that process there are orientations that
take place and in the orientation there
are videos that people get to watch
about the life
that they are to expect once they arrive
here and as part of that there is you
know stories and and images of happy
families and dinner tables where there
is an abundance of food images of happy
young children running off to their
school buses images of you know
beautiful homes way picket fences images
of a country where people are happy and
are leading a life that is prosperous
and so when you are in these
orientations and in the process of
leaving you know within days to come to
the u.s. you are really looking forward
to write like life as you see it on that
screen and when we first landed I
remember seeing you know panhandlers on
the side of the streets they're they're
being trash everywhere and graffiti on
the side of the walls and I remember
turning to my father and saying well
this doesn't look like the America you
promised and you know my dad's natural
response was you just need to hold on we
will get to our America and for for me
that the search of that America that I
saw has been part of the the driving
force in my activism in trying to make
sure that the current reality that
people live in where we are seeing young
children worried about where their next
meals are gonna come from more than I
was worried about it in that refugee
camp or living in in an America where
there are homeless people sleeping on
the side of the streets or in America
where there are people who are afraid to
seek medical attention because they're
afraid to file for bankruptcy an America
where you can access the justice system
equally because you are
warned it with a different race or a
different gender or into a different
class that isn't the America that that I
heard about that wasn't the America that
I watched and so I want to make sure
that I am fighting for the America that
I believe in and the America that I know
we all deserve and and that is one write
that that has justice within our
criminal justice system it is one that
recognizes that you know housing is a
human right
one that guarantees healthcare to all of
its people one that makes sure that
education isn't only accessible to the
privileged few and it isn't supposed to
be a step back it's supposed to be a
step forward and an America where folks
who are living in dangerous parts
hopeless parts of the world look to to
to know that there is hope there and
that is that is the America that that I
heard about the America I dreamed about
and the America that I am going to fight
to make sure it's accessible to every
single person when you talk to you know
members of the the Somali American
community in the US or abroad and you
you have to explain to them how the
president knighted States could
implement a Muslim ban a ban of all
religions you have to explain to them
why you need to change the the rules to
be able to express your religion
appropriately on the House floor like
what is the reaction to that that sort
of you know cruelty from our leadership
its disbelief you know they're like I
said we are we do a really great job
here in the United States exporting
American exceptionalism to every part of
the world and and we fall short of
living it out ourselves here a u.s.
oftentimes the messages I said it's it's
to say what is happening I don't
understand how was it in the United
States where there is supposed to be no
religious tasks to serve in in public
office that you have to have this rule
change in order for you to to serve
people don't recognize the the America
that we are talking about when when they
see us have conversations about you know
black and brown bodies who are getting
shot by the police the people are
confused when they hear us fighting for
you know wage theft against wage theft
or fighting to make sure that there is
paid sick and save time people are
confused when they hear about gender pay
gap in the United States oftentimes my
my friends across the world or people
who are connected to me through social
media who are living in in in different
parts of the world oftentimes are
confused about the things that I
advocate for because they don't
associate those challenges with the
United States people imagine that here
in the US
regardless of what race you are what
cost you were born and what gender you
are what face you might believe in that
you have equal rights and so when when
they hear that there is still struggle
and to have that that equality realized
by everyone that that we are talking
about collective liberation for everyone
people oftentimes ask like what country
are you living in l hon it doesn't it
doesn't make any sense how is this part
of your your your agenda that you're not
just talking about right like taxes and
the economy and and the natural things
that people think in that we should be
talking about here they don't understand
the in justices that exist you know
socially racially economically
environmentally and so for people it is
it is important to have someone like
myself who who has the the ability to
bring an outsider lens to the
conversation to say look for so many
years to everyone around the world this
is who we said we were now it's the time
for us to actually be that person that
nation and and that that society one
interesting recent position you've
expressed support for is the the boycott
divestment in sanctions against Israel
or BDS movement and so for those
listening BDS essentially says we should
boycott Israeli businesses and travel
until it withdraws from the West Bank
Gaza and the Golan Heights which are
considered occupied territories by the
United Nations provide equal rights for
Arab Palestinian citizens of Israel and
allow Palestinian refugees the right to
return can you talk about just why you
believe the the BDS movement is is
important or you know what you might say
to those who believe it is inherently
anti-semitic because it sort of
presupposes solutions to what are
considered final status issues so I am a
believer of their never being peace
without justice and in the Middle East
we cannot really look to have a process
of peace if we are not advocating for
for justice and equal status for
everyone you know we we think of it as
the only democracy in the Middle East
and as such we have to make sure that we
are we're holding it to that standard we
need to make sure that it is a country
that it doesn't have human rights
violations that it is a country that
that really has justice extended to
everyone that there is equality for
everyone
for me it is important in a in in
recognizing that we we have state for
Israel and and state for Palestinians to
to make sure that the advocacy that
needs to go in into that it's one that
that also fears our pressure to make
sure that we we have that process taking
place you can't you can't only have
discussions with the conversation
beginning in and saying you know this is
this is a country that is that is
furthering democracy and so we can't
criticize it we can't you know talk
about it this is off-limits and and and
talk about how in the United States we
are allied with with this particular
country without talking about how our
Allied ships also mean that we hold
people accountable that we use our
opportunity for Allied ship to bring
about change and and for me what the pds
movement does is that it awakens people
from this complacency of thinking
everything's fine it allows for there to
be a discussion about the in justices
that are happening right now it allows
for for for a conversation to take place
that says everybody in in that region
deserves the right to self-determination
everybody in that region deserves for
their babies and their children to live
a safe and prosperous life and that
there is not one human life that is
worth more than the other
and there are lots of wrongs that we've
looked the other way for so many years
and it is time for us to balance out
power and to make sure that there is
justice for both of those communities
and so do you think that is sort of the
end goal to the BDS movement to pressure
Israel into back into negotiations on a
two-state solution or is it different
than that I think the goal the way that
I see it is is to make sure that there
is light they said on the in justices
that are taking place since an
opportunity for conversations to
continually get shut down it it is one
that I believe allows for power to shift
so that there is an ability for for
folks to feel like they can express
themselves I mean often times when we
are when we are having a discussion
about this region there is one way one
side of the conversation
that is allowed and anytime you are
talking about Palestinians you have to
in the context of what is permissible in
the conversation around what the Israeli
administration decides is permissible
and what the pds movement does is it
says we can have a counter conversation
that it is okay for us to hold Israel
and its administration accountable for
the in justices that are taken place it
is okay for us to leverage
you know economic and social pressures
on to Israel to make sure that we are
able to bring them to the table not as
the head of that table but as as a
member of that table and and I think for
me it is important to to always make
sure that we are siding with oppressed
people and and recognizing that when
when you are fighting for for liberation
that the tactics that you use everybody
might not agree with it and and it might
might not seem wise or strategic to
everyone but it is one that that allows
for you to to utilize every every voice
every ability every power every right
that you have so that you can fully
recognize your your your humanity and
your power
well congressman-elect thank you so much
for taking the time to talk with us
congratulations on your election it is
exciting to see this dynamic savvy young
dare I say cool group of individuals
going to Congress to support democratic
values so thank you again for everything
you're doing and best of luck thank you
so much I'm really excited about this
new majority we're going to throw it
down
