and we're back with miss busy fellow
host of busy tonight
that's correct even so many things
you're in my life I'm in your life I
enjoy and now I'm happy to have you on
the podcast it's been a long time coming
behind a schedule for quite some time
and people won't keep being in my
Instagram like was busy coming on the
show it was just here
scheduling snafu busy I think you are
one of the great talkers as in if you
just literally walked out into the
middle of the street and talked to
anybody you could talk to them for like
an hour does this happen to you a lot
busier on the street Billy sound it's
how I got a it's how I got my talk show
yeah I like to talk a lot I've always
been a talker
sometimes I go through periods of time
sometimes more than others but my mom's
a talker too you know like my mom's like
one of those women when I was little
it's like mom stop talking a lady at the
grocery store can we just go yeah you're
that mom now I'm not mom
Mike the drives my daughter's crazy yes
but I feel like you you in a way can
find anybody interesting so I just know
that's taxing for you like just like
keying into everybody and like being a
bleep that reminds me of something
yeah a media can be certainly and in
recent years I've had to like as people
in the world have known me and feel like
a kinship toward me and feel like we're
really friends I have I have had to put
up a little bit more of a self
preservation barrier in terms of my
interactions with people in public only
because I would do this thing that was
partially defense mechanism because
being recognized or being approached
always made me deeply deeply
uncomfortable even though it was the
thing that I was like running toward
guns blazing like wanting my whole life
but then when I actually got it and like
truly made me have deep anxiety and made
me very uncomfortable so how I would
deal with it was I would just start
asking the person that approached me
everything about their life
right like strangers strangers like oh
my god are you from Dawson's Creek I
love Dawson's Creek and I would say oh
that's so amazing what's your name where
are you from what do you do and what
you're so edgy are you the oldest
I know cuz I'm like feeling like a birth
order thing like are you like and tell
me and so do you live with your mom and
then when you were in college and it
would get to the point mark my husband
mark would always laugh because it would
get to the point where the person who
approached me as a fan would start
slowly like backing I can't tell if I
met like my favorite celebrity if I'd
like I would want to ask them all the
questions or if I would feel like oh my
god she cares about me right like I
don't know which one of those I would
prefer because I feel like secretly
people want to meet celebrities so they
can talk about themselves like it's I
think and that's and that was like what
I was responding to people want to tell
you why you're important to them or what
the thing you why white chicks was like
so important to their childhood or
whatever okay but whites for whites was
so ahead of the I mean like mostly with
just the fate like the makeup like the
prosthetics because you at the time you
were like okay we get it it's funny and
it's a movie but like there are women
that look like that now oh like and it's
like I used to be like oh I mean like
yeah they look like these crazy white
girls but like there's like a level of
comedy and now I'm like walking down the
street I'm like oh my god that is they
literally look like white you can see
their tutorial about all that you
brought up Dawson's Creek and I need to
tell you that one of my favorite moments
on that show is when your character
drove a car the car just plows through
the house and is a great moment well I
forget nothing about so far I like they
you know the truth is that I was a messy
drunk my first year in real life on
Dawson's I was pretty miserable and very
lonely and I got drunk a lot and and it
was
well known that I was like out hitting
the bars on the weak nights and the
weekends and this is obviously like pre
TMZ and pre-internet and pre camera
phones so I was afforded the luxury to
be able to be like a messy teen soap
star in and no one I didn't have to
suffer any consequences really for it
and they fully just like wrote that into
the show like I think to just kind I
mean I think to kind of give it to me a
little bit it did intervention yeah I
think that like having been in writers
rooms were wool try to add parts of into
the character that like don't we know
about the afters and you're like we had
a couple people where it was like
they're like haha it's funny but you're
looking at their face and it's like oh
they don't actually there is a thing as
an actor I mean since I have been on
since I'm like old lady glamour and I've
been on four thousand television shows
many years there is something as an
actor where you do feel on most shows
where you do feel the separation between
the writers room and you and you feel
like they hate you like they're
that you do feel that sense of like that
they're sitting in the room like talking
 about you most of the time and they
are I mean that is true yeah and you're
sitting there for hours and you're you
know and and yeah and they pull things
from your the actor's real lives every
show I've been on every actor I know and
every writer I know they pull things
from the actors real lives that end up
in the show and you know it's something
that like I think actors can be very
sensitive people and I think sometimes
it is really hard for them yeah I mean
the thing is writers pull so much from
their own lives as well yeah yeah and so
it there I think it's also probably the
the distinction between the two it's
like if I feel like I'm already putting
so much of my own life on the screen
you're like well we can pull a little
bit of but bizzy's and they and you
forget that though you're making that
decision right to pull from your own
life and we said was fun drum
keep your town Oh fun drunken koobs yeah
I feel like it introduced me to knowing
that adulthood would be just me drinking
bottles of wine and scamming your
children into college don't you wish
that had been Cougar Town plotline was
it though it might have been might have
it yeah I don't remember
Courtney on that show would have does
yeah sure she would have to used her
cleavage told I get I'm so fascinated by
all of it by the scamming no I love it I
think I've talked about on my show every
night it's like a gift I said when we
were recording this before I felt like I
was on like serious Club drugs like
enjoying it way too much way too much
I'm imagining what other celebrities
were involved I'm imagining Lauri just
like pacing in her home the tracks
getting sharp as the day goes on like
listen I can give you this person okay
the Clarke she did it you already know
who you are like I feel like now
something big happens and truly 16
months later there's an HBO miniseries
so you know by next Christmas we're all
ready we're gonna be there's gonna be a
fictionalised something of this would
you audition for that project for which
one for like if they they do a drama of
[Laughter]
who am i Felicity Houseman and know your
glory your glory but also I'm kidding
well I am but I don't know I mean I I
wonder who will do it or how it will be
done it also just seems like is it that
interesting it's just like rich people I
think it comes down to two phone calls
it seems like it doesn't it doesn't seem
like it's that deep like it seems like
it was like here's the thing okay let's
do this thing the thing that's
fascinating to me is just the
that it was somehow important for
specifically Lori Loughlin
daughters to go to college that's what
I've been and I don't understand that
except are you obsessed with your
children going to college no but I also
but I also I can say that from a place
of privilege and and I understand that
as well like it's not a way out for my
kids like and I don't know what their
respective journeys will be but if it's
not higher education like okay Jo like I
don't think it's necessary for them
because I know what they're going what
the world will afford to them anyway
because of their place yeah you know so
that's like easier for me to say that
higher education isn't important just
because with who I am and where and who
my husband is and what our kids but I've
never understood that about like those
kids did not need college for sure they
shouldn't have gone to college great one
girl was like had all those brand deals
she's looking lost right now you know
ironically now she does need to go to
college a major part of her brand was
announcing she hated school I mean just
like it's so crazy it's wild to me but
here's what I will say in my 20 years as
an actor I do find that a lot of times
actors in particular of like a certain
echelon have a deep insecurity about
their own lack of education and so that
they put a lot of pressure on their own
children to sort of succeed where they
maybe did not even try so I don't know
Lori Loughlin and by the way she
apparently calls it Lachlan I talked
about this on my she's saying that it's
Lachlan we have we've had a 30-year pop
culture relationship with Lori Loughlin
it will remain Lori Loughlin to me
Laughlin but she you know I don't know
her I don't know her educational
background so I don't know if that's
where she's coming from like that where
it's like so super important for her
daughter's to go to college and graduate
from school because maybe she didn't I
don't know and you just like I feel like
also I feel like Meryl Streep would be
the kind of actor who'd be like I don't
know go to college don't go to college
you'll be you know I feel like
she wouldn't care because she has like
the Yale Drama
yes all right and the Oscars and we look
at her and Dean yeah and like and she's
like I'm Aunt Becky you're going to
 college it's almost like it's
comparable to when like a known comic
actor is sort of obsessed with doing
drama because it's not consciousness
about being taken seriously I have found
just truly anecdotally speaking that and
honestly I suffered from it a little bit
as well until I had a perspective shift
which is just like every kid has their
own journey and like education might not
be my kids journey or you know being
like an academic not education but like
being an academic might not be my kids
journey and that's okay I turned out
fine one and a half years of Loyola
Marymount University oh right down the
street right yeah so anyway
oh yeah just anecdotally speaking I have
found that like a lot of specifically
television actors get very insecure
about their lack of education and
they're always like you know carrying
around books like we think you're smart
it's okay
I'm having flashbacks to Winona Ryder
used to always carry Catcher in the Rye
with her I was like when I was 16 I was
like that's really cool at 32 I'm like
come on yeah or like Dante's Inferno
like yeah I was just carrying a copy of
Dante's Inferno and people mag comm and
I was like oh god you're cougar Todd
co-star Courtney Cox in her short-lived
show dirt dirt which I loved
there's a seed where she walks out of a
club and there's a guy leaning against a
pole reading gravity's rainbow there you
know right
busy the more you get like explosively
famous just for being yourself how
necessary or fun is acting to you is it
more fun I don't know I loved doing the
episode of camping that I did last year
that was very fun and I did that Timmy
Schmidt was incredible a year ago yeah I
just shot that a year ago it just came
out so that's I forget cuz it like sort
of just was released but um that was a
dream because working with Carole was
like you know she's an icon and it was
pretty incredible you see an Addams
Family Values recently hold on really oh
yeah oh yeah John Cusack and Houston all
my faves I wonder I wonder if birdy
would be into that maybe maybe I'll show
her that yeah and and obviously I feel
pretty it was its own thing because my
husband co-wrote and co-directed it with
his writing partner directing partner
Abby so that was fun I don't know we'll
see
it depends what it is I'm actually
surprised do that on the fence about it
cuz you're such a casually I mean like I
think of my own life watching Busy
Philipps on TV like Jim Kelly is my
friend literally I'll bring I could just
call my best girlfriend at home be like
let's talk about Kim Kelly as my friend
for like three hours and then we will
sort of Freaks and Geeks I love it I I
love it and I ate and I liked acting is
the thing that I that truly makes me
feel the best in my life I mean I have
children and that's ya know but it
really it really is like the most
fulfilling thing for me but but this
industry and the and getting jobs and
keeping jobs and getting things on the
air and I it ceases to be a thing that
is fun for me
and additionally I because I have these
kids that I keep mentioning who are ten
and five for me personally the decision
a few years ago became that I'm
unwilling to travel while they're in
school
all just cuz they're only little for
such a short period of time and like it
was my decision to have them you
know what I mean like I'm a I should be
there so which takes me out of like I've
been offered a lot of like things many
things in the last five years that are
like shoots in Vancouver shoots in
Toronto shoots in Atlanta
lots of shoots in Atlanta and it's just
not feasible for me Real Housewives of
Atlanta you're the only here maybe the
only white woman I would accept back on
like if they had to add because they had
Kim what the for like once Kim left you
were like oh yes she probably never
should have been there in the first
place but like I could see you you could
hold your own do you think you'd stand
up to Nene
there's there's no world in which I have
like horrible crippling anxiety like
this is all a front for I couldn't do I
could not do their acting though what
kind of roles do you feel like you
weren't getting that you really sort of
would love to do something back in the
day I mean like I'm old now IRA I like
I'm turning 40 this year it's like
that's it's done for me as an actor no
but I mean I I think that I missed or I
think that they messed I think that I
was just not the right era and time like
when the romantic comedy like when I
should have done like a quirky romantic
comedy vibe they weren't doing that then
with girls like me I was always too much
like I was too loud or too weird or to
something but then you know also kind of
too pretty to be the other thing you
know mm-hm yes no I was gonna say also
speaking of acting though when I watch
your talk show among all the talk show
hosts I feel like you were specifically
the actor whisperer like people trust
you yeah and my
there's obviously like some
commiseration going on there as much as
you are you know not primarily an actor
anymore do take a lot of pride and like
gaining some vulnerability out of people
in that profession it's been a really
interesting several months of doing the
show and one of the things that we do
you both have been there I'm sorry you
haven't been there yet it's ok Jenny
tells me about it yeah one of the things
that we do okay is that I I will I'll
share a lot of stuff with the person it
all gets cut out because it's a
22-minute show and we added it a lot of
people don't know that or maybe they do
I don't know but I will like if they say
something about a project I'll be like
oh my god yes that exact same thing
happened to me when I was on this thing
and this is the story and then full well
I'm aware always as I'm talking to the
person that my part will be cut out but
I think just my willingness to share
those things in front of the audience
and to the other person makes them want
to share back I guess I don't know I
don't know yeah Roberts is great on you
do you know what they reminds me of is
the heyday of Rosie O'Donnell who was
like the last talk show host be like I
know exactly what you're talking about I
can like make fun of myself and throw up
at you and you want to make fun of
yourself you know that my showrunner
Casey st. Onge worked oh yeah I love her
ever busy as showrunner is the world's
number one Prince fan I'm I'm like a
serious Prince devotee and when I hear
her talk about it I'm like never mind
you win no it's really intense yeah I
slept in Paisley Park once you did I bet
you didn't yeah just seance in
Chanhassen Minnesota I had to talk to
Prez no I don't care about when when it
starts when he when he dips into
supernatural you know he'll do these
runs and then he says something that's
like nothing you're like oh there we are
where we know what's happening just a
bit yeah sure is I was really interested
in your
a fair piece were you know you were just
talking about you know the struggles of
being like a woman in the night and I
mean how has that bit I mean we've seen
that Lilly Singh is gonna have I know oh
my god by the way can I just say this
I'll say this on your podcast so I knew
that because we're NBC Universal family
so I knew this like weeks ago that Lilly
was getting the show and I was super
excited and I like didn't I don't know
guys I don't pay attention I guess on my
 South by Southwest panel Rhea do
you're my assistants here I said it on
myself by Southwest panel no one picked
it up I was like I was like no it's so
great and I really feel like it's so
important time where representation and
more diverse voices and late-night I
mean I'm so excited that who's taking
over the Carson Daly thing and like my
you know friends were in the front my
producers are in the front runner like
Lilly I was like oh yeah Lilly Singh
last week I'm so glad that didn't
 get me like ruined their big
 moment it would have seemed like
you know maybe on purpose right
i it really wasn't I genuinely thought
it was like well maybe I just did right
now I genuinely thought it was a thing
that was known because if it had gotten
to me I like obviously thought that was
a it was not a secret
you could still head of the slammer as
far as I'm concerned yeah just FYI Wow
yeah yeah what does it even like you
know like you're you're hosting a show
and you're more visible and you're out
there what's it like straddling that
line you know between like talking about
celebrities on your show and then being
one yourself
and then knowing that you might run into
the like you might run into Lauri at
party I don't think she's invited it
that I mean to me that story in
particular is is so I'm how do you not
talk everyone talking about you have to
talk about it
I and I don't actually feel bad because
it's so egregious and insane to me that
it's like I don't care um I do
you know we go through the topics in the
morning and I stay away from stuff that
makes me feel gross and you know what I
mean like that's my barometer it's like
do I want to talk about this person's
divorce no not really that's not very
interesting to me I mean I talked about
the Ariana and Pete breakup like when it
happened cuz that had to be discussed I
felt like we know the feeling
yes you know you know that I had the
moment like I was it was right before
Kate Beckinsale maybe where I was like
watching SNL and I finally got it like
Pete I finally like got it oh I see it
wasn't like it never had registered for
me I was always like I don't get this
this is not a thing for me and then I
don't remember what it was on SNL and I
was like oh I get it yeah no he you
could him yeah well yeah we know
yeah I think Pete that David sir I think
you're you're a little different because
you were an actor and like a famous
actor but I think a lot about chrissy
teigen
who in the beginning when she was just
like john legend's beautiful girlfriend
and was so funny on twitter cuz she had
all this access and the way that like
normal people did it right and so she
would tweet about things the way that
you would like oh my god it's the back
of JLo's head and then now that she's
become famous and i think part of it too
is like that you have podcasts and talk
shows and all these other arenas for
celebrities and wait things they
wouldn't have been doing before and
she's been someone who's really
interesting to me because I'm like oh
you're like a legit celebrity now as
opposed to before when it was like oh
she's like us she is like us and she'll
still think of that and that's the same
thing that I have yeah is that people
always felt like you know the infamous
Oscars moment it's like I wasn't
nominated for an Oscar I was there with
my best friend and it was sort of like
what if you got to go to the Oscars with
your best friend and sit front row for
that thing and I think that people see
themselves in me or they're sort of like
an aspirational like you know what's
interesting to me I'm a it's
sometimes like you know I'm not like
clearly not a fashion blogger guys but I
will post like a cute outfit or whatever
and sometimes people get genuinely
pissed if I'm wearing something
expensive ah like oh nice $4,000
earrings or whatever I'm making that up
but like you know I can't afford that
and like yeah no you don't live my life
know that you think that I'm like the
mom down the street right chill but I
also have like worked my ass off
in Hollywood because people think of me
as this like super relatable super this
yeah that but then at the same time then
they get like offended when I write we
were like I'm not an Instagram
influencer in my fashion Nova you're
like youth right maybe you do sometimes
but like I feel like the influencer
think it's you know like everything's
like tad oh yeah I and so it's like so
that you can absolutely achieve this and
it's like that's not what right I like
it to know it know it to like what is it
like it and then you get a percentage of
the money if the person buys the thing
oh do that yeah well thanks cam we have
those SHOP NOW tags on them too well
yeah I mean it was like what people
would attack like Michelle Obama or
something she's rich yeah rich and also
it's people forget the fact that you're
a celebrity so if you're with half the
time if you're wearing like a dress it's
like $20,000 they probably gave it to
you to wear Michelle Obama stuff used to
drive me crazy I'm like she is one of
the most visible human beings living on
the planet that is gonna be in a
$2,000 dress like it's just it's fine
it's fine it's fine and you're not her
more to the point more to the point it's
like you were not her she is not you and
you should be very clear about that
every step of the way agree I am always
a little bit afraid on behalf of
celebrities who are deemed approachable
I'm like not just you and you but like I
think of people like Tina Fey or like
Kelly Clarkson or whatever where I think
it feels like you're friends with them
and then when you're not exactly what
you thought
they were whatever then their hostel is
yours I always feel like a huge
disappointment I do think a lot of times
certain sometimes when fans or people
approach me I do think that they're
looking for the best friend that they
know and love from Instagram or whatever
and then it depending on where I am like
I'm like with my kid and a grocery store
or whatever people have really
interesting timing and they don't know
how to read a room or how to gauge a
situation and there are times when it's
like so chill and I'm happy like South
by Southwest like I put myself in that
 place you know what I mean like
come say hi like I'll take yours I'll
take a selfie with you on the street
like I'm there for that purpose but you
know at Gelson's like with my five year
old trying to like get her a snack and
get dinner maybe that's like not the
move guys I saw Kelly Clarkson once at
Zara and it was unbelievable and I
didn't say anything but I was just like
I love her so much that's very real I
also love Zara we are both here this
triangle it was I was like I can't say
anything cuz it will ruin this perfect
and it is now pristine because I said
you get to hold that forever about
people in LA approaching celebrities
it's like aren't you over it yeah like
when they post like pictures like celebs
and themselves it's like nobody here is
like wow by the fact that you ran into I
don't know whomever Andrew Rannells
that's who's coming to mind at like
whatever CrossFit or something yeah I
love him though just came out this week
I just got it ya know he's like my crush
anyway this is my this is all the way of
saying I need to meet I have told you
before I like when Casey Wilson was here
we are keeping Andrew Rannells away from
you oh that's oh sorry I didn't keep
track of your notes exactly we should
replace Rami with oh that'd be cute yeah
yeah we're trying to replace Robbie
Malek on our board do you have any
suggestions
I mean busy you could also continue we
can replace the Tamagotchi with you for
sure at a minimum
you only think about it Romi's done for
now yeah but now yeah he and I are
taking a break yeah I feel that
emotional yeah that video which thinks
he's a fan of overacted okay
this champagne moment when you shook up
the champagne and sprayed like the
photographers and the people who are
just engraving weird I was like they
don't want this no or engravers yeah
who's like not in touch in the world
around them probably rented those
tuxedos and now you got damn champagne
all on there rented tuxes last bless his
little heart oh oh this is a question
that I feel like you must be asked all
the time but I am curious what's your
favorite Michelle role performance oh
that's a hard question I mean I like I
love the movie Brokeback Mountain for so
many reasons and I that was like the
first time that I feel like she was
really allowed to like shine and and
show what she the depth that she was
capable of I mean she's kind of done it
in some indie movies that no one had
seen I guess or some people had seen but
I think that that performance that's
your favorite indie movie of her oh yeah
but I think that that was sort of like
the turn I think it's such an important
role for her and it was like such a
turning point in her career so it's
probably one of my favorites and then
maybe I'm not like I like loved her in
cabaret oh yeah no I'm sorry I didn't
see that I heard she was amazing yeah it
was polarizing like people either like
 got what she was doing and we're
like oh this is genius
or they were like that's not Liza
Minnelli like I don't like that that's
not exactly what I know from the movie I
use that critique for just anybody about
IRA that's not
her I saw her in cabaret like I think
four times because I went to like some
early dress and you know but I she was a
 powerhouse and that in that play
and then I'm so excited about this show
about Fosse vert I stills were unreal
yeah I've seen like little bits and
pieces but I have not seen see and
finally when are we gonna get like a
table and movies or like somebody comedy
with you to just take him over the world
I know we really should I know we've had
some ideas in the past for things I
don't know like I would I think it would
be really interesting to do something
together like that I would do it I don't
know would you rather a comedy or drama
together I would go like I think a
comedy I think she's so funny and she
never gets to showcase that and because
she's so good at the other stuff and you
say devastation read so well in her face
it's like hard not to give her a drama
no she was Darla starlet starlett
I say Donna was one of my favorite
celebrities ever and I am afraid of her
because I've seen an episode of it
though somebody was just telling me
about how obsessed they were with me I
was obsessed with starlet and watched
every episode and there's a thing that
my friend Abdi and I quote to this day
sometimes when we see like a great
performance but they were doing this
challenge where they had to do a
commercial and the line was you hear
that that's the ocean calling and I'm
doing it like that because that's the
girl the girl like it's stuck in my head
in the running that's how she said it
you hear that that's the ocean calling
vivica a fox what a fox said do you hear
that
that's the Jim calling because they were
like in a bikini like for this
commercial whatever challenge that was
the one quote and then I don't care it's
this I can't remember someone needs to
find it if it's Faye Dunaway that said
it or if it's vivica a fox that said it
during one of the scene challenges in
the critiques afterwards she said listen
to me
I think it's Faye she listened to me a
scene must have just hair-raising thank
you probably literal bug
yes right fine but the prize for the
starlet was I believe a walk-on role on
One Tree Hill
I believe you got like that was what the
main prize I think the main prize was
like you got like $15,000 new headshots
and a walk-on role on CW's One Tree Hill
and I think the person got like I think
the girl got like a scene or something
on One Tree Hill
I won the starlet yeah I'm gonna say who
was it it was Jennifer Lawrence a
Dunaway like you already have me find
that show anyway I'm going to hunt it
down yeah my favorite will start
recapping it we start recapping it back
please when you get to the scene must
have bow before you go yes you were
talking about what you're gonna walk on
CW obviously WB did you ever I
can't remember did you ever shoot one of
those big people piles guess the ones
where they had the cast of every show
and you're all just dancing around like
oh what a night with Michigan Jay frog
always oh what a night um I shot one of
the promos for the WB but this is like
actually like weirdly a sad story i R oh
I know it's weird the promo shoot I did
Boyd of those promo shoots and they just
kind of like they shoot everyone kind of
separately and the party no back in the
day I mean so you can james Van Der Beek
um Sarah Michelle Gellar
yeah I mean I was sort of like I was on
the tail end of the journey for both the
WBA on Dawson's Creek
I'm not saying I brought it all down but
I remember like the big summer soirée
party the WB party it was when that show
The Surreal Life I was yes oh yes and MC
Hammer and Emmanuel Lewis was on that
show and I remember being like really
excited that I was at a party with MC
Hammer like that was a very exciting
moment for me though - I was like I
didn't watch The WB ship you're younger
than me
I was like already working and in
college and like and then was on Freaks
and Geeks and like I kind of missed it I
wasn't a Dawson's Creek fan I wasn't
this is people hate this when I say this
but like I had never seen an episode of
Dawson's Creek when I got cast on at I
remember Rose McGowan saying a woman she
was like I don't watch charm charmed I
didn't watch I didn't watch any of those
teen shows like I didn't watch what were
the other ones oh I did like Felicity
mm-hmm and Speedman is one of my good
friends now and that's always fun for me
I'll make him do a photo shoot
occasionally with my phone um did you
watch felicity
I loved Felice yeah I was so excited to
become that one time with you yeah your
book party yes and I was like truly he
is the Great Scott Ben Speedman thank
you for being here busy you were so
killer thank you for being here oh gosh
guys
you are our Tamagotchi I don't kill me
[Laughter]
give me a nap I will not let my teacher
put you in his death
[Laughter]
you
