let's get into it what a week the 2020
Democratic primary is finally over night
one Elizabeth Warren Julian Castro and
Bill DeBlasio made a name for themselves
by coming out swinging at betta we saw
john delaney audition to be Howard
Schultz's Secretary of the Interior then
night two Kamala Harris gave in passion
answers on child separation and she went
after Biden on his comments about busing
we saw mayor Pete take responsibility
for a police shooting in South Bend and
we saw Marion Williamson chug of green
juice and screamed chemtrails are real i
want to issue a small disclaimer right
now which is there are people that tweet
at me they get mad when we make these
kinds of jokes and i want you to know
that i hear you i do think there is some
value to the point she makes about
answering trumps fear with love i do not
believe she is the messenger for that
argument and i do not believe she
provided very many sophisticated answers
on things like prescription drug costs
but there is value to that being a part
of the debate so I will say that only to
make the jokes Monica what was the
biggest moment that stood out to you
first of all that was the most Spanish
that I've heard from candidates
I did appreciate that people are trying
to reach the spanish-speaking community
because that's not something that we've
heard and in other debates but it is a
question of what will they actually do
for the community and we have to
acknowledge the fact that there are many
immigrants that are trying to come into
our country who are not Spanish speakers
so there should have been some more
discussion about that how are we going
to make things better for everyone to me
the strongest most impassioned answer on
immigration in two nights came from
Kamala Harris who didn't use a word of
Spanish to deliver that argument it's
gonna say when she talks half of America
hears Spanish anyway so they just see
her face and they're like she's probably
something right that's the joke who
 up the most who really the
bed I think in Slee kind of the bed
a little bit I mean when when he
pretended to be the biggest feminist on
the stage next to three women I mean the
 nerve Beto
went Spanish really early what I would
have I would have kept that in my pocket
a little longer I mean the best part of
that was like Cory Booker looked at him
like he forgot he left his kid in the
car with the windows rolled up I was
like don't look he had on his face we
later learned his cory booker was
staring me like you I'm
gonna speak Spanish too but I'm gonna
say for an immigration answer that was
my plan Cory's like I wasted a hundred
bucks on rosetta stone for a while for
what
 undercut me I can't return the
app I can't return it
and I thought de Blasio playing the
black son car was pretty strange I mean
like I mean come on this is probably the
first time a white man running for
president could brag about having a
black son and he didn't own never Vega
too soon 200 years too soon all right
what are you what are you doing exactly
or history how badly do you think when
Cory Booker heard that he was like I
gotta go get somebody pregnant I got to
do this before next year we got when SWA
well jumped into tonight was like why
don't you fire the police shoot then and
like essentially shoved him in the chest
a little bit and butit's just shot back
this you gonna I was like
oh yes I am here so first of all swallow
interrupts mayor Pete to say we need
generational change which was clear the
lines wawel had prepped to use after
Biden but he's like I gotta jump in I'm
every slow well if I don't start talking
now
I won't exist so then later to come back
and tell him how to be the mayor of
South Bend Indiana in that moment that
you you're just a guy with sound bites
on the end of the stage getting ready
for a book deal small well just
responded with like a fortune cookie
being like if you want what's right
small Wells the fight or whatever like
did someone just power you on what's
happened who's given Eric swallow these
sentences and can maybe stop before it's
too late
mayor Pete's look a hat Eric swallow in
that moment was really a moment where I
can I didn't see that guy I could see
that guy I could see that guy had a big
desk with a big job you know cuz that
look was did you see Vic it was it was a
big look it was a big look from a small
town mayor didn't Bernie seemed really
angry the whole time that's his brand
awareness but like angrier than normal
like like he found out there was like
four guys with all the money instead of
three there's a fourth guy
I think it's look I think it is
frustrating to be Bernie you know Bernie
gave an interview to NPR that I thought
was very revealing about where his head
is at where he was basically asked you
know four years ago you were seen as
this insurgent outsider four years later
so many candidates have adopted the
positions that were seen as outside the
mainstream don't you think that's maybe
made it less of a reason for you to be
in the race and he goes lots of reason
for me to be in the race less of a
reason for them to be in the race and
you know fair point honestly I see that
so I get the anger I kind of get it but
it also smacks of this like I was doing
this back before it was cool you know
walked four miles in the snow type of a
vibe that's off-putting to people so I
get I get both sides and now he knows
how black people feel about Kim
Kardashian sometimes people take what's
yours its appropriation man it's gonna
call it what it is
that is fascinating
[Music]
