I'm ready to rock welcome back to pod
save-the-world this is Tommy Vitor I'm
Ben rode Ben Rhodes is here in studio as
always later on you will hear my
conversation with Khalid el gandi we
talked about the upcoming Israeli
elections the ongoing protests weekly
really in Gaza and frankly just about
Palestinian politics you Ben and I have
talked a lot about Bibi Netanyahu and
Israeli politics and it was really
interesting and important I think to
hear from a Palestinian perspective dan
and I are going to talk through Trump's
decision to cut off aid to three
countries in Central America Turkey and
an interesting election in Slovakia then
we are going to talk about some big news
out of Algeria how often do you get to
say that been and six months after Jamal
khashoggi brutal murder in Saudi Arabia
how different are things or are they not
so let's start with President Trump
threatening to cut off 500 million
dollars worth of funding to El Salvador
Guatemala and Honduras supposedly in
retaliation for these governments quote
arranging caravans that's not accurate
he also threatened to seal the us-mexico
border which is just so ludicrous and
self-defeating and stupid that's like
hard to believe he'll actually do it but
hey hope springs eternal for this
but the funding for these northern
triangle countries is is intended to
reduce violence unemployment in poverty
and thus encourage people not to leave
the country and try to migrate to the US
so it seems like Trump 'old me making
the immigration problem he's seeking to
solve worse so I guess there's two
pieces to this like first there's the
process which per usual I guess the
announcement wasn't vetted it caught
everyone in his own administration by
surprise but then there's this substance
which again per usual Trump doesn't
understand so the money we provide
doesn't go to these governments that
goes mostly to nonprofit groups to
administer programs that I think we
helped design yeah so Ben I know you
worked a lot on this Obama increased
funding for these countries do you think
those programs are effective and and
what did you make a Trump's decision
here well it's the most self-defeating
thing you could choose to do if you
actually want to slow migration we
dramatically increased in the Obama
administration funding for Central
America in the last two or three years
after we had this significant surge and
unaccompanied children coming to the
border from Central America in 2014 the
basic analysis we made is that if we
wanted to stop migration we had to go to
the source so you have to recall to
Tommy that the people coming a lot of
the uptick is people seeking asylum so
it's people who are leaving dire
circumstances because of the rampant gun
violence and gang violence in Central
America because of the lack of
opportunity there the only way that you
can deal with those push factors the
factors that are pushing people to try
to come the United States is by having a
strategy aimed at improving security and
governance in Central America and so we
were up to a billion dollars by the end
the Obama administration although we
always had trouble getting that out of
the Republican Congress which sounds
like a lot of money but it's a fraction
of what a wall would cost right and a
much better investment and frankly some
of that money went to advertising about
how dangerous it is for people to try to
come to the border to try to communicate
that if you come to the border you're
not necesary gonna get in so part of
this was frankly discouraging migration
part of it again was working with the
governments of Guatemala Honduras El
Salvador to to put in place programs
that could deal with these factors that
are feeling migration and we frankly had
a template for how to do this in
Colombia we're a sustained US investment
over a period of years dramatically
improved the security situation in the
economy in Colombia and did lead to
downturn in migration so like a lot of
things Trump does if he's actually
serious about solving the problem of
people wanting to come into the United
States the last thing you would do is
cut this funding just like you know
closing the border with Mexico it's not
gonna do anything other than have huge
convulsions and disruptions and billions
of dollars in trade and and families and
workers coming back and forth across the
border yeah so I
stat I think Doctors Without Borders did
a study in 2015 where 39 percent of
individuals fleeing from them those
northern triangle countries were fleeing
violence yeah so again like no wall will
be high enough to convince you not to
leave the country where you think your
kids gonna get killed um but I want to
drill down on their point you made about
the funding right because Republicans
constantly demagogue foreign assistance
and hate and yet the OU building a wall
is seen as a perfectly good use of money
in something the same individuals who
hate foreign aid literally chant for it
events like was there ever an aha moment
for you during the campaign sir during
the White House about how Democrats
could better message the value or the
ROI for taxpayers for these kinds of
programs well the obvious answer right
now you mentioned the violence you know
is essentially ms-13 right so you know
we have this problem where there really
is a problem of violent gang members in
the United States from ms-13 but the
reason those gangs exist is because
they're unchecked in Central America and
you know we can deport gang members back
there they will re-enter their gangs
they will perpetrate acts of violence
which will drive people into caravans to
try cross our border and the gangs will
thrive and they'll be able to continue
to recruit the United States so if you
really want to deal with the violence of
ms-13 in our cities and you want to deal
with the migration you have to both help
those governments root out those gangs
so they're not able to recruit here in
the United States and you have to help
slow this flood of migration when we
were you know in the administration the
aha moment I I guess I would say it
stands out the most is a bola where you
know Americans were understandably
terrified at the concept of their even
being the single case of a bull in Texas
and in the summer 2014 and what we did
in addition to the emergency efforts
deploying our military to West Africa
and facilitating a lot of aid workers we
kind of had to help rebuild the public
health infrastructure in Liberia in West
Africa to help stamp out this epidemic
and you know what you're talking about
is hundreds of millions of funding
behind public health but if that can
stop a horrific epidemic disease from
getting to the United States and killing
lots of people that's something I think
Americans would much rather spend their
money yeah so to me a bowl is a classic
example where not just the emergency but
the longer-term investments in say
Public Health in Africa that seem like
charity is actually profoundly in our
own self-interest because if they have
public health systems that can deal with
epidemic disease then they're not going
to reach our borders and if you take
every security challenge we face
terrorism the disruptions from climate
change all of this can be better dealt
with through smart foreign assistance
that is a fraction of what we end up
paying on the back end to deal with the
effects of terrorism with the effects of
climate change or the effects of
migration so be interesting is here if
Democratic candidates running they're
able to articulate in the 2020 election
a case for frankly a more cost-effective
way of dealing with our national
security challenges it's a really good
point I hope they do do that
so let's turn to Turkey so interesting
development over the weekend Prime
Minister Aaron's party lost in municipal
elections in Ankara the capital and in
Istanbul which is the biggest city in
his key base of support they're gonna
challenge these results but it would be
a challenge yeah there'll be a major
course correction for Turkey which has
been led by air diwan's Justice and
Development Party for like two decades
and over time he has really consolidated
control and frankly freaked people out
with this authoritarian tendencies
interestingly and then maybe related and
maybe won't be on Saturday a liberal
lawyer named Susanna kaput ova1
Slovakia's presidential elections she
will be pretzel vaca as the first female
president and has been called slovakia's
Erin Brockovich which is pretty badass
yeah so I mean look you and I are not
experts on municipal politics in Turkey
or
vaakya but both of these results bucked
the trend of ascendant populist anti-eu
candidates winning across Europe and you
know for a while all these nationalist
right-wing candidates were seen as a
backlash to the financial crisis and to
increase immigration I guess the
question is are we seeing a backlash to
the backlash and the pendulum might
swing back in a more democratic
direction yeah I think that's exactly
the case and you know we've talked about
this but I think the central challenge
of our time at home and around the world
this is question of what direction or
democracy democracy is going to go more
authoritarian right-wing brand of
politics or a more inclusive
problem-solving brand of politics and
you know air Dewan has steadily
consolidated power while aiming to
divide the opposition and keep them off
balance for him to see this result you
know and he was the mayor of Istanbul
you know he he he's suffering defeats
and places that have long been
strongholds for his party it signals
that you know there's a frustration that
is pent up that is now directed at him
you know whereas he had harnessed a lot
of the grievances that people held in
Turkey for many years now the grievances
are about air tawon and his corrupt and
authoritarian brand of leadership in
Slovakia kappa Tova was able to
essentially parry the right and people
there was a populist to her left and
right and she ran as a problem solver
and she said when she won you know that
it showed that it's possible not to
succumb to populism and to tell the
truth those are her words and and so I
think there really is an opportunity out
there for there to be a backlash to the
backlash we've now had a number of years
for these right-wing populist to just to
see what they can do and the UK you see
what brexit is yielded in the u.s. you
see what trump is yielded you know
across europe you're seeing that the
right-wing populist are good at blaming
other people for problems but not at
solving them and so if people are
organized and if leaders step up you
know I think what we see in these
results is the pendulum is poised to
swing back it's not gonna happen on its
own though people have to
to get in the arena and be committed to
doing yeah I mean she's exciting about
45 year old young lawyer yeah totally
outside the political system and just
and just wasn't gonna take the
from either side and call them both out
and and said look you know and I don't
mean that in to both sides II kind of
wait no no you're out how show like that
you need you need campaigns that are
about more than blaming somebody that
are about actually putting forward you
know program for getting things done
yeah
sticking with Turkey for a second I saw
this morning that NATO announced that
they will suspend sales of the f-35
fighter jet to Turkey if turkey decides
to go through with the purchase of a
russian-made s 400 missile defense
system I think we've talked about this
previously on the show but the issue is
basically that yes we're 400 system is a
Russian missile defense system doesn't
work with all the other NATO components
and Turkey's part of NATO and there's
also concerned that the Russians could
essentially use that system being in
Turkey to track the f-35 our most
advanced jet learn how to shoot it down
I mean you know who knows how real or
not these concerns are out of the
Pentagon but I have no reason to doubt
it yeah um so Ben I mean this tension
between Turkey and air Dewan and NATO
has building for a while now but this
seems like it's really coming to a head
if we're gonna suspend this sale are you
worried at all about a rupture and the
alliance or should we be yeah I mean
people have been worried about this for
a number of years you know Putin and air
Dewan aren't necessarily you know made
for one another
you may even remember a few years ago
the Turks shot down a Russian plane
right yeah but at the same time what
Putin does offer is this kind of
authoritarian embrace the same embrace
it
Trump is falling into where you know you
can say Tehran look I won't raise these
concerns with you about human rights and
you know I'm gonna kind of back up your
brand of politics frankly whenever you
have like a major arms sale between a
corrupt leader like Putin in a corrupt
leader like air Dewan you kind of wonder
about what's happening under the table
yeah for sure
and so for a lot of time there's been
this worried that Putin would try to
make inroads
Turkey we've been in this kind of
awkward embrace with Turkey where we
have a lot that we faltered one about we
disagree with arrow on about the Kurds
who we've supported in northern Syria
but at the same time we're using turkey
as a base for our counter-isil campaign
we're using turkey to help stem the flow
of foreign fighters in and out of Syria
so Turkey we needed them and in some
ways even though that made us
uncomfortable what you may be seeing now
is as the counter Isis campaign winds
down and that that kind of mutual
codependence fades the Turks need us a
little bit less to beat Isis we need the
Kurds a little bit less now you see
air21 drifting in this direction of
putin putin using this as a convenient
way to create a rupture in the alliance
and you know i think that this will
depend a bit on the direction of what
we're just talking about which is
Turkish politics you know if we're
dealing with like ten warriors aired one
it's hard to see how there's not a
growing gap between NATO and and Turkey
and and they're kind of growing affinity
between Putin and air duan but you know
these the that's gonna take a long time
as you allude to the Turkish military is
built to be compatible NATO not with
Russia so it's not as simple as you buy
one system and suddenly you're like in
the Russian orbit they'd have to kind of
rejigger their entire military so it's
not gonna happen fast but it's something
to watch yeah we don't often get to say
this but big news out of Algeria today
so after weeks of protests president
bootiful Iike finally resigned bootiful
Iike is 82 years old he's been in charge
since 1999 but has barely been seen in
public since he had a stroke in 2013
despite that fact he had been planning
to run for a fifth term kind of a
Woodrow Wilson situation here until
protesters forced his hand so bend to
questions
why the hell should Americans care about
what's happening in Algeria and to do
you feel like this is a continuation of
the Arab Spring protests that ultimately
took down leaders in Nigeria's neighbors
to
in Libya yeah I think it's a direct line
from the Arab Spring Buddha FeliCa you
know not only was he incapacitated he
hasn't even appeared in public when he
when this announced was made that he's
gonna run for another term
it was so cynical that his campaign
consisted of people bringing a picture
of him someplace yeah so what's even
like trotting the old guy out and
shooting full steroids yeah he's not
even sitting there holding like the the
newspaper with like the day on it to
prove that he's alive like for all we
know this guy's dead this is straight-up
weekend it straight up weekend Bernie's
are just putting a picture of the guy up
at rallies and you saw a very kind of
grassroots Arab Spring style set a
protest emerge where people are just
like we're just not going to take this
now the challenge is that there's an
entrenched elite in Algeria that is
basically the military and a bunch of
corrupt business people who've benefited
from the you know status quo who don't
want to see some rapid transition to
democracy and so they're now recognizing
that Bhutto fleeca has to be tossed
overboard and in the military stepping
in and so you're kind of seeing that
Arab Spring play out in hyperspeed
you know the protests dislodge the
leader the military's not waiting for
the democratic election that doesn't
like they're just stepping in now the
question is whether that will be enough
to quell these protests I'm not
convinced it will be and so what to see
whether this leads to some
constitutional reform in Algeria that
can at least make incremental progress I
think the Americans should care for a
couple reasons I mean you know one
Algeria northern African country big
country significant you know terrorist
threats have emanated from that part of
the world obviously migration into
Europe and so you know we have the
traditional security concerns but I
think more broadly as I was watching
this time use a reminder that the Arab
Spring is not something that is fully
reconciled yet these protests did we saw
in Algeria they could come back to Egypt
you know CeCe Trump is hosting CC in the
coming weeks in fully embracing this
dictator and Egypt who looks like he's
kind of fully in charge of the country
again he's got his hand on the iron you
know that he's got an iron fist that
he's using to keep people down this
could explode again and in Egypt
you know until these societies find a
way to be more responsive to their
people and less corrupt and and more
democratic you're gonna see this express
itself in popular protest and so I think
it's a it's an important reminder that
we don't know how this is gonna play out
it didn't end at the end the Obama
administration it didn't end even when
the Egyptian military took power this
could keep happening Algeria is also
home to a terrorist named Mokhtar
Belmokhtar who I remember yeah it was
one of those guys who was reported dead
in like 2013 2015 2016 like he this guy
was just always kicking around somewhere
there was just like wild open range for
these yes groups to hang I do think that
and at the same time that we take the
threat seriously
you know the militaries in these places
you know pretty cynically use the threat
of terrorism as a kind of vehicle to
present themselves as like indispensable
to the West and at a certain point we
have to realize that the presence of
these dictatorial regimes continues to
be a source of grievances that the
terrorists prey on so you know I we have
to be careful to realize that we don't
necessarily you know benefit from the
status quo were corrupt militaries are
oppressing their people yeah very good
point
so speaking of repressing people it has
been about six months since Jamal
khashoggi journalist for The Washington
Post was brutally murdered by the Saudis
David Ignatius a great columnist of The
Washington Post has a long very deeply
reported piece about how he believes to
the us-saudi relationship has been
rocked by the incident so there's a lot
of really great reporting in this story
you know he found that members of the
Saudi assassination team had received
training and
u.s. there are all these contractors
that have ties to us persons and
intelligence agencies that were helping
out the Saudis but you know Ignatius
seems to think that the us-saudi
relationship just like will never be the
same unless Mohammed bin Salman the
crown prince fully comes clean about
what happened and what his role was and
cookies murder because he Ignatius
believes it'll just sort of
fundamentally hamper our defense and
intelligence cooperation I can't help
but read that and think it might be a
little bit of wishful thinking I mean
Trump wants things back to normal
Jared Rd went and visited MBS and Riyadh
I guess like my question is what do you
think the nature of the us-saudi
relationship should be at this point
it's entry this from Ignatius because
you know you dealt with in a lot when we
were in governor I'm sure and and I like
it me smart guy but he was you know the
kind of guy who was like deeply sourced
in the Gulf I probably would have
slotted him as kind of a proponent of
the us-saudi relationship so you know
he's moved a long way yeah yeah
obviously in part because of what
happened to his colleague but um I think
that you know the key point here is
stepping back and realizing two things
one is like Mohammed bin Salman is not
going to change right so if you're
somehow waiting for him to come clean or
waiting for some accounting of this it's
not gonna happen anybody who would send
an assassination team with bone saws to
another country to kill a journalist and
then incinerate his body is not the kind
of guy who's gonna have some progressive
evolution and in we should just add it
is gross that the Trump
administration just continues to roll
out the red carpet for this guy you know
Pompeo smedium Jared I mean it's really
sickening that knowing what we know
about what they did to this journalist
and knowing everything that we see about
the war in Yemen further reports
recently taught me about like child
soldiers being recruited to fight with
the Saudi Emirati coalition you know all
this suggests said
we don't need any more data about
Muhammad Salman right that leads to my
second point which is it it's time to
like fundamentally question why do our
relationships in the Middle East have to
be this way you know the reason that we
had this long-standing partnership with
Saudi Arabia it was largely rooted first
in the need for a stable production of
oil and then later for the cause of
fighting terrorism but at the same time
we are much less dependent on oil from
Saudi Arabia I think Democrats have a
capacity here to step forward and say
it's time to rethink in general our
broad approach to this region if we are
moving in the direction of the green new
deal and the total transition in our
energy economy and if we're moving
beyond this hyper focus on terrorism and
spending trillions of dollars to fight
terrorists we just don't need Saudi
Arabia like we used to and so we don't
need to try to find a way to get to some
comfort zone within the hongbin Soloman
we can move in a different direction
here where we're much less reliant on
this partnership I don't know what the
Trump people well there's not like some
massive strategic necessity to have this
close partnership with Mohammed Salman
it's one of the reasons why we've long
suspected there there could be some
corruption at play here so for me it's
you know it should be incumbent on
Democrats running for president to
articulate you know what it means to
care about democracy at home and around
the world this is what brings together
everything we've been talking about if
you're for democracy the democratic
reforms that we support here in the
United States to make it easier to vote
to make institutions more democratic a
smart strategy for 2020 Kennedy's is
uniting that theme with their foreign
policy and saying everything I'm doing
at home and around the world is about
democracy and about standing up to
Authority arianism and that means we
don't need this Saudi relationship we
may have some legacy areas where we do
certain things together but this should
not count as one of our closer
partnerships and
world it just shouldn't after what was
done Jamal koshugi after what was done
in Yemen after what frankly the Saudi
foreign policy has done across the
Middle East since summoned
came to power yeah I mean there's also
it's been a very weird story to track
but now the security contractor who has
been investigating Jeff Bezos is you
know intercepted or maybe leaked text
messages is back to believing that the
Saudis may have collected on him in part
to get back at him for investigated in
the khashoggi murder I mean there's a
lot of nefarious things potentially
happening here yeah and I think we
should be concerned you know people talk
a lot about Russian intervention in our
democracy in our election one of the
dogs is not happy in case people can
hear the barking so I think this story
should make people realize that for all
the focus on Russian interference in our
election and in our democracy and on
social media this problem is not limited
Russia and you know a country like Saudi
Arabia that has basically unlimited
money if they choose that they want to
go after an American and denigrate that
American they will do so I'm sure they
are doing so yeah it's kind of chilling
to think about how if you've got
bottomless pockets you know think about
what you can do in the world
yeah and intelligence collection is now
a for-profit industry it's not something
that governments alone do as you know
yeah no now I've had this this Israeli
intelligence firm black cube that was
investigating my family trying to dig up
dirt same people you know same crowd
that did that to Harvey Weinstein
secours you know I think there's not
enough thought being given to when
you're dealing in a world in which
certain political actors are willing to
cross I mean Mohammed Salman is willing
to kill somebody inside of Turkey he'd
certainly be willing to spend a lot of
money to cause a lot of problems for
Jeff Bezos to embarrass Jeff Bezos Jeff
Bezos is a powerful man so you can kind
of deal with that but you know they came
after us Tommy well you know and
you saw in the Israeli election this
story and the time the other day bad
all of these Twitter accounts that were
created to denigrate Netanyahu's
opponents right they're doing that
Israel has no reason they couldn't do
that
in the United States so I think we have
to broadly be aware of this risk that we
could just be in this new normal where
foreign governments are aiming to tear
down people they don't like in media and
business and politics in our country
that's something we're not to develop
antibodies for and we just don't have
them right now we do not we have the
opposite we just destroy each other as
well I meant yeah um you mentioned the
Israeli elections I mean is there
anything you're watching I've been
trying to study up on this and what I
realize is how complicated it is I mean
I think basically you have so many
parties and so many candidates running
for four legislative seats they need to
reach a very small threshold like two
and a half percent of the vote to get a
seat in the Knesset and then you know
you jockey to get them as part of your
coalition it feels like it almost
impossible to predict yeah the problem
that that has bedeviled you know those
of us who've been concerned about the
direction of his really politics is that
you know it's not like Netanyahu wins
over 50% of the vote in fact in 2009
when he was elected prime minister for
the first time under Obama he got less
votes than Tzipi Livni his centrist
rival what Netanyahu's a master at is
piecing together a coalition amongst all
these different parties that get into
the Israeli Parliament so that he has
the biggest block the way that he does
that is he moves further and further
right so all these kind of crazy
right-wing parties settler parties
Jewish power parties you know they get
in to Parliament with these very small
numbers of members but then you know
Netanyahu makes some deal where he
embraces an element of their agenda he
moves farther to the right and that
allows him to stay in cling to power and
so what's happening in this election
it's interesting is that all the other
you know non Netanyahu backing parties
are coalescing behind this guy Benny
Gon's who's not like a natural
politician and so you'll have
essentially
a showdown between you know all the
Netanyahu and far-right parties and
everybody else and it's causing this to
be a pretty ugly campaign because you
know it's about the fundamental future
direction of Israel it's not like gods
as far as left but it's people saying
like you know this has gone too far
Daniel has dragged us too far to the
right you know we're now contemplating
seriously the potential for there to be
an annexation of the West Bank a
permanent second-class citizen for
Israeli Arabs and just a further and
further movement to the right such that
Israel is not really both the democracy
in a Jewish state and God's is kind of
standing you know at the threshold of
that and saying stop you know and you
sent me the article about you know him
even raising Netanyahu's role in
inciting the Rabine assassination which
you know has long been something that
you know people you know people on the
Left in Israel have felt didn't get
enough scrutiny cuz Netanyahu was
attacking or being you know politically
obviously before that took place I think
that gets it you know how fundamental
the questions are in this election for
Israel right now and people feel like
this is about but what is the
fundamental nature of this country going
to be and so you see this very emotional
campaign being waged yeah I mean this
thing is getting ugly as you mentioned I
mean Benny God's saying that Netanyahu's
language essentially incited the
assassin who killed the former prime
minister yeah yeah yeah that's a tough
floor and a national hero in the waning
days yeah absolutely um although I was
listening to a podcast with uh it was
Marty Indyk yeah who is saying that you
know he's concerned that no matter who
wins
there's just zero appetite or interest
in a peace process now literally no
one's talking about it Jared Kushner's
plan is dead on arrival either way full
stop yeah and you know part of the thing
but the Rabine assassination is that
there wasn't a lot of well I mean I the
the the degree of self-examination about
the right-wing in Israel I mean here you
have this hero yet Sakura being a hero
in the Israeli military and politics and
then the man who reached out to make
peace of the Palestinians and the Oslo
Accords you know killed by right-wing
assassin that there there was this
question of the degree to which that
caused some introspection on these
really right you know and I think that
whether you you think Gon's went too far
or not he's speaking to this view that
there wasn't enough soul-searching on
these really write about you know did we
did we try to stem this rising tide of
right-wing blowback to the peace process
or did we not do that because it was
uncomfortable and you know yeah like the
the idea that there's gonna be any
near-term movement I'll see an issue
though is really it's like a lot of
other places like we've talked about
like they have to get their their own
house an order here for there to be any
possibility of peace yeah last most
important news the world as it is is
going on sale in paperback form yes
that's exciting
all you world those who may not have yet
read the world as it is my book that
came out last spring can now get this in
paperback that's easy so you can get it
under $20 you can you can break the
spine you know you can beat reading if
you're someplace virtue signal on the
subway you can virtually signal in
subway self-identify as a world oh so
this is on sale today April 2nd in
paperback nice you know a nice handsome
addition I want to also add that I will
be going on a college tour maybe not
quite the same scale as a pod save
America tour but I will be just give you
the dates and they'll be more but April
16th at Ala Moana College here in the LA
area then April 18th at Occidental Obama
yes sort of former kind of alumni as
well then I will be a Princeton were
arriving ever it could have gotten in on
April 23rd then I will be in DC at both
American University and Georgetown
University
doing a double-header that's great what
do you do - you do Q&A or is it a speech
yeah I give it talk and then I you know
I do
I'm interviewed by somebody I do Q&A I
always say to sign books I really like
meeting friends of the pod people turn
up in merch you know I answer your
questions I do a bit of a mini version
of where those want to know from the
signing line and in now further have
events at UCLA and at the end of Chicago
so yeah you're out there the spring
you're owning the California market look
yeah yeah saturating it's a big city
though the world as it is
look this show can get wonky the world
as is is not a wonky book it's it's a
bunch of great stories about foreign
policy and Barack Obama and what it's
like to be in government but also what
it's like to like grow up under the most
intense scrutiny you could possibly
manage and come out on the other side of
human being even if it takes us all some
time to to find ourselves again so I
highly recommend well thank ya and
thanks and yeah I mean it really is it I
was 29 when I wouldn't work for Obama in
2007 and it's kind of a coming age of
age story but what's it like to to enter
into that experience and be spit out the
other end when you're 39 and you know
having gone through a decade of that
whatever you at the beginning of Bhama
campaign yet ah 2007 I was 27 I started
working for him when I was 23 or 24 yeah
so it's funny because we got to get to
know each other in that primary when
you're in Iowa and I can't help but
think about those days now as I see
these campaigns gearing up but you know
I was writing all the maroc was central
to our campaign it's weird that there's
no one central pour foreign policy issue
yeah that's at the heart of this
campaign cuz I remember getting on the
phone with you like right away because
you're answering all these questions I
remember the first thing I had to do and
I tell this story in the in the book I
wrote this speech where we said we go to
Paxson to get Ben la yeah and
unfortunately because the way it came
out it sounded like you know we were
gonna invade Pakistan
yeah which kind of cut against our
anti-war credentials and I and I kept
saying like no no we're talking about
actually what exactly what happened like
a special operation or something
this became a huge problem in Iowa where
all our you know lefty friends are
suddenly saying well I thought you got
against the Iraq war so I get to work
and I described I thought he fired like
the first day I got there because I wake
up and there's mass protests in Pakistan
and pervez musharraf the the the
president acts at the time was blaming
Obama we'd caused this international
incident and I'm sleeping on a friend's
couch at 4:00 in the morning an email
from Dan Pfeiffer because he oddly
always woke up at like 4:00 and I'm on
the email chain with Axelrod and Plouffe
and Dan and every day and you were
probably on that and he's like this is
the worst thing that's happened to us
yet and I'm like I'm the new guy cause
this side that is get fired and said I
get to work and Fabrice air and he's
like hey man how's it good to see you
and I was like I was expecting a warm
welcome and he said yeah Plouffe wants
you to write not bad to kind of put this
this pack something to bed and I was
like okay Washington poster had come and
and he said no no it's for the the Mason
City Globe Gazette damn right it was so
that must have been your handiwork
they're placing the op-ed in the Mason
City globe look at that that's worth its
weight in gold said my finest work of a
reminder by the way that for all these
national polls and I don't think we were
probably down 30 points in the national
polls at the time don't pay any
attention to them totally irrelevant
totally relevant cuz it you know one of
these people you see in the single
digits in the national polls could win
Iowa and then everything changes I mean
for God's sake no one knew me or Pete
was three months ago no it's like
everybody's talking about it and the
thing take a deep breath well the thing
you taught me Tommy is it
I'd be stressing about our you know
press coverage in the New York Times in
the post and you'd be like you're not
reading the press coverage in Mason City
kogas ad in the Des Moines Register
which was much better not good yeah
that's good that's the that's the crack
right bio world as it is it's a bunch of
great stories and after the break I'll
be back with my conversation with Khalid
el gandi
