senator Bennett welcome to pots of
America thanks for having me it's great
to be here I want to start as we often
do in these interviews with the question
of why you're running for president most
people we've had at this table they it's
their children or the country or Trump
selection you have offered in previous
interviews a more unique reason for why
you're running a certain senator from
Kentucky
well that's right I'm I'm running
because and you saw it up close in the
Obama administration we these guys
McConnell and the freedom caucus have
successfully immobilized our exercise in
self-government we have to overcome that
and I think there are two things we're
gonna have to figure out how to do at
the same time one is going directly at
them to undo the structural challenges
that are facing our democracy citizens
united being one of those but Jarett
political gerrymandering being another
the attack on our Voting Rights that
Shelby versus Holder represents and
whatever it is we need to do inside the
Congress to make it work better and at
the same time I think we have to build a
broad coalition of Americans to overcome
that intransigence in DC the freedom
caucus and Mitch McConnell are not going
to fix Washington they're not going to
fix themselves they need to be overcome
and I think the Democratic Party can
lead the way in unifying the American
people to do it it's not going to be
easy to do and I don't think it's gonna
be accomplished in just one election
either and like as like you looked at
this field including a significant
percentage of your fellow senators and
you said you know you said yourself like
I should be a person who you know I can
uniquely be the person to do this well
what what is it about you or your
experience that made you think that you
should take this on I would say in my
experience I've been in the Senate for
10 years you know and and before that I
was in business and after that I'd run a
a School District it was an over it was
over a billion dollars a budget it was a
major school district in this country so
I come with it first of all a different
set of experiences but my work in the
Senate has both allowed me to accomplish
big bipartisan things we didn't finish
the gang of eight immigration bill
thanks to the Hastert rule but we're
well on her way to getting it done we
got 68 votes in the Senate I was part of
that we rewrote and reformed and ended
really No Child Left Behind I was a big
part of that the the approval process at
the Food and Drug Administration that
now has this was signed by President
Obama and now more than 120 drugs have
been approved as a result and there are
other things like that but just as
important is what I've been able to do
I've been able to learn why the place
doesn't work how it's broken how it's
corrupted why President Obama's theory
of the case which was when he was
reelected president that the fever would
break and that somehow we would be able
to to to get back to working together I
know I think I understand why that
didn't happen I think I understand
what's gonna be required to get us
beyond it why do you think it didn't
happen I think it didn't happen because
I think that the that McConnell and the
freedom caucus had an ideological
commitment to destroying our exercise
and self-government that we didn't
understand I don't and I'm not sure
President Obama fully understood it I
didn't fully understand it it's
equivalent by the way to the the the the
our lack of comprehension that Donald
Trump could ever have been elected
president a lot of us didn't believe
that was possible either because we
didn't see the reactionary forces
building in our political system and we
didn't see the ways in which the freedom
caucus had dismantled our ability to
govern ourselves on the one hand but on
the other hand had successfully eluded
blame for having caused all these
problems to begin with now we have an
opportunity to do something different I
believe and this really is why I'm
running for president I think that if we
spend the next ten years in Washington
the way we've spent the last 10 years
we're gonna be the first general I will
be part of the first generation of
Americans to leave less opportunity not
more to the people coming after us and I
think that's entirely unacceptable do
you
you know McConnell is not a particularly
popular politician nationally but gets
reelected all the time these Republicans
keep getting elected are do you believe
they are reflecting the will of their
voters or are they sort of pulling the
wool over them I think they are pulling
the wool over their voters and this is a
place where I differ you know i from
other people in the field and in the den
kradic field I represent Zen estate that
is a third Democratic a third Republican
and a third independent the vast
majority of Republicans I know don't
subscribe to the views that the freedom
caucus has their their more conventional
and more traditional Republicans these
guys and and the manifestation of all of
it really is in Donald Trump I mean
you've you've got a Republican Party
that's turned everything on its head let
me give you a good example climate
change I don't think we can solve
climate change two years at a time other
people might disagree with me I believe
it's a very urgent problem and we need
to act urgently but we also need an
enduring solution we can't do it even
one administration at a time it's gonna
have to last longer than that and when
you look at the issue of climate the
Republicans had a relatively honorable
tradition which is that Richard Nixon
put the EPA in place and signed the
Clean Water Act the Clean Air Act Ronald
Reagan closed the hole in the ozone
layer both bushes said we had to deal
with climate and led efforts at the UN
to do that McCain ran on climate change
what changed citizens united changed and
that completely changed the way the
National Republican Party looks at this
because they're being corrupted into
inaction by the Koch brothers
Republicans in Colorado are not being
corrupted in the inaction by the Koch
brothers they are seeing their farms and
ranches threatened because of our
inability to deal with climate change so
I think there is a big distinction here
obviously there are people that are
watching Fox News all day long who now
have come to believe McConnell is the
greatest guy in the world having hated
him by the way for years and years as
you know but I don't think that's true
of conventional Republicans in my state
if I sort of like dig deep into what
you're saying about climate change in
particular am I right to interpret
you're saying is that your Republican
colleagues in the Senate go to work
every day and lie about an existential
threat to the planet because they want
money from the Koch brothers so they're
afraid of anchoring the Koch brothers I
think your last you I agree with
everything that you said I think the
last point is the most important one
because it's not even
about the koch brothers money it's about
all those guys have to do is rattle the
change in their pockets and threaten a
primary and and that's enough for people
that have said well we'll move on to
some other topic so you put forward a
very recently an aggressive electoral
electoral reform democracy reform plan
what's in that plan it's so they're two
parts is a way of thinking about it
broadly which is taking the money out of
politics and the other part of it is
getting people back into politics their
reforms in Washington ending political
gerrymandering dealing with Citizens
United banning members of Congress from
becoming lobbyists after they leave
Washington DC I i I've had that bill for
ten years I noticed last week
AOC and Ted Cruz were both saying now
it's cool now it's cool and everybody
loves it and it's all on Twitter I don't
know if that is a reflection of my
failure as a politician but I believe in
it because over half the people that
leave the Congress and don't retire
become lobbyists in Washington that
sends a terrible signal and the
incentives are misaligned
I think this wasn't included in that
package but I'm coming with it later I
also think members of Congress shouldn't
get their health care subsidized until
we've got universal health care for the
American people it would be amazing how
fast that actually happened if we were
having to give it up that's one side the
other side is very much focused on how
do we improve the opportunity for
Americans to be able to vote you know so
it's things like same-day registration
automatic registration when people are
18 it's trying to mop up after the
Supreme Court's anti voting opinions
like the one I mentioned earlier and I
think that's another place where the
National Republican Party and their
allies I guess around the country have
worked really hard over the last 15 or
20 years to deny people the right to
vote and we should be on the side of
making it easier for people to vote and
I think that's where the American people
are too you know
let me just I do think the basic tenant
here is that I don't think Donald Trump
and Mitch McConnell are for our
democracy I don't think they're for a
republic I think they're for themselves
and the interest groups that they're
serving
and I don't think that represents what
Republicans in my state believe I mean I
think that's right in the sense that we
like democracy as we know it is under
real thrill ocean and that there's a
whole series of things that have been
happening slowly over time but much more
rapidly since Trump got here that put us
on a path where we will have essentially
minority rule Rory one of those
challenge there challenges is the
electoral college do you support a
polishing electron I do I do I think
we'll be dead by the time we do that so
it's not high on my list of stuff like
I'd I would rather be focused on an
amendment to overturn citizens united
and maybe you could do a little both but
for all the reasons that you say yeah do
you do you have higher granting that the
constitutional moment process is very
challenging do you have reason to you
but you picked citizens united above
electoral college do you ever do you
think that there's a greater chance we
could get that done sooner like before
we die I think I think there is a
greater chance we can get that done
sooner because that 96% or something of
Americans say there's too much money in
our politics and something like 94% say
that
wealthy people have an outsized
influence so if we can't make the
policies politics of that work and we
can't use that to overcome McConnell in
these guys I'm not sure what we can do I
mean climate is in the 70s I think
compared to that so that would be one
that not only do I think we could get a
done sooner it would have the really
useful effect of giving people the
opportunity like my daughter is here
today who are in the next generation the
opportunity to organize around politics
to get their voice in politics and to
get money out of politics that's why
I've sort of prioritize another tool to
repress the voices of the majority in
this country is the filibuster and as I
understand it you've opposed getting rid
of the filibuster is that right I have
and why is that so I think first of all
the history with the filibuster with the
judges is instructive it's not
dispositive but it is instructive and
that's a history of Mitch McConnell
winning and America losing and Democrats
losing what do you mean what I mean by
that is that we entered
into the sort of the pre-emptive
retribution that led to our changing the
rules first so those guys wouldn't allow
President Obama to get any of his Nam
not any but a lot of his nominees
through he wouldn't let in particular DC
Circuit judges through you'll remember
that Chuck Hagel who is the Secretary of
Defense nominee from President Obama and
was a Republican senator was
filibustered by the the Senate and a
Secretary of Defense had never been
filibustered in the history of America
so we changed the rules I didn't believe
that was the right thing to do at the
time and I think the history has shown
that it wasn't because Donald Trump has
been able to get more judges on the
courts in the first two years than any
president in American history I believed
it was wrong for us to filibuster
Gorsuch you know I took a lot of
beatings for that but the reason why was
that I thought we were playing right
into Mitch McConnell's hands because we
gave McConnell the ability to blow the
nuclear option on Gorsuch instead of
holding it for the next one when
obviously who would have tried to do it
again but that was when it was 5-4 Roe
versus Wade was at stake it seemed to me
that that's when we would have wanted to
organize the American people around that
and we didn't do that we didn't the
McConnell strategically waited and
waited until the moment you know and we
basically played into his hands over and
over again and now he's getting exactly
what he wanted this is to say nothing of
what he did to garlic would Merrick
garland which you know was a totally
different thing so the result of this is
we now have reduced what was for 200
years a bipartisan approach to advise
and consent in the Senate that every
time we did it reinforce the
Independence of the judiciary
we've now infected the judiciary with
the partisanship that's supposed to be
hopefully temporary of the legislative
branch so I think the history on this is
bad but beyond that I've got another
argument which is Mitch McConnell is the
majority leader of the Senate if we
really are going to take the view that
we should get rid of the filibuster
while he's the majority leader and again
set the precedent for McConnell to
change the rules then we're gonna have
to accept the Senate where he can
privatize Social Security if he
wants where he can go after reproductive
rights go after voting rights go after
the environmental stuff all of which
they would have done between George Bush
the when George Bush the son was
president that would all be done and I
don't think we should be sacrificing
protections for the most vulnerable
people in our country because we think
we can't for some reason make a
compelling case to enough Americans to
beat these Republicans our job should be
to win the presidency and win a majority
in the Senate and hold a majority in the
house and reset the table here
politically the American people are with
us not with them I I agree with you to a
point good I agree with the I the risk
right there I there's no doubt that you
get rid of the filibuster that there was
gonna be a moment in time that where
Republicans have the House the Senate
and the presidency and they're gonna do
terrible things I see a couple of
challenges here which is there is
basically zero path with current
demographic trends to 60 Democratic
senators again in our lifetime just the
way things are going with the very odd
time with very briefly when Democrats
had 60 involved having centers in the
Dakotas Arkansas Louisiana everywhere
Alaska states that we unlikely to have
again soon and so if you're a
progressive and you're saying they're
saying we have to do something about
climate change
what is the but how do we like let's say
that we have a president Michael Bennet
and Senator Schumer get sort of the
filibuster and you could pass climate
change legislation then and we could
actually do something but if we wait do
I mean do we have time to wait we don't
have time to wait on climate change and
it's unlike any other issue that we're
confronting in that respect because you
know as much as I wish that kids all
over America we're going to decent
schools when they're not going to decent
schools I know that if we can try to fix
that now or ten years from now or 20
years from now we'll still be fixing it
and able to fix it with climate it's
different if we don't act now it might
not be able to be fixed it probably
can't be fixed but I think climate makes
the point much less on the filibus
then more broadly on the pitch that I'm
trying to make to Democrats into the to
the American people on what we have to
do with our politics which is it's me
this is much more important than just
what the you know the filibuster in
climate as I said you can't fix it for
two years you got it we have to fix it
for a generation and we have to sustain
it it doesn't mean the policy doesn't
change or it doesn't mean that but if if
politicians in Washington that are
influenced by special interests and and
money can flip us back and forth on
climate based on fifty one votes you
tell me how long it's gonna last
especially when if I if I take your
point that it's hard for Democrats to
get a majority it's hard to get a
majority it's hard to sustain a majority
it's hard to get sixty that's true by
the way I'm not quite as pessimistic as
you are I think that we will in our
lifetime be able to get to 60 you know
of a large group of Millennials moving
to Wyoming anytime soon and I but I do
remember Barack Obama standing in
Brooklyn urging people to move to
Wyoming yes they didn't follow him
unfortunately well maybe the Wisconsin
but I think would have been helpful too
but I think there are changes in the
South look we've got in the West
Colorado has the chance to have two
Democrats New Mexico we've got two
Arizona we would never thought we'd have
two and we might have two Nevada
I think there's southern states that are
gonna change so look I think a much more
important point my point of view is we
need a Democratic Party message that's
compelling to enough people that not
only can we come accomplish what we're
trying to do but we can sustain what
we're trying to do and that's that's a
really tough challenge I mean that is
this democracy be a lot easier if we
were an autocracy but we're not I'm
going to go back to the question of the
filibuster for judicial nominees for a
sec I can't understand a strategic
debate about whether or you filibuster
course hitch or the next person who at
that point may or may not have come down
the line I think that's a strategic
conversation but you did say that it was
a mistake to give her the
Buster for appointments executive and
judicial and I'm just wondering two
things about that one is what was the
alternative in the world because it
wasn't just chuck hagel at the time
republicans had were saying that they
were not going to give barack obama
defense secretary a epa administrator
and a labor secretary all at the same
time and we had a bunch of empty seats
on the circuit court DC Circuit Court
second most important court in the land
that had been sitting open just waiting
McConnell been holding them open forever
and so the choice was have no cabinet
not fill any of those seats and then
theoretically if this would we
progressed down the same path where
Trump wins and we lose the Senate that
Trump is filling even more judicial well
I don't think Trump could be filling any
more judicial seats he's he's filling
he's got I mean he they are now because
they got rid of the 2 hour rule they got
rid of all all we do is judges I mean I
think one of the great disappointments
of the Obama administration was that
there are more vacancies at the end of
the first administer at the end of the
first term than there were at the
beginning there were more at the end of
the second term than there were at the
beginning and that's a huge problem I
think that the short term gain of
getting three people on the DC Circuit
is well his way overwhelmed by what has
happened as a result of the Trump people
I wouldn't expect you to agree with my
position by the way most Democrats don't
agree with my position but we're most
most Democrats in Washington don't agree
with my position but I think that we set
the precedent and we set the predicate
for McConnell to be able to do his dirty
work which is what he did what you asked
what the alternative was I think the
alternative was another gang of 14 to
say we're gonna head this off we've we
headed it off before we headed it off
even in the same term as as as when we
confronted this and I think there was a
feeling at the time that it was just too
late we had to give in to this and and I
wish we hadn't done it I don't think we
needed to but you you believe that it
had Democrats not done this
and we get to a world in 2017 where a
Trump as president McConnell's Majority
Leader and Paul Ryan's speaker that and
Democrats are blocking all of Trump's
judicial nominees and with the
filibuster and they're blocking his
cabinet secretaries and they're if any
from from filling whatever whatever
other jobs you think McConnell would not
have triggered the absolutely believe he
would have done it I absolutely believe
he would have done it there's no
question in my mind but I think I
believe we should expect more out of our
elected officials than we have been
delivered on this issue for example in
the last 10 years when I was in Los and
so I don't accept the degradation of our
institutions in this way and I think
it's worth fighting for them to make
sure they're not degraded because the
people who win when it's degraded or the
freedom caucus I used to walk around I
would land at Denver International
Airport and when we were doing some
idiotic thing in Washington and I wish
that I had paper bag to put over my head
because I was so embarrassed and you
know I would wonder why would anybody
want to work in a place with a 9%
approval rating and there's an answer
that if you think you've been sent there
to dismantle the federal government
having to be at 9% suits you just fine
if you're going there to expand
opportunity for people to change the tax
law so it actually gives the American
people and a chance to get out of
poverty if they're in poverty a chance
to make a paycheck pay again then it
makes it much harder for you to do your
job and I think that's the challenge
that we confront now because the
degradation of all of this makes it
harder for us to do our work not easier
for us to do our work and the fact that
I would absolutely believe Mitch
McConnell given the opportunity would do
the same thing weeds me to conclude that
we've got a job to do to change our
politics and restore these institutions
dan there's a reason there's a guy in
the White House who is a reality TV star
you wouldn't send a person there unless
you had such a degraded sense of what we
were doing there that it seemed like a
suitable thing to do and I think we need
to elevate our view of all the well
let's shift to a slightly happier topic
well come back to some unhappy ones but
one of the the
economy economic and equality have been
at a core part of the debate in this
election you have a plan a piece of
legislation you that you helped author
call the American families Act which has
been described as one of the most
aggressive anti-poverty initiatives in a
long time you tell us what's in that
plan I can yeah it's called the American
Family Act it's a dramatic expansion of
the child tax credit takes it up to
thirty six hundred dollars a year for a
kid under the age of six three thousand
for a kid older than six and one of the
really important parts of it is instead
of having it be an annual payment it
pays out every month so that's about
three hundred month dollars a kid for
people that have a kid or two that makes
a really material difference I you know
my state has one of the greatest
economies on the planet and if I had to
summarize the last ten years of my town
halls it would be that people come and
say because our wages haven't gone up
and because expenses have gone up we
can't afford housing health care higher
education and early childhood education
no matter how hard we work if I think
about the people that don't come to my
town halls because they're so poor that
they're working and working working it's
that they but I think about the kids
that were in my old school district and
their families it's that they no matter
what they do they can't get out of
poverty and I think the Bennett Brown
bill which is the American Family Act
combined with the with the brown Bennett
bill which is a big increase the Earned
Income Tax Credit combined with paid
family leave combined with an increase
in the minimum wage could make an
enormous difference in this country just
my bill alone the American Family Act
the professor's that have looked at it
say that it would reduce childhood
poverty in America by almost 40% it
would end $2 a day poverty in America
for America's poorest children and all
for the less than 3% of the cost of
Medicare for all this is probably a
double naive question but is there any
world in which there's any interest from
any Republicans who'd work on some
version I believe there is it's not a
dumb and naive question there there
there are a lot of libertarian
think-tank type folks who are for this
kind of thing because they see it as a
way of addressing poverty without adding
a bunch of bureaucracy to it so I think
you know in in there's a world Marco
Rubio's worked on some of this
there are other people that have looked
at and I think that it's the kind of
proposal that in a rational world we'd
be able to work on now I'm gonna go back
to the unhappy topic and Mitch McConnell
in the context is I want to go back to
the two because I got one more thing I
want to say so the in the the first
night of the Democratic debates the one
you weren't in one of the questions that
the moderators asks the ask the
candidates on stage was essentially
let's say you're elected president
Republicans keep the Senate what's your
plan to deal with Mitch McConnell so
here you have an aggressive plan which
has some at least conservative thinker
prospects of support how does a
president Michael Bennett deal with a
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Romany
anything without being forced to do it
I mean he's not interested in these
issues and I write in my book which is
called the land of flickering lights
based on some work we all did together
that Mitch McConnell is impervious to
give and take unless he's taking
everything which he almost always is
which is true
and so you have to force him either and
I'm assuming for this the purposes of
this that he's still there because
that's what you said I don't think
there's any other way to do it than to
propose solutions that are broadly
popular among the American people a
public option for example versus
Medicare for all that's one example but
there are many others something that's
broadly popular and then go out to the
country and fight for it and make sure
that the country understands that
McConnell is misleading them about what
he's saying which he is and at a certain
point you either achieve victory that
way highly unlikely or you change the
election the the outcomes of Elections
so that you can close over these guys we
live in a democracy I mean he he he the
tyranny of the minority will continue to
persist in this country whether you have
the filibuster or not if we don't win
elections based on based on a broad
policy agenda that that the American
people can get behind and I think that's
what we're gonna have to do so when I
say it's not just one election that's
you know it's a lot I think if you look
at 2018 right which is one of the
all-time best years are Democrats yes in
the house in the Senate we lost
elections with some pretty good
candidates and all the sort of states
you're talking about where you would
need to change electoral outcomes to
have into pass policies is there
something we would do differently as
something it would change in politics
that would mean that you know a very
moderate person like Joe Donnelly could
be reelected or elected in Indiana you
know Claire McCaskill etc like that the
challenge I think politically is and why
and why I think those guys this isn't
the only reason they lost but I think
they paid a very heavy price because of
cap and all the Cavanaugh hearings I
mean and and how they voted not not how
they voted just getting caught up in
national politics and looking like it's
the National Democratic Party and it's
not about an opportunity agenda it's not
about trying to drive economic growth
for people you know it's about the
McConnell and these guys that freedom
caucus have so successfully D
legitimized the federal government that
that's a huge problem that we got to
catch up to but but I take your point I
mean they were really good candidates in
those places but they couldn't carry
that burden the so you brought up
Medicare and you say you have a you of
your own Medicare panic on Medicare X
right which is a public option plan why
substantively and you hinted at this
politically go that route instead of
either a Bernie Sanders esque plan or
even a met at the Medicare for America
plan that some of the other candidates
support I think it's simpler than the
Medicare for America plan and I think
substantively it's better than Bernie's
plan I just think Bernie's wrong on the
policy here I think it's a lot better to
give people an option to get to I mean
my desire here is to get to universal
health care as fast as we possibly can
that's what we need to do there are
millions of people in America who are
making too much money to be on Medicaid
but not enough money to afford private
insurance they desperately need a
solution and I think finishing the job
on Obamacare with it with the public
option that we should have passed back
then is the best way of doing it because
it it gives folks a choice and it also
allows
the public option to compete down the
price of private insurance in the
country which I think will help as well
that is why I think it's better so then
in the universal health be at the point
at which the Michael Bennett Medicare X
plane reaches universal coverage that'll
be a mix of private insurance and
government insurance like many like like
many countries I mean Australia in many
ways is the best example they've got
they've got great health outcomes for
the people there and they've got a mix
of public and a mix of private I
listened to you and Ezra Klein debate
this topic on Ezra's podcast a few weeks
ago and one of the arguments that you
made on the political side about
Bernie's plan is that Republicans want
to call Democrat socialist and when we
give them an opportunity to do so it
makes it harder to win elections is that
right well let me make a better argument
I don't think I think that it would be
very hard for a Democrat to lose
Colorado next fall in the Senate race
unless their for metal Medicare for all
make your from the Bernie version and
that's what but if that is the version
and why is that why is like because it's
so deeply unpopular I mean it's you know
polls once you understand just the fact
that it takes health insurance away from
180 million people it's support falls
into the low 30s when you add the taxes
on that it's support falls into the low
30s and that's the way people in
Colorado see it and I'm sure in Arizona
and I'm sure in North Carolina the and
Bernie at least is honest about what's
in his plan you know Bernie has been
very clear that what his plan does is
make private insurance illegal except
for what he causes calls cosmetic
insurance which is I guess insurance for
cosmetic surgery plastic surgery that is
the plan and so people that have signed
up for that plan that are in this
primary have signed up to a plan that
bernie is being honest about I'm not
sure everybody's paying as honest as
Bernie is big about it and it really
matters because it's the difference
between running on a plan that the
majority of Americans support and
running on a plan that only 33 percent
of Americans support a bunch of your
colleagues in the Senate also in the
debate stage other than Bernie signed up
for that co-sponsor of that plan I'm not
gonna ask you to name names and attack
people but do you think candidate you
were one of the only candidates who
spoke up against Bernie Sanders is
playing directly on that debate stage do
you think some of these candidates are
trying to have their cake and eat it too
when it comes from edit comes the
Medicare for all I'm sure they are and I
know and and that's up to them they've
run the owner they're raised my thing is
we just got to beat Donald Trump at the
end of the day here and so we have to
have an agenda that is gonna appeal to
the American people and it's not just
about disqualifying us as socialists
it's about disqualifying us as people
that want to take away a hundred and
eighty million people's insurance I mean
think about it you remember what the
pushback was when Barack Obama said if
you like your insurance you can keep it
and a couple million people may be lost
in their shirts because they had those
plans that didn't meet the bare right
you remember that was a you remember the
politics of that yeah imagine a world
where our offer is and if you like your
insurance we're gonna take it away from
you I might be for Bernie's plan if we
didn't have an existing system because
there are a lot of merits to to it but
we do have an existing system and and I
think this is an issue we can win on
think about this those guys spent years
and years threatening to repeal the
Affordable Care Act and we were on
defense all those years Barack Obama
always said he said there's gonna come a
time when you're not going to be on
defense anymore and he was right it was
when we defeated the repeal attempt in
the Senate the next week Bernie
introduced his Medicare for all and
these folks signed up to it and then
we're on defense on that bill instead of
being on offense on universal health
care which is where we should be I think
as a party not just as a party but for
the good of the country and in so
there's the question of taking health
care away from people but then also
another moment in the debate that was
quite notable I think
for people who've been involved in the
politics health care for a long time was
the moderators asked would undocumented
immigrants be included under your plan
and everyone including you raised your
hand which so I'm curious
both substantively why that's the right
thing to do and whether you have
political concerns about it along the
lines and some of the concerns you have
with some of these other men I think
that such substant that people put their
hands up is that people are here and
they're gonna need health care and the
way they get their health care today is
through the emergency room which we pay
for which is ridiculously expensive and
as somebody who used to be a school
superintendent I know firsthand that it
does no good for kids that are American
citizens who have had inoculations to
sit in classrooms with kids who haven't
been inoculated that's a bad thing and
we should figure out how to deal with
that it is true that that represents a
change politically I mean when we
negotiate the gang of eight immigration
bill the Republicans insisted that the
undocumented people be banned from
having health care because they their
argument was we're never gonna be able
to convince our colleagues who hate of
the Affordable Care Act already that
that should be available so we're gonna
have to figure out what how that goes
and I do think the politics of this are
very complicated and I don't think it's
would be dishonest to say otherwise
because as you remember that's the
reason for the famous ulai moment in
Barack Obama's joining address on health
care when Republican Congressman Joe
Wilson yelled you lie it was right after
Obama said that undocumented immigrants
would yeah yeah but now it's ten years
later of ten years of paying for
emergency room visits ten years of
classrooms that aren't safe ten years of
these guys unwilling to do anything I
think obviously the best thing to do
would be to pass comprehensive
immigration reform and to deal with the
refugee crisis that we had at the border
let's get to immigration the what do you
have a view get a plan that you have you
put on immigration plan for this for
your you stand
by the original gang I think we I stand
by the original gang of eight I think
that we have two distinct issues that we
need to contend with right now one is
the immigration issues which should
represent the gang of eight the other is
the refugee crisis at the border I don't
think we should be making immigration
law based on the refugee crisis as a
border Trump is acting like word this
pathetic weak country you know I mean
we're he's not acting like we're strong
we're powerful wealthy and by the way
humane and if we were behaving that way
we'd be spending money that's necessary
to create a set of conditions for people
at the border sending lawyers down there
making sure people got this stuff
adjudicated we'd be leading a
conversation in the hemisphere with
everybody Canada in Latin America to say
what is it we're going to do to all
carry a share of the refugees that are
coming from the northern triangle
countries we certainly would need to
take our share but I think there are
other countries that would want to take
theirs and over the long haul we've got
to figure out what we can do so that we
don't have failed States fifteen hundred
miles from our border that are
perpetually sending refugees to the to
the southern border on immigration I
think it would change there are things
that have changed since 2013 but in the
main the deal that was struck there
which is a pathway to citizenship for
the 11 million people that are
undocumented the most progressive of
DREAM Act ever ever conceived much less
passed in the Senate the agricultural
jobs provision and 46 billion dollars of
border security is probably the deal
that could get struck again I mean it
Trump's wall and all this stuff I mean
we had real 21st century security that
we were gonna put in place that
basically would allow us to see every
single inch of the border and understand
who had come in and overstayed their
visa and who needed to go back and we
have none of that because of the tyranny
of the freedom caucus in the house would
would you be willing to in a world in
which we were actually negotiating on
immigration now would you be willing to
fund Trump's wall or some portion of his
wall in exchange
for some of the elements of the tooth I
don't think funding his wall makes any
sense I think look we had in the bill in
the bill that I was just talking about
350 miles of a fence which he caught and
he now calls steel slats you know he
doesn't care whether it's concrete now
or steals left and he goes down there
and stands next to this like two or
three steel slats that are left over
from what the Obama folks were doing we
could have had 350 miles of steel slats
today if we had done the gang of eight
bill we had we doubled the number of
Border Security agents on the border
Lindsey Graham used to say that those
guys would be able to hold hands at the
border they'd be standing so close to
each other so when Trump says that
Democrats are for open borders that's a
lie I mean it's demonstrably false
because every single Democrat who was in
the Senate when the when that bill was
on the floor voted for it which is more
than I can say for the Republicans well
I think yes it is alive as most things
Trump says is he has found a new context
for that lie after the debate on
Thursday night when that's right they
asked once again the ten candidates on
stage yourself included which of you
would support changing eliminating the
part of the law that's the criminal that
makes crossing the border illegally a
misdemeanor crime so the problems would
you turn into a civil offense nearly
every person on that stage including all
the people the top of the polls raised
their hands you did not why I did not
because I know that Barack Obama was
able to enforce that law without
separating children from their parents
at the border and without giving the
American people the sense that we
believed in having open borders and I
think we can do that again and it's my
look Trump has every every reason to
want to conflate the refugee crisis on
the border with our immigration issues
and we shouldn't fall into that trap in
my view the were you surprised to see so
many people raise their hand yeah I was
actually I was where do you rank in on
your list of political concerns it high
very high look he's trying every day
they try to
by us and as you were saying earlier you
know that the conversation had with Ezra
he's always gonna do it and they're
always gonna do that's true
I accept that point that's not the point
I'm trying to make the point I'm trying
to make is that Franklin Roosevelt never
called himself a socialist he was called
a socialist over and over again but what
he was for was American democracy what
he was was a Democrat what he wanted was
the survival of this Republic and what
he expressed was the need for us to have
what he called for new freedoms or the
four freedoms that's what he was doing
the the conditions haven't changed the
political terrain is the same I think we
just need to be as smart as he is and we
need to be not less strategic than then
McConnell is and Trump's no genius in
any of this but he does have a
preternatural sense of how to disqualify
people based on you know a grain of
truth or a shred of truth and we
shouldn't give it to him the Trump is
gonna want to make immigration the
subject of this election
it always it that's know how he thinks
he won in teen it's what he credits for
keeping that for taking and keeping the
Senate 2018 the challenge is
comprehensive immigration reform is a
good issue for Democrats there is a
majority of support including a lot of
even though a good chunk of trumps
voters who support of reversion
comprehensive immigration form that you
support in most Democrats support the
problem often is is that we've either
end up on the defensive about it or
we're talking about immigration reform
and not talking about health care the
economy the things that matter to a lot
of other voters if you were the nominee
how do you navigate that terrain I don't
think I have I don't there's not a
defensive bone in my body on immigration
my landing place is the work I did in
the 2013 gang of eight and I can defend
that work in any county in this country
I think Republican or democratic people
may disagree with it they may not think
it was a good idea but I I'm in no sense
worried about being disqualified by it
and actually I think as you said most
people support it if you if you look at
the polling the elements of the gang of
eight
they'll pull much higher than anything
else including Trump's wall and do you
what do you what do you think so that
bill passed 68 votes including Trump's
golfing buddy Lindsey Graham
presidential candidate Marco Rubio who
is no memory effect worked on that bill
but just like the context of the
political context are totally different
but yeah I was but the political context
that bill I think for people who are
younger or may not have been following
politics closely then is the Republicans
believe the only way they would ever win
the White House again after Barack Obama
won in 2012 was to deal with the
immigration issue absolutely and then
you fast forward to four years later and
Donald Trump's having run with the most
right-wing inflammatory immigration
agenda in history what did the politics
change did we miss read the politics
read the politics and here's what we did
so we they Reince Priebus who was the
Republican chair you'll remember did the
autopsy and in which he said maybe if we
didn't you know weren't so negative
about gay people maybe if we didn't hate
Latino people we would do better in the
polls and we wouldn't lose to the likes
of Barack Obama remember that and then
what happened was Ted Cruz shut the
government down in twenty whatever that
what when was that thirteen 13 2013 Ted
Cruz shut the government down and his
numbers went up and the Republican
Party's numbers went down and the
freedom caucus went to Bainer and they
said it turns out we don't need a big
tent party it turns out we don't need to
do rational things we don't need to
legislate all we have to do is break the
government and we're gonna win and that
is their operating theory and that has
been the theory since then I also think
and I could you know I don't have a
monopoly on wisdom I certainly don't I
don't believe there's this massive that
there was this massive latent
anti-immigrant sentiment in America when
Donald Trump rode his escalator down
from Trump Tower and called Mexicans
rapists I think it's been created by
Trump Fox News
vied to their everlasting shame the the
Republican National Committee's who have
been running ads about ms-13 all over
America that have no Jon Tester who
barely won in Montana tells a story this
time about being in a tractor on his
farm in Big Sandy Montana and he's
listening to the radio and the Trump's
rolled into town to support his opponent
and to attack John and and John's a
senior completely mystified because he's
talking about him a mess is it 13 ms-13
mystified by that because there hasn't
been an ms-13 person when 1,000 miles of
Big Sandy Montana now this is a fact of
our political system that we did not
have to deal with when we wrote the gang
of eight bill and we are gonna have to
deal with going forward and I don't
think there's any way to deal with it
other than by going straight at these
guys we got to go straight at the Fox
guys we got to go straight at these
Republicans and stand for what the
American people want which is a rational
immigration system that supports the
rule of law and reflects our history as
a nation of immigrants do you think the
party has moved too far left to win
states in the states and all the country
I don't think the party has I think that
I'd be good I might when I say the party
I mean our Democratic base when I'm in
Iowa and New Hampshire and South
Carolina they're the same as the folks
in Colorado you know they they want
universal health care they don't want to
take it away from 180 million people to
get there they want us to act urgently
on climate change you know in a way that
really is that will is durable they want
economic opportunity for everybody
that's what they want I think there is a
social media component here to the
Democratic Party that's some people have
called the Twitter base of the
Democratic Party that has moved way to
the left and couldn't you couldn't elect
the Twitter base in Colorado
you couldn't elect them in Arizona you
couldn't and what my argument is I'm
fine with all that I mean people can do
what they want to do but to go back to
the sort of central thesis of this whole
discussion we it really would be better
if we had a Democratic majority in the
Senate
and to get a Democratic majority in the
Senate we need to run on an agenda that
is appealing to people in the states
that you were talking about they can
allow us to win elections at a moment
where you've got somebody as corrupt as
demonstrably incapable of being
president United States who doesn't
believe in the rule of law doesn't
believe in freedom of the press doesn't
believe in the industry doesn't believe
in the most profound traditions of this
country that's a guy we should be a
who's a climate denier on top of all of
it that's somebody who we should be able
to beat and I think we can beat them if
we've got an agenda that is that's
unifying for the American people and to
me to go back to your earlier point that
actually is not about who's progressive
and who's a modern it's about who's got
an agenda that's going to appeal the
running for president is as you're
discovering I'm sure everyday a somewhat
absurd process that we're the new
quote-unquote Twitter base has a lot of
influence where it's really about funny
ways to get known and noticed in a very
in a strange media environment where
being viral is helpful and all of that
and rewards a lot of things that are
different from the things that make one
a successful legislator or a successful
governor or whatever else now your time
in the Senate you you've been there ten
years now you got there you have never
been someone who in my perspective has
tried to make a huge name for yourself
you you know you really I was surprised
to even find out you were thinking of
running for president cuz it you kind of
you can kind of smell the well no it's
not hopeless it's that you like dirt I
often notice that there are two kinds of
senators though those who arrive is
thinking of the Senate as a way station
to a White House run and it's pretty
clear who those people are you see them
on cable news all the time they're on
the sunday show circuit they do
aggressive things and they're people who
are like I'm gonna be a senator ominous
do the work and being a center for as
long as the people my state will have me
I always put you in the latter category
and I think the things that made you a
very successful senator I'm just curious
how those things have translated to the
presidential race fears well it's a
great question so first of all I didn't
spend my
life thinking I was gonna run for
president and when I got even Senate
right yo or even said it I mean yeah
that's the it hurt my feelings but the
the Republican chairman when I was
appointed to begin with the Republican
chairman in Colorado called me an
accidental senator but it was true it
was true I had been in business and I've
been at School Superintendent by the way
a job that I really loved and and what I
thought my job when I got to the Senate
was to represent a state that was a
third a third a third Republican
Democrat and independent and I thought
my job was to was to support what
you guys were trying to do and my job
was to show it was to do my part to show
the American People that our system
wasn't broken that it could still work
and I think I held that end of the
bargain the whole time that I've been in
the Senate it is broken and it doesn't
work and we can't spend another ten
years like we did the last ten years and
expect to do our job as Americans I
believe that and that's why I'm running
for president and if I lose I'll go back
and run for the Senate again and as I
hope that I'll get reelected and then go
on to be constructive play a
constructive role for the country but
this is a moment in our country's
history when we need we need all of us
to step up here the carelessness with
which we treated our democracy it
allowed us to elect Donald Trump
president is something we can never
repeat again and the fact that he got
elected once means he can get elected
again if we're not careful and we need
to we need to be that we the worst thing
we could possibly do is let this guy get
elected again but on the backend of
beating him we also have to figure out a
way to govern the country again I know
that people here gonna shoot me that
came with me and the judges but I have
to say one more thing about it which is
it's not okay with me that I grew up in
a country where where the advice and
consent was done by Senators in a
bipartisan way establishing the
independence dishy area and now my kid
has to endure a Judiciary
that's just partisan like the rest of
our government because a bunch of
politicians in Washington couldn't
figure out how to do
something else it's not it's not our
democracy it's their democracy we've got
to find a way to preserve it I'm glad
you're out the judges back up because
good what do you think what changed the
like what well I know what changed that
what changed the nature of the process
what changed is from a you know putative
Lea independent judiciary to a very
partisan judiciary everybody can pick
their there beginning of this one I mean
you could you can say that it was you
know some people say was Robert Bork
some people say it was when Democrats
started filibustering Circuit Court
judges some people say it was when
Republicans were appointing people that
were so odious that they had to be
filibustered by Democrats
my point is so anybody can point the
blame in whatever direction they want my
point is that in the end the people that
got sacrificed are the American people
who deserve an independent judiciary who
are the same people who are being
sacrificed every single day because this
country uniquely can't seem to address
our health care challenges can't seem to
address our economic challenges can't
seem to address climate change and
that's why I think we need to do better
and I don't accept the idea that we're
on this one-way ratchet down that we
have to accept the freedom caucuses
destruction of our governing now I'm
talking much beyond the judgments of our
governing institutions or our governing
agenda because to go back to your poor
non-client to the discussion of climate
I don't see how a democracy deals with
climate under those circumstances if we
are if we if we have to accept a world
where every two years or four years the
work that's done on climate is torn out
by the other party we will never be able
to address climate in a meaningful way
it isn't the fear that the alternative
is we never start the work in but that
that's the that's the alternative we're
living right now and we're living that
alternative because we freaking elected
a climate denier present the United
States that
never have happened but that's the
that's the problem that with that is any
person the 16 Republicans ran for
president doesn't yes we got probably
the worst one but if any 16 and one they
would have run the exact same play they
were all climate deniers they would have
done the exact same thing that Trump is
doing like the people embedded in the
administration who are denying climate I
mean like you gave Bush some credit but
Bush refused to put a W Bush to put us
back in the Kyoto treaty he died MIT
science was a huge problem in his
administration to like this is like
climate change is a problem that whether
we get rid of Trump or not it's gonna
continue to be a problem so for a lot of
Democrats the view is like yes it would
be terrible if we pass a climate deal
and then they undid it two years later
but we also know from the affordable
care act that it's harder to undo
something than to just keep us at the
status quo of nothing yeah I think that
in client I think climate is so much
more urgent and so much more grave than
that that accepting that half a loaf is
the same thing as not getting anything
done that's my view I just can't see
what the path is to something different
because how can how can look we the
majority of people in this country
believe that climate change is real and
we should be doing something about it
and that it's an urgent problem they may
have some disagreements about how to how
to deal with it I think we lost the
climate argument because we lost the
jobs argument that's what I believe I
think we lost the economic argument to
Donald Trump ' ridiculously we didn't
make an affirmative argument on the
economy in 2016 and we didn't make an
argument on the economy in the context
of climate change if you're down in
Miami Florida as we were last week for
the debates down there it's impossible
to argue that not contending with
climate is better for the that that that
contending with climate is not better
for the argue the economy than not
contending with the with the with
climate it's impossible to make that
argument in Colorado it's impossible to
make that argument in California we did
not make that argument in 2016 Donald
Trump want a cartoon argument on the
economy and we can't if we are going to
continue to lose to that argument then I
accept that we're doomed but I think we
can do better than that
really do I mean I think we have to the
let's go back to the judges one more
time and oh because you brought it back
up you're free the I guess one of the
the I just I've really struggled to see
what the Pat like is there a reform that
you would propose to the process I think
the judges were done I think the next
generation is gonna inherit our
stupidity and our inability to lead and
and and do what needed to be done I you
know the answer to the well we were done
with all these vacancies the flip side
of that is Betsy DeVos wouldn't be
secretary education and Pruett wouldn't
have been secretary of whatever it is he
was secretary before they ran him out of
town and and and we wouldn't be
accepting this degraded view of what it
all should look like I don't think it
can be fixed I mean if you were in a
perfect world what you would say is look
we were insane for a moment we we had
this moment of madness we were overcome
by the Koch brothers and we were
overcome by cable TV hosts and we were
overcome by social media and we
abandoned our best traditions as a
result so here's what we're gonna do
we're gonna let everybody loot the same
number of District Court judges and
Circuit Court judges and and and and
Supreme Court justices and when we got
parody on each of those will go back to
the old rules where we actually had a
reason to be bipartisan today these
judges that are going on this on these
courts I mean my god they are people who
have written you know racist briefs and
and in the old days it's Republican
senators not the old days ten years ago
five years ago Republican senators were
said I'm not voting for that person
you're not gonna be able to get the
Democrats on today it's become this
badge of honor do you support Donald
Trump or not you have no excuse for not
voting for these people and that means
it's a whole different quality of person
that's populating these seats and I
don't I don't I'm sorry we got stuck on
the judges because I my instructions are
never to talk about the judges but but
it goes for the institutions generally
you know if your view is that it doesn't
matter whether we prepare I'm not saying
your view Dan Pfeiffer I'm just saying
it
one's view is that it doesn't matter
whether we perpetuate these instruments
of self-government which is I think the
freedom caucus is view and Trump's view
then it's none of this matters you know
you view the quicker you get to an
autocracy that the better off you are
from our point of view inheriting a
legacy about making this country more
democratic more fair and more free and
wanting to do that again for the next
generation I think that's too much
sacrifice that we're asking for the
country and it's not expecting enough
leadership from our elected officials
and and frankly from from all of us we
there's a lot we can do here to win and
I guess that's my argument is let's go
out and win gee I will let you go after
that that's alright I have nowhere to go
at some point in airplane I have to get
home because I have a one-year-old
daughter who will be here in her 30s
when Brett Kavanaugh is through theater
Ginsburg's age which is do you you know
within the context of the Republicans
the Republicans in the Senate right do
you are there a group of people who you
think would be willing to work you know
like let's say Mitch McConnell loses in
2020 or there or a Democrat or a
Democrat president yourself wins are
there some Republicans who are sort of
chafing under this within the Senate who
might be part of some sort of either
bipartisan Senate reform or something
that would like what is there a path
other than just beating all of these
people I think there are some still but
there are many fewer than when I got
there in 2010 because that was the
beginning of the the Tea Party assault
that basically started with Mike Lee
beating bob bennett on and on a Saturday
morning in Utah you know that then led
to Rand Paul that then led to everything
else the cascading thing that has ended
up with bob Corker going away and
what's-her-name coming back in I mean
you know it's the trade has always been
to to more toward the tea party side
than not in the last 10 years still
there are some people though that I
think
would be willing to try to work
particularly if they felt that they were
imperiled politically if they didn't and
and I I'm not I am NOT going into this
deal believing that that we can trust
that that will happen any more than I
you know signed onto the Iran deal
because I thought we could trust what
Iran was gonna do we don't know we don't
have any idea the thing we can do is
control what we can control and what we
control is what our agenda looks like
what our message looks like are we can
we can make an effort to really talk to
America broadly and I think we would
find that if we did that we're running
against a candidate who's actually
really really weak because he's so far
outside of the ideological mainstream of
America that I think he can be beaten we
will end it on that hopeful note let's
do that all right senator Bennet thanks
for joining us here on Fox thanks for
having me I really appreciate it
you
