he's a Democratic candidate for
president and the mayor of New York City
Bill DeBlasio welcome back to the pod
Thank You Josh
you were a guest when we were in
Brooklyn that was I believe our very
first live show it was very cool we had
no idea what we were doing we didn't
know that we needed to have chairs in
advance that there wasn't someone gonna
be in charge of chairs the chairperson
is very important we professionalized
now you're in our studio thank you
you've seen us from the very beginning
now you're here you're running the
biggest city in the country you can
start every day with an edible bagel
you're the first Democratic mayor you're
the first Democratic mayor to be route
to be reelected in New York City since
Edie conch more than 30 years ago and
then a little over your then a little
over a year into your second term you
decide to run for president yep why
because the country is just not working
for a lot of people I mean look it
became clearer and clearer to me even
though we've been they'll make big
changes in New York that we can't make
the changes we need for people all over
this country without a very very
different approach in Washington America
is not working for working people that's
just the bottom line that the government
at this point is captive to the 1% and
to change it is not just a matter of
having good ideas good ideas our crucial
good policy positions are crucial but
understanding how to actually make big
changes and fight the opposition that
comes with that that's what I've been
doing for six years and what I think we
would all agree is one of the toughest
environments in the country and it works
my the approach I've taken is
progressive bold sharp not half-measures
I said we're gonna get pre-k for all our
kids we did that I said we were gonna
give people paid sick leave who didn't
have it we did it I said that folks who
don't have health insurance should have
a guarantee of health care we're doing
that right now
in New York anyone doesn't have health
insurance will have access to a primary
care doctor at our public hospitals and
clinics these are not easy things to do
especially on the scale of a city of
eight point six million people but I've
been doing it and look I look at other
candidates with great appreciation and
admiration but they just have not done
that they have not had to take the ideas
and put them into action so I
running because I believe I could
actually bring these changes to people
so is that you know you share a lot
ideologically with Elizabeth Warren I
think with Bernie Sanders
they have mounted a campaign based
around taking on structural economic
challenges on reefs entering power in
the working class very similar to the
message you're arguing are you is this
an implicit critique of those candidates
that while you share a lot of the same
ideas they don't know how to do what you
know how to do do you do you know I mean
well that that seems to be the the
difference yeah look I I can honestly
admire my colleagues and and Bernie and
Elizabeth are two people i profoundly
admire but also say that I bring a
different set of skills a different
history a different approach and the
issue always is you're talking I mean
you know something about the presidency
this is a job that on one level no one
could be prepared for right but on the
other level you could say that it really
helps to walk through the fire it really
helps to have run something to have gone
through the challenges to taking ideas
put them into practice dealt with the
opposition I mean one of the key things
you learn as a leader is you are
guaranteed a lot of folks are gonna try
and stop you especially if you're trying
to make big changes especially if you're
talling for higher taxes on the wealthy
or you know a real redistribution in
this country a lot of folks very
powerful folks will try and stop you you
got to know how to deal with that and
not just theoretically but from real
life so I argue that hey there's there's
no greater crucible there's no greater
proving ground than New York City the
job is called the second toughest job in
America being mayor in new york city and
as a progressive and i was one of the
folks who i'm very proud of this you
know in the wave of folks who came out
of the post Occupy movement era i was
one of the first to run on a bold
platform that said we have to go at
income inequality just right at the
heart of it we cannot accept a country
with this kind of stratification nor a
city like New York and I was not
supposed to be able to win I was I was a
underdogs underdog but I was really
blunt with people about we had ended up
in a situation that was unacceptable and
change was needed and I was able to
motivate a lot of people to believe that
change could happen
and lo and behold create that momentum
that constituency that energy for actual
change knowing how to do that living
that is a very different reality than
being a legislator and I god bless the
legislators but I bring something
different to the equation why do you
think right now that you know you did
not make the third debate I think you
had a great debate performance little
aggro but it was a but you you you you
major case you've been campaigning in
Iowa there there are a bunch of
candidates who did not make the next
round of debates who said you know what
this is my moment to step aside you're
not doing that it seems to me that if
you're gonna continue in the race you
have to do something different yeah to
make that message reach people are you
thinking about that oh yeah John I think
one part of is it's very interesting
that the opportunities I've had in the
month of August to speak to the American
people directly are far superior to the
opportunities I had before that this
shows a great example on the other a
very very so many people yeah well you
should gonna read just so many so many
people who come a long way since that
humble first appearance in Brooklyn
you bet so but the the every I you know
I went on Hannity as a very explicit act
to go and confront him and challenge you
I thought you did a good job on Hannity
thank you and a lot of people appreciate
the notion of going to the lion's den
and actually speaking to the Fox
listeners and viewers who are not
necessarily lost to Democrats and
progressives on many levels and we
should never separate we should be able
to separate the network from the people
watch it a lot of whom are working
people who want change so what I'm
saying to you is I'm seeing more and
more opportunity to get message across
clearly I got to keep updating the
strategy and I need to get from where
I've been in the polls which bluntly
have been 1% to 2% to be able to get in
those debates so it's a it's a
manageable distance but I keep reminding
folks this thing is so unpredictable I
mean look I think you know in the time
that you were involved with the Obama
world you know that may have been the
last time we saw something that was I
don't want to use a word like normal but
predictable let's say where the rules of
politics had some some we could make
sense of where
in the great unknown now I always say
there is no one who understands American
politics at this point and that means
there's also tremendous opportunity if
someone has a different idea different
approach different history to break
through at any given moment and that
breakthrough could happen in a matter of
days so you know I was actually
listening to some of your ask the mayor
segments yeah and they were fascinating
they're fascinating because as the mayor
of New York you get questions about
sweeping economic changes confronting
the country and about trees putting too
much waste on sidewalks of some holes
pothole
so Newark faces very serious issues
right now it's but there's a public
housing crisis there's a federal monitor
that's been put in charge the homeless
population in charge of monitor and
monitor right the homeless population
remains stubbornly high you're dealing
with a rise in homelessness on the
subways
you've just been handed a report about
gifted and talented programs that's
created a whole new controversy you
passed a measure to basically put a
green new deal in place that's gonna
have it's a massive undertaking yes New
York City is one of the largest
economies in the world the last sitting
New York City Mayor to run for president
was John Lindsay half a century ago
didn't work out well in part because of
blowback he faced from the city for not
doing the job you were in Iowa when
there was a blackout in New York what do
you say to New Yorkers who say we just
gave you a second term you want to run
on your record great but do it when
you're done because this job as you said
is the second hardest job in the country
and you're running for the first while
still trying to do the second so I would
say first of all think about the other
way of interpreting that I'll answer it
but I just want to say there's a flip of
that that's pretty profound right now
New York City
has the most jobs that ever had in its
history we've added half a million jobs
since I became mayor we have the highest
graduation rate we've ever had we just
got test scores that came back highest
we've ever had and proved the impact of
our pre-k program first time we've been
able to show the real numerical proof of
that we are the safest big city in
America crime continues to go down
we've healed a lot of the social fabric
and a lot of the tensions that existed
just
a few years ago particularly between
police and community there are many many
big changes that have happened and I
think the point is I've been able to do
all that and continue to do all that
while running this campaign and raising
important issues of the kinds of changes
we need I think that shows capacity I'm
not I don't want people to miss the fact
that if you are really able to run
something you choose really good people
to do the job you put strong policies in
place and all the things I just
mentioned continue to grow even over the
months as I've been in this campaign now
the things that you mentioned that are
real problems what unites most of the
things you've talked about is decades
and decades that those problems had
built and have bedeviled New York and
other cities public housing and
homelessness are by deviling American
cities everywhere in this country that
does not that's not a cop-out it's just
not as truth and why because the federal
government stepped away from its
commitment to public housing decades ago
starting with Reagan stepped away from
his commitment to affordable housing
that would have been part of how we
would have stopped homelessness things
like section 8 vouchers this has been
going on for a long time we at the local
level have to pick it up and deal with
it now the truth is we've actually
started to drive down the number of
folks in shelter and the number of
people on the street we have real issues
on the subway but we're confronting them
with a whole lot of people and a lot of
energy to address that we're actually
turning around public housing even
though it was left in a horrible
situation for decades we're actually
starting to turn around we have real
visible evidence of improving the
quality of life for people in public
housing we're putting a huge huge
investment into it so I just want to be
clear that every day I wake up and think
about the things I gotta do to make the
city better with that but that can't be
true no well you have to be now spending
time you're thinking about New York but
you're thinking about Iowa you're
thinking about South Carolina right
isn't it just definitionally true if you
decide to run for president while you're
the sitting mayor of New York you are
not devoting all of your attention to
the city of New York there's no question
that if you're running a campaign you
have to put energy into it and attention
into it but I again I don't mean this to
be pretentious but it is true yes I do
wake up every morning in fact start with
a whole slew of emails with a whole
bunch of updates and give instructions
from the very beginning of the day to
the very end of the day because you
actually run some
big and complex that's what you do it
doesn't matter where I am I will be on
the phone with people giving
instructions all the time every day and
also out there expressing what I think
needs to change in this country and why
I think I can do it so the fact is it
takes a whole lot of energy it takes a
whole lot of focus on both but by the
way Prezi United States is more
challenging than what I just described
and more challenging than what any of my
colleagues have gone through so you
better have been able to play at a high
level and dealt with a lot of challenges
and crises and then find a way to move
forward nonetheless I get when people
say we want to see change on a host
issues in our city but for everything
you just mentioned there is a very
specific plan being worked on right now
like weed
right this minute have a plan to
entirely revamp public housing we
announced it last year it's well
underway we have a plan to reduce
homelessness further you go down the
list and they're being acted on each and
every one of them so I get what someone
might say hey you know we want to see
the progress right this minute I get
that but what really matters and your
leader is do you put the right plan in
place you put the right resources on do
you put the right people on it can you
show actual results on a regular basis
the answer is yes on those things so and
and you do have a record Terron right
talk about universal pre-k the green New
Deal ending stop and for us raising the
minimum wage there is a record of
progressive achievement in New York City
that a lot of people say you know I'll
just be honest a lot of people say bill
de blasio doesn't get his due because
people don't like him and we don't
totally understand why that's that's a
common refrain you see you know right
now 75% of New Yorkers said you
shouldn't run for president your your
approval rating right now is underwater
in New York not with everybody in New
York but with a lot of people in New
York what is what is that disconnect to
you think between the record that I
think that you can be proud of and the
sense that people in New York have that
that they're they don't approve of the
job that you're doing what what is what
where you've what is the space between
what you're describing as your
accomplishments and and reaching people
with that message so Jon look first of
all I appreciate what you just said and
that's that's literally why we come here
right to make changes and again there is
there's a contra
diction we have to get to the heart of
here if people just want and I'm not
saying about any individual I'm saying
about the political process if they just
want someone who gives a great speech or
puts forward a great position paper and
has not proven that they can make huge
changes consistently there are plenty of
other folks to choose from right but
there's something strange about the fact
there's almost a preference against the
folks who have done the work this job
the presidency has gotten more complex
with every passing year the challenge is
facing this world starting with global
warming are going to require tremendous
executive capacity ability to move an
agenda to move a whole government to get
people to believe something can happen
differently I've had to do that in
unquestionably one of the toughest
environments in country the most
diversity on earth a place with the
toughest press corps anywhere and a huge
press corps but the interesting question
is what happened like what actually
happened not what did the poll numbers
show at any given moment or what do
people talk about the cocktail parties
or what who commentators talk about but
what actually happened were we able to
get that agenda done
thank you you just delineated too many
good people out there listening that
massive changes that happened in New
York in a way that's happened almost
nowhere else
so I argue to you first
the getting things done part is what
people yearn for they actually don't
want the noise and the punditry and the
what does the poll say today versus
three weeks from now they want to know
can you actually do something for you um
and I I'll tell you in the early States
particularly Iowa New Hampshire where
you know people are like professional
interviewers like everyday citizens are
amazingly good at vetting candidates
they value proof but then the other side
equation is you're everything you said I
understand why you say it but you opened
with something very important first
Democratic mayor reelected in New York
since the 1980s mm-hmm the initial
election I won was 73 percent after four
years of being you know asked all the
tough questions and put through all the
challenges I won re-election with 67%
which any elected official America would
be very happy
have those numbers so the polls I don't
get lost in the polls because boy have I
been down in polls before especially
2013 election anyone with any common
sense would have looked at where I was
in the spring of 2013 and said this guy
has no chance in hell of being mayor in
New York City until the message got
through and the world changed
and so I just don't get lost in the
noise I'm like when I talk to people in
neighborhoods around the city and I have
done 65 town hall meetings in New York
City and I always say I represent eight
point six million highly opinionated
people so if you spend hours out there
like let it fly everybody you're going
to hear a lot of stuff in the end I
think New Yorkers very consistently
understand what these changes are and
appreciate them doesn't mean they don't
have a gripe it doesn't mean they don't
want to see something be different but
talk to people about like talk to
parents who got pre-k for free and how
it changed their lives I talked to folks
got paid sick days who now can actually
go to the doctor and not lose a day's
pay talk to folks now who are getting a
primary care doctor for whatever they
can afford who used to not have any
option because I didn't have health
insurance I mean you talked to people
who were being left out or couldn't take
you know the take care of the kids the
way they wanted to have given the start
they wanted to and now they're getting
it it actually starts to do that much
bigger thing that every progressive
should have on their mind which is
restoring faith that government can be a
force for good because I say the right
wing's done a hell of a good job trying
to undermine faith that government could
be positive and productive and effective
and connected to people but if you talk
to someone who their life changed
because their child got something they
never would have gotten otherwise that
person starts to believe that we can
actually move forward and that's what
I'm proud of so let's talk about
government as a force for good and how
you kind of balance the practical
concerns of governing with the desire to
to show people a different a different a
different way of running a city of
running a country ones like with the
Eric garner case the officer involved
was fired this month you know what I
want to put aside the debate about
whether the city had to wait on the
Justice Department before moving ahead I
know that that's
what you say is the case how do you
navigate the politics of law enforcement
when there's so much distrust on all
sides and what do you use as your
guideposts in these kinds of situations
there have been issues where you've
weighed in and stepped into the fray
there's issues where you've where you've
waited and held back this was one of
those five years later and it does seem
at this moment that with the firing of
that officer there is now acrimony and
dissatisfaction on both sides which was
maybe inevitable but is there is there a
lesson you learned here about what the
mayor's role is in these kinds of public
crises so I'm gonna start with is the
agenda actually working which is where I
start everything so you know it's
interesting the the public debate the
discourse to some extent is inherently
disconnected from everyday people on the
ground when I ran I said we had to get
rid of stop and frisk which was a
horrible unconstitutional approach that
was being used there was a massive
disconnect between the NYPD and families
all over communities of color in this
city and I want to get real visceral
here John
I talked to parents I talked to
grandparents and they would just tell me
how angry they were that they did
everything in you know everything they
knew how to do to bring up children to
give them self-confidence to love them
to give them self-esteem and then for
doing absolutely nothing their young men
of color were being stopped by police
regularly regularly kids who are doing
everything right and it was ultimately a
orrible blow to a lot of these kids in
their sense of security and self-esteem
and hope and I said from the beginning
we were going to change that and the a
lot of the kind of commentary class and
a lot of the old guard said if you
change a policy like that there would be
a return to the bad old days there would
be chaos there would be more crime etc
we managed to show and this is crucial
for the whole national discussion six
years crime has gone down in New York
City because we got rid of those very
invasive aggressive unnecessary
strategies last year in New York City
a hundred fifty thousand fewer arrests
than five years earlier and we got safer
which is not only about the right way to
police but I'm sure we all care about
mass incarceration - you want to end
mass incarceration stop arresting people
who don't need to be arrested to begin
with now I'm not talking theory and I'm
not talking like we did this in some
small university town if we did this in
the biggest city in the country and
proved that you could do something very
very different so when I look at that
it's a great question you're asking like
how do you move the levers and when do
you weigh in intensely and when do you
hang back my mission for the game based
on hearing people hearing their anguish
over what had been and their hope for a
very different Society was that we could
actually construct a world with a with a
vision of neighborhood policing which is
all about building personal
relationships between officers and
community members and keeping police
officers in the same community and just
disrupting the entire model before which
was like Outsiders come in to your
community to protect you and then move
on and don't have a connection and don't
feel they're part of the community in
the community doesn't feel part of them
we rework that entire Pro to Erie
trained our entire police force in
neighborhood policing in de-escalation
of conflict in implicit bias all of the
things that have made it possible to not
have another tragedy like what happened
with Eric garner it's an entirely
different police force today so when you
ask the question what was I thinking all
along I was thinking about how we get to
that place where there would not be
another tragedy because the whole
structure had changed the whole idea had
changed and well we could keep the city
safe because look I say this as a
progressive and and progressives have to
be very humble about some of the times
in the past where we had really good
intentions and missed reality my job was
to keep people safe and to prove there
was a progressive way to do it and a
just way to do it and that safety and
fairness could walk hand in hand for six
years we'd done it there are specific
things where you say hey it's it's so
important to weigh in and speak up and
make a change and yes accept the
opposition I'm never surprised by the
opposition and there's other times when
you say
we have a reality here that we have to
honor and that's what I felt with the
Justice Department and that's what I
felt about the trial that just happened
NYPD where if I had spoken up the wrong
way the wrong time it actually would
have undermined that trial and that
result and made it potentially something
that could be challenged and overturned
in court I'll tell you something here's
here's the kicker that's being missed
entirely the Justice Department under
two administration's literally didn't
act they waited to the very last day
then they said they were not gonna act
they did nothing the DEA in the case
found there was no reason for even a
trial which was impossible for people to
understand how there wasn't at least
gonna be an airing of the facts when was
the only time that there was actually a
public trial and an airing it was when
the NYPD did its own internal trial and
then an NYPD judge said guilty followed
by the first type of Commissioner
followed by the Commissioner that was
not something you would have conceived
of happening not so long ago in New York
City or a lot of other American cities
and it took a lot of painstaking change
to get to the point where there's a just
process and and now I think people can
see is we you know our job is to make
sure there's never never ever another
tragedy I mean it I literally believe
it's possible that we would never have
another tragedy because of the kinds of
changes were making but if there ever
were one for the first time people have
been shown they can have faith that even
the internal process NYPD is just that
that changes society when people can
feel that you know it's not a police
department it's other than us are
different or separated it's actually
part of us now that's what I sought to
do I want to talk about again I want to
move I want to move into what you would
do as president but I think it's helping
to understand what you've been doing as
mayor can I
I wonder what Amazon and I want to ask a
question to sort of as a as a layman who
just was observing it from the outside
and I'm curious if you think that what
I'm describing is right it seemed to me
that there was a deal to get Amazon to
come to New York it was a deal that
would have been good for the New York
economy there were some downsides there
were activists raising very legitimate
concerns and that nobody really knew
that Amazon was at risk of leaving and
so
everyone just sort of said take your
shots make your points let's see if we
can get some changes we'll hang back
I don't you you don't as mayor you don't
want to get in that fray you want to you
want to kind of have the deal go through
while not pissing off the activists and
then all of a sudden amazon says we're
out and then you and the governor
realized this was far more dire than we
then we realized you publish an op-ed
criticizing Amazon reframing the debate
but really what happened was nobody
understood that a deal that was really
important to the growth of the New York
economy was this much at risk and if it
was you might have done more you might
have stepped in earlier might have said
something is that right I think you're
very much in the ballpark look I think
the I like to always say when I think I
miss something and what I missed was the
very beginning
meaning we accepted the terms of this
national competition and I think that
was a mistake
because now having lived through it and
seen the injustice of it I mean you know
every city in America every state will
tell you how unjust it is that there's
this constant race to the bottom fight
with each other for jobs it's a tax
breaks not appropriate it is wrong so I
had no illusion about that but I I think
this is something I look back on with
frustration you know I thought this was
a company that if they made a commitment
would keep their commitment I thought
the very fact that it was such a big
competition would give them even more
reason to keep their commitment right
and so I felt from the beginning New
York had an extraordinarily strong hand
to play and like okay we'll compete with
other folks and we think we'll win and
we think in the end they'll keep their
commitment it's not even a thought to
the core of your question no one for a
second thought hey wait a minute these
guys may make a big public announcement
sitting next to us and then pull out X
number of weeks later right that wasn't
inconceivable but what I should have
seen is you know we in New York had
something very very particular to offer
and we could have had just a really
clear message them if you want to
negotiate with us come to go she ate
with us but we're not gonna sort of be
part of this bigger circle so that's
point one but then to your other points
I would say you know I spent all
time making the case I respected the
activists some of them are people I feel
very close to but I really thought they
were missing the core point which was it
was the ultimate package was over twenty
billion dollars in public revenue for
city and state which for everything we
as progressives want to do you know
public education mass transit affordable
housing like you need money for that
it was a huge amount of money to help us
move a progressive agenda and it was a
ridiculous number of jobs I mean it
would've been the single biggest
economic development deal ever as 25,000
jobs minimum as high as 40,000 so it
didn't surprise me and never surprised
me in New York or the folks in immediate
area don't want change
okay that's legitimate they want to they
have concerns they want to argue for
what they need to mitigate the impact
that's fair but it became this bigger
thing where no matter how many times and
I said it a bunch of times I have guys
this is a huge amount of money we need
for stuff we need and jobs and jobs for
working people and jobs for folks who
live in public housing biggest public
housing development in North America was
down the street from this and we were
going to bond that development to Amazon
and create a stream of jobs directly
folks young people coming out of our
city university system really would have
benefited from those jobs so I thought
by constantly reiterating the value and
the public polling showed by the way the
clear majority of New Yorkers
particularly working-class New Yorkers
and people of color wanted it so I
thought this is the part of your
analysis I think is spot on there would
be noise there would be drama welcome to
New York City you know it would keep
going
but in the end you know when you have me
and the governor agree which is not
always an everyday occurrence and the
entire framework was all set up and
everyone and explain that to Amazon and
they made a public announcement like I
could not believe my ears when I got the
call saying they're pulling out no
discussion no negotiation just pulling
out and so no I I wish we had engineered
the entire discussion differently from
the beginning and I think there were
some things I mean I obviously wish I
had been even more explicit about the
benefits but I don't think the folks who
were against it
some of its very very local I don't
think if I you know
to explain 100 times over will
necessarily change that and some of it
was very ideological folks who don't
like Amazon's a company which I
understand and folks who don't want to
see the government funded by private
sector investment and needing that tax
revenue which I totally emotionally get
but I'm like focuses we gotta be real as
progressives who want to change the
world until we have a very different
federal government if you don't have
revenue coming out of these kind of
economic development actions how the
hell are we gonna create you know
economic justice how the hell are we
going to reach the people who want to
reach it and let's be blunt why are the
working-class people and people of color
overwhelming we want Amazon because they
understood it could improve their lives
a lot of folks who opposed it didn't
have to deal with same low same
struggles and it was a more abstract
discussion for them but I live in a real
world I mean the people elected me you
know the working-class in New York City
elected me and they expected me to do
things that would actually reach them
not just you know pretty pictures like
things who would actually reach them and
I think it was a huge lost opportunity
but no Amazon stunned us all and it was
highly irresponsible and by the way if
you talk about why people are pissed off
at corporate America here's your poster
child so that walking away was entirely
unfair to the city so so you wish that
there had been a different process from
the start one that wasn't part of this
trend of corporations sort of pitting
cities against each other getting
incredible dispensations for the
privilege of having them come to the
city but that aside you still wanted the
deal that was made to go through oh yeah
do you wish you had been as forceful as
you are now in defending the deal oh I
was no yeah I can get you the many many
you know broadcast that isn't critical
that criticism but again this perception
reality game of everything in public
life but particularly in my dear city I
can show you so many instances where I
made the exact arguments that I just
shared with you about why we needed this
and look I agree if you had called me up
in the middle of and said hey in two
weeks they're gonna pull out I would
have gone on a barnstorming tour to be
even more intense and overt about it but
I made the case constantly
and the polling showed that people got
it and so I you know maybe there is a
conventionality problem of you know we
all think we're living in the world that
we came from and the world is changing
intensely here was a deal that was done
announced had public support had a very
narrow pocket of opposition in the
scheme of things and by any normal
measure like and it was clear what the
benefits were and yeah if you don't like
Amazon you don't like Amazon but that
didn't stop the benefits from being real
even a lot of folks in labor who didn't
like Amazon agreed with something else I
said publicly which is if Amazon was in
the New York environment they were going
to have to deal with the New York
reality a pro-labor City a progressive
City a city with a government that
demanded a lot of countability
and social responsibility so yeah you
know this one is just perverse to me
honestly like I don't think anyone could
have it's it's like the election of
Donald Trump and then some like
literally no one had even the idea that
they might walk away and now is New York
City gonna you know fall into the Hudson
River because Amazon walked away no we
have over 4.5 million jobs right now in
New York we're very very strong
economically we're gonna be fine in fact
the rest of the tech community is
growing constantly so we're gonna be
fine but it is an interesting lesson in
how we disrupt this race to the bottom
so what I came out of this feeling was
one no more national competitions to
there needs to be legislation in
Washington to limit literally put a
legal limit on how much a company can
ask of a state or locality in terms of
any subsidies tax breaks whatever we got
we have to set the rules you know we
know our history when there's
progressive governance in this country
and and Franklin Delano Roosevelt the
great exemplar of this change the entire
you know all the rules of game about how
the private sector had to relate to
unions and working people and what they
could and could not do in the
glass-steagall Act we have to remember
that actually these rules are really
movable and so there should be a rule
that bans this practice as sort of
forcing communities to do untenable
things because you can't believe a
community that wants the jobs you can't
leymah community wants the tax revenue
is part of like actually running
something gets back to the point from
before if you're running something you
know every day I'm thinking about how
can I do more and where am I gonna get
the money to pay for it this is like
literally a constant conversation like
one of the things we're doing next where
what we did with pre-k we're gonna do
the same for three-year-olds but we're
going to be the place that on the
biggest scale in the history of this
country is going to provide every
three-year-old with early childhood
education for free it's gonna
revolutionize education in New York it's
going to change the whole discussion
this country when we show how much can
be done with early childhood education
cost a lot of money so when we were
thinking Amazon we were thinking things
like that and every city in town in
America is thinking of things like that
when they're trying to deal with a
company but the rules the game must
change so let's talk about that mean
presents about setting priorities what
what are what would be your number one
priority what would what could you do as
president to help that there's a
president right now who is on your side
will be the policy that we most helpful
for you as mayor to to help the people
of New York that you're not currently
getting okay you asked you two different
questions yes so let me just do the what
would help right now a national
infrastructure plan that included public
housing so right now we are just putting
billions in in my time as mayor I put
six billion dollars into public housing
in a city that used to put nothing into
public housing in terms of having to pay
out of our own budget so I'm doing that
because we have to help the four hundred
thousand people live in public housing
and the federal government's walked away
I'm putting huge amount of the biggest
capital budget the city's ever had
because we have to fix our roads and
bridges you know the things that used to
be a federal priority there this is
happening every city every town every
state and we can't keep up with it one
of the things that I actually I'm in it
I mean curious about you know we see
this trend it's it's not a New York
trend it's a national trend that
building infrastructure roads subway
projects tunnel projects they're
incredibly expensive they're more
expensive here than anywhere else in the
world Chris Christie cancels the arc
tunnel blames costs one of the most one
of the great derelictions of duty
exactly of any leader in a long time
at the state level and yet
we have this problem of the rising cost
of infrastructure what have you learned
in managing these projects to explain
why it costs two times three times as
much to build a mile of tunnel and say
the US or a mile of bridge in the US
versus Europe where they have Labor
Standards where they have environmental
standards okay first I would say what
we're also learning is there are a lot
of ways to start saving money and we've
been doing that and having some success
at that and so I don't think it's sort
of a fixed reality right bluntly some of
those higher costs in this country I've
been just really really bad approaches
and public authorities that weren't
particularly efficient and weren't
particularly accountable and until
recently that was certainly true of the
MTA in New York City where the
accountability literally no one knew no
one was sure until recently who was
actually in charge of the subways and
buses in New York City and one good
thing that's happened the last few years
is it's been made very clear the state
of New York has that responsibility and
then lo and behold once responsibility
was finally assigned a bunch of stuff
started to happen and that's good but we
have found that we've been changing a
lot of the approach saving a lot money
speeding up the process I would say
there's three things yes and I believe
in labor
I believe in organized labor but yeah
there is cost when you when you work
with labor
I think the environmental dynamics here
I can't compare them to Europe but I can
say they're very very intensive and and
time-consuming and I think the just
illegal dynamics across the board there
are so many areas where we could go
faster and do things better if we could
clean up some of the laws that stand
away of it that are not about safety and
health that are just arcane some of that
starting to happen in New York that's a
good thing but I know I'm not hopeless
about the ability to build big things
and do it faster going forward I think
the problem is we're out of practice I
mean the second Avenue subway finally
got built New York after decades decades
decades right and it was like a pretty
short it's yeah doesn't go that far
it's a few stops so you know we need to
get into a place for our survival
literally first and foremost surviving
global warming and
having resiliency vision a strategic
vision from the federal government is
literally non-existent there's no policy
stop global warming there's no
resiliency policy but there's also no
national infrastructure policy when you
start to invest on a really huge level
which is what we need you exercise the
muscle and you have an imperative one of
the things I learned with all the big
things we've done is we put really
rigorous timelines out weep for example
this is infrastructure affordable
housing we put together the biggest
affordable housing initiative in history
New York City it was going to be 200
thousand apartments people said it was
crazy it was over ambitious we got it
moving so well that it was literally
ahead of schedule and on budget we added
a hundred thousand more apartments the
ambition actually drives action and
effectiveness and efficiency but one of
the things I found I'm proud of is that
we would purposely put ourselves on a
limb we would purposely put a target on
back we say here's a big bold goal we're
gonna do pre-k for all in two years we
were gonna do 200,000 apartments in ten
years and all of these things force to
action and force change forced
innovation so what bluntly a lot of
politicians do is the opposite they try
and do really amorphous goals and try
and avoid accountability and
bureaucracies respond accordingly right
so I think the exciting idea and this is
what this election should be all about
is like really bold ideas that force
action on the level we haven't seen
before so to your other point you look
to me global warming's existential
crisis there we know from implementing
the green New Deal already in New York
City we literally passed a law the
toughest standards for buildings
anywhere on the earth on the earth and
there was a human cry for the real
estate industry but you know what we
passed it it's moving it's going to
force a whole host of changes in how
people build buildings and run their
buildings and save a huge amount of
energy and stop a whole lot of emissions
right we're putting up electric vehicle
charging stations all over New York City
we're not waiting for the federal
government we're not asking the private
sector to do it because they weren't
going to do it we're doing ourselves to
help make it easier for people in the
electric cars all of our city government
energy is going to be all electricity
will be renewable in the next five years
right we're doing things right now and
this is to me
my job one of course address global
warming with the aggressiveness that the
green new deal calls for and then I
think to me the second the sort of core
economic mission which typifies
everything I've been trying to do in New
York but this is what I want to do for
working people in the country just
rewrite the rules of the game for
working people so it's $15 minimum wage
its benefits like paid sick leave and
paid family leave it's going to the
heart of the matter on taxation which is
you know literally I have a plan I'm
gonna say to all your listeners go to
Bill DeBlasio calm and look it up it is
the most aggressive going in there's one
just mark it it's the most aggressive
tax plan of any of the candidates so I
want to talk about that because it is
the most aggressive tax matter of of the
candidates but when I when I saw the
plan I what struck me is that it looks
like Elizabeth Warren's plan but you
just move the numbers down you know
Elizabeth Warren rolls out a wealth tax
that you know kicks in at 1% 2% 3% and
it seems like your plan is just very
similar it just is a little bit more
aggressive when those numbers well and
it's I think the world of Elizabeth and
I'm very happy she put forward a plan
but I I would argue to you that the
question is who's willing to go the
farthest but but I know but there's like
your significance because a well tax is
already a massive transform
transformative new policy and to say
okay there's a wish you know Elizabeth
Warren proposes wealth tax well I have
well tax point I might 1.5 well X I get
what you're saying but I want to make
the argument clearly my tax plan so
let's just go to the sure income tax
element of them hmm seventy percent 70
percent level when you get above two
million and that includes I very much
envision I think all Democrats do
repealing the Trump tax cuts for the
wealthy and corporations and putting
back deductibility for state and local
taxes which is something I think was
fair and needs to be restored well you
have to be for that no I believe in that
I really believe in that I believe in it
for the whole country so the that tax
level was the tax level during the
Eisenhower administration mm-hmm
so one no I believe I actually marked my
plan to what I thought historically
worked and was proven and what did you
see then a huge amount of investment in
the country infrastructure education
higher education science research that
was the heyday 50s into 60s you saw a
much greater sharing of prosperity you
saw CEO pay not as crazily out of whack
which also I try to address in my plan
so no I'm arguing that we actually know
the kind of tax level that works and we
should be willing to defend it to people
in this country most Americans would
like to see across the ideological
spectrum would like to see much higher
taxes on the wealthy I wanna stop with
the same level deduction only because I
I think it's an interesting place where
you know because progressives have been
located in places on high tax places we
support this policy and but but the
criticism would be hold on a second we
talked about a lot about wanting to
invest in rural parts of the country
grow rural parts of the country right
now a state and local deduction is
basically a subsidy from the federal
government to help people afford the tax
base in more expensive parts of the
country wouldn't if your goal was to say
I'm not just gonna be a representative
of New York City I'm gonna I'm gonna
work for the rural places places
Democrats have lost wouldn't one of the
things you want to do too would be to
not have an advantage that makes it a
little that that uh creates an incentive
to live in the places that are already
growing already thriving New York City
or the economy is growing you rural
parts of the country and our state of
permanent permanent kind of recession
right there struggling isn't in the same
local deductions it just strikes me as a
place where Democrats just they're just
for it because it's good for their
constituents I for that reason young
people in California want the state and
local deduction as well okay first I
would I understand and I wouldn't even
call a cynical question I understand
what you're coming from you know looking
at what you see is underlying dynamics I
would remind you this is something that
existed for over a hundred years and was
you know there is still a place for
bipartisan consensus and it was a
bipartisan consensus so was not just
about
the politics of red and blue and you
know this moment in history it was there
for a long time and we have this wacky
crazy federal system of ours where in
fact a huge amount of what actually
reaches people in their lives is local
government and state government and each
place deciding what they want in that
really matters so I will say in a place
where I'm proud that we provide a whole
lot of support for working people like
that's what we do in New York and and
also been able to innovate a lot of the
changes that are working in other parts
of the country as well know if if you
actually believe in the noble role of
government you actually believe that the
local levels where a lot of change will
happen even under the most progressive
administration no starving local
government state governor resources to
me is backward under any scenario now I
think you're making an excellent point
about rural America and particularly as
a Democrat again I'm try to be grounded
in history you know Democrats for
decades had a rural urban Alliance and
it was based on progressive populist
economic policies and it was based on
things that actually reached rural
America as well and I think that's what
we have to go back to which is where I
think the high taxation on the federal
level allows you the resources to start
doing that one of the things you know
obviously I'm passionate about early
childhood education it is a big deal in
New York it's a much bigger deal in
rural America where folks have seen
their school districts changing their
schools consolidated you know less and
less opportunity to stay and thrive same
with health care hospitals closing these
are all things the federal government
could actually address it it had the
resources and the will but so I think
morally we owe it to rural America to
show investment but also politically I
mean shame on Democrats had turned her
back on rural America right it didn't
have to be that way and it wasn't our
history and I saw I don't see a
dichotomy as saying I want to be fair to
the places that had this deduction and
allowed them to do a lot of good for
people because we still have a long way
to go to create a society it's fair to
work on people
there's no dichotomy between that and
actually being able to serve rural
America if we're willing to tax the
wealthy on the level they need to be so
let's talk about you talk about hospital
clothing closing on healthcare your
Medicare for all mm-hmm
there are a few plans there's Bernie's
plan Kamala Harris put out a plan that
involves kind of a the ability to choose
among several that are public private
options what what is your health care
policy support Medicare for all but I
don't believe you've put out you have
the final the final plan is coming out
soon and one of the things I want to
address which needs to be bluntly
discussed at this point is sort of the
the sequencing of the phasing in of it
because it's not gonna happen over time
again I run a huge operation and anyone
who says I will grab Medicare for all we
have single-payer you know in four years
or something I don't buy that in any way
shape or form these are massive changes
in re-engineering I mean look what so
you don't think that the Bernie plan can
work it's not a time frame no no I think
the world of Bernie but I just that's
not again this is a difference of god
less legislators but if you run big
things you know the amount of time that
things take it's going to take a longer
period of time to be able to go through
the phases I mean look the fight over
Obamacare reminds us of how contentious
this stuff can be and thank God
Obamacare was passed and it's made a
huge difference but I always say we
should start the discussion from an
aspirational place I mean this really
this is being missed in the discussion
what is the state of health care in
America and what should it be so I
representing point six million people a
lot of them happen to have health
insurance are unionized I got six
hundred thousand people who don't have
any health insurance so most of people I
talk to have health insurance are they
telling me how wonderful their lives are
no they're telling me all the things
they can't get and all the frustrations
they face mental health care which is
finally being given the respect it
deserves in our public debate is very
very hard to access with the vast
majority of insurance plans dental care
is like the great American white whale
right and like trying to get affordable
dental care in America is like this
mythology why is it not a matter of
public policy to crack that code right a
huge number of people have health care
plans that hit them like over a head
with a two-by-four with the deductibles
that really really stress people and
cause people to not get health care they
need because they can't handle the
deductibles there's always the danger of
a serious disease that can bankrupt a
family
I mean this is not yeah this is not
greatest nation on earth kind of stuff
this is not what we should be aspiring
to so the question and I'm gonna do this
in my plan is say okay what is the end
of the rainbow where you actually could
have truly universal health care it's a
single-payer system it has been proven
in countries around the world that's
what we have to get to are we getting
there in four years no are we getting
there in one jump no we're gonna have to
go through a series of steps and I'm
gonna try and delineate that in the
coming weeks including respect and this
is something my brothers and sisters and
labor of raise and I hear it very loud
and clear folks fought fought fought for
these better health care plans than they
used to have they don't want to see them
wiped away I save a hundred percent so
let's let's be clear that any
single-payer plan would have to show
tangibly that it's better in practice
than the plans that labor unions have
achieved when that day comes is the time
for a transition and then the good side
and a lot of folks in labor understand
this is if their members actually could
get universal health care through a
public system it would take that issue
out of the labor bargaining table and
actually strengthen the handle labor in
many ways but I want to be honest about
the fact that this will take stages but
what I'm trying to be really blunt and
this is where I think the debate has to
know is short of a single-payer system a
profit-driven
system involving private insurance
companies will inherently shortchange
people of healthcare and limit access to
health care so this is where this debate
has turned during this during the
primary and that's important about the
transition about why about about the
failings of the private private system
and and you know I talked about this
with with Kirsten Gillibrand before she
dropped out a lot of candidates have
talked about this transition and and it
seems to me what you just described is
the private system actually doesn't work
really well
we're gonna have a public system that
does everything the private system does
and I want that I think that's a good
thing but it'll it'll ides the actual
problem which is and and and it's a
political problem so I understand why
this isn't getting the attention
deserves which is at some point either
your plan tells someone they cannot have
their private insurance anymore and they
have to switch to a Medicare option
which will
ideally have better benefits right but
it's it's still rooted in making that
case to a person why they should want to
switch as opposed to explaining why it
is necessary to switch like the
distinction there
yeah maybe try and answer and see if I'm
hitting the point so look we are a
country with a strong individualist
tradition and every progressive every
Democrat should be very clear about we
believe in freedom we believe in given
people a lot of choice but we also have
to be honest when we're looking in the
face of failure on a massive scale and
this is healthcare in America today
there are so many people who are
unhealthy and it's all about economics
it's just that's just the truth and it
is particularly hurting seniors
obviously lower-income folks but its way
into the working class of middle class
as well honestly speaking and the
catastrophic dynamic is absolutely
positively unaccounted for a lot of
people who would approve their health
care but have no idea that if they were
to have a massive emergency
they certainly they would discover they
have a hundred thousand bankrupt because
of the bills bankrupt that is not
consistent with a notion of a government
that protects people and this is where I
think we have to come to grips it in
this debate where are we trying to go if
I said to you I'm gonna talk about
public safety you're gonna be safe a lot
of the time John you know my pledge to
you is most of the time you'll be safe
mmm-hmm you know sometimes you might be
really unsafe and you know I'll send you
flowers then when that happens but most
of the time you're going to say you'd
think it was laughable you think it was
disgusting so with Public Safety we say
our job is to protect everyone all the
time if I said to with the military you
know we're gonna protect our nation
eighty percent of the time but the other
twenty percent you know will rebuild
afterwards you would say I was out of my
mind so why is it with health care we
accept the notion I'm talking tens of
millions of families a huge swath of
country and not just poor people and
bluntly if we could
back and do the entire discussion over
again what Hillary tried to nobley do in
1993 what Obama did achieve but
obviously with huge costs in the you
know political costs and otherwise it
got painted by our opponents as oh this
is just for poor people right this has
to be an entirely different discussion
yeah we care about folks who are lower
income what I'm talking about is for
working-class people in middle class
people who right now their health care
is not working for them and I start with
mental health and this is what my wife's
rellenas focused her efforts on New York
City and to really help me get educate
about this do you know example Iowa in
the last election last year November the
Mental Health ranked number one or
number two as the issues in the state of
Iowa among voters in assistant polls by
the Des Moines Register why because the
Republican governors in Iowa had cut
back mental health services so much so
that rural communities literally had
nowhere to turn
god forbid someone had a mental health
challenge or you know it was a depressed
substance misuse problem there was
nowhere to get help and in all other
communities they were seeing us at those
cutbacks and particularly in a smaller
state and a state with a great sense of
community everybody knew someone who
couldn't get mental health care this is
what Iowans have told me why it became
such a huge issue because they felt that
they felt things becoming unstable it
felt like there wasn't a place to turn
so this is the whole country when it
comes to our health insurance system so
there's one massive problem we're
dealing with the opioid crisis we're
dealing with a mental health crisis one
in five Americans has a mental health
challenge and yet our health insurance
system does not even begin to address
those and then you go on to physical
health care a whole host of things where
you can't get the level of care you need
and then that catastrophic danger
looming for a vast swath of American
families so we're now talking about a
big American majority and we need to
talk about this from the perspective of
that big American majority where are we
trying to go we should be trying to go
to a health care system that keeps
people healthy from jump right from the
moment you have a problem you know where
to go you do not have to worry about the
cost in going there you get help early
not later you don't put off you don't
rash and I mean these stories about
seniors choosing how much insulin to
take
you know because they have to pay the
rent that's happened in America all the
time these are not just and again I am
deeply committed to helping low income
folks but the folks I'm describing right
now these seniors are folks who saw that
came out of the working class middle
class and on fixed incomes and I'm
talking about millions of people that's
not acceptable so we should not be
losing a fight about human decency we
should be honest that it's not gonna be
a panacea that happens overnight that's
going to take a lot of work a lot of
transition and bluntly we have the
cynicism about government and that cuts
back to those labor union health plans
for example I don't think it's unfair to
show people that we've got something
better and it's actually functioning
before people give up what they have
like that kind of phasing in and show me
prove it to me actually could be the
thing that gives people the comfort to
make the move and that'll take time but
I hope we come out of this election
decided as a nation that this status quo
is unacceptable I want to talk about
something which is that you're a Red Sox
fan yes I was abrupt segue well I was
just check-in the clock okay uh that
speaks to a kind of stubbornness to me
which is that you are you were royalty
I'm gonna call it stubbornness you're
the mayor of monarchs I believe I said
seven Oh
the mayor of New York City you are a fan
of the Red Sox yes what the
thank you for asking such an insightful
question John it just seems like okay
truly like like but it gets out what
words you get that a serious question
which it's there does seem to be a kind
of daring people to be mad at you
John daring people to choose me over a
bunch of the candidates they could have
chosen and I said from the beginning hey
my family moved to Massachusetts when I
was I don't I want your I want your vast
you had the mayor of new audience to
hear this I grew up with the team I love
the team I'm a really huge baseball fan
and I said to the people New York City
this is just who I am take it or leave
it and they and they took it they take
it lightly
no hold on what is this part of voting
that you don't understand they
had a chance to choose a whole bunch of
the candidates who are not Red Sox fans
I'm not saying it stopped you from being
the mayor but you are mayor but in a big
way
yeah I'm saying I won the primary
without a runoff
I got 73% of general election i won
reelection or 67% could have been more
okay that would have been nice miss if
you don't know we don't know what this
guy's here's the thing I actually heard
this from people I heard it from a lot
of baseball fans who are like I couldn't
change my team any you know anyway I
couldn't do it either mm-hmm I would
have done the same thing you did if
you're actually a baseball fan and I am
but the second thing I heard from some
people is was Wow well you're not doing
that for political advantage so maybe
there's some integrity there I have one
more this has just been on my mind I've
wanted to ask you about it this thing
with Cuomo
you guys seem to be it seems like a very
old-fashioned feud in a way that I
really like as a gay Jewish New Yorker
there's a pettiness that I admire about
it and I admire that despite the fact
that it might be in both of your
interests as leaders to get over it you
seem like you can't like you truly have
a wall between the two of you that seems
rooted in genuine pain what what is that
pain Wow
but it's it's personal and if it's
pretty--it's you know they used to say
oh Obama and McConnell they should just
get a drink but but there were
structural reasons as we have seen in
recent years that would prevent these
two people from working together you're
two democrats who run to democratic
states who oversee a lot of the same
issues together and yet there's a lot of
potshots a lot of negativity going back
and forth people in New York think it
hurts the city that's a serious question
but but it all does seem to be a quite
personal thing when is is there any hope
for a for a for a for comedy for a for a
for no there's been plenty economy if it
was a serious comedy when John the
rivalry is genuinely hilarious for more
comedy I mean you guys don't miss a
chance little jokes little digs real
disagreements what's what's going on
well I honestly believe you're painting
a little bit more of a dire picture than
the reality I'll tell you why so you
just talked about Amazon and we talked
during that time on the lead up to it we
we
had to coordinate in a huge way to get
to that deal we were absolutely in
agreement on it and then we went and
defended it together and that was a big
big deal
we just passed congestion pricing plan
and I want to be honest I was a
congestion pricing doubter for a lot of
reasons to his credit we worked together
we actually addressed a lot of the
things that caused my doubt which was
about fairness particularly the outer
boroughs in New York City we got to a
plan that I thought made a lot of sense
and was going to fund the MTA properly
we promoted it together that's what
broke the back on this issue is when you
know both of us came together and said
this is something we're both going to
fight for and we did and we want so
there's too many times we disagree the
notion that you could both be Democrats
and disagree with something is not a
shocker and there's a philosophical
differences look I think it's fair to
say he comes out of a more pro-business
and more moderate world view I come out
of a more progressive world view that's
okay but we still work together our
teams work together all the time and so
yeah they're human factors of course as
human factors but here's a very I think
I started heart of the matter thing
you're looking at the digs and
everything right and yeah I see them
sometimes you see do them sometimes I do
them sometimes maybe you see them when
you say this see them when they come out
of your face and into the world but I
think the fact is that stuff pales in
comparison to the work and so there's
almost a perception versus reality the
you and Governor Cuomo work really well
together no we work well when we agree
on a vision because then we get it done
and look congestion pricing was not an
easy thing to get done but we got it
done and we both worked real hard at but
here's the thing I disagree with this
like okay we're human beings we have
some disagreements sometimes it breaks
out in the open where is the thing that
is not getting done that we could do
together well sometimes there are things
we don't agree on so it's not about what
if we were the most incredibly polite
people in the world but we just still
didn't agree on a policy vision I ain't
changing the reality what one thing
people would point to right is that the
MTA has a unique role being funded by
both the city and the state being kind
of a jury rigged
process that requires both your
leadership and the governor's leadership
and that maybe if you guys saw
eye-to-eye more had a better texting
dynamic things might be working better
no let's be let's break it down a little
further we had to and this this is how
change happens this is literally I hope
some day they will study this the MTA
was created to leave no one accountable
this is a fact it was created so that
they could get fare increases through
and things done without anyone knowing
does a city run it there's a state
runner who runs it right so I used to
have town hall meetings at the beginning
of my administration I would ask people
you know show of hands 200-300 people
who runs the MTA about a third would say
the governor about a third would say the
mayor and a third would say we don't
know mm-hmm and they were right and they
were right about no one knew because it
was not that you know you could see the
reality but was not portrayed publicly
in a real way so I push very hard for
the truth and it is the truth to come
out the state of New York runs the MTA
dominates the MTA chooses the head of
the MTA chooses the budget for the MTA
it's just it's a federal complete and I
push this very very hard and I think
this was actually historically necessary
so the last town hall meetings I have I
would still ask the question and 90% of
hands would go up and say state of New
York that change happened over the
course of a couple years now we actually
have accountability and and I'm someone
who has I have accountability for the
entire New York City school system for
example 1.1 million kids mayoral
accountability for education obviously
policing and sanitation and you go down
the list I always say if you don't know
who you are supposed to hold accountable
good luck getting any change so the good
news is yeah there was a fight there was
tension but not you know there's this
almost in your question respectfully
there's a some notion that comedy is a
goal unto itself regardless of outcome I
would argue outcomes for people come
first and you sure as hell would like
comedy and you would like respect and
you'd like people to have a good open
diplomatic discourse whatever but guess
what there's gonna be conflicts
sometimes over disagreements and if it
ends up in a productive place for people
that's fine and for God's sakes I'm a
New Yorker I'm not scared of conflict No
that's true that's but I look I think
there's a proud tradition of New York
politicians making each other's life
difficult well but yeah I'm going deeper
I know you are new because I think being
able to handle conflict I'll take it
back to why we're sitting here mhm if
you want to be president I states you
better be able to deal conflict you
better be able to deal with stress you
better be able to multitask you better
be able to run something I think we got
it really really honest about the
magnitude of what we're discussing here
and especially when we start with
something like global warming the next
president is the last president who has
a chance to get us on the right path and
so I'm arguing to people hey choose
someone who's walked through the fire
already and everything you just went
through I think I can amply say I've
been through the fire and back I'm still
standing I haven't changed who I am I
haven't changed my policies and this is
what progressives I think should really
care about look at my platform from 2013
we systematically implemented it there
was none of that like oh let's move to
the center you know let's modify this
water it down let's dumb it down no we
went and did the things we said we're
going to do you need the next president
to do that if the next president doesn't
come in with the green New Deal
philosophy and actually move it like
right away we are messed up well we
heard great great danger and if we're
going to address all the other end
equities in our society the next
president is not willing to tax the
wealthy at a much higher level we will
not have the ability to make the changes
we need and you need someone with the
spine to do that you need someone who is
not scared of Wall Street or scared of
the 1% or scared of the donors I have
been to that movie and back and I'm
gonna say again if folks believe I knew
they believed I knew it was coming that
we need progressive voices in this race
please go to Bill DeBlasio come and help
me out Mayor DeBlasio thank you so much
gonna be you John it's a great
conversation enjoyed it
you
