so like Hillary didn't say that anyway
all right
well Jim welcome to pod save America I'm
Jon Favreau on Tommy Vitor I'm John
Lovett and joining us as a guest co-host
for the day is the host of the podcast
why is this happening in the Emmy
award-winning host of all in with Chris
Hayes Chris Hayes hey guys I like the
fact you live with the podcast you know
we're on a podcast it isn't that with my
pocket outstanding podcast so I want I
want more people's really is smarter so
we have a lot of news to cover today
from trump backtracking on his decision
to hold the g7 at Doral two updates on
impeachment to all the latest primary
news and later we will have an excerpt
of the interview that Tommy did with
Susan Rice on Friday we have a new book
Ben and I Ben Rhodes and I spent some
time on Friday you can hear part of it
today and then the rest on pot save the
world on Wednesday I love it powers love
your leave it it was fantastic Johnny
thanks for asking we had Michaela
Watkins and Moshe kasher who were so a
lot my Lonny Moshe kasher so much he
said they were both so funny it was bad
his background is amazed by their it's
yeah no I we we began the show by
remarking about the fact that the three
of us were in Temple together and and
then we made a joke about something that
happened in Temple and then the temple
official Instagram message day they're
basically saying like we're everywhere
you know we're everywhere and then also
a Junkins all teams were killed in the
Catholic Church temples very chill and
we had jungin cells from the ringer who
walked me through the NBA China fracas
at two point three point shot thing -
yeah no I went over all the details so
primer
LeBron's whole thing yeah you know some
of my other favorite teams
the Spurs Spurs the Gabrielle Knicks
nice okay finally some some big news
from us on the podcast front we can
finally announce the Kirkham media has a
brand new daily podcast what a day which
you'll be able to hear sorry Knicks
Monday October 28th every morning Monday
through Friday with new episodes
available at 5 a.m. Eastern our new
hosts are comedian Akilah Hughes and
politics reporter Gideon Resnick who
will help break down the biggest news of
the day help you understand what matters
and
you can fix it all in 15 minutes or less
you can subscribe on your favorite
podcast platform or go to crooked comm
slash what a day I'm very excited about
this that's a tough production schedule
to get that out of 5:00 a.m. Eastern
that's branded my first thought is like
what's the workflow there yeah
hours at 1:00 a.m. wake up really good
point Chris a lot of people are working
very hard some weird hours to
bring you this awesome show cry yes
subscribe out of guilt we've been
listening to all the test pilots they're
very funny all right let's get to the
news about a month after the Ukraine
scandal broke the Washington Post Phil
Rucker summed up where we are in a piece
headlined Trump's season of weakness
that said the president quote whose
paramount concern has long been showing
strength has entered the most
challenging stretch of his term weakened
on virtually every front in danger of
being forced from office as the
impeachment inquiry intensifies so some
people might see this and think I've
read a version of this before I read a
version this like a hundred but then you
know on Saturday he backs off his
decision to basically give a government
bailout to his failing Hotel Miami by
hosting the g7 there and then you wonder
is this time different what do you think
yeah so I'm I'm I'm torn on this as I
think a lot of people are I think that
when the when the impeachment inquiry
started around Ukraine I felt like there
was a little bit of people felt like
that outcome was over determined like
the the smart thing to think was like
well the Senate will never remove him as
if like the future is for ordained and
I've always thought that it's a more
it's more dynamic than that like it is
just not a fait accompli that this all
goes like the impeach from the house and
they acquit in the Senate that never
moves on like that's not to me a fait
accompli at the same time it is the case
that I have read 200 articles about that
and like I look his approval rating is
basically the same like what's happening
right now in the polling is so
fascinating to me which is that the
impeachment question is essentially
approaching asymptotically the approval
question yeah where it's like there's
literally no middle ground so it's like
you know 52:41 is his approval and it's
that's what like should
from office it's like there's no no one
in the middle it's like you either think
the guy is a menace and needs to go
tomorrow or you like him and that's it
those are the two positions yeah
were you surprised by the Doral reversal
I was I was surprised you think it
happened it's really interesting I guess
like you know stepping back I am always
pleasantly surprised when the old
political rules apply to Donald Trump
totally agree now one thing that we have
learned over the last three years is
that the old political rules apply to a
lot of people around Donald Trump yeah
you can ask various cabinet secretaries
you've had to resign and disgrace you
that you could ask Mick Mulvaney who
spent the weekend in a barrel but it's
been surprising at the moments where the
political rules apply to Donald Trump
and this is an example where they do and
I think you know it is true that we've
read story after story where you know
Donald Trump season of weakness you know
he's you know the the White House is
once again you know unravel unraveling
to the barricades what-have-you but but
I think sometimes it's I think it's
sometimes too cynical to say oh we've
read this story before we have read the
story before but each time it gets a
little bit worse for them and this was a
period of time where Donald Trump is a
cute well I can't I can't remember the
last time he has backed off a decision
that has been so heavily criticized you
know I thought I had was child
separation which is another one of those
moments I completely agree with you were
like there's like Oh gravity exists like
you know you're ripping children you're
kidnapping children and the nation is
just horrified by it and you have to
walk it back there's also a court suit
which sort of force them to do it yeah
but the reporting from The Times and The
Washington Post both indicate that like
there was this you know get-together
Camp David of moderate so-called
moderate Republican Congressmen like the
Tom Coles and your Peter Kings and those
folks who are like no you know what we
can't defend this it's utterly
indefensible and like that was and again
that's like yes it does matter like he
understands he's about to get impeach
like the political calculations here are
have changed yeah the galaxies brains
that said he would support impeachment
and welcome it and see it as a
politically beneficial are not like you
can't pile this many scandals on top of
each other and it does seem like a bunch
of a moderate senators said you know
Esperanto why don't you come to your
senses
you know nummy here's a minute
particularly strong intervention from
Senator Pierre to your boy to your point
Chris there was an interesting Twitter
thread by Nate Cohen over the upshot
where there is actually a little bit of
a delta in swing districts between those
who support an inquiry into President
Trump or those who support impeaching
and removing him so like maybe he's
still hoping for that yeah and there is
I mean again all the margins matter as
we learned in 2016 when it's 77 thousand
votes across or across three states out
of you know 140 million votes cast so
like the margins do you matter but I
just think that like the the Doral thing
is also just fascinating because
Mulvaney came out and it's like every
defense of this guy revolves around two
ways of defending one is like he
literally can't control himself that
that's the defense and then the other
defense which is always given in this
kind of like petulant aggrieved manner
like why are you asking these questions
it's like Marco Rubio's I get real
strength yeah he's like thank timoni
it's just like it's like he it basically
comes down he cannot in the same way
that I can't speak Arabic he can't
understand the difference between right
and wrong like you can tell you could
talk to me in Arabic all day long and it
will go nowhere I don't speak Arabic he
doesn't understand literally it's just
trumping yes do you think this increases
the chances that Democrats will add some
of this corruption and emolument Clause
violation stuff to the articles of
impeachment because my thought was now
that they have backed off this they have
basically admitted that this kind of
self dealing is wrong and yet there is
there are so many other examples of him
doing this we just had the
Scotland controversy a couple years ago
which we've you know represent already
Trump hotel in DC how many times is he
visited these properties there was
another story over the weekend about how
he can't stop bragging to foreign
leaders about his hotel properties in
private I would say I I actually I I
don't know I don't know what the right
strategy is in terms of what how how
narrow impeachment should be in terms of
the specific crimes I do believe that in
terms of how they're described they need
to be described in the broadest possible
terms of Trump's corruption and abuse of
power
but what I do think we are what is being
validated is the theory of those who
support an impeachment for a long time
which is if you don't do this he will be
unbridled because I don't want to I
don't let me say it like this it's uh
imagine what would have happened if
Trump announced that that the g7 would
have been at Trump tour all while we
were still in the kind of murky simian
ultimate world of four months ago
nothing would have happened so it is
showing you that the lever of
impeachment is actually making a
difference and making our society less
corrupt and it was actually to me like
when they I got I was really taken aback
by that Doral announcement precisely
because it felt to me like whoa this is
this means these guys are just like
whatever we want to do and Doral is
gross and to me clearly unconstitutional
and criminal and corrupt but then it's
like there's a lot of way worse things
they could do if they just say to
themselves we're doing whatever we want
to do and I got this sort of like panic
when I saw this like and to me it's I
completely agree with you they're like
the presence of the impeachment inquiry
to me the strongest argument for
impeachment was always that it is some
kind of restraint on his behavior and
and restraining him is a it's almost a
kind of like collective social and
political prosecutor country right now
which by the way at the time was a hard
argument to make yes as making the
argument that we will do something that
will restrain Donald Trump is gonna get
you laughed at by people all across the
political spectrum oppress and a context
through which you can actually give it
because if they're just they have no
shame and they're refusing all oversight
there's just no way to hold them to
account I just wanna on top of the
emoluments issue I just want to just
note that it is insane to try to have a
g7 in Miami okay
can you talk about where you're securing
seven of the most important world
leaders on the planet they have massive
footprints security sometimes like they
do them at G at Camp David because it's
it's entirely secure they did it on Sea
Island so you could take over an entire
island right right like plopping a g7
down in Miami is it's impossible to do
it's insane it's also it was so funny
because what was so funny about that
announcement well the Mabini
announcement was at one level it's like
we're doing this and we don't care but
then at the other level he had to
pretend there had been this like
rigorous process where it's like we
looked high and we looked low and
these two we looked west did we close
the hole we set these teams and then was
like Miami and June Miami and June is he
was still doing that defense like even
while saying they weren't going to do it
he was it saying like look we we looked
and I know it's kind of seems like a
coincidence but it's the best place to
happen famously the hotel right near the
airport yeah as always it's the only one
by the way and you can't find a hotel
near the airport other than Trump
they're all but the other the other
piece of it too is I like that it was
the ball was in the air long enough for
Marco Rubio to catch it you know and
send it and then the the sort of like
Marco Marco Rubio defensive like oh you
know I'm strong on Syria but I don't you
know you're all angry at me for not not
picking a fight under all but I'm right
on this other issue and it's like okay
man what percentage of the time do you
need to show integrity for us to be
quiet I will say the the Trump
second-order excuse now about how well
it was gonna be free I wasn't good was
gonna do it boss be free like why do I
need to do this that's his argument
right which you can see some people
being like oh well that's interesting
but like first of all it was clearly a
branding and marketing opportunity for
this also I don't trust him to tell me
well that there was a report that they
were charging $18.00 for a glass of
bourbon that cost fifty five dollars a
bottle right everything I don't
trust him on heart cos and I don't trust
him on sauce I really do think that
Mulvaney's appearance expedited the
downfall of this thing because Trump
like has managed to stay this same level
of gravity
Mulvaney is prickly he's disliked by a
lot of people within the caucus and when
he goes out and says something stupid
they wanted nothing more than just a
slap it also was a reminder to me
because I I feel torn about you know
there's this kind of oh what happened to
the presidential daily you know the the
press conference you know with the press
secretary come out and there's and I'm
ambivalent about that it's like it was a
waste of all of our time but there is a
kind of transparency interest in doing
it that's the argument for it from a
sort of First Amendment like civics
perspective it was a reminder like
there's a reason they don't come out
every day man what the hell are you know
what I mean so like the one time they
send someone out
to do what that press-secretary person
would do which is like kind of defend
indefensible decisions that's what
happened like no wonder they're not
coming out well yeah that's why Trump
does all of his press conferences like
with helicopter weights behind here
I'm mission I gotta go but also scream
some crazy he's also right that
he's the only person who can do it who
condemned to be his spokesman because
like you see in Mick Mulvaney XY's like
the lingering part of him
that used to shame right right say and
you know uh you know Spicer felt shame
Huckabee Sanders did you not yeah which
I she was good yeah and now this news
person's like I can't call well and I
I'll never forget the moment we were
talking about like when the rules of
political you know normal politics apply
and they apply to other people there's a
moment that Tom Price scandal when that
was blowing up right he's taking all
those flights and remember he did say he
had some event that he had to do that
day and he's sort of walking off and
getting chased with questions and I saw
in his eyes the human experience of
shame I was like he's done I just saw I
just saw shame in him he's out out of
and like gotta bury that deeper a day or
two later house he's gone like if you
feel that you know else was dead I'd
this weekend just I started I never
moving I was Mike Pompeo never want to
see a human balloon deflate on air it
happened in this question that he got
from George Stephanopoulos it was just
I've never seen the interview pause in
that which is five fantastic pause
followed by like it sounded like that
there's a clip we always play always
play which is um Paul Manafort talking
about like whether to have relation what
our position is what we actually said
I'd said I said what I did say classic
of the genre um we do have the clip of
Mick Mulvaney attempting and failing to
walk back his remarks from the White
House briefing room on Chris Wallace's
show on Fox on Sunday so let's play that
crow quid pro quo that investigating the
Democrats that that aid to Ukraine
depended on investigating the Democrats
why'd you say that getting inside what I
said that's what people said that I said
here's what I said I'll say it again and
hopefully people will listen this time
there were two reasons that we held our
VA
we've talked about this at some length
the first one was the the rampant
corruption in Ukraine Ukraine by the way
Chris is so bad in Ukraine that in 2014
Congress passed a law making it making
us requiring us to make sure that
corruption was moving in the right
direction so corruption is a big deal
everybody knows it the president was
also concerned about whether or not
other nations specifically European
nations were helping with foreign aid to
the Ukrainians well we've talked about
that for quite a while now I did then
mention that in the past the president
had mentioned for me to time to time
about the DNC server he mentioned the
DNC server to other people publicly he
even mentioned it to President Solinsky
in the phone call but it wasn't
connected to the aide and that's where I
think people got sidetracked this
weekend at that press conference are two
reasons for holding back the aid let me
pursue that faster because I believe
that anyone listening to what you said
in that briefing could come to only one
conclusion let's play what you said sir
did he also mentioned to me and past the
the the the corruption related to the
DNC server absolutely no question about
that but that's it and that's why we
held up the money well it is funding
will not flow unless the investigation
into the into the Democrats server as
well we do we do that all the time with
foreign policy you were asked
specifically by Jonathan Karl was
investigating Democrats one of the
conditions for holding up the aid wells
that part of the quid pro quo and you
said it happens all the time but go back
and watch what I said before that I
don't know if you guys can cue it up or
not there was a long answer and then I
said the exact same thing I just said
now which is that he mentioned in
passing yes but the reason that we held
back the aid were the two reasons I
mentioned and I can prove it to you the
aid flowed once we were able to satisfy
ourselves that corruption was actually
they were doing better with it we got
that information from our folks from the
conversation with mr. Solinsky and once
we were able to establish we had the
Office of Management budget do research
on other countries aid to Ukraine that
turns out they don't give hardly any
lethal automotive several sum of money
of non-lethal aid once those things were
cleared so I guess my
question is what do we think Mick
Mulvaney thought he was doing when he
came out to the briefing and started
talking about like what was the strategy
in his head well there's two there's two
things happening one is that he got
confused they have they've oscillated
between two messages we didn't do it and
we did it and it's fine yeah and he just
forgot which one they were on right like
he because because they Rick Perry did
that the other day in an interview in
the same sentence almost like this has
been the like the call is perfect and
also it's a witch hunt whatever so he
got confused too you know those two he
was trying to offer a plausible cover
story one thing I will say that drives
me a little crazy because this is like
this doesn't even crack the top 1000 of
what's crazier its statutorily the the
money it's not theirs to uphold right
right the money has been passed by
Congress and signed by the president you
don't get to sit around and just be like
oh we think they're too corrupt like
that's not the way work DoD actually did
a legal analysis inside the Pentagon and
found it was unlawful to do so like this
idea that the premise here is whatever
gets passed into law we just sit around
decide like are they corrupt or not it's
just two things one it seems
like this whole thing could be solved if
someone just explains the concept of the
cloud to trump it's not a physical
server there's no server Web Services
right so that's one email work maybe a
piece of it is in training what do I
know - right like Mulvaney's right the
quid pro quos are at the heart of
Diploma speed but the quo has to be
something valuable to the United States
of America I can't say I'll give you
military aid in exchange for a million
dollars that is corrupting as is the
promise of dirt on Biden or a future
show like it's it's just so like there
there little linguistic games don't pass
even a tiny bit of scrutiny they treat
voters like they are stupid yeah I
actually think I think like so what I
when I first saw the clip I thought oh
maybe they have a new strategy which is
to concede that he was doing sort of
political interference of some form
looking backwards that what he was yes
said that that and that they were kind
of they were seeking seeking a tiny bit
of shelter and the last part of their of
their kind of whatever misinformation
Hut that was ok yeah there was a quid
pro quo
yeah we can't deny that part of it
anymore but there was nothing about
Biden moving forward it was just about
looking backwards and I think what he
 up is the way that he could have
maybe gotten away with that and say like
of course there was a quid pro quo we
are our quid pro quo was corruption in
Ukraine for the money we're not giving
you money unless you investigate
corruption and one example is the
conspiracy theory Trump brings out but
he buddy-buddy but he didn't wasn't able
to kind of land the plane well the other
thing he's doing there and I this is
what they're moving towards is the
Attorney General William bar is running
this investigation into the origins of
the 26e the Moller investigation to try
to see if everything's you know on the
up-and-up to track down all the
conspiracy theories and because this has
some air of legitimacy to it in their
mind and in in the press and some parts
the press they keep going to that by
saying well when he was talking about
this like they don't want to they don't
want to mention what the server was or
CrowdStrike because they know that's
 not to nuts but they wanted to
say oh this was part of the bar
investigation which was which then was
ruined by the Justice Department exactly
we have no idea what he's that that was
yeah he got to specific because he said
like at one point said cooperation this
it was like that and too loud and too
specific it was like a cooperation like
with the Department of Justice is one of
the things he says and then DOJ is like
that's the first we've heard yeah and I
think was Aisha Orosco at NPR also
pointed out at the briefing that if
you're investigating the DNC in 2016
there's still a relevant entity in the
2020 election right like they're still
your opponent you have still
investigating your political opponent I
can make one more point about you which
is there are a bunch of stories saying
like the White House very unhappy with
Mick Mulvaney you know in a lot of ways
he was probably on the way out Jared
Kushner deeply disappointed his
performance which honestly if I were
making Mulvaney of like you you you
little turd the idea that you could have
gone out there handle this you viewer
disappeared because you're garbage but I
also think like they're like trying to
act like Mick Mulvaney he's just some
guy like Mick Mulvaney Mulvaney was the
golden boy that they had run two
agencies at once because he was one of
those right he's still OMB is he I can't
even I don't even reviews actor to
stefano be is what about cfpb he was
over there for no he's not there
they got him out of that but the point
is whenever preme court to kill away
yeah no need to captain the sinking ship
but the the like Mulvaney was one of the
people that they viewed as they're
serious adults that was willing to stick
around and do Trump's bidding and so
they put him into everything so the idea
now that Mick Mulvaney is like uh you
know that classic Mick this guy nobody
likes is ridiculous well apparently he
got a round of applause at the morning
staff meeting this morning on the way
house man walking like Green Mile Road
way to go Mick how much strategic or
political benefit do you guys think
there is in the Mulvaney get over it
defense we'd like you said there's two
different strategies I think that's the
only thing they have I mean I worries me
because I think that's I think that's
all they have a and I think it's also
it's what Trump's instincts are and I
think his instincts on this and are
probably better than the people around
him in some weird way just because he
has like that shamelessness that almost
no one can replicate like the the the
problem is the facts are they've they've
got locked into a situation where they
admitted the crime it's like the first I
said like the first page of the novel is
like the crime is committed and we know
who did it and then the novels told in
flashback I'm like oh how do we end up
with this like at the crime scene and so
they're in this weird place where
they're they're trying to kind of deny
things and to keep coming out we keep
seeing how big and expansive this entire
effort was the only thing they will end
up being able to do and what the
Republicans will take shelter in is it
was inappropriate but not impeachable or
like the the Rob Portman statement is
the the way to sort of thread the needle
if you're a Republican particularly the
Senate and not in a crazily +25 Trump
State is to say this was not appropriate
but the money did flow they didn't
actually take up dirt on buttons and
everyone learned their lesson and it's
not impeachable the problem is if you
say that you incur Trump's wrath right
so they're they're sort of stuck because
the smart thing I think the argument to
make is just sip like concede the facts
I think you late the the facts of the
facts and the behaviors of behavior and
then argue over in the same way that
Democrats did with Bill Clinton a very
different infraction but the argument
Bill Clinton wasn't it was awesome and
perfect that he had this relationship
with an intern it was this was not cool
but not an impeachable which i think is
an argument for the democrats to broaden
the impeachment inquiry to various
impeachable offenses by Dom Trump
because I do think part of what's
hurting him here as we saw with the last
couple weeks with Ukraine and then Syria
and then dur all is the continuing
development of these events over and
over again of trumps wrongdoing you have
to prove a pattern here and I do think
like the time you were mentioned Nate
Cohn and the New York Times pulling in
these six swing states and one of the
numbers that sort of gave me pause was I
think 46 percent of people said they
believed this kind of what Trump did
with Ukraine was bad but it's the kind
of thing politicians yeah the time and
then 42 percent said no no it was
uniquely bad and I think there's a
danger that people could fold this into
people who are very cynical about
politicians in both parties in general
saying yeah it's bad but everyone's
cried when it is our corrupt guy and
that's that yeah sorry no I also just
think another difference it's funny to
look back at the Clinton impeachment is
one thing that Democrats had that that
Republicans don't is Bill Clinton had
some really inappropriate conduct that
wasn't criminal and then obstruction and
perjury to kind of cover up that
misconduct that would that ever that
note that you know to varying degrees
everybody said was wrong but there was
no crime with Trump the the underlying
conduct is criminal and incredibly
dangerous and then the cover-up is also
a process crime to keep that concealed
which is makes it much harder for them
to go back to the kind of Clintonian
avoidance to Chris's point on trumps in
six I think that's exactly right because
his starting place is uncorrupt your
corrupt we're all corrupt it gives a
 right but he is I think struggling
in part because he's staffed by the D
team that is overworked that are not
being replaced and so like they released
the Ukraine transcript they released a
letter from Trump to aired one that made
him sound functionally illiterate they
released a Nancy Pelosi photo that will
be hung at her memorial service
speaker library right it's like their
political instinct you are offering yeah
yeah well and heat and that's why he is
I mean he every time a surrogate gets
sent out like he's the only one who can
do this he's the only one who could pull
it off because he's the only one again
it's it's it's it's not it's like it's
biologic it's constitutive who he is
it's like there's no other place in his
mind that thinks that like everyone
isn't as corrupt except like he so he
can pull it off in a way that almost no
one else can so final question on this
you know Mulvaney's comments cause
Republican Congressman Frank Rooney to
say he won't rule out impeaching Trump
he met and later announced he's gonna be
retiring John Kasich called for
impeachment McConnell's out there
writing an op-ed very critical of Trump
on Syria peered Alecto formerly known as
Mitt Romney has been obviously heavily
critical
CNN reported over the weekend that many
Republicans they talked to have used the
phrase turning-point these are
Republicans they talk to you to talk
about what's going on right now do we
buy this or is this just like I think we
don't know but to go back to something
Chris said earlier and something that
kind of I've thought for a long time it
was I think too cynical for a lot of
Democrats to say I know what Republicans
will do I'm from the future
I can predict how all this will end out
and I end up only think one thing that
is just generally important for our
posture is don't do the Republicans work
for them let's be surprised yeah right
by what they do
well let's not sit back I think it shows
that like political pressure works here
there's also the fact that you know in
this whole mix because you just
mentioned it is that in Syria policy is
I've just found it so fascinating
because to me it's like it's so
revealing with someone like Lindsey
Graham it's like oh this is your project
like Lindsey Graham's project is
maintaining a certain form of American
military hegemony throughout the world
in particularly the Middle East and he
believes in that project with his very
fiber of his being and that project is
being betrayed before his eyes and he is
genuinely pissed about that and a lot of
other Republicans are I think like some
I think for legitimate reasons like
we're betraying this ally that fought
side by side other soldiers and I think
some for illegitimate reasons the Lynne
Cheney's of the world who see this as a
sort of American retreat and we're
pulling out but to the extent that
doubts begin to be sown in the minds of
Republicans about what
this individual with this baggage and
this judgment and this staff is doing
with the American ship of state in in
this sort of grand sense that to me is
extremely worrisome and dangerous for
them politically yeah the thing that's
interesting I I sadly believe that a lot
of voters don't care that much about
foreign policy you know probably the
rank-and-file people in the world don't
know much about the Kurds and aren't as
worried as we wish they were about
what's Trump doing and what Trump's
doing in Syria right now but what Syria
was was the first moment a fox only
viewer sought criticism of Trump that
was real and sustained yes
personal yes and from voices that they
were like wait wait wait I thought he
was our team yeah and I think that that
matters a lot and that's where I think
the Trump weakened story in the post was
great and smart but they said at one
point that he lost the media and I just
don't think that's true it's you know
we'd the trot media there's a there's a
dirty deal that the Republicans have
made which is will tolerate all of these
abuses will tolerate his inhumanity and
vulgarity and criminal abuses and
deception and racism as long as we get
our list of things yeah and for a lot of
these Republicans yeah that's tax taxes
and deregulation yeah that's judges but
there's a there's a there's a foreign
policy yes
code like a Shibboleth for them that
this violates and I think like okay
let's say Trump was a trump was a
Democrat who was just as corrupt and but
he campaigned on Medicare for all and he
campaigned on cutting taxes for the
middle class and he campaigned on all
the things we believe in then he comes
into office and he starts denying
climate change you know and all of a
sudden is like hold on a second man hold
on a second yeah I'm I'm on the take
here but I need my cut yeah you
know I'm not gonna be corrupt and not
yet my beak wet the other thing is at
the end of the day every one of these
Republican senators is gonna make a you
know purely political calculation in a
way right which is is the public
pressure on Trump they're gonna look at
the polls are gonna look at the polls in
their state if they're a pre election at
least the ones who aren't retiring
problem with it I mean that I totally
agree with or the problem is if you if
you ask me and I'm not a political
consultant and I don't think I'd be a
particularly good one but if you ask me
you know alternate universe in which I
was but paid for advice to Republicans I
would say the Benjamin Franklin quote
there
revolution we should we almost hang
together or we were surely hanging
separately yeah is true like you will in
the short term it would be a political
disaster to vote to removed for the
Republican Party devotion of Donald
Trump now the second thing I would say
is Watergate was a disaster and you know
76 was at 74 and 76 for disasters and
then it was like Ronald Reagan four
years later like nothing lasts forever
and there's an argument to be made to
like you need a cleanse - exactly no
really that like there's an argument
made to just take take your medicine and
cleanse but in the short term I don't
think I don't see any argument on the
other side purely a moral just talking
about political strategy here that
turning against Trump would be anything
other than a just like extinction level
of that for a moment yeah the only thing
I wonder is when you see that Joni Ernst
townhall and how yeah how difficult it
is for some of these Republicans when
confronted by non Trump media reporters
or constituents to defend this like does
that figure into the calculus of a Susan
Collins a Joni Ernst Cory Gardner Martha
McSally some of these Republicans are up
in 20 now I don't know if you can you
need to get to 20 Republicans to 20 and
I think there's a universe I mean it's
that's a fascinating like micro version
of the political question and that is I
think a really hard call like if you're
paid to advise them how to vote on this
trial like that's a tough it's first of
all we can all agree they vote they
don't want to take yeah they do not want
to take that on that's a tough vote like
if you're Cory Gardner like what's the
upside what's the downside if you you
know like you you you you know people
that you need to turn out for you are
gonna be furious at you and probably
view you as a traitor but also you're in
a state that is you know he's underwater
with your voice yeah let me let me
rephrase the question think about this
question okay so hang together hang
separately fine if all the Republicans
removed them they would be protecting
themselves if all the Republicans vote
to not remove him they're protecting
themselves what would you rather be
would you rather be a Republican senator
who voted to remove and he stays in
office or do you rather be a Republican
senator that voted for him to stay while
he's removed anyway oh definitely the
former don't want to vote no yeah
definitely the former yeah yeah although
again like part of part of what's so
weird about the way our politics work
now in just in terms of like how deep
the sort of structural polarization is
we're talking about two different
universes of people you know if you're a
senator from Alabama like none of this
you're not hardly you're just dealing in
a different universe if you're Richard
Shelby then if you're Cory Gardner and
like the the worlds in which like this
sort of question at them at the margins
in the middle like apply is such a
narrow set a field particularly the
house where all of those people are
Democrats now I mean the 40 seats that
are those kind of seeds most of them are
now occupied by Democrats making these
judgments there's maybe another 10
marginal seats there but everyone else
is just living in a world where like
this stuff is just right you know clear
there's collective and individual
breaking points and I don't think that
there will ever be a collective breaking
point as a party where they decide that
politically it's beneficial for us to
get rid of Trump even though I think you
could probably argue that a cleanse at
this point is needed but for individuals
there's cory gardner right he's looking
at polling but to your point about
lindsey graham in his like global
military project today the trump
administration announced that they had
secretly brought 2,000 US service
members out of afghanistan that's an
interesting film in the eye of lindsey
graham in this moment of maximum tension
with him around the series there's also
this amazing little human drama that's
happening which is a gulf war between
rand paul and Lindsey Graham ya know you
can literally see it like they are they
have us both invested so hard in
flattering this guy into getting what
they want and Ted Cruz when I spoke to
Ted Cruz recently the first thing he
said he had said this to me once before
and then he said it again he said look
he's not a complicated guy if you
flatter him you can get him to do what
you want and if you criticize him he
hates you you just said that I was like
right this is the and so you've got Rand
Paul and Lindsey Graham who have both
just been like you know just throwing
themselves at Donald Trump golfing with
him to get him to buy their vision of
American foreign policy and like now
Rand Paul's winning and he's like the
sort of celebratory it's in Port Lindsey
Graham all his golf is for naught yep
yeah well it's very slippery to try to
yeah but I do think like one political
benefit of impeachment you know we may
not get him removed but I do think all
of these senators who are up in 2020 in
these purplish states their plan has
always been to try to distance
themselves from Trump at some point in
the general
to show some kind of Independence and if
they have to vote on impeachment and
they vote to they vote to exonerate him
then they're never gonna be able to
separate themselves from Trump no and I
think it's going to make life even if he
stays in office it's gonna make life
much harder for Susan Collins and Cory
Gardner and all of them and if that's
and if that's and if that's all we get
from impeachment then that is very much
worth it
yeah I think that's right and I mean
when you when you think through the sort
of psychology when you game it out you
keep gaming it out right it's like so
what's Trump what what's gonna
what's the Republican Party gonna do
with Cory Gardner in Colorado like you
can't send Donald Trump to Colorado like
like you know it's not acted alone he
can't he's probably not gonna Maine he's
probably not I mean no I don't think is
gonna Maine either so it's like again
that yeah the base only gets you so far
and for the people for who that doesn't
carry the day they're not in great
they're in a bad position all right
let's talk about the Democratic primary
big news this morning as a new Suffolk
USA Today poll out of Iowa that shows
Biden at 18% warned at 17% in Pete Budaj
edge serving surging 7 points since
their June polled 13% Bernie Sanders is
at 9% everyone else is between 0 and 3%
and the winner is undecided at 29%
so only one poll but we do know that
Iowa polls in general have been better
for Budaj edge then the national polls
we have seen a slight bump for him in
several polls since the debate what do
we think accounts for the surge here for
Pete obviously he's been spending a lot
of time in the debate and since the
debate you know drawn contrasts with
Elizabeth Warren on Medicaid for all I I
think you know it has always seemed to
me the case that and I think they'll
look the lane metaphor really collapsed
and didn't work in 2016 but it does seem
to me that like Bernie Sanders in
Elizabeth Warren both have you know both
have strong ideological stories they
both clearly believe them down to their
toes like that you know like they
believe in what they're saying and they
have a vision for the project there so
there's those two at the top and then
there's Joe Biden who is Joe Biden right
right like that that is why Joe Biden is
Joe Biden you know him you love him
where you don't love him
he was Obama's vice president he has a
clear story of whether he's articulated
that story or yes that so those those
and that and that that gives you the top
three there's always been a question of
like who is telling a story primary
field a story of
a kind of camp of like I'm the person
who's not does not have this ideological
vision that these two others have which
maybe some people in the primary you
know grassroots don't like but I do have
another vision and I could be a kind of
like essentially a non Biden centrist to
be overly reductive and I think there is
clearly a space for that in the race and
it just seems to me the Buddhist edges
like that in in a sort of a more
complete abrupt way just like swerve the
car over to do that but from a tactical
perspective it makes this look just
blowing up a blow-up doll so we can use
the HOV Lane I'm using this Lane whether
you like it or not I guess so
that that I think is what accounts you
know and that's what I think and he's a
pretty good retail politician I think
yeah for sure I guess that's my question
and it's been my question since the
debate is is it too abrupt and maybe the
answer from this poll is no it's not too
abrupt because he's getting some
traction I just think that this surge
has actually been a long time coming
yeah showing up in multiple polls now I
mean when I was in Iowa in August like
he had a pretty big crowd for a Tuesday
afternoon and at the State Fair bigger
than others and people were sort of
noticing he got hot early right and like
who the thought that a CNN Town
Hall super early on was gonna lead to
sustained momentum and money over on it
was that Dan Pfeiffer interview on they
started there Dan Pfeiffer interview cut
that just kidding Dan Pfeiffer interview
was gonna lead to all this money but
like you know they they have been
building and organizing and they've been
on TV and Iowa and it's actually
mattered and he's been in the National
mix they'll through the duration which
has been I think a reason that people
like Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker and
Bette O'Rourke have had a harder time
I've just two things I want to say here
one is that you know the race part of
this is a huge part of it to like why is
he doing he's a zero with black voters
so like I was a place that he can
perform like unless that changes he's
not going anywhere
right the second thing I would say is
that it just seems to me and again I'm
like sort of talking about this not in
terms of my own ideological commitments
but just sort of a descriptive sense
it's like if you're looking for like who
would be a person who's not Sanders and
Warren because I think they're too far
left or whatever and who isn't Biden who
I think doesn't seem like he's at his
sharpest like Amy Klobuchar
he's a United States Senator she in
terms of an electability argument just
looking at the numbers probably has the
best argument in the field just in terms
of how she performs in Minnesota the
Republican districts in which he over
performs and she over performs in in
rural parts of that state I don't think
anyone's like right now getting like
super fired up about Amy clovers are the
way that there are some people about you
know people who are judged but let's
keep mine people a judge run his last
election in a race in which there were
10,000 votes cast right I mean that's
like a large housing development in the
Bronx where I grow up like they're like
well Oh Bashar has won in a state that
remember Hillary Clinton only won by ten
thousand votes last time around that's a
competitive state like I just feel like
on the numbers and the metrics if you're
making the tactical argument about this
sort of like centrism combined with
electability she's got a stronger case
just in the data than he does well it's
also why I think Pete is leaning so
heavily on this medicare-for-all
argument to draw a contrast with Warren
because he can't really get into an
electability argument with Elizabeth
Warren because for the reasons you just
mentioned but what he can do is present
himself policy-wise as the more centrist
alternative the difficult part of course
as he found out over the last week is he
sort of burst onto the scene as much
more of a progressive truth teller
even though sort of mean in fairness to
P he always in talks about Medicare for
all who want it since February of 2019
yeah so it's been there but he said
things like you know I mean Jake Tapper
on Sunday interviewed him and was like
well you know you criticized her about
tax increases but you've said to me at a
debate and the second debate premiums
are taxes it's the same thing right
right so I wonder how much of a hard
time he's gonna have you know I think
we're also look we're we're in it and
we've seen all these sort of adjustments
along the way but I also think it's
worth remembering too that I think Pete
became a national figure by offering a
non-ideological idea of what he was
trying to do it was a generational shift
it was what he represented and leaned
heavily on democratic reforms yet I like
the Supreme Court in the filibuster
which are also in a way non-ideological
yeah well they're they're big
progressive ideas but they're not on the
kind of you know left-right how much do
we tax how much do you spend hinge and I
think so he's sort of he's he's now made
some really specific statements that put
him more in the sort of center left of
the party despite what he said in the
past and the other piece of this about
Chlo Bashar too is I do think it doesn't
speak to what Pete has been doing it
kind of speaks more to what Amy
Klobuchar wasn't doing I think this
fourth debate was the first time she
really was strong in a way that was sort
of made a case for her own candidacy she
was I thought energetic and and and an
emotional and defense of her worldview
which he hadn't done before and you know
I think that's partly why she hasn't
been able to kind of you get a toehold
into the into the polling I think it's
also hard though like making the reason
that Biden is sort of uniquely it's
still the case that the squishiness of
what Mayor Pete was talking about in I
agree that it wasn't ideological per se
but it was like big at the same time but
the problem for people that want to
occupy that space is like how to make an
argument that feels big
that isn't big in an ideological sense
because otherwise then you're just John
Delaney getting his butt kicked by
Elizabeth Warren everyone to be the wet
blanket you know you also want to be
like yeah we can make these little
market marginal reforms and we can do
things at the edges and like better
things aren't possible you know and like
that is a real challenge it's a real
challenge in no one I think no one yet
has figured out how to do that how to
sort of paint a narrative that feels big
and and rises to the scale of the issues
that we all see in front of us and sort
of fills up the scope of the times
that's independent from an ideological
vision that Sanders and Warren have a
very clear
well messaging for example like Obama in
2008 in that primary right like there
were a classic example the classic
example because on health care in that
primary Barack Obama was further to the
right than Hillary Clinton or John
Edwards and yet he was seen as also the
thing I will say about that and you guys
lived it but but I covered it is it like
the war did so much of that work that's
exactly it just did all that work
because it was like that was the number
one issue for so long in politics and he
was on the right side of it and a person
who's running against it wrong and he
was on the left side of it and
that did so much of the work that Pete
doesn't have a thing like that to point
to yeah I mean I think that like when
you look at the distinction between
Klobuchar and Pete I think a lot of it
could be boiled down to the fact that
Pete broke through it's the national
conversation early and he has a set of
qualities that's particularly appealing
to the donor class people who are really
interested in talking about and
diagnosing the challenges in our
politics in the Democratic Party
whereas which is why he has so much
money to wear white money whereas
Klobuchar went a more harder time until
the I think she'd had great debate
recently a harder time breaking through
nationally and was doing the more
traditional grind it out in the early
States strategy which frankly hasn't
worked for anyone this time yet he also
was I think more she was stronger and
more critical of she was better and
making a sharper contrast with her
opponents when she was off the debate
stage than when she was honest she was
reluctant to kind of throw a punch in
the debates and you know we can talk
endlessly about whether throwing punches
is always a good idea but for her
specifically it was like come on your
there's we've seen center-left candidate
just fall by the wayside just getting
absolutely brutalized by Elizabeth
Warren I think this was the first debate
and Bernie Sanders this was the first
debate where you act like mayor Pete and
Amy Klobuchar are more sophisticated
debaters than what the left has faced
before and I think the debate was
stronger because of it right yes I
totally agree with that I mean that the
rather than they like the Delaney sort
of stand in but I also think I mean and
this I think this is a more ideological
question but I also think it's the case
that like there's a reason it's hard to
spell out this vision that feels equal
to the scope of the times that's not
logical because politics is about what
the ideological vision is for the
country like there is a reason that the
the Sanders Warren Vision feels big it's
because it is big because they they
believe that like a lot of is
 up scale of the challenges well
and if you don't agree with them the
only way around that is to is through it
like you have to make the case that
that's not either politically feasible
right or from a policy substantive
standpoint it's not the right way right
but it so many candidates I think have
danced around it yeah because they're
afraid of the criticism and so I think
you know Pete sort of head down
charging into the face I think I think
that like III have tended to feel like
most of the debate so far have largely
revolved around like what I would call
like cleanheads likes like like
substantive fights about things that
people have it like you know there's a
big difference between universal
single-payer health care as opposed or
like adding a public option those are I
think things that people can make good
faith argument substantive arguments the
one thing I will say not to get to
policy he here but like there's a little
bit of hand waving that's happening with
the public option it will Medicare for
all who want it and and Dave day and at
the prospect point that's out which is
like so there's two possibilities I know
either it's a really good option that
people want in which case a ton of
people are in it and then you're dealing
with a cost that looks a lot like
Medicare for all or it's kind of crappy
no it's not well no one wants it and
then you could be like well we don't
have to spend a lot of money on it but
it's like well what have you succeeded
in doing so David Remnick pressed Budaj
edge on this point an interview they did
I think over the weekend and I think the
way that Pete thinks he's getting out of
that is because there are still premiums
co-pays deductibles in Medicare for all
you have to buy it's not like automatic
enrollment and everyone gets trout it's
not like it cost less than Bernie
Sanders even apples even if every but
you're right that if everyone loves
Medicare for all who wanted and everyone
jumps in they're gonna have to find a
financing that is greater than what Pete
has already proposed yes and actually it
also gets at the argument Pete's trying
to make against Warren because what does
that mean well it means that the
government is going to have to spend a
greater share on health care as the
amount people spend out-of-pocket on
things like premiums slowly starts to
fall which is the ledger math that we've
argued about is every single debate
exactly yeah okay so another big
development over the weekend was
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes endorsement of
Bernie Sanders at a rally in Queens that
drew approximately 26,000 people in her
endorsement video AOC said this is not
just about running for president this is
about creating a mass movement of
working-class people how big of a deal
is this endorsement I thought I I don't
I don't know how much endorsements
matter and I don't think it was
necessarily that surprising I do think
that like I do think there was a little
bit of after Bernie Sanders seventy year
old man who had a heart attack yeah and
I do think there was a little bit and I
think he saw in the polling of like is
he gonna be cool but just physically
like
not not a politic substance just like
literally physically and I do think it
was important for him like both to have
a very strong debate performance where
he seemed energetic and not like a man
who's like we can just out of the
hospital and then have this rally like
to remind people like yes he's in it
he's there and the other thing I'll say
is I just thought the ending of that
speech was so moving and beautiful very
powerful like really powerful of like it
just like really I was like right this
is the project the project is like look
around and find someone that isn't like
you and like are you willing to fight
for them and are we all willing to fight
for each other and I just thought it was
like a very beautiful piece of rhetoric
that captured what I want the project to
be for all of us it was inclusive it was
inviting of other people yeah I'd build
a movement which I think I think Bernie
has always been pretty good at I think
sometimes this supporters not as
inviting ya know those words I'd say a
lot of people who work for him are
different right but like yes you know
the online conversation and when you
hear him talk like that and then I
thought a Ozzy's endorsement videos was
one of the best endorsements I've seen
she's incredibly powerful she's so good
at this so that's I feel like the case
he made and the case that she made is
the best case yes it's like go with that
exactly I completely agree go with that
I think this will actually turn out to
you like I normally would agree that
endorsements don't mean much but I think
this is a big deal and it will mean more
over time because like she obviously she
helped him draw this huge crowd in
Queens and she did incredibly compelling
video that I thought made a better case
for Bernie Sanders and Bernie Sanders
off often makes for Bernie Sanders but
then like she's a campaign staffer as of
like a year ago
right like she will she knows how this
works she will hit the road she'll work
for him and she will draw huge crowds
yeah everywhere she goes and the one
question I had as I looked at the event
was why do this in Queens why not do
this in Des Moines right and I talked to
some some of Bernie's folks and their
argument was basically like one we kind
of give endorsers the respect of coming
to them so don't be surprised if you see
her in you know in Des Moines down the
road but also like they're there the
national narrative as you said Chris has
changed a lot over three weeks it's a
kind of an amazing whipsaw for them but
they think that the way you showed that
you're the biggest baddest grassroots
campaign in town is to pull off an event
like that
and I certainly like that was a
brushback pitch to the worn campaigns
everyone else that's trying to say this
is a movement and I will say that
warrant is also doesn't hurt to do
something in the National media's
backyard like this foreign event in in
Washington Square Park did that very
well was like oh my goodness like it's
right there you can't ignore it I will
also say I mean the funny thing about
western Queens at this point is that
like it's the beating heart of like the
reserve revived Democratic Socialist
Movement in in a real way like you can
lose sight of it in the world of online
and Twitter but there are both in the
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes campaign and
then the campaign for the Queens da
Tiffany come on my brother was a can be
a manager on that so I have some insight
into it like there are just a bunch of
people who are just non-political
professionals who go knocking on doors
like there's a real organization that
has been built there it's a remarkable
thing it's not just like a bunch of
people in people's Twitter mentions
there are people that like get off their
shift and work and they go hit doors for
socialist candidates in in that part of
the borough and throughout the borough
and it's like in some ways it's the
there's something being built there
that's a very real thing it makes sense
to go to the heart of it and I do wonder
from this endorsement you know we just
talked about Pete Serge and now we
talked about sort of Bernie's sort of
mini resurgence here if the warren
campaign is about to go through sort of
a challenging part of the race right now
that they haven't really been challenged
like that except the beginning a very
beginning and we you know I think we
talked about this for the last couple
weeks like what is it gonna be like when
Elizabeth Warren faces a real challenge
because every candidate who does go on
to win the nomination goes through that
and so I'm sort of wondering now in
addition to what happened at the debate
now it you know for a while it seemed
like oh maybe Bernie's not gonna be much
of an issue but he's he's there he's got
a Oh see he can still pull off a twenty
six thousand person event you know he is
not going anywhere that's I think the
most important part of this so it you
know if a OC had endorsed Elizabeth
Warren it might have transformed the
race right it would have shown Bernie
would have continued to lose support it
would have meant that the left was now
rallying behind one candidate to make
sure that Joe Biden or someone in the
Joe Biden Lane you know people who to
judge just tailgating Joe Biden
honkin as
get out of here his quote with his
blow-up doll yeah my lane you get out of
here
I'm clear I've been 40 miles an
hour okay 40 miles an hour while telling
a story to no one but this I think will
allow Bernie Sanders to find whatever
his pet maximum is right and that's been
the question from the beginning is it
you know what is the Bernie Sanders vote
what is the what is the Bernie Sanders
vote absent an anti Hillary vote is it
twenty five is it thirty is it 35 and I
think he's gonna get to find out what
that is because now he has this
incredible kind of launching pad for a
revived campaign and here's the thing
about the Sanders campaign it's always
struck me that it's like it's self
testing its theory of the case is
actually like will be tested by the
primary right because there are the
cases like there's lots of people that
you can who are marginal or disaffected
and you can organize to bring them
together to build a political coalition
that's powerful if you can like you can
either do that or not in the primary
like like if you can do that then that
shows that you're correct and have
something really remarkable and powerful
if you can't then the theory doesn't
work right yeah and I was sort of like
you know there was a lot of coverage of
why is aoc doing this why is she doing
that then you watch the video and you
listen to the to the to what she has to
say and you realize like because Bernie
Sanders seems to have meant a lot to her
right right it's nothing more she called
fast she called Bernie's campaign
manager while bernie was still in the
hospital to say I'm in I'm ready doing
doors that's that's a pretty goddamn
principle time to do it yeah and and I
do think yes and I do think also I think
part of the dynamic inside of this
primary I think it's true for some
Warren supporters I think it's true for
Bernie supporters is you look at this
political landscape and you say like can
we have what we want you know is it
possible is it possible takes this time
but we made the worst person in our
country president politics was upended
yeah what if we can have a person that
doesn't that we don't like hold our nose
to afford what if we can have the person
of our dreams and forthing for a lot of
people that's Bernie take a lot of
people that's Warren and I think where a
lot of people are looking at this and
wondering just what what does it mean in
2020 to choose the candidate how much do
we get a say not as pundits but as
people who want something from politics
so that that brings us to Tulsi Gabbard
we should we should briefly mention
what's going on with with her and
Hillary Clinton in an interview on David
Plouffe snoo podcast campaign HQ Hillary
said quote I'm not making any
predictions but I think the Russians
have got their eye on somebody who was
currently in the Democratic primary and
resuming John's holding his hands over
his eyes I love that I'm not making
predictions but here's something I
think's gonna hit and are grooming her
to be the third party candidate she's a
favorite of the Russians she was not
talking about Amy Klobuchar you talk
about Mary Ann Williams
so tells e Gabbard responded with quite
a tweet you the queen of war mongers
embodiment of corruption and
personification of the rot that has
sicken the Democratic Party for so long
have finally come out from behind the
curtain it's now clear that this
primaries between you and me don't
cowardly hide behind your proxies join
the race directly it was such a journey
following these and retweets cuz the
first she's like attacking Hillary and
you're like wait she's challenging you
to get in the race surprise there wasn't
a duel it read like what you read to
someone as someone lights the pyre on
which they are about to burn do you
think was a specific reference to Game
of Thrones why do we think let's start
with Hillary why do we think Hillary
said that I listened to the podcast
before it broke and it's funny it was it
took a little while cuz you know puffs
got this new podcast and I was like I
was listening to it Wednesday on my
drive home and I'm like 25 minutes in
and she just casually drops this and you
hear
Plouffe just sort of sits there in
silence doesn't say anything it kind of
just moves on to the next topic because
I think puffs like what what was that
you know and then at the very end of the
podcast
Plouffe comes on himself and he's just
like so that was an interesting
conversation with Hillary Clinton I do
think that bit about Tulsi Gabbard might
make some news you think I mean I
thought I my thoughts on this are she
shouldn't have said that it's a just
like it's you know there's a certain
part of the discourse that is obsessed
with hating on people that talked about
Russia
yeah but the kernel of the point they
have is that it is insidious to the
political culture of the country to view
everything
through the kind of like as like some
marionette puppeteer issue that the it
replays some of the most toxic and
Sidious tropes of the Cold War and all
that came with that and like it's just
not a good way to talk about our
politics
I think the Tulsi gabbard's politics are
strange yeah indescribable strange in
some ways like I literally don't know
the tribe and I think the way I view her
as I really view her as like the Ron
Paul of the Democratic Party in in in
that you can't quite say what like what
is the project as a whole is less well
defined what where the Ron Paul but also
in the way that like Ron Paul was right
about some things and really right about
that some things and horribly wrong
about some other things and that was the
that was the Ron Paul contradiction like
that was always the case like he was
right about the Iraq war that's a big
thing to be right about he was wrong
about a lot of other things and like so
so Gabbard sort of political and
ideological profile is her own and weird
and distinct I think the I think the
thing that Clinton said was bad and she
shouldn't have said it the response
though is just like again what are you
doing exactly here is is really what's
at the root of this why are you doing
her Carlson you do know you are not
comporting yourself as a person who is
attempting to win a Democratic Party
primary you just are not so you're
building your profile for the your
ideological movement fine but what is
that ideological movement aside from
getting out of regime change wars which
again not wars regime change wars which
is always an interesting tell because
she's for the global war on terror and
she is for the use of the authorization
using military force in many spheres of
combat in which we have we're killing
people like Somalia like she thinks that
we should keep doing that she's very
specific about regime change Wars and
it's like I just don't get what the
actual project you are trying to boost
here is fully yes also I mean again she
was you know she's had some weird
politics and that she was against the
Iran deal
she was criticizing Obama for not saying
radical Islamic terrorism she was
against more Muslim refugees coming to
the show she was like the lone
Democratic vote against increasing the
amount of Syrian refugees there's plenty
that's to criticize tulsi gabbard on
Russia yes I also just think like I
personally find the constant this is
helping Putin Twitter you know
conversation to be exhausting I also
think by the way those people are
ironically helping Putin yes
giving him credit for every bad thing
that ever happens that and yeah I don't
think like what what has now been
ascribed to Hillary Clinton that she is
called Tulsi some sort of secret agent
for Putin is not at all what she said no
right she said she thinks that the
Russians would love a third party
spoiler in the race the way Jill Stein
is all of this to me just understandably
boils down to a deep-seated anger about
the 2016 election what happened and by
the way like I think David Plouffe will
be the first one to tell you that you're
not gonna roll out big breaking news on
his like third episode of his podcast at
minute 35 right like it would be some
plan no no no see her campaign smartly
was like oh me you I'm gonna
lean into this and get the most press
I've gotten but to your point Chris
about winning a Democratic primary
you don't delay your event with Iowa
caucus-goers to go on Tucker Carlson
right like that's not you in a
Democratic primary exact and I do think
the larger conversation that Plouffe and
Clinton were having which was about the
danger of a third party candidate in
2020 is is a good conversation to have
into something that's very scary right
but it's also self-defeating to phrase
it in this way I mean all right the
point is it like there are people who
are not Tulsi Gabbard who support Tulsi
Gabbard who are get above Democratic
Party votes that you want as part of the
majority coalition to defeat Donald
Trump and like this is not a good way
well also Hillary Clinton is incredibly
smart right and even if she is very
concerned that that the Russians or
Russian BOTS or right-wingers or whoever
it may be are boosting Tulsi Gabbard
right are boosting Jill Stein because
they want the truth there are weird-ass
right-wingers happen who talk about that
yeah Richard Spencer do you then I'm
like the problem is the word grooming
right because the room we're it's a
weird word but um but I think if you're
worried about that one way that that's
going to be more true is if you talk
about it elevate right so even from just
purely from a strategic yes exactly
even if Hillary Clinton is exactly right
in what she was saying saying it and
making news about it now we're all
living in it yeah yeah I do I do think
that
look part of this is forgot 2016 I think
there's so much anxiety about 2020 about
how the primaries gonna turn out and you
know Tom Styer gets the first applause
the night by saying any person on this
stage would be a better president Donald
Trump and I think yeah people are gonna
make you know mayor Pete going after
Elizabeth Warren on how she's gonna pay
for health care it's uh about mayor Pete
right doing something helpful for him
that's hurtful to her even if she's the
nominee let's say right but that's
politics that's what happens in a
primary they Duke it out they try to
hurt each other and the idea is
everybody gets stronger along the way
but tolsey gabbard goes out there and
threatens to quit the debate for reasons
that are kinda strange you know there
are you know that you you you you wonder
like how far is she gonna take her
campaign what are her interests and I
think I think there's a fear that Tulsi
gabbard's lack of any ideological kind
of clarity that's confusing to people
her kind of reputation as a bit of a
chaos candidate leads people to fear
that this is someone who doesn't
understand or isn't bought into the
collective project of whatever happens
is we have to do everything we can to
defeat Donald Trump and together and
that is a I think that's that is a
completely legitimate fear I mean I
think I think I don't know even if I've
never had the chance to interview her
since she started running but I've
talked to her a bunch before then she
was much more of a kind of like part of
the Democratic Party previously and I
say and I say sorry should say like I
say that not know like I see I don't
know right I just genuinely oh that's
honest good faith question of like do
you actually feel that way do you feel
the way that Tom Sawyer felt do you feel
that like the the Democratic nominee and
the Democratic Party and the coalition
that's represented by this in your mind
very flawed rotten and corrupt party
which okay that that is the the only
alternative to the continued Menace of
this of this person and also the
ideological project to the Republican
Party which is menacing in its own right
like that's obviously a thing that
everyone I think shares a hundred
percent on that stage and I think it's
not an a crazy thing to ask if that is
her current position there's also just a
weird thing this time around where the
DNC rules that allow you to get on the
debate stage mean that support is
support for some of these guys rather
andrew yang dealt with this early on yet
some support from like the 4chan joe
rogan world he was constantly asked to
disavow these individuals and heat to
his credit he did
but does anyone think that those people
kind of liking universal basic income or
some interview he did made him a bad guy
or miss no so it's like it's very hard
just like putting my like I'm a Tulsi
staffer hat on if you're constantly
asked to denounce the people that are
giving you TV airtime or saying nice
things about you of course at some point
you're gonna you're in a bucket that the
thing I will say though about Yang and I
think it's interesting to compare the
two because they're both both of them
are people that are interred EMA chronic
primary that are carving out a space I
think in their rhetoric their
ideological vision and their support
that is different than a standard
Democratic candidate quite different
right is that it just seems to me that
like yang has his posture is like
additive and coalitional building as
just like a rhetorical gesture and as a
personal posture in a way that it
doesn't feel like gabbard's is no it
gabbard's feels like like process of
elimination and like who the sort of
like and then partly that's populist
rhetoric and who the kind of corrupt
insiders are but yang strikes me as
someone who really is like trying to
build something trying to additively
build something out in the Democratic
Party that speaks to a part of the
Democratic Party and I'd end Lee to the
other candidate yes palsy in that moment
was trying to go after Elizabeth Warren
for supposedly supporting wars in the
Middle East and Ward you know a bit of a
flub she said yeah I'd get all troops
out of the Middle East obviously she
meant fury yeah but it got you know
change to mean all these that's a fear
again totally fair and good debate and
like her playing that role is is good
it's just like I don't I just can never
quite and maybe there's not an answer to
and it doesn't matter that like there
has to be some box and label that's
wrapped around the whole project of
Gabbard ISM but like I just when you
look at the policies you look where
she's been on a variety of things it is
just very hard for me to just figure out
what the project is yeah so before we go
I want to talk about your outstanding
podcast why is this happening and you
have a live show tonight at the Ace
Hotel in Los Angeles yeah we're doing a
live show tonight at the Ace Hotel which
is a amazing venue I think you guys have
done something there's a great venue we
got Adam McKay the legendary Adam McKay
had SNL writer co-founder of Funny or
Die anchorman Talladega Nights and then
he's on the big short advice and part of
this originated
dinner I have with Adam we're like he
was like after a screening of ice in
which like he spent much of the drink
dinner her hanging me about not covering
climate enough and I was like dude make
him climate movie like I cover a lot of
climate like why are you but you have
some pole he is he is really obsessed
with climate and also thinking about how
do you represent the climate crisis as
film art TV and the other guest is got
name Omar Ellicott is incredible guy who
was born in Cairo lived in UAE and then
he grew up in Canada only 16 and he was
a war correspondent covering the war on
terror for ten years and wrote this
novel called American war which is set
in this sort of dystopic future America
after climate change and the banning of
fossil fuels in a second civil war and
we're gonna just talk about like how do
we think about talk about represent as a
cultural phenomenon the central crisis
of our times which is a very hard thing
to kind of get your arms around and
isn't being represented I think it's
fair to say yeah like corollary to the
level of import it has well speaking of
that I thought one of your most
fascinating recent episodes is you
talked to you interviewed Ted Cruz yeah
in Texas your mentor and and I was first
while there was a fascinating
conversation I did think like you know a
lot of people would be like are you
interviewing Ted Cruz for but it's like
he it was a it was an interesting
conversation good for him for totally
sitting with you in front of a crowd
that was very progressive and like
having a generally a good faith
discussion with you about all these
issues but I do think Ted Cruz on
climate change man that was wild I I
expected him you know Mitt Romney put
out this climate thing the other day
like there's a way to just be like yes
this is what the science says in the
world's world is getting warmer and then
there's a lot of yada-yada-yada you can
do after that because it's such a hard
problem well but China in India but we
shouldn't but also there's all you've
got jobs in natural gas and what are we
gonna tell those people you can do all
that but he went with the like circa
2005 Inhofe with a snowball on the floor
of the Senate like oh but the satellite
did is incomplete and actually they were
gaining ice and like he was hitting me
with all these sort of like tropes of
denialism which I just surprised to hear
in 2019 because it's just like I said
afterwards Twitter I was like let's make
a bad
donated to the you know charity of your
choice of will there be more record
highs or record lows in Texas in the
year 2020
it's just bet on that are gonna be more
record higher record lows in Texas in
2020 actually let's make that bet for
2021 and 2022 and 2023 like yeah what
are we doing here
like it's clearly I thought it was
fascinating when you said okay so why
are all these scientists and everyone
all getting together to try to invent
this conspiracy of global warming and
climate change you know and he he said
that from a political angle and I
imagine a lot of conservatives think
this they do that what this is about is
a lot of the solutions or most of the
solutions to climate change involve the
government and this is basically a
backdoor way yeah for liberals and
progressives to get what they want to
have a socialist takeover government
using climate as the fig-leaf what I was
like wow know what that makes sense for
all of them oh that's a completely
widespread view and to give it a little
bit of credit like it's not it's not a
crazy view it's a crazy view of you
think that's what like that's why the
scientists are doing it right
particularly we've ever like met a
climate scientist is like you know like
oh I've been tracking the latitude of
where butterflies mate in England for 32
years of my life and land I looked at
the data I'm like oh it turns out
they're mating higher and higher like
slower lower on the on the map because
of you know the changing climate and
it's like that's not a person involved
in some crazy like schemed you know like
that's a person who's like literally
went into it for the butterfly how much
dust or oahspe you yeah what's the same
conspiratorial mindset that they think
that all Democrats support immigration
reform because we want to register
millions more people of color in this
country so that we can win we're so
political I know but the ads but it goes
back to what you're saying they do to
about the cultural impact of stories
about climate change because I think one
of the challenges and I think you know
people say that's you talk about climate
change more talk about climate change
more but and I do think we all should be
talking about it more but one of the
challenges is you say to yourself who is
getting this information because there's
the consumers of the of the kind of
content that talks about the importance
of tackling climate change that is
reaching people that already understand
that right and want to do something in
our aren't sure how to get the political
to change it and there are Ted Cruz and
all the people that support Ted Cruz
that we need to figure out how to change
their thinking about this and their
behavior about this although I will say
this I mean a lot of that change has
really happened I think partly it's just
because of what's happened on the face
of the earth like right but it's it's
been two things to me it's been the fact
that like the signal has emerged from
the noise and the data to the extent
that people feel it and see it in their
daily lives I mean I was in my wife and
I both turned 40 this year we took a
little like trip to Paris and we went to
the Loire Valley like an hour and a half
outside Paris where they've been growing
they've been had wine and grapes for a
thousand years and it's like these
people this is all they do this is all
they think about for 5000 years and
they're like yes the its changing and
like this is what's happening we have to
start planting new grapes they're making
a joke about like how everybody's grapes
are gonna like move up one tear so like
we're gonna start growing what southern
Spain was growing and then like
England's gonna start making wine
because like they're gonna be warm
enough and it's like it's just they're
like the people that deal with the earth
every day like see it so there's that
and there's also I think the activism of
the movement has been so profound and
powerful that like the persuasion
question to me is almost a kind of
distant third to those two in terms of
mobilizing the political constituency
you want but it was still shocking to me
in that Ted Cruz conversation I was
genuinely surprised that that was the
rhetorical route that he was still
arguing about the data yeah
all right everyone thank you Chris for
joining us everyone go check out why is
this happening if you're in LA and you
hear this pot come tonight there's still
a few tickets left yeah programmed by
the ACE theater it'll be I think 7:00 to
7:30 7:30 come back I buy a ticket the
box office all right and when we come
back we'll have Tommy and Ben's
interview with
