over the course of my career I have seen
a number of challenges to our democracy
the Russian government's effort to
interfere in our election is among the
most serious as I said on May 29th this
deserves the attention of every American
in your investigation that you think
that this was a single attempt by the
Russians to get involved in our election
or did you find evidence to suggest
they'll try to do this again oh it
wasn't a single attempt they're doing it
as we sit here and they expect to do it
during the next campaign so it's fair to
say the president tried to protect
himself by asking staff to falsify
records relevant to an ongoing
investigation I would say that generally
in summary could you charge the
president with a trim' after he left
office yes you believe that he committed
you could charge the president United
States with obstruction of justice after
he left office yes we have heard today
that the President ordered former White
House Counsel Adam Organa to fire you
the President ordered our maganda then
covered that up and create a false paper
trail and now we've heard that President
ordered Corey Lewandowski to tell jeff
sessions to limit your investigation so
that he you stop investigating the
president I believe you're reasonable
person looking at these facts could
conclude that all three elements of the
crime of assumption justice have been
met and I'd like to ask you the reason
again that you did not indict Donald
Trump is because of OLC opinion stating
that you cannot indict a sitting
president correct that is correct so the
report did not conclude that he did not
commit obstruction of justice is that
correct that is correct
and what about total exoneration did you
actually totally exonerate the president
no dr. Muller your report describes a
sweeping and systematic effort by Russia
to influence our presidential election
is that correct that is correct and
during the course of this Russian
interference in the election the
Russians made outreach to the Trump
campaign did they not
that occurred over the course of yeah
that occurred apart from the Russians
wanting to help Trump win several
individuals associated with the Trump
campaign we're also trying to make money
during the campaign in transition is
that correct that is true Paul Manafort
was trying to make money or achieve debt
forgiveness from a Russian oligarch
generally that is accurate Michael Flynn
was trying to make money from Turkey
true Donald Trump was trying to make
millions from a real estate deal in
Moscow to the extent you're talking
about the the hotel and Moscow yes yes
when your investigation looked into
these matters numerous Trump associates
lied to your team the grand jury and to
Congress number of persons that we
interviewed and our investigation it
turns out did lawyer Mike Flynn lied he
was convicted of lying yes George
papadopolis was convicted of lying true
Paul Manafort was convicted of lying
true all man afford was in fact went so
far as to encourage other people to lie
that is accurate Manta Ford's deputy
Rick Gates lied that is accurate Michael
Cohen the president's lawyer was
indicted for lying true you lied to stay
on message with the president allegedly
by him and when Donald Trump called your
investigation a witch hunter that was
also false was it not
I like to think so yes well your
investigation is not a witch hunt is it
is not a witch hunt when the president
said the Russian interference was a hoax
that was false wasn't it true Russia
committed federal crimes in order to
help Donald Trump when you're talking
about that computer crimes in charge in
our case absolutely
the Trump campaign officials built their
strategy their messaging strategy around
those stolen documents I'm generally
that true and then they lied to cover it
up and generally that's true
you wrote in your report that you quote
determined not to make a traditional
prosecutorial judgment end quote
was that in part because of an opinion
by the Department of Justice
of legal counsel that a sitting
president can't be charged with a crime
yes director Muller at your May 29th
2019 press conference you explained that
quote the opinion says that the
Constitution requires a process other
than the criminal justice system to
formally accuse a sitting president of
wrongdoing
end quote that process other than the
criminal justice system for accusing a
president of wrongdoing is that
impeachment I'm not going to comment on
that in your report you also wrote that
you did not want to quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct end
quote for the non lawyers in the room
what did you mean by quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes I'm not
going to try to explain that that
actually is coming from page one of
volume two in the footnote is the the
reference to this
what are those constitutional processes
I think I heard you mentioned at least
one director Marilla isn't it fair to
say that the president has written
answers were not only inadequate and
incomplete because he didn't answer many
of your questions but where he did his
answer showed that he wasn't always
being truthful there I would say
generally generally this just came out
WikiLeaks
I love WikiLeaks Donald Trump October
10th 2016 this WikiLeaks stuff is
unbelievable it tells you the inner
heart you got to read it Donald Trump
October 12 2016 this WikiLeaks is like a
treasure trove Donald Trump October 31st
2016
boy I love reading those wiki leaks
Donald Trump November 4th 2016
many of those quotes disturb you mr.
director
I'm not certain I would say you react
well it's probably problematic is an
understatement
in terms of whether to play displays in
terms of giving some I don't know hope
or some boost to what isn't should be
illegal activity volume 1 page 59 Donald
Trump jr. had direct electronic
communications with WikiLeaks during the
campaign period on October 3rd 2016
WikiLeaks sent another direct message to
Trump jr. asking you guys to help
disseminate a link alleging candidate
Clinton had advocated a drone to attack
Julian Assange Trump jr. right responded
that quote he had already done so same
question
this behavior at the very least
disturbing a reaction I just started
also subject to investigation director I
think you made it clear that you think
it unethical to put it politely to tout
a foreign service like WikiLeaks
publishing stolen political documents
and presidential campaign certainly
calls for investigation
you
