now it's time for okay stop well equip
and the panel could say okay stop at any
point to comment high school debate it's
shaped some of America's sharpest minds
to use logic and reason and unleash it
on the world's problems Oprah Winfrey
Elizabeth Warren then Shapiro anyway Ben
took a break from cosplaying as
America's little brother and his
rebellious conservative phase because
his mom left his dad for a guy she met
canvassing for Obama to share to share
his thoughts on bond James Bond let's
watch there's a beautiful woman who is
playing James Bond like leshawna Lynch
lets it and now she wants to seduce the
most handsome man is that in any way
difficult bond is about the guns and the
girls when it comes to the seduction of
women if there is a very very large
difference okay stop
it's hard it's hard to hear and to watch
remember that guy to pick up artists
Mysterio he who had the Hat
in the big earrings and he was all about
negging women and making them feel bad
and that's how you got a date this
entire analysis is derived from reading
that guy's book yeah also like I'm
really confused about him being upset
that he has to look at a beautiful woman
on screen like if as an as an like a
person who claims to be a heterosexual
man wouldn't that be something that you
would prefer to watch like when you
watch porn do you just like zoom in on
the one corner where like the guy's
chest
Tommy she was actually directing to the
question Tommy between a woman and a man
I'm having the ending to the lesbian
aspect of this because okay so what
we're talking about we're the lesbian
aspect of this come in let's take a part
of this seriously which is the idea that
part of what is central to James Bond's
character is that he is a man whose
charisma handsomeness and spy ability
gives him incredible seduction abilities
over women and that that is part of his
appeal but that a beautiful woman would
not have to work as hard to seduce a man
so barring a female double-oh-seven
being a lesbian
using logic she will not have to show as
much prowess and a much ability to
seduce men and therefore will have lost
some of what is central oh my god yeah I
mean this right here things must be
going pretty well for you if the
greatest threat that you can find is
losing James Bond as your male idol this
character is gonna be a lesbian let's
assume that she's not for a second let's
assume that's that she is just black
female James Bond which means that she's
betting the most handsome men that is
not in any way a wish fulfillment
fantasy for the men who typically
watched the Bond films okay maybe a wish
fulfillment fantasy for women who watch
Bond films is to see a black female
James Bond
maybe men don't all watch James Bond for
wish-fulfillment fantasy take it back
John gadgets if you think I'm watching
Daniel Craig at James Bond because I'm
in love with Daniel Craig's truly deeply
actually for real in love with him
shame on you I want to see if the guy he
thinks is his friend is not really his
friend but yeah that's what I'm there
for a challenge for James Bond's be
completely sexist about this microphone
at 1.5 speed somehow all the time is
Conquest right that's obviously been
part of the trope of the series is this
conquest driven mentality I can find now
they're trying to make it as though he
has to be in a relationship every movie
because they're trying to make it as
though he's not gonna use relationships
once James Bond to have more it's more
James Bond get to around
understood okay but that was always the
appeal of bond is in every movie he was
when he somehow seduce the most
beautiful woman in the movie into bed
with him and this is what made him an
idol to millions of men well of course
would like to seduce beautiful women but
are incapable of doing so because
there's not a lot of projection they're
great when they tell him himself at the
very end that was me that was better
than I thought I was interested in this
clip you know what the actual subs an
important thing to me about this
conversation about whether James Bond
can be a weather double-oh-seven can be
a black women is like the qualities that
we view as irreducible in a character
right like nobody was bothered when
Daniel Craig went went up sorry
on the mind when James Bond went from
being a brunette to a blonde right
that's obviously not essential to the
character and people you know in America
we certainly didn't care that James Bond
had been Scottish and then went to I
don't know well sure whoever the fight
doesn't matter to us it's all just it's
all just a bunch of people we beat in a
war once so it doesn't matter but but
but he's actually I think we're dealing
something important which is there there
are a lot of man who might have trouble
seeing a woman as a character through
which they could have a fantasy then
they could put themselves in her shoes
and experience the world through her
eyes and live vicariously through a
female character and I don't think that
that's I think it's wrong to be angry
that you don't get to do that
automatically but I don't but I do think
it's worth remembering that like that is
the salience of gender that is so
important for so many people that
actually making a bond character female
would do a lot to help fix it's also the
cut I also wanted to add Phoebe Waller
bridge who is from fleabag is writing
the new James Bond and if she sees this
my prayer to the gods is that she opens
James Bond with a scene of a little tiny
right-wing pundit yelling about a black
female superhero getting his ass kicked
that's good idea and that's okay stop
[Applause]
[Music]
