welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Tommy Vitor and I'm John love it and
I've moved myself to the opposite side
of the studio because both John and
Tommy have the sniffles and I'm trying
to get out of here without them love it
reach down into his bottomless well of
empathy it moved several feet away from
us
moments ago I did open the door with a
post-it I want you both to feel better I
don't see why wanting you to to feel
better means I gotta go give you guys
look the guys hugs in a little cold it's
almost over
I'm impeachable logic love it if you can
hear me from all the way over there at
the end of the table I I do want to say
how sorry I am that your rams lost the
Super Bowl I know you are a longtime fan
as of last week first of all the from
the very moment that Los Angeles had a
football team called the Rams I have
been a die-hard supporter I would also
point out that unfortunately this year
there was no Super Bowl there was a
scrimmage in which it looked like a
Super Bowl but of course due to the
failure of the refs do something about
the Saints what happened who did the
Saints play the Rams ram and that call
was good hey hey people went out from LA
get away with stuff all right
watch the news OLX up on SportsCenter
yeah yesterday's I'm sitting there I
hear Emily on the phone with Lovett and
Emily it's like well it turns out that
Lovett didn't know the Superbowl was
today and made plans to play video games
instead we had a pre-scheduled game
night game night was converted into a
Superbowl game night I did bet against
Spencer and you'll hear about that in
the cash I've had so later in the pod
you'll hear my conversation with the
Atlantic's Adam server about the racist
photo that prompted calls for the
governor of Virginia to resign we're
also going to talk today about president
Trump's upcoming State of the Union
address and the newest Democrat joining
the field to challenge him Cory Booker
how was love it or leave it on Friday we
had a great love it or leave it
chairman Adam Schiff stopped by chairman
he talked about Muller he talked about
impeachment he talked about vehement
vegan hamburgers one of my favorite
episodes also Tony Newsome and Naomi act
para gamer on two of the funniest guests
we ever have another leave it so it was
great show check it out
tell me I hear you have a pretty great
pod save the world dropping this week uh
there's a very special pod save the
world coming for you this week Ben
Rhodes and I sat down with Jason rezaian
who is the former Tehran bureau chief of
the Washington Post who was taken
captive by the Iranian regime for 544
days this horrific imprisonment is
totally unjustified and unfair but it's
such a great conversation because Jason
wrote a book about his experience and
then Dan Rhodes was there and then was
on the other side of those negotiations
you can understand it both from like the
Washington angle and how Jason felt
while he was in prison and during this
 hell so a really cool special
episode coming out on Wednesday check it
out he's an incredible guy he's
definitely some of this um great book
read The Prisoner yes uh we're heading
out on tour this week there will be no
Thursday pod our show in Charleston will
be a Friday pod our show in New Orleans
will be a bonus pod on Sunday are
showing Durham will be the monday pod
there's still a few tickets left for
those shows just a few so go get them
and there are plenty of tickets left for
shows in cities like Boston DC New York
LA go to cricket comm slash events and
get those tickets all right let's get to
the news on Tuesday night president
Trump will deliver his second State of
the Union address from the Capitol the
White House has teased the Trump speech
will include calls for unity and
bipartisanship and will be built around
the theme choosing greatness
here's an excerpt guys synchronous we
have an excerpt straight from the White
House quote together we can break
decades of political stalemates bridge
old divisions heal old wounds build new
coalition's forge new solutions come up
with new cliches and unlock the
extraordinary promise of America's
future the decision is ours to make are
you guys convinced yet Stephen Miller is
such a bad writer defend you guys as
former well now speechwriter he's
someone that can't even put together a
sentence his writings I mean it's hard
to get past the racism with Stephen
Miller that's up front so you don't
usually get to the fact that even if he
weren't so racist his writing would be
really bad just a bad writer right like
if they were if there were if this was a
normal Republican president
even Miller would have applied to be
speech writer and his would not have
made it out of the first pile because
there would have been a pile of better
speeches and then they would've been
like Oh who was oh that racist guy yeah
yeah well we didn't even get to that
when we were redefining his speeches
George Bush's policies horrendous
horrendous policies Michael Gerson
pretty good speechwriter yeah greats
betray choosing greatness is like a bad
motivational speaker you might hear at
halftime of a high school football game
that is the theme what does it tell us
guys about Trump's political
circumstances that he's trying to
rediscover unity and bipartisanship in
this speech you know it's um and more
importantly will this be the night he
becomes better we had this very similar
conversation last year and yeah I did
not actually go to the trouble of
pulling last year's articles because
let's all just live our lives here heat
Trump stole my brain last year I don't
to go back and give him some more but
the deal ended every day you know a
State of the Union is supposed to both
but sort of or is supposed to organize
the administration's thinking and
present a clear-eyed version of what the
goals are for that administration for
the coming year reflecting their
behaviors and policies and actions of
the past but there has never been a
president whose state of the unions and
presidencies are more distinct we see
that example right now so he's going to
go out and give this speech about unity
yet what's hanging over the speech him
telling CBS that he doesn't that he
thinks Nancy Pelosi loves human
trafficking and him threatening to
declare a national emergency right even
in the run-up to this speech his actual
actions and behaviors do not align with
the version of himself he's planning to
present what do you think just feels
like the least anticipated State of the
Union since they were delivered in
envelopes and handed to Congress I
couldn't even find a lot of stories yeah
you know right like I guess for a minute
I was like wait is it really Tuesday of
next Tuesday cuz no one's talking about
it yeah that's because I Ralph Northam
but anyway yeah right I mean the the
theme is choosing greatness apparently
he's gonna call on Congress to pass his
new version of NAFTA the u.s. MCA he's
gonna talk about Venezuela they won't
say if he'll declare a state of
emergency he'll ask for Congress to work
with him on
like infrastructure in healthcare and
they'll talk about immigration and
confront it's like all pablum and none
of the stuff that they're trying to sell
is bipartisan is gonna get done all
anyone's gonna remember is if he
declared the state of emergency or not
yeah I mean he is he is one of the most
unpopular presidents in history
according to polling he recently
suffered one of the biggest midterm
losses in history and he's fresh off the
losing end of the longest government
shutdown in history any other president
any normal president in such a political
circumstance would probably try to move
beyond rhetorical bipartisanship in
unity and actually say okay I'm ready to
compromise on X Y & Z now let's get to
the immigration thing I'm sure in the
speech he will say the the senators and
congressmen reading meeting right now on
immigration there's bipartisan there's a
bipartisan deal to be had Democrats have
told me they want border security in the
wall let's just lie about that you know
Republicans want that too
I've said it be steel slats and not the
wall Abe Lincoln called me last night
and said he wants a wall all right all
right yeah and like you know there there
is a deal to be had there but if there's
not if you can't compromise which I I
know you can if you can't compromise
I'll be forced to act it seems like he's
gonna end up with something like that
but what's ridiculous about that is you
know he's gonna make this emergency
declaration and not only is that
declaration opposed by the Democratic
Party but it's opposed by a growing
number of Republican senators Mitch
McConnell right and the public not to
say nothing of the public I also think
the reason nobody's paying attention to
this goes deeper you know there is it's
nice to see that there is a cost to the
president being someone no one takes at
face value no one listens to his words
really takes them seriously they change
from day to day you read into him read
into those words his motivations so
there's an understanding that that
Donald Trump like you know the State of
the Union has another purpose which is
it actually forces previous
administrations to organizing themselves
around an idea and actually the saying
of it makes it true right we are going
to pursue this next year you set a
marker for yourself not just for the
country for yourself but there's just
been a story that's come out
that shows that over the past few weeks
I've over most of the president's uh
past whatever months most of his days is
are just wide open right no one rocky
believes that over say the last few
weeks Donald Trump has been feverishly
meeting with his policy team though
going through drafts and drafts of the
State of the Union trying to really
Center what he's gonna say around what
he really plans to fight for though
there's absolutely no evidence that any
of these agencies in his government are
staffed with enough people and certainly
enough competent people to move forward
with any of this agenda even if they
wanted to he's talking about
infrastructure he's talking about
prescription drugs he's got a whole
bunch of acting secretaries he's got
people he's got agencies on staffed he's
got a bunch of buffoons in these jobs
it's like you know from a political
calculus perspective I mean most
presidents when they try to run hard on
an issue like he has an immigration and
and watch public opinion move against
them so overwhelmingly they would give
up and move on to the next thing part of
me is kind of fine with him continuing
to talk about immigration almost
exclusively
because we know it's a losing issue and
also at least he's not doing the other
bad thing yeah right I mean least he's
not making another huge run at repealing
Obamacare or god knows what or invading
Venezuela you know whatever else you
could be talking about I mean look none
of these are great options here maybe
it's it shows how stupid he is
politically so I want to talk about the
national emergency reporters asked if he
was gonna declare this in the speech and
he said I don't want to say it but
you'll hear the State of the Union and
then you'll see what happens right after
the State of the Union I'm saying listen
closely to the State of the Union I
think you'll find it very exciting guy
keeps a great secret so if he does
declare a national emergency how should
Democrats react I mean this whole
national emergency issue is weird I mean
in the late in the mid 70s Congress
passed the national emergency act which
gives the White House the authority to
declare these national emergencies
they're weird and they don't make sense
like the first one declared was in 1979
around the Iran hostage crisis and it's
been renewed every 90 days since so
there there doesn't feel like there's a
big emergency element
- a lot of these emergencies that are
stated what should have happened is like
Congress should jump in and codify
whatever powers the president needed to
deal with these issues but but whatever
I mean Republicans and Democrats have
all declared states of emergency so it's
not a totally crazy abnormal thing I
think that we should oppose it because
there is no state of emergency on the
merits on the southern border there's no
need to do this there's no need to
reprogram Department of Defense money to
build a wall that no one thinks we need
but it will likely be met with a legal
challenge the courts historically have
been pretty deferential to presidents
about their authority to declare
national emergencies but that doesn't
mean the wall will get built it will
likely still get bogged down in the same
litigation so I don't know I don't want
him to do it because I think it's
terrible precedent and terrible policy
but if it moves on from shutting down
the government or messing with the debt
ceiling then maybe that's the best bad
outcome we can hope for yeah and look
there is a legislative option here under
the national emergencies act but you
just spoke about a presidential
declaration of an emergency can be
terminated if lawmakers pass a joint
resolution to do so joint resolution to
do so
so House Democrat the way this would
work is Trump declares the national
emergency Pelosi passes this immediately
through the house because it would and
then the law says that it has to be
taken up by the Senate Mitch McConnell
cannot sit on it and it would require a
simple majority in the Senate to pass
already the Washington Post reported
today they have anywhere from four to
six to ten Republican senators who don't
want this to happen now if they pass if
a Senate passed it also then it would go
to trumps desk trump could veto this and
then probably they don't have the
two-thirds in either house to override
his veto and so it goes forward but I
say yeah go through with that because
now Trump has just his first veto as
president was to override a bipartisan
condemnation of him declaring a national
emergency for a wall they know what in
the country wants yeah I'm sorry I'm
minority people in the 66 percent
opposed there you go right and you know
again like to Tommy's point like it's
both it's it's actually you know it
captures something essential about the
Trump administration it is both a you
know a feint towards authoritarianism
and dangerous abuse of power bill
on decades of abuses of power by
presidents and yet on the other hand
maybe just the way out of may give
Donald Trump the face-saving thing he
needs to get out of holding the
government hostage again holding the
debt ceiling hostage again so you know
it's ugly and we should just stand
against it and again the actual upshot
of this will be years of litigation yeah
the Democrats have chosen former Georgia
House Minority Leader Stacey Abrams to
deliver the response to Trump guys how
tough is this job what do you think of
the decision and what do you want to
hear from Stacey Abrams
I think it's an inspired choice Sam she
is one of the most exciting candidates
you ran last cycle unfortunately she did
not win but that doesn't mean she
doesn't have a bright future in the
party I think she's also someone that
has been I don'tjust been able to
deliver a clear inspiring message I mean
look this is this is a very tough
assignment you're you you follow the
pageantry of the State of the Union you
get 10 minutes it always just looks
inherently small but I think that I what
I've been struck by in starting to read
20/20 coverage again is how nice it has
felt for me to watch normal politics and
see normal speeches and like sort of
unifying messages that are designed to
bring people together so I assume she
will attempt some sort of shot at that
well I'm still critiquing the Trump
administration yeah I mean it is
traditionally a very difficult
assignment I would say though it is
worth noting that it was it has gone
from being one of the hardest presidents
to follow to one of the easiest you know
Donald Trump does not make the most of
the pageantry in ceremony he cannot wear
it he cannot carry it it's uh just not
in his it's not in his uh it's just not
it's not in his emotional intelligence
Arsenal to stand up in front of people
and use that I mean never has it looked
so diminished to be in the hands of
someone so small and Stacey Abrams is
someone who just even now as I think
about it very view people could follow
the State of the Union and then sit in a
wingback chair and just talk to the
camera but Stacey Abrams can do it yeah
maybe she'll run for Senate in Georgia
against one of the reasons you know
Schumer he's always he's always scheming
one of the reasons that Schumer picked
her is because he's trying to convince
right which is great good love it good
great choice and she's brilliant we love
Stacey Abrams you know I would say it is
a it is a very very tough job to do this
and Abrams herself was questioned about
this last week when she was out here in
LA and she said you know it's tough
because you want to give voice to all of
the feelings people have about the Trump
administration over the last couple
years you also want to put out forward a
positive agenda I would just say like
there's there's not a ton of business
that you have to do in the speech like
it's not up to Stacey Abrams to lay out
the Democratic agenda for the year like
Trump just laid out his agenda for the
year so if she wants to focus on one
powerful story or one anecdote or wants
to talk about the America she sees and
big broad strokes and not get into
policy like she should do that I mean
I've said this before but her the speech
that she gave on election night and then
the follow up speech she gave when she
refused to concede when she accepted the
result that refused to concede were two
of the best speeches I've heard from a
democratic politician in years she's
brilliant
she also just wrote this really
fantastic fantastic pieces in foreign
policy magazine places it is brilliant
and I I defy you to be seen I defy
someone to find a politician who writes
in that kind of academic style so
brilliantly in either party yeah in
politics today it actually you know what
I appreciate about it is actually it
reminds me also it reminds me of you
know she's not writing it to make a case
for herself as a candidate she's saying
here's what I believe here's the kind of
politics I ascribe to that will guide me
in the future and it reminds me also if
so a lot of the early writing of
Elizabeth Warren that was not geared
around helping her win but she's sort of
laying out an ideological case for a
kind of economic politics and this was
laying out an ideological case for a
kind of identity politics that she just
defended and in a really thoughtful and
smart way yeah okay after that dose of
optimism let's talk about Ralph Northam
virtually every elected Democrat in
Virginia and in Washington have now
called on the governor to resign after a
website surfaced a photo from North
American school yearbook page of a man
in blackface standing next to another
man dressed as a member of the KKK after
the photo first surfaced on Friday
Northam issued an apology quote for the
I'm made to appear as I did in this
photo then on Saturday in one of the
most bizarre press conferences I have
ever seen in my entire life
Northam the story and claimed that he
wasn't in the photo at all and that a
mix-up might have resulted in someone
else's photo ending up on his page in
the yearbook he also admitted at that
press conference that he once put shoe
polish
on his face to do a Michael Jackson
impersonation at a San Antonio dance
contest in 1984 I like I can't even
believe these words are coming out of my
mouth right now
like Northam would did he win yes he
told us he won he told us he won he said
he won because he knew how to moonwalk
and then some reporter asked him
does he still know how to moonwalk and
he looked like he was about to do it and
then his wife stopped him and said in
appropriate circumstances what the
was going on here's what I'll say about
that every person in this world needs
someone who will stand up and stop you
from moonwalking during your racism
apology press conference is true so by
the time you listen to this podcast
Northam may have resigned
if he hasn't by the time we were
listening to it I don't know what the
hell's going on he would be replaced by
Lieutenant Governor Justin Fairfax a
Democrat who's just the second
african-american in Virginia history to
hold the statewide office okay let's
start with this what the were Ralph
Northam and his team thinking with that
statement that press conference I feel
like this will be a textbook example for
people being trained in crisis
communications for years to come yeah I
mean it really is the worst case
scenario it's not just an offensive
photo of a white man in blackface it's
someone standing with a member of the
KKK and you dressed as a member of the
KKK which is an evil domestic terrorist
organization I mean it's like it's the
the lapse of judgement is so fundamental
on every level that I get I can't
actually understand it if I guess if he
could prove that it's not him in the
photo that the photo somehow got put on
his page by someone else and he did not
choose that it to put it there and
somehow didn't learn of it and explain
also why he was called man in med
school which is his nickname then maybe
people will listen to that explanation
but I mean
I can under them how he is so badly
confused this responds by confirming and
then denying this allegation and then
yeah that's the thing about the Michael
Jackson impersonation which say oh and
by the way I actually did do this a
different time I mean Simone Sanders
tweeted like no one is saying govern
Northam can't be met with Grayson
forgiveness but almost the entirety to
the left believe he's lost the ability
to effectively govern I think that is as
concise and perfect a summary as you can
get and he should you should have
resigned on Friday
yeah yeah I mean you know it's on you
say all right well let's let's separate
the mismanagement of it from the thing
itself for a moment but the problem is
you actually can't you know because part
of the mismanagement was admitting it
was him in the photo so now I don't know
what it looks like if he denied it was
him in the photo from the beginning but
we can't go back there so he he took it
he took away any ability to defend
himself by at first admitting it was him
thinking that would that would help him
get over this realizing it was far worse
than he anticipated and then calling
this press conference to try to get out
of it
the other piece of this too is you know
I there's a problem for there's a
problem in our politics in that when you
have a when you have a scandal like this
it is a scandal not based on something
that's happening right now some actual
political event policy choice problem in
the world as it exists right now but a
symbol and an old one and the problem we
have is that the incentives for
Democrats and the incentives for Ralph
Northam are not aligned right that you
know he's thinking I can get through
this if I just hunker down figure out a
way to hold on then the media will turn
away eventually people will look the
other way people will forget I'll get
through this scandal and for Democrats
obviously it's our incentive to say no
we're drawing a hard line here we want
him gone he can't get through this
because he had first admitted it was him
and then tried to take it back but the
problem will be well well what happens
next right what keeps this story in the
public's attention Republicans will try
Democrats may try but you know there's
no actual manifestation of it it is a
historical sim it is a photo
and so III don't know how you get out of
a situation like this I also will say
like watching him at that press
conference which was so bizarre he
didn't he didn't seem to understand the
gravity of the situation and a mistake
like like joking joking about the
moonwalk and stuff like that like I
realized whatever it's a tense situation
and you're trying to look but like no
you know like it I mean I you know Clint
Smith who was on pod save the people saw
him sweet about this on Friday he's like
you know he was saying his grandfather
can still remember hiding in the back of
the house when the Ku Klux Klan was
riding by like these memories are really
fresh and like that is like I don't
think Northam quite understands how
painful and hurtful that is to people in
this country who've dealt with that not
that long ago and he also I mean and
part of it made me realize that is he
during the press conference he talks
about this trip he went on with his
african-american assistant and he and
they talked about the history of
blackface and North I'm apparently told
his assistant about the Michael Jackson
incident he told them during this trip
and apologized for it and having done
that you would think that he would then
understand the gravity of the situation
now and it just has not seemed like he
has yeah and that your book it's not
high school it's med school you know you
significantly older then not that it's
an excuse but like these are old adults
and there's all the tons of instances of
people in blackface in this your book
and I'm very sick of the what about ISM
from Democrats tweeting at Republicans
okay now condemned Trump or now
condemned Steve King yeah like I'm sick
of that it misses the point like we
it's not just that of course we were all
bad no we we have to be better than the
Republicans on these issues and I just
imagine if you're like an
african-american kid living in
Charlottesville and you went through the
horrific both sides lack of condemnation
from Donald Trump when the Klan
and you know Nazis are walking through
your city and then your governor dressed
like this potentially or or worse in a
KKK outfit and that's your alternative
that's that's an untenable situation
to put anyone in and it's it's it's a
humiliating thing as a party to have
someone who did that represent the
values we say we agree I mean like the
20/20 feel is the most diverse field in
history this new class in members of
Congress the most diverse exciting young
field in history like we can't let
like this cloud the fact that we
actually care about these issues and we
want to we want a more inclusive society
yeah and I saw some people tweeting you
know like why are Democrats why are we
always so hard on our own side and
Republicans you know they make excuses
for them and look when they do sexist
and racist on the Republican side
you know their members stay on but we
force ours out it's like well that's
because this is what we believe yeah
this is our it's because we're not
actually playing team sports all the
time and like our team is gonna beat
their team like we believe in a society
that's inclusive that where we don't
allow racism and sexism to flourish like
that we're trying to build that society
like if if a Republican politician
was caught in a yearbook photo like
advocating for higher marginal tax rates
or or saying that climate change was
real maybe they'd be kicked out of the
party maybe they would push them out
pretty fast because that's that's what
they believe they don't you know we we
are a diverse party we are the party
that looks like the United States of
America they're not and so with our
party we have to you know we have to
hold ourselves to a different standard
whether that means that we win or not
political considerations aside yeah and
it's also I think worth I mean that it's
like there's there's value to setting
that standard above and beyond simply
being able to denounce things that we
don't think are right you know we're in
this period of re-evaluation
it's on gender it's on race it's not a
host of other issues it's why we're
talking about Confederate monuments now
it's why in some Kansa we're talking
about sexual harassment and sexual
assault now we have realized that even
in recent years our are thinking of
ourselves as having gotten over certain
problems or thinking of ourselves as
modern or think themselves as having
whatever being post history in some
sense is is wrong it was just completely
false
and one of the hardest parts about that
is there are these two things sitting
side by side one our standards are going
up and then that's a really positive
thing and then we are taking those
standards and saying and saying who is
living up to them and who has always
lived up to them and some people are
just failing and to me you look back at
that yearbook photo and it's it's not
just about Ralph Northam it's the fact
that there was a culture of that school
a glibness and an acceptable a glibness
around race and a and a racism baked
into the culture of that school that
made it a place where people felt safe
to dress that way a place that was not
safe for people of color at all and
right now we're looking back and saying
no this is not acceptable that the idea
that you could go along with that is a
completely morally reprehensible way to
have gotten where you are and your
explanations are not acceptable your
denial is not acceptable and the only
way we will get better is by rejecting
by rejecting the kinds of acceptable
racism that came before including
blackface you know this is this the
people say like well you know blackface
has just gotten less acceptable actually
just racism has gotten less acceptable
that's all we're talking to the fact
that racism has gotten less acceptable I
mean even parently in that school and
not yearbook in 2013 there were people
dressed up and racist garb so yeah in
the context is I mean the last lynching
in America was in Alabama in 1981 that
wasn't a very long time ago yeah now was
the context for people wearing those
outfits to wherever event they were at
and I will say too there's another
reason that we have an obligation to
call on him to resign and to call out
this behavior I mean you know black
voters took a chance on Ralph Northam
because he said he was gonna fight
bigotry and he was gonna fight racism
and he did during that campaign and you
know by all accounts of people who know
him and people in this in the state
talked about this he has passed the
right legislation to show that he is
standing on the right side of this issue
he has made the right political moves
and for black voters to realize that
this man was not who they thought he was
because of this past sort of breeds
rightly so suspicion and distrust
between black voters and white
politicians who claim to be fighting for
them
yeah and as white people we have an
obligation to say no that that's not
okay because now we have it's now it's
our job to help repair that breach of
trust that Ralph Northam his actions
broke all right let's talk 2020 New
Jersey senator Cory Booker announced his
candidacy for president on Friday with a
very company sorry with a very
compelling video I thought a series of
interviews including one on the view and
a press conference outside his house the
former mayor of Newark built a large
following on social media and a
reputation for promotion I'm sorry in a
reputation for promoting optimism and
what he describes as radical love
according to one article in The
Washington Post this weekend he'll
campaign on a suite of criminal justice
reforms baby bonds Medicare for all and
a green new deal in the past he's been
criticized by some progressives for
being too close to Wall Street and
pharmaceutical companies as well as his
support for charter schools guys what do
we think of Cory Booker's announcement
what we think of her his strength as a
candidate his challenges as a candidate
I mean with respect to the rollout
itself I thought it was smart the the
video was extremely well done I mean
candidly if you put that drum line to
like almost anything it will get me
fired up but it really worked in the
video he released and it worked for him
and his personality which is like
incredibly energetic and optimistic and
positive he also called into the Tom
Joyner Morning Show for radio interview
and then he called in to Univision to do
an interview almost entirely in Spanish
so he is setting a signal that he's
going to speak directly to
african-american voters Latino voters he
also did the view and then needs a press
conference outside of his house he's
wisely going around the DC filter to the
greatest extent possible you know I
think people who know Booker know that
he works incredibly hard there was like
videos of him doing push-ups in between
interviews right he means like a super
hyper energetic guy he's a great record
on criminal justice reform he's you know
been an outspoken participant in some of
the most important hearings of the last
couple years so I think he will be he
won't be noticed I mean he'll get he'll
people will take a look at him we could
talk downsides in a minute but
love it I'll tell you one thing I've
learned I am a sucker for a roll out
video
me too I just I mean one after another
I'm just in on these videos the videos
are working on me and you know what I'm
an engaged primary voter and I'm loving
them yeah I mean look appears your
citizens they every like I approach
these things I could play I li play like
I'm deciding whether to buy it at
Sundance you know like will people want
this I'm like a very angry producer but
I'm just like I love the fonts you know
I'm in but you know look I said this
also about some of the previous videos
you know we have seen a lot of the top
tier candidates they are aligning around
a certain set of policies green New Deal
Medicare for all baby bonds as a as a
proposal that's been around for a while
it's a you know a smart and interesting
progressive idea and now I think it's
like what's next you know I'm excited to
see what happens when all these
candidates are getting out there and get
pushed off their message get pushed out
of get pushed out of their comfort zones
a little because I think to me that's
gonna be the test to prove like who's
really up for this yeah my thought after
watching that video is was that cory
booker did what elizabeth warren did in
her video these are now two candidates
and i actually think you can make a case
that Pete Buddha judge did this as well
yeah three candidates who have done the
best job of saying here's my story
here's why I'm running here's my record
that backs that out here's my life story
that backs that up and now you know and
you might not agree with my message or
my story but this is the story Elizabeth
Warren
she thinks the system is rigged she's
the one who can fix it she's been trying
to do that or whole life cory booker you
know he talked about we have a common
pain we have to turn it into a common
purpose I'm an organizer I brought
people together my whole life I want to
bring people together now Pete Buddha
judge is saying I'm 37 years old
I'm young we have too many baby boomers
in there and I want I think it's time
for our generation to leave like you
know what these three candidates stand
for and they have the stories that had
the exact same he also is a good staff
our friend at DC was running his
campaign yeah Sisu is on 408 16
presidentials ran gavin newsom skarner's
bid recent
yeah Adisa was a field organizer in Iowa
when I was carry campaign press
assistant way back when I'll say one
more thing to you about Booker like I
think that I am constitutionally not the
most receptive to the like language of
love that he speaks in not not a
judgement of it just like literally me
as a cynical kind of person and I have
always wondered like how does that
translate to national politics how does
the poetry and the conversation about
love translate and what I actually saw
in that video and again this is what
campaigns are all about I was like oh I
see it I see it I actually saw in his
announcement I saw in his announcement
the way it makes sense in a way that I
actually hadn't before and it made me
think like you know what that's why
these campaigns are important and that's
why we should all go into this with an
open mind you know it is is cory booker
believes this yeah so you can disagree
with it you can say this is not the
message for this moment whatever but
cory booker believes this and he has
lived it I mean I watched street fight
over the weekend I had not seen street
fight before the documentary about his
first run for mayor and in Newark and
you know he moves into this affordable
housing unit in Newark and lives there
he's still by the way lives in an
affordable housing unit to this day in
Newark he's the only one running who
does so like cory booker has lived this
story his whole life now you know the
New York Times says quote it remains to
be seen whether mr. Booker's
aspirational tones will fall flat with
the Democratic electorate energized by
seething anger towards mr. Trump he was
also asked if Donald Trump is racist and
said that while Trump says bigoted
things and uses language that white
supremacists use I quote I don't know
the heart of anybody I'll leave that to
the Lord
um what do you guys think about this
message this aspirational message and
sort of the possible difficulties in a
democratic here's where I think
reporters sometimes confuse what they
see on Twitter with what Democrats writ
large actually want I mean I've seen
polling that suggests that Democrats
actually do want a largely positive
optimistic hopeful message that isn't
all about Trump yeah and so I think that
that's why Elizabeth Warren is doing
very similar has a very similar tone she
didn't barely mention Trump in her first
visit to Iowa but you know with respect
to
Booker like he can be a little a little
extra at times like when you and I
interviewed him in Washington it was
like the three of us sitting in a room
having a conversation and you know like
one very long answer II I think he
quoted like three different people like
Gandhi it's like sometimes you like what
we're just talking here
you know so I you know it's a question
of whether that will always work in
rooms in Iowa or whatnot I think he's
also gonna get for being seen as
too Pro Wall Street or having too many
big donors versus the small dollar
donors that were particularly attracted
to Bernie and probably call him Harris
again I think that defending bain
capital in the middle of the 2012
election was an odd choice Obama was
hammering Mitt Romney for his ties to
Bain and he jumped out and defended Bain
and it sort of you know to me had that
tone that you hear from a lot of Wall
Street people where they feel aggrieved
and attacked and it's like I couldn't
 care less that you billionaire
feel aggrieved an attack I'm not
accusing Booker of that I'm just saying
it like it sounded like those voices you
sometimes hear when you try to raise
taxes on Wall Street people's so these
are things that he's gonna get
questioned on you know I think he will
inspire a lot of people in the process
though yeah I will say that when he
refused to hold on Trump a racist my
eyes rolled so far back into my head
it's like all right man
like come on I just don't think like I
just think it's yeah but but I would say
like I don't I actually don't think it's
that and poor I understand what he's
trying to say I understand I don't
believe that cory booker lacks an
understanding of the context of Donald
Trump's race the point I was actually
gonna make is I think his bigger problem
is around issues related to Wall Street
and corporate interests because you know
and it actually comes down to like this
idea of a positive message I think
there's a Shibboleth now for defending
that word a proof that you're on the
team cool that like that that people
need to understand that they've heard a
lot of Democrats say the right things
around reigning and corporate power
reigning and insurance companies
reigning in Wall Street but then when
push comes to shove there's the question
as to do they have the stomach for it
like are they really in for this fight
it's a fight that actually requires a
little bit negativity you know it does
require a little bit of you know spleen
and so I think cory booker's biggest
challenge as a candidate it actually is
connecting that positive vision that
conversation around love with actually
attacking some of the sources of
problems in this country and being
clear-eyed and honest and passionate
about why you need to take those
interest on yeah look and I think
there's there's two possibilities here
right his detractors would say one
possibility is he has lived in New
Jersey there's a lot of people in New
Jersey who work in the financial
industry there's a big pharmaceutical
industry presence in New Jersey and that
he is too close with these interests
because he has been the senator from New
Jersey and and that's why he post
specifically opposed a drug rien
portation from Canada bill that he's
gotten a lot of good right and then the
other possibility is he is one of those
Democrats who believes and you know he
says this sometimes there are bad
corporate actors and we have to take on
bad corporate actors but I don't want to
paint all business with a with the same
brush right and he could be one of those
Democrats now I think the proof is in
the Wreckers got to talk about his
record right he took that he took a bad
vote on pharmaceuticals and then of
course this year he decided to support
Bernie Sanders bill to rein in
prescription drug costs right and so
he's taken some good votes against
financial companies and but maybe he's
been spent too much time fundraising
almost like he's gonna heat that his
challenge is going to be sort of talking
about his record and proving that he can
take on powerful interests when need be
two things I really liked that he has
done or did do in this rollout was one
he did something unprecedented when Jeff
Sessions was nominated for attorney
general which is a sitting u.s. senator
offer testimony against him I think that
was a prescient decision who sessions
was as bad if not worse than we thought
he would be so that was a good thing
he's also one of the only people I think
I've heard talk about environmental
justice and his roll out he was talking
specifically about elevated lead levels
and how that can harm kids like
permanently and it really really bad
it's really you know lead paint
poisoning is a horrible thing it can
impair you for life and he was talking
about that and Superfund sites etc and I
think you
that's not talked about enough and it
was cool to hear him say that it was and
it was really authentic to hear him say
that from basically you know his his
front porch in Newark yeah that's right
my biggest issue with him is that he
said in that press conference he
wouldn't get rid of the filibuster and
in fact would actually try to defend
John as a one-issue voter well here's my
here's my problem I'm gonna keep harping
on this right like so now cory booker
kirsten gillibrand was sort of wofully
on it in my interview with her
Komal Harris's people said she is not
calling to get rid of the filibuster at
this time Elizabeth Warren is so far the
only one who said yeah everything's on
the table so if you believe in the
filibuster if you want to keep it like
Cory Booker does that's fine we can
disagree no that's fine but it's gonna
be very difficult to tell voters I
believe in and maybe voters won't care
about this but it's the honest thing to
say it's hard to say I believe in the
filibuster I want to keep it and by the
way I want to pass Medicare for all I
want to pass a green new deal like we
just had every single Republican except
for you know Susan Collins Lisa
Murkowski and John McCain vote to
destroy the Affordable Care Act you are
not then finding vote for Boeing folks
now make your all Barack Obama in 2009
gets to Congress and Mitch McConnell
says I am going to block every single
thing he does you are not going to find
Republican votes for your agenda and you
are not going to have 60 Democratic
votes in the Senate any time within the
next decade
it's just not gonna happen look at the
map counting up the races so you have a
choice you can either decide you're
gonna get rid of the filibuster or you
can tone down your agenda and tell
people well I'm just gonna try to either
work with the other party on smaller
stuff and I'm gonna take executive
action but other than that I can't do
anything big thank you an agenda
Democratic agenda that you can achieve
through reconciliation right basically
like an agenda that that that yes we're
gonna pass with 51 votes that's what
you're all budgetary for higher taxes
you can talk about a lot of things but
what you can't talk about you talk about
executive actions and you could talk
about like your criminal justice reform
that you got done by working with some
Republican usually what your I mean what
you're talking about is also sorta is it
often a criticism you hear of Obama from
the left including of the campaign
Hilary Clinton at the time that like oh
hope and change we're going to bring
everybody together and solve problems
than in reality it that did not happen
at all Mitch McConnell lay down on the
railroad tracks to block everything that
ever happened I guess for me when it
comes to the filibuster like I just I I
said you're right they'll have to get
rid of it I just don't really care if
they answer that in the context of this
primary I'm happy to let the message it
any way they want and just deal with it
when they deal with it yeah but I just I
think I agree with that to an extent but
I think we have a problem not just
Democrats but everyone in politics with
promising one thing to voters and then
disappointing them a lot later and I
think that if it was as easy as okay I'm
not gonna get into this in the into the
primary right now but when I'm president
I'm just gonna do away with it that
would be one thing but these people when
they become president they don't have
the power to do away with the filibuster
they actually gonna need 51 votes in the
Senate to do away with it and it's not
like we are don't just yell at the
presidential candidates by the way like
go talk to all the senators because
there are nowhere near enough votes in
the Democratic set and moong Democratic
senators to get rid of the filibuster
either okay so I guess Baker says he'll
actively work to serve yeah so I guess
what I'm worried about and this is
non-ideological because on this side on
this case I'm worried about people not
being honest about not getting where the
filibuster on other things like Medicare
for all I'm worried about people not
being honest about the transition it
will require but I do think forget about
Republican attacks forget about
lobbyists donors all this like
just think about you're trying to get
voters to believe your agenda and what
you're gonna do and you don't want to
disappoint them once you're president
because when people get disappointed
they get more cynical and they don't
participate in politics I hope so
it's I see the I see why they want to
talk about policy and they want to talk
about broadly popular proposals as
opposed to Senate logistic total net
people terrible yeah I get that but I
think the Elizabeth Warren answer all
officers not on the table is a much
smarter one give yourself the option the
other piece of this is it's it's having
having campaigned on the possibility of
removing the filibuster will actually
have a
substantive change in how you can govern
even if the filibuster is in place for
us very good point the threat that you
will remove the filibuster at any time
will mean that there will be a set of
Republicans who understand that at any
moment the leverage and power they have
in Washington will disappear and again
it could facilitate more compromise
absolutely absolutely absolutely so I
think that's really important and I also
do think it is about setting the table
in the same way that Republicans set the
table for a long time in part because of
some decisions Democrats made to say if
Democrats employ the filibuster on a
Supreme Court nominee we will get rid of
the filibuster for Supreme Court
nominees right they built that case they
built that case and then when it
happened they were ready to go it wasn't
a surprise nobody was caught off guard
it happened and they got recriminations
for it but you know Mitch McConnell's
clearly fine at night yeah Susan Collins
was like oh I hate this vote it's just
one of the worst things that ever yes
all right when we come back I will talk
to Adam server from the Atlantic
