on the line is Maeve Reston she's a
national political reporter for CNN and
a bit of a jet setter at the moment
yesterday she was in Oakland for Senator
Kamala Harris's presidential
announcement today she's in Des Moines
Iowa preparing for CNN's Town Hall
tonight with Jake Tapper and Senator
Harris before that she was in South
Carolina with Senator Harris covering
her there mave thank you so much for
doing the show I hope you are getting
airline points I am trying to basically
put coffee through an IV drip at this
point but commonly had a very very busy
month as you know it feels like she
launched her campaign you know basically
over a three-week period million years
ago yeah so let's talk about the Oakland
rally first um her campaign estimates
that there were 20,000 people at the
announcement speech yesterday and from
what I saw there were nearly as many
flags displayed behind her at the venue
it was a great looking shot it seemed
like a energized crowd like what did you
make of the substance of the speech and
the size of the turnout and what they
think that means for her candidacy well
I was really surprised you know I
traveled with her in Iowa last fall
you know then obviously went to all of
her her book tour events but I mean the
crowds were really really impressive
yesterday in Oakland it was interesting
because you know obviously they filled
in that whole space in front of City
Hall but because of security they had
barricaded off the streets and you could
just see thousands of people going all
the way back in the streets just trying
to catch a glimpse of her speech and of
course we're talking about Oakland San
Francisco you know the home of the white
a liberal progressive but it was it was
a really also racially diverse crowd
tons of young people and that has been
such a strong theme throughout all of
her appearances over the last year how
she is drawing these younger voters
voters of color many of the same voters
that Hillary Clinton really struggled
with and so that is clearly you know
helping her launch and building a lot of
momentum for her but the crowds yeah I
mean you never can quite trust crowd
but but it was big yeah talk to Sean
Spicer about that yeah there was also a
ton of policy in the speech she talked
about Medicare for all replacing the
Trump tax cut with a middle-class tax
cut of up to $500 a month universal
pre-k debt-free college this is
definitely you know another very strong
progressive platform but did anything
you heard or did not hear surprised you
on the policy front well you know she
has been talking a lot about each of
those those policies particularly her
her tax credit for middle-class
Americans over you know the last few
months but it's been really interesting
the way in which she has taken on Donald
Trump and I thought yesterday even
though she didn't mention his name she
did that a little bit more aggressively
talking about certainly his immigration
policies but also talking about how you
know you've got foreign powers that are
basically like a malware in the White
House and so that was a pretty direct
hit on Trump and his you know alleged
relationship with the Russians she
clearly is hitting all of those high
points that she knows that she needs to
hit with progressive voters as she
competes with the likes of Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren but
definitely trying to make a stronger
push here initially to connect with
voters you know about their economic
struggles and what they're worried about
those kitchen table issues and then of
course always hitting a lot of those
high points on criminal justice reform
which is the most controversial part of
her record mm-hmm so let's dig into that
I mean she was a prosecutor there was a
lot of bio as part of the speech she
talked about being the child of
immigrants growing up in Oakland her
work as a prosecutor you know the
campaign slogan is Kamala Harris for the
people and I think that sounds like you
know language you could probably hear
from almost any candidate right but what
I think makes it unique to her is that
apparently something she would say when
she walked into the courtroom um do you
think it was that first it was actually
a block from where she made her
announcement where she said those words
for the first time in the Alameda County
Court
Connell Harris for the people which is
what every prosecutor says you know when
they walk into the courtroom yeah so I
mean I guess like telling that story in
making a I think sort of standard-issue
campaign slogan feel like it's real and
meaningful based on your bio I think
it's the challenge of any election I
mean do you think that she may progress
toward that goal yesterday I think so I
mean I think that this is just going to
be a continual issue that pops up for
her because if you look at the length of
her record you know both as a line level
prosecutor prosecuting crimes from
sexual assaults you know all the way to
homicide then as DEA of San Francisco
and as Attorney General
there are so many cases that she oversaw
and has a responsibility for over those
years that I think it's a record that's
hard even for her own people to get
their their arms around but she has
tried to cast it over and over again as
this difficult decision that she made to
become a prosecutor to try to change the
system from the inside knowing that that
was going to be something that surprised
even people in her family she did get
heckled by one protester during her
speech yesterday about one specific case
where an undocumented immigrant
you know allegedly killed someone and
she it was something that she didn't
quite address in the moment but
something where you could see any number
of these cases coming up over and over
again as she tries to explain her record
and the fact that she you know sometimes
wasn't making these decisions directly
with prosecutors below her and she would
sometimes learn about these
controversial cases in the press you
know I noticed when Senator Warren made
her announcement President Trump
immediately took to Twitter to attack
her in the most racist way he can find
yesterday he attacked Howard Schultz the
Starbucks guy and we can talk about that
in a bit later I don't see any tweets
responding to senator Harris did you
notice that as well it did has he been
reticent to attack her or what do you
think he had you know we were going back
through his
to see if he's really ever really
attacked her and I think that she is
kind of a conundrum for him maybe in the
same way that you know Nancy Pelosi is
in the Sun City hasn't been able to come
up with a nickname for her but I mean
this is someone who is trying to
convince Democratic voters that you know
after going through the series of first
in her career going up against the big
banks as Attorney General that she's
someone that is not going to be bullied
by President Trump and she's gonna have
to prove that over and over again but he
has yet to engage her and you have to
wonder whether that's just because he
doesn't you know think he has quite the
right strategy to do that yet yeah maybe
women from the bay area or his
kryptonite yeah there you go that's the
story that is certainly the Harris for
president campaign story so senator
Harris Lee you talked about this before
she went to South Carolina before her
announcement on Sunday you were there as
well can you talk about that event and
what made it unique well so this was so
interesting because a huge part of
Senator Harris's background is obviously
the fact that she went to Howard
University it was a place she said where
you could come and you were and be
exactly who you wanted to be that you
you wouldn't be put in anyone's box and
a big part of that for her was pledging
the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority
Incorporated their official name this
powerful sorority of black women who are
in many leadership positions all over
the country and this event in South
Carolina on Friday night was maybe my
favorite thing that I have been to in
many years it was this incredibly
elegant gala
called the pink ice gala where all of
these sorority sisters came you know in
their finest gowns to hear her speak to
listen to her she said that she was
there you know just as a sorority sister
she didn't actually mention her
presidential bid in her speech but this
is a kind of hidden network that she has
of black women who obviously could be
the the key
to the Democratic nomination as they
have been so many times over and over
again and in a state like hell like
South Carolina to have you know that
splashy roll out in front of these women
who are so excited about her bid I think
was a really strong way to launch in the
state that she really hopes will be her
springboard to all of those states
throughout the southeast as well as
Nevada and California I mean what you're
describing to me in terms of the the
South Carolina event the crowd in
Oakland sounds like the recipe for
winning the Democratic nomination and to
the point where you're seeing the LA
Times people you know well like Marc
bareback at others wondering aloud if
she's the front-runner like I know those
terms are utterly meaningless this far
out but is that something that worries
them or that they embrace like how are
they dealing with the success so far
well I think that they have been really
happy with the rollout so far in the
sense that she really was able to try to
define herself at the beginning as she
wants to define herself and obviously
that is so important I mean you look at
the way that Elizabeth Warren got
totally tripped up with by engaging
Donald Trump on you know her ancestry
and at the same time I think they're
very cognizant of the fact that there
will be many frontrunners in this race
as we have seen so many times you know
if we're thinking back to 2007 at this
time I don't even know who would've been
the front-runner at that point but it's
just you know I think they're they're
kind of buckled up ready for the ride
and know that there are going to be a
lot of ups and downs throughout this
year especially with so many candidates
in the field and you know potentially
dealing with an independent candidacy
and Howard Schultz which is the
Democrats worst nightmare um before we
get to him so you're in Iowa right now
there's a town hall tonight with Senator
Harris and Jacob Tapper is it 10:00 p.m.
yeah 10:00 p.m. Eastern 7:00 p.m. on the
west coast and it'll be really
interesting a lot of people just coming
with questions whatever they want to to
ask and Jake will be moderating
so I think it'll be really interesting
to see her in that setting one thing
that I've noticed about her particularly
in Iowa on this last visit was that
she's incredibly good one-on-one on the
rope line like blows Hillary Clinton
away in that sense just engaging voters
one-on-one and she has a very unique
connection particularly with women after
her questioning of Brett Kavanaugh
during the Supreme Court hearings last
year where women would come up to her
crying in Iowa during her last visit
saying you spoke for me like I am a
victim of sexual assault it was really a
remarkable thing to see then you've seen
her on the stump where she kind of gets
huge tears when she comes out but
sometimes her stump speech is kind of
fall flat I think that's a challenge for
her like it sort of sustaining the
energy in the room so I think it's gonna
be really exciting tonight to see her in
this setting where you know she is able
to engage one-on-one but it's gonna get
some really tough questions from the
voters of Iowa who likes to kick the
tires on all of these candidates so is
this basically Jake moderating questions
from voters or is he gonna get to throw
a few fastballs himself I am sure that
he will flip a few fastballs in there as
he always does but but it is you know
kind of a free-flowing conversation
so we'll see America so a little bit of
a process II question for you like back
to your point about one-on-one on the
rope line and the key to personal retail
politics um
I am like an Iowa obsessive weirdo and
when I first heard that she was doing
this event I wondered is that the best
idea because for all the the Iowa
reporters you know are human beings who
want the first crack at the candidates
when they come to town and they might
get pissed off and then you have to deal
with Jake who is like a notoriously
tough interview am I wrong about this or
does this speak to a different treatment
of Iowa than say other early states well
I mean I think you know their their
husband I guess a little bit of
grumbling that she's not you know
starting in somebody's living room but
you do have to remember that that she
did come and do that seven stop tour
last fall where she did a lot of that
you know she did the kind of small brick
tavern conversations with voters so I
don't know I guess a little bit of a
risky strategy but if you're
looking to get your message out in a big
way right off the bat and especially
when you have much lower name ID than
let's say Bernie Sanders or even
Elizabeth Warren I think that they felt
like this was enough of a balance where
she could come in talk to voters but
also kind of address the rest of the
country at the same time um so when you
talk to the campaign like what did they
view as her keys to winning and what
kind of things do you sense that they're
worried about at this stage well I think
you know as we talked about before
certainly her record on criminal justice
they just know that that is going to be
something that that comes up over and
over again and it's hard to get ahead of
that sometimes you know I think they
were caught off guard by the op-ed in
the New York Times that was very
critical saying that she had not been
progressive enough as a prosecutor and
pushing reforms as attorney general in
California you know for example to
reform the streets three strikes law
even though she had advocated for that
in the past but at the same time I think
that you know they see these early
months as just really important in terms
of her connecting with people on the
ground having those one-on-one
conversations and then in terms of their
path to victory you know they they
actually lay it out better than a lot of
campaigns that I've heard where they
hope that she has a strong finish in
Iowa and New Hampshire you know enough
of a strong finish to have some momentum
going into South Carolina then really
tried to galvanize that black vote and
consolidate it which will be a challenge
of course if she's got Cory Booker and
Joe Biden in the race but then you Sarah
South Carolina as that launch had into
all of those states in the southeast
that are you know many of them have huge
proportions of the electorate is
dominated by the black vote and so they
see a chance for her to do really well
in a series of those early state
primaries and then of course you have
California moving up its primary to two
Super Tuesday
so actually ballots will be going out in
California on the same
that Iowa voters go to caucus so she's
going to make a huge play there which is
not going to be an easy win by the way
and also in Nevada where she hopes that
her advocacy on immigration reform and
for the dreamers will really help her
NACHA win they're out west as well god I
missed just the hilarious hedging of
early state success but my favorite ever
was Joe Lieberman in 2004 claiming that
he was in a three-way split decision for
a third place in New Hampshire and
shockingly that didn't really fly with
the national press corps but yeah do
well in Iowa but you know no one ever
says what that means I was literally not
allowed to say we need to win Iowa
because god yeah exactly
well I mean and you know so many people
are saying so many of the sources that
I'm talking to here on the ground in
Iowa are saying we have no no idea how
many tickets are coming out of Iowa this
time because if you've got like 15
people in the field you know it's a
little hard to to measure success in
that so this could be a fight that
really drags out for a while and I think
that's to the benefit of the country
rather than having it decided way up
front yeah I totally agree I also think
that the the number of people in this
primary means that anyone who thinks
that they can predict what will happen
is bonkers totally pull it last question
for you Howard Schultz charges me a lot
for coffees commoditized the experience
what the hell is he up to
yes yes I by the Adele thing that's been
on sale for like six years so I have
been talking to folks who are close to
him for quite some time now as they have
been very seriously investigating this
idea of an independent run for him he
just feels as though you know that the
Democratic Party obviously has gone too
far to the left and these ideas like
medicare-for-all are too expensive but I
mean I think the blowback that he's seen
over the last few days has just been
pretty brutal and while it's true that
you know by the numbers there are a ton
of independence out there in the country
as we all know
they generally tend to really be
Democrats or Republicans or lean one way
or the other so I mean I'm not surprised
that he jumped in but I think that he's
going to be under so much pressure
including from another billionaire
Michael Bloomberg who put out a
statement today saying that he didn't
think an independent run was a good idea
so many people that just have chills
thinking back to you know Ralph Nader
and the other spoilers of the past I
mean these states are decided by such a
small margin of voters and you can see
him having potentially a really strong
constituency and I don't see how you
know how Democrats could do well in that
scenario I mean it basically is makes it
will make Donald Trump play for his base
look like the most brilliant thing that
we've ever seen if we end up in this
three-way right god that is exactly
right I mean Howard Wolfson who is a
longtime strategist for Hillary Clinton
and then more recently from Mike
Bloomberg tweeted that he's seen enough
data over many years to know that anyone
running for president as an independent
will split the anti-incumbent anti-trump
vote therefore this could be the thing
that delivers the presidency back to
Donald Trump at a time when his
disapproval rating is 58% and at a time
when I think it was ABC Washington Post
poll said 57% of voters said they would
not vote for him like this guy is gonna
 up the closest thing you have to
Demi's guy at office it'll be
interesting to see if he is you know
listening to all of these voices like if
he really is in still in decision mode
because you'd have to think that there's
a chance here that that Howard Schultz
becomes you know the villain for
everyone in the Democratic Party going
forward if he if he goes ahead with it
oh we Democrats love to blame external
forces for our own failure to win
elections so yeah people will like
boycott Starbucks locations I guarantee
you the the we will take this so far
over the top that he will not even be
able to understand what happened to him
it's going to be wild that's a great
story
Democrats are going to
they're months I mean you're
already seeing it on Twitter I hate this
stupid I'm here for the ratio called a
culture on Twitter where someone post
something and it's a question like how
many replies versus retweets you get but
in this instance like this there is no
national movement for mr. Schulz to run
maybe in the middle of my impassioned
complaint about how Democrats are gonna
flip out about Howard Schultz our line
cut so maybe he is more powerful than we
think but I wanted to give you a chance
to react to my hyperbole before we let
you go
I mean maybe Big Brother's everywhere I
I do I do think that we're just gonna
have to see how this goes for him you
know obviously the biggest issue is
gonna be ballot access he says he's got
that all locked down you know what a
Byzantine system it is getting on the
ballot in all 50 states and counties so
we'll see whether he can withstand the
backlash and whether he really thinks
it's it's worth it
to put his his reputation on the line or
if you think that there's enough
independence out there who are ready for
something totally different than these
two parties that have so much
dysfunction yeah too much listening to
David Gergen
not enough listening to like voters and
States I think might be the problem here
but you are exactly right it is not an
easy task to get on all those ballots um
may thank you so much for doing the show
thanks for all your travel to actually
cover these events it is invaluable for
us to hear from journalists like you who
are doing the work so I really really
appreciate it oh it's so much fun to be
with you
you
