and now it's time for okay stop we roll
a clip in the panels and say okay stop
at any point to comment judge Jeanine
Pirro
she's like Judge Judy but instead of
dinging people for not paying their
dry-cleaning bills
she's racist well the Honorable Judge
Bureau is predicting some more arrests
toons and surprise it's the Democrats
this was why olds take a look this will
be true reality TV no scripts no
rehearsals just a gang of criminals
pointing fingers at each other to save
their own hides a version of true crime
and the reality show Survivor the deep
faith exposed okay stop we just tuned
into the middle of something now I told
you more than a year ago former FBI
director James Comey was the head of his
own crime family and that he ran the
upper echelon of the FBI like an
organized criminal enterprise hey stop
it's a very that's a very intense
previously on a year ago I said
something completely insane you have to
be so deep into this world to take that
sentence like Oh James Comey the
six-foot-four morally moral guys like if
he was the head of a crime family he
didn't do a great job yeah he's more
uncle jr. than Tony like any criminal
conspiracy the players are arrogant and
they think they're above the law but
mistakes are always made Koli tells the
president every Republican on television
is constantly describing Democrats in
terms of their own side's crimes just
again and again like that is what we've
been watching right Trump literally runs
a crime family
Don Eric Tiffany don't back off Tiffany
Ivanka
now I told you last week the build bar
was a cool cat but while the democrats
hyperventilate and hysterically accuse
him of everything they can think of and
hold them in contempt bar remains loose
it focused and unflappable okay loosen
 again with the Lobo lucidity now
just maintaining human consciousness
[Applause]
having the quality of attention and
being in some sense in control of it
though we can argue about whether we're
in control of our own attention and the
nature of free will itself oh man
but the biggest disappointment is yet to
come when the guy who has been so deadly
silent on all of this will be the one
that all the rats eventually point their
dirty fingers at okay that's my open
whoo now we're so confused about who
she's talking yeah like she takes one
second to be subtle an elliptical we
have no clue what she's talking
about Obama Bonnie its Obama Brennan
tune in next week and find out let's
just it needs to be said that every
weekend the president states arranges
his schedule around watching this yeah
and sometimes calls in yeah schedule it
really is like a twelve century boy king
who's like bring me my Play bring me the
play la I like bring me the woman who
does this show that I like I would like
to watch the show with the woman I like
bring the woman who says the things I
lie
bring her to me I would like to see the
woman who calls the people that would
mean to me criminal
[Music]
