or I'm Ben Rhodes you still are then you
weren't able to join us you know what I
don't know I'm soft goings is welcome
back to pot save the world this is Tommy
Vitor and I'm Ben Rhodes action-packed
foreign policy Tuesday today buckle up
one of those mayor Pete gave a big
speech which will lead with Trump said
some weird stuff about Sharia major
protests in China in Russia we'll see
how far we get obviously there's an
ongoing fight with Mexico over tariffs I
mean all kinds of stuff yeah but um
let's just dig right into it I'll do
some housekeeping later Mike so let's
let's start with mayor Pete's speech
what I just tell you some things I liked
you and I were just sort of like speed
reading it before you came in here it
was a comprehensive discussion of a
whole bunch of challenges it was a
really global speech I liked how he
tried to anchor foreign policy is not a
theoretical thing he talked about how
it's not a theoretical decision to send
troops to war when you're going to
funerals back in South Bend I think it's
an important point he also wants to
involve more citizens and a foreign
policy discussion he specifically said
that the current situation and then as
well in Iran does not meet the standard
required to use military force it was
good to hear that clearly climate change
was front and center one of their
thoughtful thing was he was honest that
we will likely need to maintain the
counterterrorism and intelligence
presence in places like Afghanistan but
that part of the discussion about
terrorism needs to be what is like a
baseline acceptable amount of risk we
all know we're just gonna face day to
day because it's a dangerous world and
how do we balance that with civil
liberties I think that's an important
discussion that we don't have enough
because when there's a terrorist attack
people tend to freak out and
overcompensate I talked about needing
the focus on right-wing terrorism sounds
like he wants to right-size our
relationship with the Saudis oh there
wasn't a ton of detail there and then I
love this line if Prime Minister
Netanyahu makes good on his promise to
annex West Bank settlements he should
know that a president Bhutto judge would
take steps to ensure that American
taxpayers won't help foot the bill so
that's a pretty ugly ER yeah shot at
Bibi yeah those were my big takeaway is
what do you think I you know I agree
first of all and obviously we have a
bias here at pad save the world but
I think he showed too you know this is
getting a fair amount attention that
these cans should talk more about
foreign policy you know I mean that's
probably seen Elizabeth Warren as with
everything out in front on that
Bernie's talked about it but you got a
lot of attention with this and it's a
good place to draw contest of Trump
because Trump's foreign policy is both
failing and doesn't represent our values
and Pete made both of those central to
his argument that that essentially you
know not only is Trump capitulating in
the face of dictators and trading love
letters with Kim and we'll get to
another one of them shortly but frankly
everywhere that he's active whether it's
China been as well or Ron he's he's he's
failing and failing badly I also liked
to your point about terrorism I thought
it was really important that he said
that we should repeal and replace the
2001 authorization for the yes as we've
talked about this is this kind of
open-ended blank check authorization
from Congress that has been used for
almost 20 years now to go to war just
about everywhere and if you really want
to end the forever war you have to do it
legally and say that Congress should
make clear that there's not this
open-ended authorization and frankly we
should have a much more narrowly focused
effort against terrorism if you take
together what you pointed out his
comment about what's the level of risk
that we can accept and this idea of
repealing the AUMF he's really
positioning himself to say here's how
you can end the forever war you know you
can end it by saying we're not
authorizing these open-ended boards
we're bringing troops home and even
though we'll need some counterterrorism
efforts to disrupt safe havens and plots
we have to accept that there's a level
of risk that is always going to be there
and we don't need to send hundreds of
thousands of troops in country after
country to try to achieve some
unachievable zero risk outcome yeah so
you know I think it's interesting if I
was advising Pete he can kind of
position himself as look I'm in the
generation that came of age during 9/11
mm-hmm I fought in one of these wars and
now I'm the best person to end them yeah
and here's my plan to do so and I
that was smart I think we also see an
emerging consensus among the candidates
that I welcome which is that all of them
are essentially for that position and
that's good that's a democratic party
that's unafraid to make a contrast with
Trump I'd also say he had the right
priorities climate change as a national
security issue ending the wars dealing
with this authoritarian trend around the
world that we've talked about a lot on
the pod you know these are the right
parties these should be the guiding
touchstones of a foreign policy after
Trump and so I think you saw in this
speech here's what a foreign policy
might look like after Trump it looks a
lot like the second term Obama foreign
policy when we did put climate change at
the center of what we're doing around
the world and we did try to you know
obviously avoid further wars with the
Iran nuclear deal and wind down the wars
we're in but it takes it further it
takes it to the next step which is again
ending the authorization for the war
itself so you know I think together with
Warren now we've got some pretty strong
entries from a couple of these
candidates and and I hope that we hear
from more of them yeah everyone should
go read it it is it is long it is
comprehensive
if he goes like continent by continent
he talks about Africa I like to be
updated some of the challenges you
always hear Democrats talk about for
example he talked about China as like an
authoritarian surveillance state and yet
in the Uighur is right so he's like
incorporating the last couple of years
of challenges into that conversation and
updating the way we need to think about
these issues because the you know
they're getting more complex the
challenges we face we deal with China or
Russia he is uniquely credible I think
having served in Afghanistan to talk
about the forever war like you were
saying there was a line in there about
how you know we really hope he or
actually he said I think he he fears
that we will soon see a casualty report
about a veteran who was born after 9/11
yeah I'm liking just stopping for a
second to a pause and think about how
 up that is
yeah and how likely drive so I'm not
 up it it definitely does so great
speech good for mayor Pete for getting
out there I hope every other candidate
does it because we should take this
argument to Donald Trump please yeah no
I mean you know you know brief shout-out
to friend of the pot net price who's one
of his advisers I saw
I worked at then I see actually had your
job need after after you left and Doug
will say only we worked with help repeal
Don't Ask Don't Tell so no this is what
was a well-executed speech and again I I
think the lesson should be don't see
denny grounded trump particularly on
foreign policy Trump is going to tout
his alleged successes and they're not
and and so if you don't talk about these
things Trump will try to define a public
perception that he has been a success
you know just like he claimed success
with Kim Yuna and he claimed success
recently with Mexico and then the
Mexicans had to dispute him he you know
touts himself in Venezuela even though
things have only gotten worse they're
taking that head-on is important yeah
agreed
okay let's go to North Korea for a
minute because there was some breaking
news out of a press avail Trump just did
so there was an article in The Wall
Street Journal and I believe an article
in the post that might have been derived
from a new book that's coming out that
said Kim jong-un's half-brother Kim Jong
was a CIA asset this is the guy this is
the relative that Kim Jungman had
murdered in a Malaysian airport with a
lethal nerve agent called VX it sounds
like the worst way to die possible
weapon oh yeah chemical weapon banned
war crime there my reaction to this
story was I guess like good for the CIA
if they were all able to recruit this
guy I have no idea if it's true the
sourcing and the story is kind of weird
but it was a reminder when I read it
last night that Kim jong-un's or that
but it was reminder when I read it last
night that Trump's best friend Kim
jong-un is well known for murdering his
own family I mean yeah brutal
way awesome and just a quick aside here
this is another dictator who murdered
someone in a third country right so
Jamal khashoggi murdered by MBs in
Turkey Kim Jungman murdered his
half-brother in Malaysia yeah so these
are two of trumps favorite friends
besties out there who happened to do
something really extreme in the world
today you don't just murder dissidents
at home you kill people and third
comeback people all over the globe also
obviously a crime this horrific must
have offended Trump sensibilities so
let's hear what he had to
about it just now on the White House
lawn eight great I just received a
beautiful letter from jeongeun and I
think the relationship is very well but
I appreciated the letter I saw the
information about the CIA with respect
to his brother or half-brother and I
would tell him that would not happen
under my under my auspices that's
masseur I wouldn't I wouldn't let that
happen under my auspices but I just
received a beautiful letter from Kim
jong-un I can't show you the letter
obviously but it was a very personal
very warm very nice letter I appreciate
it
yeah I'll say it again Kim's also guns
in North City once itself has tremendous
potential for men he'll be there I think
that North Korea under his leadership
but North Korea because of what it
represents the people are great the land
is great from tower Pyongyang on a boat
between China and South Korea I think
North Korea has tremendous potential and
the one that feels that more than
anybody is Kim jong-un potential enough
of that is cut him up you're done all
right couple two things one only to Don
jr. would absolutely whack Eric with VX
gas if he had the jet air - it drives me
crazy that they do these press avails
with marine one running jet engine you
could ever imagine just to make it
annoying to listen to for us but I mean
it is so crazy that his takeaway from
this was to criticize the CIA and say
that he wouldn't let his intelligence
gathering agency talked to someone who
was related to a leader that were
desperate from information on like how
is that possible first of all to the
this guy talks about Kim Jung I'm like
you know your roommate in college who
hopes it his high-school girlfriend
isn't cheating on him somewhere and you
know the high school girlfriend Chloe's
moved on but occasionally sends a letter
you know and he comes in and oh no he
still loves me it's beautiful really
yeah she texts me on Sunday actually
yeah bad and let's not forget like Kim
jung-un has people in concentration
camps Kim young and you know we'll take
this this language from the US president
and I'm sure run it on North Korean
state television to validate his own
rule
his murderous rule this is the most
murderous dictator in the world right
now on the CIA thing first of all it was
a weird statement under his watch
because you know this this murder took
place early in the Trump administration
he's clearly I guess referring to
whether or not the CIA would have
something like this as an asset I I
don't know I want to be clear I'm not
speaking from my own knowledge of
whatever the CIA's relationship was with
this guy the reality is what the CIA
does is it just tries to make contact
with people and gather information right
so this could have just been somebody
who talked to this half-brother you know
and then gathered some information
doesn't necessary mean this guy was like
being run by this year right yeah this
article said it was a Korean American
guy who lived in Malaysia so it could be
a car battery yes yeah but but again
like let's not you know with Trump you
have to step back and consider what he's
really saying he has nothing negative to
say about the fact that this person was
murdered in Malaysia by people with a
chemical weapon in an airport
yeah and scheduled countless people
instead his impulses to assure Kim
Jungman right that he want what so we
won't gather intelligence on kim
jung-han either I mean is he saying like
oh no we don't we you know blank check
you can do whatever you want we don't
care if you murder people and by the way
we're not even to try to understand
what's happening in your you know
hermetically sealed country either this
is someone who is actively sacrificing
American national interest on behalf of
this weird personal relationship that he
has with Kim Yuna and that has not only
failed to results in any rollback of
their nuclear program but you have Kim
Young and firing off missiles now in
violation of UN Security Council
resolutions as well and apparently
making a new comment according to the
Defense Intelligence Agency yeah so
that's great okay let's turn to some
badass activists around the world so
hundreds of thousands of people took to
the streets in Hong Kong this week to
protest a government plan that would
allow extradition to mainland China Ben
can you explain why Hong Kong is usually
described as semi autonomous to semi
autonomous City and why are activists so
worried about this extradition bring ya
know so it's a it's fascinating so
Hong Kong was under the control of the
British for a very long time at a
hundred years till in 97 yeah and was
given back to the Chinese but when that
happened obviously the people in Hong
Kong were quite worried because they
lived in what was basically a democracy
and they did not want to be governed by
Beijing so under the deal in which Hong
Kong went back to Chinese to being part
of China there was an agreement that
this would be essentially one country
two systems' that was the the phrase so
that the Hong Kong people could have
their own government separate from the
Beijing government continue to enjoy
their civil liberties continued to have
a democratically elected assembly even
as you know they were blended into China
over the years what's happened is the
Chinese have steadily chipped away the
in the kind of quasi de facto
independence of Hong Kong and you've
seen these growing protests and in 2014
for instance the Chinese essentially
kind of changed some of the ways in
which the elections were held in Hong
Kong where in the Chinese essentially
got to veto any candidates they didn't
like so it does so the people in Hong
Kong got to vote for their leaders but
the only people that they could really
vote for were people that were vetted in
cleared by Beijing and there were these
huge protests it was called the umbrella
movement because that that was a symbol
people use umbrellas and you know
hundreds of thousands of people in the
streets and the Chinese just kind of
waited them out you know and then kind
of crack down on them then there also
been some pretty concerning tactics used
by the Chinese for instance in Hong Kong
you often had book stores that sold
write books that weren't censored by the
Chinese so it was one of the only places
where you could get books and some of
the books came from mainland China what
kind of smuggled out you know we talked
about Tiananmen Square you could
actually learn about 10min square in
Hong Kong
the Chinese literally rendered some of
these people so several book shop owners
disappeared and turned up in Chinese
prisons where they had to make kind of
forced confessions and it started to
send a message that you weren't safe in
hong kong from the beijing authority
what triggered these latest protests is
an effort by China to say that if you
commit a crime in Hong Kong you could be
tried in mainland China yeah and that
would do away with kind of the last
vestige of any independence of the rule
of law in Hong Kong so if you're sitting
in Hong Kong you're suddenly thinking I
thought I could speak freely I could
speak my mind but if now the Beijing
government says you can't do that and by
the way not only are we gonna detain you
but we're gonna bring you to some
Chinese prison really any de facto
autonomy for Hong Kong goes at the
window right and so that's what brought
a million people in the streets
interestingly around the chandaman
square anniversary that we talked about
last week so first there was a vigil to
commemorate the memory of those killed
in Tiananmen Square and then there was a
protest about this potential changed the
law to allow people to be extradited
yeah to mainland China it's very
worrying that the Chinese are seeking to
kind of do away with the last vestiges
of civil liberties in Hong Kong I think
it's a sign of again help of the civil
society there that people are standing
up for this had probably great risk to
themselves yeah you'd imagine I mean so
so-called political crimes are supposed
to be exempted from this extradition
process but you got to figure if you're
an activist all of a sudden oh some
nebulous drug or corruption charges
comes your way we should know that
there's another round of protests
scheduled for Wednesday and when this is
released the Legislature will resume
work on this build and a vote is
scheduled for June 27th it's expected to
pass because most of the Hong Kong
legislature is seen as pro China imagine
the Chinese muck around in their
election time but I mean I just I can't
stop thinking about a point Danny made
to us last week about the way new
technology and surveillance equipment in
big data is gonna give government just
unprecedented control over their
populations I mean you and I you know
we're in a million meetings of President
Obama during the Arab Spring he you know
we all wanted to believe that universal
rights in in desires for freedom and
values would win out over
authoritarianism but we are gonna see it
come bump up against ya you know the big
data surveillance date and that's what
you know this is why I mentioned the
bookshop owners because they didn't
commit crimes under kind of Hong Kong's
laws you know just selling books that
are banned
in mainland China should not be cause
for you to be detained rendered into
mainland China and kind of forced to
make confessions and those book shops
are shut down so if you're in Hong Kong
if you're you know like a world though
out there you're like a 25 year old in
Hong Kong you have to be thinking this
is where surveillance enters into it
well
mainland China's government could be
monitoring my social media and if they
suddenly are going to treat people in
Hong Kong like they treat people in
mainland China suddenly I might get
arrested for something that I post on
social media or even maybe some emails I
have with my friends and not only could
I be arrested I could be taken to China
so this this mix of surveillance
technologies and capabilities coupled
with this doing a way of the de facto
autonomy of Hong Kong really does change
life for the millions of people who live
there and kind of does away with one of
the last vestiges of freedom and and
civil liberties in Hong Kong
interestingly if I'm sitting in Taiwan
which is you know another territory that
obviously China claims we recognise one
China policy you know we don't see
Taiwan as independent country but the de
facto arrangement essentially is they
have their own government if the Chinese
were to offer the same deal to Taiwan
that they did a Hong Kong you know one
country two systems'
if you're sitting in Taiwan you have to
be thinking like can we really trust
that deal too so it'll be interesting to
see how this Hong Kong series of
protests and actions by China kind of
plays out in the and the Taiwan context
this is a flashpoint that people should
watch because to the Chinese this is
beyond a red line this is part of their
territory and if you you're looking at
places where things could escalate
quickly if the Taiwanese make any move
towards independence and the Chinese try
to push back on that you know this could
potentially escalate into into a
military company yeah agreed it's a
flashpoint
okay so let's turn to a different
sedative okay let's turn to a different
set of brave protesters over in Russia
so there was a very well-respected an
investigative journalist named Yvonne
Gulen off he was arrested on what seems
like
pretty ham handedly trumped-up drug
charges I mean Russian authorities
released a bunch of pictures that they
said were from the crime scene one of
them made his apartment look like the
set of Breaking Bad the rest turned out
to be just like random other locations
and the cops had to admit like oh yeah
those are unrelated drug incidents but
he's connected to those somehow so like
now clearly this is um they
also beat the out of him and broke
a bunch of ribs so in protest three
Russian newspapers printed the same
front page headline which is I / we are
even Gulen oov these portraits have been
hitting the streets to fight that
despite the fact that it's illegal to do
so in Russia he's a highly respected
journalist he's been exposing corruption
yeah so I don't know I just want to
stipulate how brave everyone involved in
is here because this is another ruthless
powerful all-seeing all-knowing
surveillance team yeah and you know
Yvonne Gulen oov should have our endless
admiration I mean you know we find it
oppressive to have to watch Trump on the
news yep
we do have some creeping authoritarian
in this country which is real I mean you
know efforts to kind of do at the
indepence of judiciary but here's a guy
who had risk to life and limb is been
publishing these corruption stories and
then when he is detained what a powerful
signal of dissent that you had all these
artists and writers and other journals
stand up and say we are even going off
that takes some serious pulse you know
really you know Vladimir Putin is
running the country you know that
essentially nobody is safe from the
security services I take it weirdly as
an optimistic sign that you know yes
there's this creeping authoritarian
trend but we see everywhere that that's
not what people want nobody wants to
live with a boot on their throat whether
it's the people in Sudan who protested
and ousted Bashir whether it's people on
jury or protested to ask Buddha fleeca
whether it's these people in Hong Kong
or Russia people out there if you ask a
human being do you want to live under a
repressive surveillance state or do you
want to live free people want to live
free and the United States should be on
the side of those people and
part of what is so disturbing about
Trump is for the first time were not you
know we're on the side of the
authoritarians at the same time that
these people are protesting in Hong Kong
and Russia Trump is talking about his
beautiful letter from kim jung-eun and
he lavishes preys on president putin he
hasn't said word one about the weaker in
these camps and china begging Xi Jinping
for him yang of the g20 he looks pretty
pathetic and and so you know and this is
actually goose goes back to Pete speech
he said something really in smart which
is something you know Obama used to say
to which is that democracy promotion the
idea that we stand up for democracy
human rights kind of got a bad name
because of the Iraq war yeah
understandably rightly yes it was wrong
to say that we were going to promote
democracy by invading a country under
false pretenses occupying that country
and you know telling the people there
that we were bringing them democracy
that doesn't mean that we should shy
away from standing up for these values I
don't think we imposed them certainly
not militarily but the moral leadership
and the democratic example that the
United States can set and the way in
which we can try to engage with
activists around the world if they want
to engage with us you know that should
be a part of our foreign policy real
time breaking news here at pod
save-the-world Russian police had
Tuesday they would drop drug charges
against Yvonne Gulen off a rare climbed
down by law enforcement following a big
public outcry so that's pretty
astounding if accurate yeah if these
protests worked in Russia because
normally Putin doesn't give a no
and what you saw was a really clever
campaign because you had these very
prominent essentially celebrities in
Russia you know artists actresses
writers all do this together so there
wasn't like one person hanging on their
own and some of these people were even
people who would support a Putin in the
past and we're kind of drawing a line
here again it shows like people if
people break out of the the sense of
paralyzing fear that their authoritarian
leaders want them to live under you know
you can make incremental progress and
then hopefully in the long run you can
shift the direction yeah agreed
okay let's talk terrorists for a minute
so the New York Times did an interesting
piece recently about that Trump has been
using basically
cold war-era authorities normally
reserved for national security purposes
as leverage in these trade disputes so
specifically he declared European cars
and immigrants coming from Mexico as
threats to national security we're
normally like those are emergency
authorities that you use for
counterterrorism or non-proliferation
besides the fact that it's just absurd
on its face do you think allies and even
adversaries will respond to these end
runs around normal trade rules in kind
should we be worried I guess I've been
waiting for some leader to get elected
on a go-fuck-yourself Trump platform but
I we haven't seen it yet well first of
all I just think it's it's bad practice
to say we're gonna link trade with a
whole bunch of other things you know the
it's kind of this old school I mean the
United States built a way in which the
world would operate after World War two
in which there were rules to deal with
trade and there were rules to deal with
territorial conflicts and there are
rules to deal with how we solve problems
in the world and Trump is kind of wiping
that blackboard clean he's pulling out
of all those Arrangements pulling out
all those agreements and he's going back
in time to this period when strong big
rich countries just went around the
world and said if you don't do what we
want you to do then we're going to
punish you in this way right pet issues
and and there's a couple big problems
with that one it's going to lead these
other countries to work around us you
know people aren't gonna want to trade
with us they're gonna want to trade with
each other to avoid having to deal with
the potential of the United States
holding them hostage in this fashion
they're going to be competing trading
the Chinese are already building
essentially a competing trade bloc of
their own the bellroad initiative which
frankly they use some similar tactics
but they're trying to capitalize on this
kind of uncertainty and unpredictability
of Trump and so yes I think there's a
problem the Trump the countries are just
gonna start to say you and we're
just gonna stop dealing with you we're
gonna stop start working around you on
different issues and the u.s. is going
to be isolated in America first is going
to be essentially America cut off and
alone at the same time two Trump just
keeps lying about what the a tariff
is he keeps talking about how people are
paying us and and all this stuff and
China's like you know giving us all this
money no but like we can repeat enough
you Americans who are listening to us
are paying for the tariffs yeah it comes
in the cost of higher prices for the
goods that you are paying for it and it
ultimately can accelerate the economic
downturn that feels like it's on the
horizon so I'm worried that this could
bring about economic downturn and I'm
worried it sets back America's position
in the world and frankly just
incentivizes countries to stop dealing
with them yeah and Trump is declared
victory on this whole the Trump is
declared victory on this negotiation
with Mexico we'll see if there's any
there there I mean the Mexicans said
they're gonna deploy the National Guard
at the Guatemalan border it's not clear
to me that they have a National Guard
force to deploy it will take months and
months and months until we see that it
whether or not this actually impacted
the immigration influx into the United
States or not so frustrating because
he's smart enough to know that he can
declare victory in the press will move
on because they don't really have
another choice this was an insane thing
though cuz he declared victory and he
got these headlines and then the
Mexicans were like we never made this
 deal with you right and so the
Mexicans disputed it you can't stop
immigration that way the Mexicans can't
build a wall on their southern brayer
deploying even some National Guard
people down there to one part of the
border means that people will just cross
a different part of the border the only
way you're going to solve this problem
is by addressing the root causes in
Central America that are propelling
people to come to our border here's a
time to credit another Democrat betos
immigration plan included a very
significant assistance package for
Central America which again is a lot
less than the cost of building a
wall on the southern border but would do
a lot more to stop the flow of these
people North because they're not leaving
just because they want to come the
United States they're leaving because
their lives are literally threatened at
home because of the collapse of the
security situation in these countries
and like it's likely to get worse I mean
let's go to Venezuela for a minute
because we've talked about it a lot on
the show mostly the administration's
really slow
the efforts at regime change but you
know I want update folks on the toll
it's taking on the Venezuelan people so
the UN refugee agency in the
International Organization for Migration
announced last week that the number of
Venezuelans leaving the country has
reached four million like on a human
level level that is Syria level is
staggering I mean I cannot believe I
cannot begin to imagine how much
suffering there is in that country but
also from a regional perspective I mean
this is so destabilizing for Colombia
Peru Chile Ecuador the list goes on I
just think it bears repeating that if
this White House gave a about the
Venezuelan people or regional stability
they would be focused on helping these
refugees but they don't which is why you
hear them chest something about Russian
or Cuban influence or punishing the
Mexican government for something that's
happening in El Salvador the solutions
make no sense yeah and it's not working
right I mean you know Trump has turned
this into this test of wills between him
and Maduro and with the Russians and the
Cubans and Maduro is still there and
everything we're doing is making the
situation worse our policy should be to
help the Venezuelan people that should
be the core of our policy everything
that we do should be about how do we
help do this humanitarian crisis that
means giving people temporary protected
status here that means assistance to the
countries that are helping to
essentially house these Venezuelan
refugees and it means an approach to
trying to get foreign assistance into
the country that is not about a regime
change
you know we're gonna force aid in as a
part of a strategy to dislodge Maduro
but it's about helping people and then
at the same time working with all the
countries in the region including by the
way Cuba - yes try to get transition to
try to get Maduro out of there to try to
do it peacefully so that there's some
orderly transition to a different
government a unity government that can
accept the foreign assistance and move
forward instead we're stuck in this kind
of John Bolton Elliott Abrams Donald
Trump kind of dystopian effort to
completely collapse the Venezuelan
economy and that's what our broad-based
sanctions are only accelerating at the
same time that you're failing to
dislodge Maduro or address the
humanitarian issue yeah just think about
a way that okay let's go to a break real
quick and talk about how much we love
Saudi Arabia
the US ambassador to Israel seems to
have attempted to blow up the
negotiations that are ongoing through an
interview and how a fake Iranian persona
got published in a whole bunch of news
outlets okay okay
Ben let's start with Saudi Arabia I want
to read you three headlines because I
know you love Mohammed bin Salman first
headline CNN US Intel shows Saudi Arabia
escalated its missile program with help
from China second headline Trump allows
high-tech us bomb parts to be built in
Saudi Arabia third headline Saudi
teenager faces death sentence for acts
when he was 10 10 years old so they're a
little more detail here the Intel on the
ballistic missile work was actually
hidden from members of Congress so that
seems illegal the high tech bomb
technology would allow the Saudis to
build precision-guided bombs which
normally used to avoid civilian
casualties but they've been using to
more precisely target civilians yes and
the teenager in question was arrested at
age 13 for charges related to
anti-government protests so killing a
kid for protesting been I'm glad mayor P
talked about this but like I wonder if
if anyone has laid out a definitive
enough break now from these months I
don't think Pete went far enough on this
why can't we just say we will not
provide military assistance to Saudi
Arabia any more full-stop
no in Chris Murphy senator from
Connecticut and Todd young a Republican
from Indiana actually have a bill that
would force a vote on that arms bid that
we talked about last week and it
shouldn't just be single arms package we
we should just we should not be giving
military assistance to a country that
wants to use that assistance to kill
civilians in Yemen and puts to death
kids that you know among many other
people I mean I think there are a few
pieces here that you really have to
digest the Trump administration knows
what's happening in Yemen it's not like
they don't know they are aware that
there's masses of civilians being killed
by indiscriminate bombardment they know
that there's a risk of famine that could
kill millions of people and frankly
already is killing people they know that
Congress has passed a bill out of the
house and the Senate trying to terminate
your support for the war in Yemen and
they just don't give a and they
just find these workarounds and they
just find ways to
more billions of dollars worth of
weapons that are being used to murder
innocent civilians and perpetuate a
famine this is really like next level
chilling and I think you know
activists need to be thinking at a
certain point to like let's look at the
companies that are manufacturing weapons
and selling them to the Saudis
let's divest from these
companies like there's you know I'm now
making me mad but like seriously like
let's put the scrutiny on the people who
think it's cool to have customers for
their goods who are using their goods to
murder civilians like this right because
this is this is out of control and it's
completely a betrayal of our values on
the the the death sentence of this kid
as a pattern of what we've seen in the
repression in Saudi Arabia getting worse
under MBS you know we don't even hear
anymore about whatever former he is
saying they'll put that language away
you know what it just it makes their
their all their talk about Iran so
hollow you know I mean right if it Ron
did any of the things I read it would be
the heart of a Mike Pompeo speech about
how we had to crack down on all the
things that they say about Iran are true
of Saudi Arabia that they violate human
rights that they put people to death
that they meddle in the affairs of
countries across the region that they
act indiscriminately in ways to kill
civilians it doesn't justify Iran doing
it it just means that we should apply
that standard to Saudi Arabia as well
and we shouldn't be selling them weapons
period I think the next Democratic
president is going to have to do more
and more frankly than Obama did and and
I've said it was a mistake that that we
didn't do more at the end of our
administration to cut this off ourselves
but particularly in a world in which you
have this contest between
authoritarianism and democracy we are
going to have to start to be more
consistent in the application of our
values and say you know what we're gonna
stop making the same levels of
trade-offs that we've made it doesn't
mean we can end all of our relationships
with every country that's authoritarian
and we have to deal China they have a
billion plus people they're in big
important country but we don't have to
sell weapons to a country like Saudi
Arabia that's using them in this way no
we do not okay I want to move through a
couple more things that are a little
lighter we'll do a little more about
foreign policy speed-dating here so I
referenced this earlier the the New York
Times published an interview with the US
ambassador to Israel David Friedman
where he said quote under certain sir
said quote under certain circumstances I
think Israel has the right to retain
some but unlikely all of the West Bank
that quote seems perfectly tailored to
me to piss off everyone involved right
like the hard right in Israel won't
think it's enough all the Palestinians
will understand the lis think that
they're just handing the the West Bank
over to the Israelis I don't know why
you would give this interview given that
Jared hasn't even introduced his Middle
East peace plan yet I mean the obvious
explanation for why he would do this
interview the Ambassador is that he's a
 but is there a more devious reason
that I might be missing no I mean I
think I mean this guy this guy called I
think J Street you know the Pro peace
organization that we like very much
you know Capo's before he was appointed
ambassador at Capo's were the Jews who
worked in concentration camps this is
not like a particularly pleasant guy
right but I mean you know I think
they're just like plowing the ground to
essentially have this quote unquote
peace plan be the terms of Palestinian
submission to whatever the Israelis
choose to do they don't go all the way
in coming out and just saying that
they're for the annexation of the West
Bank but everything that they're doing
is plowing the ground for the end exist
in the West Bank and saying okay
we are going to basically give these
relays carte blanche to do whatever they
want and annex the this land and we're
gonna try to pay off some people with a
few billion dollars that we raise in the
Gulf to make them okay with it and and
and they're not gonna be okay with it
and at a certain point this guy's and
Jarrod's you know ambitions are gonna
run up against the reality that there's
nobody who would accept that those kinds
of terms Palestinian the worst deal
imaginable okay this is a wild story so
according to the report in the intercept
a bunch of news outlets including Forbes
the hill The Daily Caller
the Federalists and al-arabiya English I
take a pretty great list it's a great
yeah have published articles by an
author who doesn't actually exist but is
in fact a persona run by an organization
called the M ek the White House has
pointed to some of these fake articles
as evidence in one of their many
specious arguments against the Iran deal
which is chefs kiss perfect um give us
like the quick and dirty about the m EK
and why are they are a less than
reliable source yeah they're basically
this kind of weird cultish organization
that seeks the overthrow of the iranian
regime that has like a spiritual leader
who lives in europe and has a lot of
money and they're very small they don't
have a lot of support inside of Iran but
they're oddly very well-funded they
didn't have a lot of money what they do
with that money is they find grifting US
politicians who they pay huge sums of
money to give paid speeches like john
bolton and rudy giuliani john bolton
rajani high up on that list and by the
way just to be fair like there have been
some people jim jones yeah an arbiter
bummer that we had to apply this
standard to everybody but it's so
essentially they're buying off these
people and they also what they do is
they constantly say that they have
information that always validates some
right-wing theory about iran so they
have information that there's all these
secret nuclear facilities or that you
know and and it's it's always bogus it's
just invented and here what we see
is they're willing to take like not only
fake information but like someone who's
not even a human being right and
as long as it conforms with their you
know propaganda campaign against the
Iranians like they'll slap it into the
 you know Daily Caller or whatever
you know again the hypocrisy of these
people who you know would always take
issue with everything we said about the
Iran deal
all of which ended up being verifiable
true right meanwhile they're just
inventing throwing against a wall
or taking informations coming to them
from totally discredited and not even
human sources yeah just and you know it
goes along with again this crazy story
where the State Department had
essentially a Twitter account right that
they didn't declare as the State
Department account there was trolling
like friend of the pot Jason rezaian and
anybody who is a writer
who didn't fully subscribe to the
trumpet administration's belligerent
policy towards Iran these people can't
win on the facts so they just invent
their own reality that they choose to
live in I mean it's beyond you know
their big thing against me for years is
that I you know shared information fact
sheets talking points with people agreed
with us and created an echo chamber
these people like are living in a
completely invented echo chamber where
none of the information is true where
some of the people aren't even real
where you have the State Department
paying for fake Twitter accounts to
troll people I mean it's just kind of a
window into kind of the the dark corrupt
heart of their Iran obsession yeah it is
desperate and pathetic I mean come on
guys do some vetting here okay this this
section is called foreign service
officers are still badasses so a bunch
of diplomatic posts are giving the
finger to a State Department directive
not to fly rainbow flags during Pride
Month the post Washington Post noted
that you're seeing various LGBTQ Pride
Month displays I post in India Korea
Chile Austria Israel a nephew NBC News
had first reported that requests to fly
the pride fly were being denied in
that's a it's a relatively new thing in
2011 President Obama was the first
president to direct agencies to
celebrate LGBT rights abroad
I'm keeping with the fact that he is
terrible Mike Pompeo has not attended a
State Pride Day event or issued a
statement so I don't know I just love
this story because it's good to see a
little civil disobedience within the
State Department it just said we should
not go back to a bigoted policy for gays
and lesbians and these people care about
it and look you know when the Trump
Trump administration rolled out like a
few months ago this notion that they're
gonna try to promote LGBT rights around
the world right welcomed that that's
good we want that to happen but this
just shows like they're saying one thing
and doing another right and first of all
to do that you have to have actually a
policies to back it up but then if you
can't even do this what's the message
you're sending in all these countries
and the other thing is there are a lot
of LGBT people who work in the State
Department's and pride matters to them
everyone whose embassies probably has an
LGBT person working in it I know some
people working in those embassies who
are gays or lesbians
and so to get their back I love that
these ambassadors are like you know what
 you were by the pipeline yeah yeah
we're gonna project some rainbow colors
on the wall of the embassy oh that
didn't meet the specs for I'm sorry I
didn't realize okay last one metaphor
alert the the tree that President Trump
and French president Emmanuel macron
planted at the White House last year has
died according to French media reports
there was a small oak tree that came
from the woods east of Paris where
American forces helped halt the Germans
during World War one I guess the thing
had to be quarantined or something and
they just let it wither and die I mean
you know sometimes metaphors can be too
on-the-nose yeah unless this is like
some secret French operation yeah
sabotage tree this Gordon roundup on
them yeah yeah I mean I let's just say
that uh like if Kim jung-un had a tree
they was planted in the White House
grounds Trump would be out there every
day in the grass nursing it stroking the
bark the bonsai hugging it speaking to
it you know but you know if it's a
manual McCrone you know we'll just kind
of let the thing die it's it's just too
perfect okay that's it for us but stick
around for the interview we've talked to
you in the past about how Sudan's
President Omar al-bashir was ousted
after nearly 30 years in a military coup
things have gotten really ugly
you
