so during the primary we're starting our
own pledge pinning presidential
candidates down on the issues that
matter most in a segment we're calling
queen for a day senator Sanders is
agreed to be the fifth candidate to face
the gauntlet aren't you okay sounds
ready sure sounds ready first question
on day one do you pledge to eliminate
daily what do you mean I win and I get
no price boy-oh-boy a day in the life of
birdies on day one do you pledge to
eliminate daylight savings never let the
American people see dark before 5:00
p.m. again well I thank you for this
question
John for far too long American families
have not been able to save as much
daylight as their parents of the
grandparents were I think we need a mass
movement for people to come together to
be able to change the regulation of
daylight and yes forceful Wall Street
bankers to allow us to save as much
daylight as we need it's day one of a
Bernie Sanders presidency what should
America do with all the people who are
really into paintball well paintball has
its place they think that people should
be tightly regulated I've been
criticized for being for a leftist a
little bit too in bed with the large
paintball gun manufacturers but I will
remind you I got a d-minus rating from
the national paintball Association they
have no place in my inauguration
what should the default mustard be when
someone says with mustard yellow mustard
or spicy brown mustard well but I think
first of all thank you for this question
John Oh a treasure the ability to answer
this question that you have given me I
think it's a privilege when I think of
spicy brown mustard I and a lot of
Americans think of Grey Poupon which
immediately makes me think of - you know
Bentley's - numbers of the 1% probably
the top 10% of the top 1% handing spicy
brown mustard from window to window in
my view and when I say that what I
always mean is that's the way I see it
and therefore that's the way it is in my
view yellow mustard is the only kind of
mustard that anybody needs what kind of
Jew from Brooklyn is gonna come on this
stage and tell me that yellow mustard is
the mustard
well let me finish a little too much
 Vermont for you let me finish ok
if you're gonna try to turn if you're
gonna try to turn book Brooklyn against
form odds that maybe I've got those you
got a place in the Hillary Clinton 2016
campaign I don't care for mustard myself
I eat entirely oatmeal you're texting
with your Vice President Andrew yang you
send a really funny joke
would you rather he writes the word ha
ha ha or do that iMessage thing where
you can add a ha ha bubble to the text
oh sure if you double click on a thing
and it says you got an exclamation point
or there's a heart or a ha ha ha couple
of little things well here's how it
works
if Edgar Yang and I am open to the
possibility he could be my vice
president because we might enter a
divided convention if the Democratic
establishment forces Andrew Yang on
they're reluctant nominee Bernie Sanders
and a divided contentious convention if
Andrew yang is my Lyndon Johnson then
yes I think that that's entirely
appropriate to double-click on my
message however he will never be able to
communicate with me that way because I
use a jitterbug and I am proud of it
[Laughter]
next question
senator Sanders taking clothes right
jakey coats right from the jury there's
just no reason to coffee right in the
mic senator and yet for far too long
they in my view the the elite of this
country has been encouraging us to call
off microphone and therefore stifle
exactly how bad things have gotten
next question and you need to be honest
with the American people who would win
in a no-holds-barred street fight you
Joe Biden or Guy Pearce in character as
old waylynn from prometheus
well prometheus is a fantastic
if lopsided film imagining the
possibility that you would human beings
are descended from a higher alien
culture and I have to respect the vision
would be Scott if I'm to respect the
vision of release code I think it's a
fact that I think it's a greater work
than some people say hey gladiator was
correct but look I know how to handle
Biden and Guy Pearce in the arena if you
will you got a head butt back you got a
head butt Guy Pearce and go for Putin's
throat that's exactly what I'm gonna
tell you gotta be gonna be me and I will
bite I will bite if it have I if it's
just me and
no rules I will bite Joe Biden you'll
bite him I will buy I will be bitin
Biden do you have a specific part of him
you'd go for first well I don't want to
hurt the guy too much I'm gonna bite him
on his hand you can invite him in his
hair
I said hey
[Music]
