or the round wheel here's how it works
we spin a wheel we rant on whatever
topic it lands upon now this is a unique
moment it is a real physical wheel in
the studio real Merv Griffin style wheel
of fortune
it sounds so good
it is landed on Facebook
selling people's numbers I don't know if
you saw this but it came out that
Facebook has been encouraging brightly
people to use two-factor authentication
if you if you're listening you're not
sure what that is
get your together
two-factor authentication means you not
only need a password but you also need a
phone or a device to give you a code one
of the ways you can do to factor is to
use your phone number what we have
learned is that even though you may have
chosen to not give Facebook your phone
number for your page for the actual use
of Facebook generally if you just used
your phone number only for two-factor
authentication
they were still using it to target you
with advertisements which is
completely unacceptable and once again
Facebook is gonna have to be put into a
bishop position to apologize because
there are something rotten at
the heart of the way they do business um
this is just a reminder to people at
home a lot of people don't know this you
guys know that our government can
regulate businesses we haven't done it
for a while we've been focused on other
things and we've taken this sort of
capitalist idea that oh you can walk
away and go to ello but I really think
that as Amazon becomes like our source
for both organic apples and prestige
television like our capacity as
consumers to negotiate with them is
limited we need to remind our
representatives that they could maybe
you know put a limit on things like this
I just want to say that I miss when
Facebook was about seeing if the hot guy
in your ethics class was also into Bjork
we all miss that Louis but it's yeah
it's almost like chain-smoking apologies
like does Mark Zuckerberg ever end an
apology tour or does the new College in
Georgia they just connect does he does
he ever actually get home
or does he just like you know what
actually reroute me through Cleveland
I'll keep this tour going big
money big money on Glenn Close I've
never been happier suggested by one
Lewis Patel I'm almost sorry to
infiltrate the show with this but here's
one way to say I'm so nervous
okay no it's it's it's I'm applauding
Glenn Close but I just want to say we're
about to embark on an Oscar season in
which Glenn Close will again be up for a
losing Oscar campaign and I want to say
that on the one hand I am happy because
it connects me to my Greg my gay
grandparents who also had to do this in
the 80s in 1982 lost to Jessica Lange
lost to Linda hunt lost a Peggy Ashcroft
then she lost to in 1987 who guy Branum
uh sheriff that's exactly right and
she's about to lose to another singer
see the movies yet I saw the excuse me I
saw the way if so don't tell me I didn't
you haven't seen a star was born yet no
but like everybody agrees it's like the
number one thing people are rooting for
her she's gonna get nominated for song
and for Actress also let's talk about
the fact that it was 1988 for
dangerously it was truly truly robbed
yes my still gay I think so I don't know
let's spin it again
[Music]
it is landed on Twitter polls which was
suggested by aquila oh hi Wow okay so so
there was a Twitter poll today during
the hearings from the New York Times it
was just like you guys think this lady's
credible yes or no and and then like not
sure like a third option and then they
took it down but they still posted the
poll like just in case you were still
deciding um and you know my feeling is
this it's not Yanni and Laurel right
okay this is
we know I don't care what people think
if they think it's she's credible that's
the point of the hearings twitter is a
cesspool and i don't need to hear that
and it's a yeah just cuz you have the
technology doesn't mean you should use
it right yeah that's I mean did you not
see Jurassic Park yeah ever stop to the
Times The Times
that they could they never stopped to
think of this shut yeah exactly and
women will inherit the earth so it has
landed on high school yearbooks ah I
just want to take a moment to say high
school yearbooks are pretty tough for
the kids didn't get invited to beach
week didn't weren't part of any kind of
kegger clubs or weekend trips it's tough
out there walking around the yearbook
and you didn't even win most likely to
succeed because they gave it to a kid
that was already rich here's my feeling
on yearbooks um teenagers should never
be quoted look as an overachieving
grade-grubbers I really resent Brett
Kavanaugh wanting to both be like oh I
was working so hard to get into Yale but
also be like yeah brah to have you boost
yet it's the privilege of like
heterosexual white masculinity of
thinking you get to be a dick bag like
that while also being a good boy at the
same time him like today he was
half-assedly under oath pretending that
he was not responsible for all of that
 and I just I want Renata
dolphin to tear him apart limb from limb
 that dude like if he said Renata
alumnus and he was a virgin
that's worse you dude like I'm just
it's so pathetic that we have had to
walk through the ways in which he tried
to impress Marc judge and have a great
summer I hope we stay friends on beach
week the is Beach week I'm just
gonna say it beaches exist all year long
that's my feeling about them Beach week
I go to the beach week I'm gonna be
today his attempt to like construct this
summer where he was busy being
responsible and going to very taxing
football is ridiculous like his oh I
will this only could have happened on
the
weekend like that was a weird premise he
kept laying in there and this would have
be like you're a goddamn judge like if
you were presented with this information
would you just be like oh whoa he said
he never drank during the weekdays
mostly Oh believe it oh no it's like I
couldn't drink because I had my job
you're not a CPA you worked it up you're
a kid talking about his Thursday
night what the
Beach week I was trying to keep it real
this is our last temps yep
it is landed on I don't know it's
Lindsey Graham's
speaking of best actress like the
performance he gave after they snatched
Rachel Mitchell away was ridiculous
like I feel like Bret Cavanaugh's like
nearly foaming at the mouth with
belligerents and crying at the same time
infected him and he wanted like they
think the lesson of the the Clarence
Thomas Anita Hill hearings is men need
to show more emotion and like the fact
that he was blustering about the the
damage that was done to this person who
has been accused of sexual assault by
several people was ridiculous
though I do think like he could end up
being nominated for a Golden Globe
yes No the drama was very sincere it was
like a sustained high-pitched scream
from what I remember and he basically
Voogd out of the room I mean the drama
was intense and I'm gonna say I don't
want to give him a real golden look he's
like Gotham nominated yeah it was a bit
much I don't even know who gave him the
Chardonnay to throw it any closer but it
but he went for it that's a really
interesting point I mean this thing is
like no but like Reagan sort of brought
scripted acting to politics and Trump
has kind of brought in reality TV and
like they were taking the the like the
lesson poorly it really was Real
Housewives of Potomac when he was
getting interviewed on the walk out and
he try
to like run but there was a wall I got
hard it was
[Music]
