I am honored to have in the studio
Congressman Seth Moulton from the sixth
District Tommy I'm honored to be here uh
you the interest of transparency should
say your rank for president and you
invited me to go for a run this morning
at OU 600 which I declined because I'm
soft and lazy but you did it
that's impressive not really
okay the generation of people who work
in New York who think I'm an
right now okay let's start at the top so
it's April 26 right you're the 19th
Canada jump in the Biden's the 20th what
did you see in the other candidates in
the field running for 2020 president the
Democratic nomination that that didn't
do it for you like what made you make
this tough decision we have got to be
willing to take on Donald Trump not just
as president but as commander-in-chief
and I think this is actually where he's
weakest I mean he has led us down across
the globe
he has bastardized the the meaning of
patriotism his vision of making our
country strong and safe is the exact
opposite of what we need to do to
achieve that and so I'm gonna take him
on on those issues and I'm gonna add
that to the debate and I think
ultimately taking him on where he is
weakest is what we need to do to beat
him so I find this very interesting
because I'm a former national security
geek
so let's definitely start there so you
you have this background where you
enlisted in the Marine Corps after
graduating from Harvard but shortly
before the 9/11 attacks you served four
tours in Iraq I was wondering if you
could tell us a little bit about what
you did in Iraq like where you served
the kinds of missions you were working
on and like if they're a big take homes
from that time yeah sure
I mean first of all you should know that
I just wouldn't be here at all if not
for that experience I didn't grow up
interested in politics maybe I should
have but I but I wasn't you know I don't
come from a political family so as I
point out to the first congressman that
my parents met that was me I'm still
paying my loans my college loans a
member of Congress has certainly no
family money here but I decided in
college that I wanted to serve and I was
really influenced by the greatest mentor
that ratted my
who was the minister in my college
church but more than that he was just
larger-than-life moral guideposts at the
University and he talked a lot about the
importance of service about how it's not
enough just to believe in service or
support others who go serve you got to
find a way to give back yourself and
sitting in this church in Harvard Yard
with the names of the people who had
lost their lives in Wars you know the
church was dedicated to it made me
really think about serving in that way
I'd so much respect for these 18 year
old kids who put their lives on the line
for the country so I wanted to sign up I
knew I wanted to be in the infantry to
be on the ground and little did I know
that 9/11 would happen right I'd go
through a year of training thinking that
we all thought we had just missed the
war right because Afghanistan would be
over a few months and then that would be
it
in 2002 and then and then came home for
Christmas in December 2002 and on
Christmas Eve my future battalion
executive officer called me and said
when he ain't coming out to California I
said well I've got a month to leave I'm
I'm hanging out in Massachusetts for a
month probably on a dual skiing he's
like nope you're coming out next week
pack your bags get a will and get a
wicket yeah okay and we're getting on a
ship to Kuwait Jesus and so we did and
we got to Kuwait
the lieutenant might that battalion took
bets on whether we'd actually invade I
was on the side of no there's no way
bushes were actually gonna do this but
we did and so my first job over there
was as a platoon commander in the
invasion just fighting our way to
Baghdad and so you you you you fight
your way to Baghdad you probably went
home for a little bit you signed up to
go back I mean 2003-2004 Nigeria and the
Jaffa and that was some of the more
intense fighting of the whole war right
it was and we had no idea how much worse
that had gotten since 2003 the summer of
2003 was actually great I mean the
Iraqis were thrilled that they've been
liberated from Saddam but we clearly had
no plan for after the invasion that's
why I got this crazy job of working with
the
Araki media and I had my own TV show
yeah both in my home in Mojave want to
talk about that at all I mean I met an
Iraqi literally a few hours ago today
who is was a translator worked for the
press and had come over to the United
States and I walked in and he looked at
me and his eyes bright and he's like I
know you really I know you I've met I
said it probably was a TV show is it yes
that's it
that's it it was like a super popular TV
show I was crazy and you guys done this
investigative journalism yeah like sort
of like a mini version of 60 minutes we
were really just trying to teach the
Iraqis how to have a free press and we
found one of the best ways to do it was
just have our own show that they could
watch us put together produce report on
and everything but yeah it's crazy I
used to have to sign autographs in the
street I mean nobody asked for my
autograph in the street as a US
congressman it's an incredibly important
thing the Free Press it's a very cool
role doesn't feel like something that
you should ask a marine infantryman to
do exactly in the State Department and
that's the point and that's the point no
plan whatsoever for what happened after
the invasion not nearly enough resources
for the State Department or anyone else
and and so one of the stories of Iraq
was a bunch of young men and women in
the military just stepping up and doing
a whole bunch of jobs that that we
weren't trained to do we weren't
prepared to do but we needed to do to to
try to get the country on track yeah but
at the end of the day we left Iraq and
at the fall of 2003 hoping that things
would stick together and we came back
about six months later
eight months later and it was a mess
yeah and we saw far worse fighting in
the job in 2004 than we'd seen in the
whole day Jesus um so for your for your
service in Iraq you won the bronze star
which suppose listening don't know is
the nation's fourth highest award for
heroism under fire you won the Marine
Corps Commendation Medal for valor but
you went through this whole primary
campaign where you didn't tell anybody
about this I believe the Boston Globe
was going through your military record
they figured this out they called your
office and you finally agreed to talk
about your parents didn't even know I
mean I would read from the citation but
I think you probably punch me I'm just
curious like why why didn't you want to
talk about that time or that site
because it's not about the the awards
you know we were just doing a job
serving the country and that's what
matters and I think there's sort of a
healthy disrespect among veterans for
people who just come back and tell war
stories and frankly I'd seen a lot of
Marines - incredibly heroic things that
they were never recognized for so I
think it's just it was the right thing
to do
do you think there's a middle ground
between I respect the hell out of that
answer and appreciate it
but I also think that people in America
don't know what happens overseas I don't
think they know a real war story they
don't know what our soldiers our sailors
and Marines are doing day to day and I'm
wondering if there's a way that you
think we all as a body politic should
better educate people on the reality of
war because not the movies it's not the
the you see on and coming out
of Hollywood I think is a good point
Tommy and I you know I have tried to
talk a little bit more about some of the
stuff that that we went through as a
platoon and some of the things that I
saw other guys do and and I'm incredibly
proud of it you know even in the midst
of this war I disagreed with I wasn't
proud to go there and I was proud to go
there for different times so no one had
to go in my place
and and I did see incredibly heroic
things people just you know there's
nothing more powerful in your life than
when you you see a fellow young American
someone who might have them not too much
in common with you come from a very
different background different
experiences growing up just be willing
to literally put his or her life on the
line for you and I saw that all the time
over there
I felt I saw the best of America in the
worst of circumstances and there was a
day in 2004 when a young marine of my
platoon looked up at me and he said you
know sir you ought to run for Congress
someday so that this doesn't happen
again mm-hmm now he didn't convince me
right then and there wrong because I
think red pack I use the GI Bill went to
business school and yeah and the first
job I took was in Texas obviously don't
move to Texas and they're playing around
for office and Isis but but
when this opportunity to run came up and
I was approached by this group that's
trying to get veterans to run for office
I thought back to to that conversation
and I decided that you know if no one is
willing to step up and challenge the
system and make some change then we're
gonna keep making mistakes like yeah the
ones that got us into Iraq yeah so let
me ask about about that vote in that
mistake I mean Vice President Biden
announced his candidacy yesterday he
voted for the Iraq war he's one of many
people who did I mean do you think a
vote like that is disqualifying at this
point no I don't think there's I don't
have a litmus test like that but but I
do think it's time in our politics for
the generation that went to Iraq and
Afghanistan to take over for the
generation that sent us there right I
think it's time for generational change
in our politics and it's something I've
been fighting for ever since I got
elected it's something I talked about in
my my first campaign and and I think
it's time that we we really lay out how
we as Democrats are gonna lead this
country forward both here at home to
meet the challenge of the new economy to
make a better healthcare system but also
abroad you know how are we gonna lead in
the world there's a lot of people right
now talking about going back to the way
things were before Donald Trump like
putting NATO back together because he's
worked so hard to tear it apart and
that's okay I mean I don't disagree I
mean I think NATO is really important
but NATO was founded with a 1949
rationale it's 19 it's not 1949 anymore
we do need to put that NATO back
together but we've got to give it a
20/20 rationale we got to make sure NATO
was relevant to the fact that Russia's
conducting cyberattacks ran our allies
not rolling tanks through the Foley gap
sure so we got to modernize all these
institutions and really take a totally
fresh look towards foreign policy and
our national security and a lot of these
issues these issues about being strong
about abroad and being a moral leader
for the world they have a lot of effect
on on what we're doing back home too I
mean just look at our foreign policy in
in Central America that can affect
whether or not we have an immigration
problem with the southern border
absolutely I mean Trump's doing the
exact opposite of what we should be
doing he's pulling aid out of Central
America we should be doing what we did
in Colombia
which turned a narco-state into a
tourist destination for Americans in
about 15 years that's the approach we
should take to Central America is there
a problem with migrants coming in an
unprecedent numbers of the southern
border
yeah and Democrats need to be willing to
admit that but let's also have a plan to
fix it and we have we have experience
with you every road map Columbiana road
map hard but it's doable and that's
exactly what we should do to strengthen
our national security in to strengthen
our security back here at home totally
agree with you so this is interesting
race there are a couple other veterans
in the race mayor Pete was a naval
intelligence expert congresswoman Tulsi
gabbard's served in the Army I had to be
like your experience in the Marines is
different from theirs or is that's gonna
you think about well first of all I
really respect their their expiry
service I respect anybody who's willing
to stand up and serve the country
whether it's in the military and the
Peace Corps here at home and AmeriCorps
program like City Year we need more
people to do that and actually going to
be a big part of my platform I've been
talking about national service for four
years I've been promoting it in Congress
and and I'm not gonna talk about how we
can get more people to serve our country
especially in civilian service programs
back home but the experience I had was
actually leading Americans in combat
yeah and fundamentally the job I had was
getting a whole incredibly diverse group
of Americans people from all over this
country different states different
backgrounds different religious beliefs
different political beliefs all united
behind a common mission to serve our
country and in a lot of ways I think
that's exactly what we need from the
next president of the United States
these are terribly divisive times the
most divisive certainly in my lifetime
and we need to have a president who
understands how to bring people together
in very divided times and get them to
believe in our country get them to
believe in America so much that they
want to work every single day to make it
better yeah agreed um I've heard you
talk in the past about how you know we
went into Iraq and ultimately left too
quickly and then had to go back in
because Isis you know came back
I think he's expressed some concern
about leaving Syria too quickly for the
same reason can you help me and or help
us understand how president Moulton
would define success in some
it's like a rock in Syria so we can
understand from that analysis like when
it would be appropriate to bring our men
and women home yeah I mean I spent three
years on the ground in the Middle East
there's no one who wants to bring the
troops home sooner than I do but the
worst thing is to bring them home so
quickly that then a year later you have
to turn around and send them back and
more Americans die because we're going
over ground that we fought over once
before and that's the mistake that we
made in Iraq and and and and we've got
to confront that reality in Syria today
now I think Syria is a mess I think that
the troops don't know what they're doing
we're not clear about the mission we've
got to clarify that we've got to make it
clear what they need to achieve to come
home but then we've got to do that we
got to make sure they actually achieve
what what needs to be achieved so that
they can come home for good
same thing in Afghanistan you know I
think our mission has just gotten too
expansive in Afghanistan I would love to
see a democratic Afghanistan but I don't
think many people think that we're
really willing to make that commitment
that it's just a little bit too far too
much for the United States to do we do
have a real counter-terror mission there
right and it's still I mean the Sri
Lankan bombings show that that is still
an issue in the world today and we
cannot let Afghanistan become a terror
training ground as it was in 9/11 so
let's have a narrowly focused
counter-terror mission in Afghanistan
reduce our footprint dramatically
support the Afghan government through
the State Department but not be
dependent on their success not be
dependent on talks with the Taliban or
anything else just be clear why we're
there
to protect our national security and
bring everybody else home um one of
President Trump's signature diplomatic
efforts is these negotiations with North
Korea that are ongoing when you look at
diplomat yeah quite the diplomat very
nice very diplomatic invidual do you
think those talks have been successful
and would you oh my gosh they've been an
abject failure you think a bit of
failure well you can tell you them this
president or how do you view that that
process you you need to have talks with
North Korea but you do it from a
position of strength you don't do it by
going over there giving up our exercises
with one of the most important allies we
have South Korea is under daily
threat of annihilation I mean name
another ally like that in the world
today and we under Donald Trump just
gave up exercises with them that are
critical for their national security and
for our ability to work with them and
support them and what did we get in
return nothing I mean absolutely nothing
other than just embarrassing ourselves
in the face of a brutal dictator so I'm
just trying to think I mean I agree with
you and and then I look at what Obama
did in terms of the sanctions and there
was a pressure campaign that was
effective I think there was important
diplomacy through the six-party talks
but the outcomes are the outputs are the
same right I know you're like a
data-driven guy and we all look at
outputs it's like well they still have a
bunch of nukes in a bunch ICBM so I'm
just wondering how do we shake up the
system well first of all just to be
clear the outputs are not the same
because we didn't give up exercises
under Obama true but today they are not
as they were not as far along then as
they are now and their nuclear weapons
in their rocket development but this is
one of the reasons why I'm calling for
really rethinking how we're approaching
things in in the Pacific I think it's
time for a Pacific version of NATO to
actually get our allies which don't all
agree on every issue but to get them
united in a formal arrangement to help
contain China and North Korea and in the
same way that NATO has been so
successful in in Western Europe and
uniting us not just from a national
security perspective but from an
economic from a cultural perspective
really as a bulwark against the
expansion of Russia into Europe we need
to do the same thing in the Pacific that
means some tough talks between allies
like South Korea and Japan that don't
always get along right but hey we did
that between Germany and France and and
I mean I mean it can't be harder than
that right they were not entirely
friendly after World War two and there's
a lot that we can do there just really
strengthened our alliances you know my
division motto and the first Marine
Division under then general mattis was
no better friend no worse enemy the
United States Marine that should be our
motto for the United States of America
no better friend no worse enemy than the
United States that means if you're an
ally we truly stand with you that means
if you're an enemy we don't cozy up to
you and go have a nice little chitchat
then and then give up exercises with an
important ally we stand up to you we get
together with our allies and we're firm
it doesn't mean we're not willing to
talk I'm even Reagan talked to Russia
and got some significant arms control
agreements out of it but but we have to
be willing to stand up strongly against
North Korea the one thing that has
worked with them is sanctions the other
thing that's worked with them is
pressure from the Chinese these are all
things that we can do and it's not what
Trump has been doing at all yeah you
mentioned general mattis and I think you
worked with Petraeus natus general
McMaster in Iraq I assume maybe maybe
with is the wrong word for all of them
right like they were leading combatant
commanders or though they were leading
parts of Iraq I mean did it surprise you
to see some of them go into the Trump
administration to disappoint you no
because I know why they did it they did
it to try to keep this this ship afloat
yeah and you know there are others I
think that general Kelley was more of a
disappointment
he seemed to be toeing the party line
but McMaster stood up to it I know as
best as he thought he could mattis
certainly did these were people who were
trying to do the right thing for the
country now I know other military
leaders who were asked to go into the
administration and and thought it was
not the right thing to do yeah and did
not go in and I respect that decision as
well but I know why Madison McMaster and
you know and Petraeus was not part of
the administration but I know why why
they why they did this and and I respect
them for that because they certainly
took a lot of personal hits but it was
amazing when Madison resigned the sense
of dismay in Congress on both sides of
the aisle because we were losing one of
the last people that we thought was
there to do the right thing at the end
of the day was palpable yeah and it and
it's frightening you know we don't like
to talk about this much but I I think
one of the points here is that the
stakes of having Donald Trump as our
president are much higher than people
realize and the most frightening day
that I've ever had ISM
of Congress was the afternoon that a few
members of the Armed Services Committee
went up and rode around the Doomsday
plane can explain what that is so it's
literally like from the 1950s it's this
big plane that that flies around in the
event of a nuclear exchange right and
the loud gives the commander-in-chief
and the US Air Force the ability to to
fight back to to shoot nuclear weapons
at you know Russians or whoever else in
the event that were attacked and it's a
frightening experience but you do walk
into this plane you think okay this is
like the 1950s because it looks like the
1950s I mean we're still using 8-inch
floppy discs to manage our our nukes
which is pretty pathetic although it
does make it difficult to have I was
gonna say yeah that is the one of the
side benefit I guess and and so you're
in this thing and you kind of expecting
when they say okay we're gonna walk you
through an exercise you're expecting
like okay the Soviets are sending two
hundred missiles our way instead we put
on the the headsets and sat down for
this exercise and you know it's
classified so I can't say exactly what
it was but it was frightening Lee reel I
was like wow this could happen tomorrow
and it could quickly escalate into a
nuclear war and there was one point when
an Air Force colonel was talking about
how that you can't hack the system
because obviously that would be the
worst thing imaginable someone could
hack the system and and and fire off a
missile by mistake he said yeah it's
basically foolproof and I thought to
myself unless the guy at the top is a
fool which yeah which he is um and so
the stakes here are really high and
that's why that's why I'm in this race
because we've got to confront Trump
where he's weakest we've got to confront
Trump on these issues we can't just cede
leadership foreign policy national
security making the country safe and
strong and fundamentally defining what
it means to be a patriot we cannot cede
that to Donald Trump for too long
Democrats have kind of let Republicans
run with these issues and we shouldn't
we have the most reckless
commander-in-chief in American history
so let let's confront him where he's
weakest that's what I'm gonna do and I
think at the end of the day if there's
one thing I hear from Democratic voters
across
country is they want to beat Donald
Trump yeah
and so sure this might not be the top
issue on people's radar right now and
and look I'll talk to you about health
care and I'll talk to you about how I
promise I'll get there I just alright I
just like will get there too but but
we've got to be willing to delete on
this issue as well
I promise only two more foreign policy
questions so like look the the my put on
the headphones and be scared by the
exercise is when he started talking
about Iran because it does feel like the
administration is trying to lay the
groundwork for war with Iran secretary
Pompeo refused to confirm that the 2001
AUMF the authorization for the use of
military force didn't give him the
authority to go to war with Iran this
was a vote taken in response to 9/11
today so when you see that and hear this
this tortured rationale you know years
and years later do you think we should
repeal that AUMF I mean Bolden said that
we were on the ground in Syria to
counter Iran right I mean I was the one
who called this out on the Armed
Services Committee and and and made them
admit that yeah they are they are
legally in violation of the AUMF from
2001 just by what they said their
rationale is for staying into in Syria
so yes we should repeal the AUMF and we
should put in place another one that's
that's tailored to the the world today
now the truth of the matter and this is
something that that that some people
don't want to hear is that terrorism
remains a threat but the other reality
is that our war on terror since 2001 has
been an abject failure I mean there are
more terrorists in the world today I
think by a factor of four or five then
there were on 9/11 so how can you look
at ourselves and say okay this war on
terror has been great I agree I agree
but that doesn't mean you don't have a
war on terror it means you've got to
totally rethink it we can't have another
terrorist attack at home we've got to
have a foreign policy it doesn't mean
that we become isolationist and just
withdraw from the world but we've got to
have a smarter next generation foreign
policy that will actually keep us safe
well so I agree with you and you know
the the 2020 budget request from Trump
includes I think 750 billion with the B
dollars for national defense when you
hear the the the track record you just
talked about right four times more Sunni
extremists in the world than pre 9/11
and you
those numbers it sounds obscene to me I
mean were creating a space force
while we rowing out the Special Olympics
rightly what are we doing well I mean
look do you dug into these budgets I
mean to give Trump credit I mean we all
know that he got five deferments from
the Vietnam War but maybe if he could
have been a space good yeah that's right
that's right
I mean so you as part of your job in our
services you dig in these budgets do you
think they're too big and would you try
to cut the defense budget as president I
do think they're too big but most
importantly they're just investing in
the wrong things like what like why are
we still building as many aircraft
carriers as we're building when the
Chinese for the price of one aircraft
carrier can can build about 2,000 anti
aircraft carrier missiles don't tell me
that one of those 2,000 couldn't take
out an aircraft carrier so there are a
lot of tough decisions we need to make
our about our defense budget that not
only involve investing in new
technologies like actually building a
cyber wall to protect us from China and
Russia like making the commitment to
being the world leader in AI in
artificial intelligence that China has
already made and we seen we refuse to
make every time I ask Trump
administration officials about it they
won't make that commitment that we're
going to be the world leader we've got
to invest in these new technologies but
we also have to cut the old legacy
systems there are just too expensive too
much money I think there's this
interesting paradox where because China
and Russia have lower defense budgets
they're not going to compete with us by
just building as many aircraft carriers
as we have they're just trying to figure
out ways to defeat these systems that we
have now and build the next generation
of weapons we need a new generation of
arms we need a new generation of arms
control and like I was discussing with
the Pacific NATO we need a new
generation of alliances one of my big
lessons from government is that
prioritization is key you kind of odds
are you get one big thing done
especially to do it via a reconciliation
right so Obama chose the affordable care
act Trump chose a tax cut for
billionaires what's your day one plan
what's your big thing you want to get
done well we have a lot of work to do in
this country and the first thing we have
to do is
restore moral integrity to the office is
to actually show that we can bring
Americans together so I'll get to like a
big idea but that I think this is the
most important thing when you sign up
for the military when I went to Marine
training one of the first things I
learned was that I could fail a test and
it let me retake the test I could drop
out of a run I'd probably get to do it
again the next day but if I lied about
anything I'd be gone that afternoon we
need a commander in chief we need a
president of the United States who we
can trust it doesn't mean it's gonna be
someone that we always agree with but
the most fundamental failure of Donald
Trump is that you cannot trust him you
cannot trust anything he says
as commander-in-chief of the United
States so we have got to restore moral
integrity and credibility to the office
but you want a moon shot please I think
we should develop fusion energy okay
and this is something this well I do at
a physics degree this degree you know
didn't get the best grades and got out
of there with a degree I couldn't open
so there is nothing that will do more
for climate change than carbon free
energy and nuclear fusion which is much
safer than fission is something that's
actually within reach if we put you know
the tens of billions not hundreds of
billions but just tens of billions of
dollars into it we can probably get
there within the decade and that's the
kind of investment that we need to make
in the future of our country and in the
future of our world but we also need to
be putting a lot of money into
healthcare we need to make sure that
everybody in America has access to
quality affordable healthcare and I
don't think we do that by forcing
everyone onto a government
one-size-fits-all program designed in
1963 Medicare is great Medicare can be
better and it should be an option that
Americans have but it shouldn't be the
only way to go so let me ask you about
that you get your health care from the
VA which is a single-payer system you
said you know sort of the day you
announced that it leaves a lot to be
desired well what what is the problem in
day to day in terms of that single-payer
care that you receive
well maybe it's best illustrated by a
story sure so I was lifting and got a
hernia okay right right before I was
sworn in as a member of Congress and so
I was like okay well I made this
commitment I kind of put it to the test
and so I was moving down to DC I went to
the Washington DC VA which is you know I
usually go to the VA up at Boston but I
went to the DC VA gave my you know name
social security number to check in and I
said after 20 minutes they said well we
don't have any record of you we can't
prove that you're a veteran so we'll
consider taking you as a humanitarian
case why why I mean I wanted to say well
I mean I just won this election like
maybe you can Google it's not playing
the congressman's card that's not why I
was there so I just sat down in the
waiting room next to a fellow veteran
he'd served in Vietnam who said I've
been waiting here for five hours just to
see someone now fast forward but they or
two later I got my surgery great surgeon
was was working there because she
believed in vets wanted to help them she
was normally worked at GW but she did
time at the VA hospital she did a great
job but but as she was there putting me
under anesthesia she said yeah I don't I
don't I don't trust half the people who
work here but I was like whoa timeout
means we come here you know but before I
knew it I was out and woke up that out
at noon why my yeah that's that's such a
horrible thing to say
yeah didn't exactly give me a lot of
confidence so um but here's the best
part I woke up and went back to Capitol
Hill with my little baggie of medicines
and they said you know when the
anesthesia works out off wears off this
is gonna hurt a lot so they gave me some
powerful painkillers I said you can try
taking one you probably need to I didn't
take any when I got back to Capitol Hill
because we had votes that afternoon so I
wanted to you know remember I voted but
then sure but then it was really
starting to hurt and so I took a pill
like a half hour later I'm in this
meeting I'm like this is killing me so I
went back to take a second pill and I
looked more carefully at the bottle and
they sent me home with the wrong
medication they sent me home with Advil
so that story is insane and everyone who
treated you should be fired except for
the surgeon do you think that that's I
mean unfortunately infuriatingly despite
many pledges to fix it the VA is
historically up and Obama
committed to doing it we weren't able to
achieve it there's a lot of extenuating
circumstances I'm not in making excuses
but like it's a it's a notoriously
mismanaged organization do you think
that your challenge is unique to the VA
or do you think that it's a real parable
for a broader single-payer system well
I'm afraid it might be a parable for a
broader single-payer system because it's
the only single-payer system that we
that we really have in America and
despite constant pledges to fix it it
hasn't been fixed and and that's why I
think that actually tapping into the
age-old American system of a little bit
of free market competition would be good
for health care not to the extent that
it is now where insurance companies rent
run rampant and and a lot of people were
priced out of health care but healthy
competition between a public option
between a single-payer option and
private payer systems or private payer
options and and that means you're not
gonna kick people off their private
health care if they like it but it also
means that those private health care
plans are gonna have to compete with the
public option and that makes everybody
better competition makes everybody
better there are also some things the VA
does really well and I think it's
important to acknowledge that too not
just that surgeon but they negotiate
drug prices Medicare doesn't do that
that's actually one of the big problems
with Medicare they do not negotiate drug
prices the VA does it's a great
prescription system you know if I need
if I had a medicine I needed a refill I
could just go online you know check the
box it shows up in the mail two days
later I mean it's brilliant there's no
reason why we shouldn't do that
throughout our entire health care system
but the point is that if you just force
everybody onto onto Medicare I don't
think it's gonna I don't think
everybody's gonna be too thrilled um a
lot of your message is about
generational change and you know the new
generation of leaders you talked about
you know stepping up and serving I think
a lot of people probably hear that and
they think about the effort you were a
part of to unseat Pelosi as a speaker it
wasn't just Pelosi
the top three well that's fair the top
three like in hindsight do you still
think that was the right decision going
after you know the the folks at the top
who maybe you thought had been there too
long well look at the end of the day you
can't just talk about generational
change you gotta be willing to fight for
it and the compromise that we got as a
result of of that debate of having a
actual democratic debate in the
Democratic Party about who our leaders
should be which should be what we all
expect is we got the voting rights
subcommittee we got the climate change
subcommittee and we got an agreement on
term limits that did two things first of
all gave Pelosi the votes she needed to
become speaker without forcing all the
freshmen who only got elected because
they promised to vote against her to
change their to change their promise to
break their promise so that was a big
win both for her and for those freshmen
and it got us an agreement on term
limits that means that this new
generation the historically diverse
class that just got elected to take back
the house will actually have a chance to
lead in the future and you know in some
ways if we had just succeeded in that
fight by getting three new leaders at
the top but then they were there for
eighteen or twenty years then I don't
think that would have been a win so I
think we actually came out pretty well
and where does that put me in this
presidential primary well frankly we're
not gonna be able to beat Donald Trump
if we don't have a nominee who's willing
to take on the Washington establishment
who's willing to fight for change who's
willing to talk about how our party is
gonna lead the country forward not just
how we're gonna stand up the Trump as
Speaker Pelosi by the way is doing a
fantastic job of standing up to Trump
and she deserves a lot of credit for
that but we also need leaders that
people look to and say that's the future
of the Democratic Party that's the
future of our country yeah I mean
there's wonder if we can tease out what
the what the younger generations
leadership looks like right because I
look at the recent battles against Trump
and the shutdown and I'm thinking if I'm
president Moulton I want Nancy Pelosi
breaking arms and getting me all the
votes I need because she's pretty
 good at it you know I don't
think she's the only one that can do
this I think there's some amazingly
talented leaders in our party and you
see some of them rising up today Cheri
Bustos is doing an amazing job with the
d-triple-c and she actually understands
what it means to fight for the districts
we need to win
because she comes from a district that
voted for Trump Hakeem Jeffries is is a
is a is a rising hotshot in the house he
has the potential to be the first
african-american Speaker of the House
and he's doing a great job as a chairman
of our caucus there are a lot of very
very talented people in the Democratic
caucus and I think it's important that
we give them a chance to lead as well
they're gonna take us forward into the
future and that makes for a stronger
party okay let me talk process permit
process so come on I want to know how
you're gonna win right because there's a
lot of folks in the race I think there's
some I'm not saying you that are in to
highlight an issue or to sort of build a
personal profile I want to know like are
you planning to compete in Iowa are you
gonna go to neighboring New Hampshire do
you have paid staff on the ground was
there a fundraising goal like what's
like what kind of things are you guys
working on to win this thing so
obviously on day four we have this all
figured out
yeah it's day four but it's going well
so far first of all we're starting on
the ground this is a grassroots campaign
a lot of people have actually pointed to
the John McCain model literally just
going to you know VFW's and sometimes
they meet with small groups but you
build up a steady base of support or two
or do the same thing some people point
to the Gary Hart campaign too but but
the point is that you start by just
building trust in the ground and we
literally started by doing service
events because I'm applying for a job of
national service so tell me so your day
one you a new hampshire and you're
pouring mulch for two hours we're well
we're not it's not just mulch what else
these are terrible Moltres if it took us
two hours to do that yeah so we were
stocking a food pantry we were
organizing clothes for the veterans and
it's at this amazing place called
Liberty house in Manchester New
Hampshire that helps get veterans back
on their feet after they've had some
hard times you know they serve the
country but came back many of them had
post-traumatic stress got addicted to
opioids some of them had been in prison
but there's such inspiring stories
because they're getting back on their
feet they've got jobs they're sobering
up there they're doing really well and
and the point is that I want people to
know that this is a mission driven
campaign and we are about service that's
fundamentally what we're all about it's
what I did in my first campaign for
Congress
back in 2014 - and people would say wait
away well why are you just going to a
food pantry because I want people to
know and remember what this is about why
we're doing this we're doing this to
serve the country and that should be
evident in everything we do so we
cleaned up a beach in South Carolina
going tomorrow to meet with some
veterans in Nevada met with Junior ROTC
cadets in Iowa cool and and it's been an
incredibly energizing experience so
we're gonna compete on the ground of
course I'll spend a lot of time in New
Hampshire and that in fact there's
actually no State I've spent more time
on in time in in my entire life other
than Massachusetts in New Hampshire and
so so I'll spend a lot of time on the
ground there but we're gonna start with
veterans and students and we're gonna
work up from there and we're just gonna
build the grassroots support for this
campaign and if there's one thing that I
hear from voters everywhere I go it's we
need to beat Donald Trump we needed a
nominee who can stand up to Trump and
win and that's why I think it's so
important to be willing to confront him
on these issues all these issues I'm
talking about that amazingly no one else
in the field is really hitting him on
we've got to take him on on his job as
commander commander in chief it's
shocking to me that the Muller report
just came out mm-hmm you've got a
Kushner out there saying oh it's not a
big deal yeah that's unbelievable but I
mean and and and fundamentally this is a
story of dereliction of duty by the
commander-in-chief of the United States
because he his number one job is to keep
us safe his number one job is to keep us
safe and he refuses to do that because
it might harm his reputation yeah so
after after Pearl Harbor they had a
Pearl Harbor Commission and it was
actually quite critical of the Roosevelt
administration after 9/11 there was a
9/11 Commission was actually quite
critical of the Bush administration but
you never saw rose about her Bush out
there saying oh no no no we shouldn't
look into this we shouldn't investigate
this because it might look bad at me but
that's exactly what our president today
is doing and we're not calling him out
about that we're not calling him out on
it
and we need to as a party if we're gonna
win agreed the big debate coming out of
Muller report has been about whether we
should impeach Donald Trump we've been
fighting about it here in parts of
America but Tommy I mean yeah and so
I'll answer your question I know you're
going but it shouldn't be the debate the
debate should be how
we as Americans not as Trump supporters
or Trump haters not as Democrats or
Republicans but as Americans protect
ourselves when we were attacked by the
only power on earth that could literally
wipe out all life in America in about 20
minutes look I agree I mean look the New
York Times story about how the the
former head of Homeland Security being
unable to even raise the issue of
efforts to protect us from another
hacking by the Russians
it made me break out to a cold sweat and
feel nervous about 2020 all over well
just be clear they've always had a
reason they absolutely are gonna hack
the 2012 course yeah I mean they're
probably listening to this podcast right
now with any luck we need the downloads
but I agree that like that's that's the
more important issue but I think it's a
distinct one I mean there's a question
of whether when you read what you read
in the mall report and you see these
efforts to obstruct justice whether
there's a moral obligation from Congress
to begin Pietschmann proceedings and
then I think there's a question of
whether it's smart politics and here's
if you have it like on that yeah so I
think that those are both good questions
but the one that matters for the oath
that we all swore as members of Congress
has now pulled the Constitution and
that's to do the right thing on
principle which is to have this
discussion I mean you can't look at the
situation we're in right now where Trump
and his associates very clearly
committed committed crimes and not be
willing to have this debate that's why I
actually voted last year to start this
debate I mean I think that the majority
of our party was wrong to wait until now
to even bring this up for a question we
had a vote in the house last year about
whether to go forward with impeachment
debate and and I voted and I voted in
the minority to do so and I think now we
realize maybe we backed ourselves into a
corner by waiting for the Muller report
now that's separate having that debate
is separate from voting the Congress has
two things we debate issues and we vote
on them it's not the time yet to vote on
impeachment we don't have all the facts
we don't even have the full unredacted
Muller report but we absolutely should
be having this debate and frankly we
should have been having it for a while
Biden in his announcement video called
President Trump an aberration your
colleague Elizabeth Warren has a very
different take she doesn't believe he's
an aberration she thinks he's sort of
part of the natural disc
inserting progression of a system that's
rigged in a Republican Party that's gone
crazy do you have an opinion on the
subject I do
it's basically whether you think Trump
is a symptom or a cause and it'd be
great if he were a cause because then
that's an aberration because we just get
rid of Trump and and this all goes away
and sadly I don't think that's the case
I think he's a symptom of a very divided
America America where a lot of people
feel left behind where the economy is
changing so fast the jobs are being
taken not by immigrants but by robots
beards they're literally being automated
out of existence and a lot of people who
used to have a good-paying job who used
to be able to support their family and
maybe even go on vacation once or twice
a year they can't make ends meet what do
you do when you can't make ends meet
your kids are addicted to opioids you
know that their chances of success in
life are worse than your own the first
time in American history that that's
happened when the next generation chant
next generations chances are worse than
ours
and and you just don't see any hope and
then you look to Washington and they're
doing nothing to help yeah I mean that's
a real sense of betrayal it really
reminds me when I go to these districts
like I did to support all these serve
America candidates that endorsed and
supported in the midterms you know the
40 seats that we flipped 20 of 21 of
them were endorsed and supported by my
serve America Organization including a
lot of really inspiring veterans and
they all won tough moderate districts
and they won them by putting country
before party and saying that they were
gonna go to Washington to actually get
something done because when you talk to
people in these districts they're like
Washington and doing anything they're
not doing anything to help and it
actually reminds me of the feeling I
felt in Iraq where I just felt totally
left behind by the people in Washington
who were playing politics and had no
idea what my experience was like as a
Marine infantry man on the ground
yeah you think Paul Bremer wasn't dialed
into the reality hard to believe but if
he in this combat base I'm probably one
of your listeners doing it yeah no
absolutely not clear but they I should
I'll reverse the Bush administration yes
go by Tom Rick's but but here's the
I also saw in the midst of that war the
best of America the best of America
shows up in the worst of circumstances
and that's exactly what we need now we
need Americans to start believing in
this country again and believe in it so
much so that they're willing to go out
and serve it that they're going to make
it better because I understand that
we've got a lot of problems I mean you
know 50 years ago poor middle class
people in America couldn't afford health
care well today in 2019 a lot of poor
and middle-class Americans can't afford
health care 80 years ago schools were
segregated throughout much of the
country segregated by race well today
schools are still segregated by race
it's just driven by economic inequality
you know we haven't gotten voting rights
right No you know 60 years ago people
black people weren't given the right to
vote they were scared from the polls and
look that's happening again today so on
so many issues we still haven't gotten
it right but at our best were a country
that doesn't think we've figured it all
out or a country that thinks that we
might and we're a country where people
stand up to serve the country every day
to make it better my sister goes to
school every day not because she thinks
the education system is perfect but
because she knows she can make it better
I went back to Iraq three times after my
first deployment not because I thought
it was a perfect war but because I
thought I could help make it a little
bit better and that's exactly what we
should be looking for in our leaders in
Washington people who go there not to
advance their own careers not to support
themselves as Trump is doing in the
office now but just to make the country
a little bit better that's a great place
to leave it Congress and South Molton
thank you so much for coming in best of
luck
thanks I hope people will go to my
website Martin comm se th mo ult o n
comm check out the video check out the
video that explains a little bit about
why we're running and then if there's
anything that you've heard today that
you think should be a part of the
democratic debate in June then just put
in $5 $10 even $1 to help get me to that
debate stage at the end Jim you've
65,000 donations 65,000 donations it's a
it's a steep hill to climb I mean I got
a six-month-old at home so I couldn't
get any earlier the rest a short period
of time to make it there
but I hope you'll be a part of this
mission and I'd be proud to have your
support all right thank you again
you
