Michael Cohen I mean the people we have
needed to figure out what the is
going on are the worst people in
the world Matt Gaetz congressman from
Florida what would happen if a frat
paddle became a person doing literal
witness tampering on Twitter this is
what he tweeted he said do your wife and
father-in-law know about your
girlfriends maybe tonight would be a
good time for that chat I wonder if
she'll remain faithful when you're in
prison she's about to learn a lot United
States congressman he deleted it and
then he quote tweeted Nancy Pelosi to
apologize and that was very good
and you have Jim Jordans and Mark
Meadows didn't ask one real question
they got this guy in front of them they
don't ask one real question they are
covering up for Donald Trump and they
don't even know why they just know it's
better for them if he's there they don't
care what the real story is and they're
interested in finding out they don't ask
a single question not one real question
and you think what connects Matt gates
what connects Jacob wool what even
connects the leadership of the
Republican Party people like Mark
Meadows and people like Jim Jordan and
what connects them is they are all
responding to a market that tells them
that disagreeing with Donald Trump going
against Donald Trump is never in their
interest no matter what it is no matter
how bad the story no matter how bad the
truth and they don't care they don't
care you know you know there's a lot of
substantive urgent near-term questions
raised by what Michael Cohen said and I
will Michael Kohn as a world-class doof
but what he testified today to it too is
really important but and and so what
matters is not Michael Cohen's take on
this political moment it really doesn't
matter
Michael Cohen's emotional moral journey
is of very little interest to me as you
can tell but he said this and I think
after the dust settles and after we deal
with the actual criminality and facts
and substance of what Michael Cohen
talked about I thought this was actually
really important about what led to this
moment let's roll the clip I'm
responsible for your silliness because I
did the same thing that you're doing now
for ten years I protected mr. Trump for
ten years and the fact that you pull up
a news article that has no value to it
and you want to use that as the premise
for discrediting me that I'm not the
person that people called at three
o'clock in the morning
would make you inaccurate in actuality
would make you a liar which puts you
into the same position that I am in and
I can only warn people the more people
that follow mr. Trump as I did blindly
are going to suffer the same
consequences that I'm suffering yeah
[Applause]
I like that well you know I went to uh
listen we have to talk about deep-dish
pizza it'll make sense in a second and
you know what because here's the thing
there's something about malort and
something about deep-dish pizza which is
do you guys like she liked deep-dish
pizza or is it a scam you do like it
good cuz it's one thing to think you're
falling for a tourist trap but it's
another sits another to love it
you know you don't want to show up at
Bubba Gump shrimp because you think it's
like a cool local place it's one thing
to find out it's a chain it's another to
have it tell someone it's your favorite
restaurant
you got to try this place I love is
called Bubba Gump shrimp I went to
Pequod's
because last time I was here I went to a
different place and you all turned on me
like absolute animals like I ate the
wrong thing like it wasn't made of
 pizza but today's hearings we're
a lot like deep-dish pizza it was heavy
took a while you can't believe how much
you got down it was pretty tasty but now
you don't feel good but you're still but
you're still pretty open to having some
more
[Music]
