there was only one good period in
American history there's a six-month
period during the dot-com boom all right
which the economy was flourishing and
America was told that in order to lead a
healthy fulfilling life they had to eat
six to ten servings of carbohydrates
every single day the first lady the FDA
the Surgeon General
Kellogg's snack wells everybody they all
got together and they put up this poster
they put it in classrooms they taught it
to children it was up at the Jenny Craig
who was up at the Weight Watchers little
tiny bit something that a vegetable if
he can find one maybe a fruit a bunch of
meat a lot of milk and then you want to
be healthy six to ten servings of bread
every single day and while over the
course of the decade that followed the
invention of this evil pyramid America
gained a trillion pounds
there was a blissful six-month window in
which everybody went on a diet and the
diet food was pasta carbonara
and people were just slathering their
bread with butter and enjoying it and
then eating a low-fat snack Wells for
dinner for dessert just crushing it it
was actually hard to hit your six to ten
servings of carbs every day but if you
tried maybe at dinner if you added a
second baked potato you could get there
and everybody was happy was the only
time all right pets.com food pyramid
Will & Grace it was a it was a heck may
that's too late Frasier
AOL the internet was a place you're
excited to go not that not a not a not a
proving ground for amateur gurbles which
is what it is now and then after America
gained a trillion pounds Michelle Obama
comes along and replaces the food
pyramid and it turns out you don't need
six to ten servings of pasta a day in
fact it's the opposite of what you
should eat to be healthy in fact years
later we find out that if you just cut
that part of the pyramid and throw it in
the garbage you look like Chris
Evans
and long before a financial crisis
devastated our economy and nobody went
to jail long before George W Bush and
Dick Cheney who Biden tells me as a
decent man took us to a war of choice
that's that burned a trillion dollars
and led to the deaths of untold hundreds
of thousands and no one was held
accountable long before any of that the
first sign of American decline was the
fact that all the doctors got together
got America fat and walked away scot
 free no doctors went to jail I
don't remember the name of the very kind
of nice lady who was Surgeon General
under Bill Clinton but I don't believe
she ended up in shackles somebody
remember the name joseline
elders is that right I think that's
right is that right when we come back
okay stop
[Applause]
you
