so CNN told us we could only use three
minutes of footage from the two and a
half hour long debate so we put together
three moments from Tuesday night's
debate that we thought you should see so
the debate kicked off with a pointed
exchange about health care between
Bernie Sanders and John Delaney Delaney
singled out Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren's support for Medicare for all
calling it a bad policy because it'll
take private health care plans away from
people after Tim Ryan followed up on
this Bernie had had enough can you
guarantee those union members that the
benefits under Medicare for all will be
as good as the benefits that their
representatives their union reps fought
hard to negotiate two things they will
be better because Medicare for all is
comprehensive
it covers all health care needs for
senior citizens it will finally include
dental care hearing aids and eyeglasses
second of all as the debate between
candidates super for Medicare for all
versus a public option continued
Elizabeth Warren stepped in to clarify
the fields shared goal senator Warren so
look let's be clear about this
we are the Democrats we are not about
trying to take away health care from
anyone that's what the Republicans are
trying to do
using Republican talking points in order
to talk with each other about how the
best provide value we make fun of
Marianne Williamson a lot but her point
on race and reparations is really
substantive in this debate and it stood
out in a field of all white candidates
but you were calling for up to 500
million dollars in financial assistance
what makes you qualified to determine
how much is owed in reparations well
first of all it's not five hundred
billion dollars in financial assistance
it's 500 billion dollars two hundred to
five hundred billion dollars payment of
a debt that is owed that is what
reparations is we need some deep
truth-telling when it comes we don't
need another Commission to look at
evidence I appreciate what congressman
O'Rourke has said it is time for us to
simply realize that this country will
not heal he all that a country is as a
collection of people people heal when
there are some deep truth-telling we
need to recognize that when it comes to
the economic gap between blacks and
whites in America it does come from a
great injustice that has never been
dealt with that great injustice has had
to do with the fact that there was 250
years of slavery followed by another
hundred hundred years of domestic
terrorism we got a couple seconds left
before we hit our three minute limits we
thought we'd leave you with this thank
you and what a night I've loved it we
loved it too John
to get our full debate recap you can
visit crooked comm slash 20/20 and sign
up for our what a debate recap
newsletters at vote save America comm
slash subscribe that's it for tonight
but we'll see you again in a couple
hours
