welcome to pod save America i'm jon
favreau i'm dan later in the pod will be
talking with Andrew Gilliam about his
race for governor in Florida which is
currently in a recount we're also going
to talk today about Donald Trump's
post-election meltdown and what the 2018
midterms tell us about the elections in
2020 a new pod saved the world posted on
Wednesday Tommy did a roundup of post
election foreign policy news with Ben
Rhodes also Anna Marie Cox had a really
smart conversation about the election
with the great Rebecca tracer on the
last episode of with friends like these
so do not miss that
finally a scheduling note next week
we'll have a pod on Monday afternoon and
then Dan we're gonna have our annual
Thanksgiving mailbag episode out on
Thursday now it's now become a tradition
I know I know so we'll we'll do all that
next week okay let's get to the news on
Wednesday the Washington Post published
a front-page story about how Trump has
been handling the results of last week's
midterm elections and the answer Dan is
not great The Post reported that Trump's
frustrations led him to lash out at
British prime minister Theresa May
because you know and you're pissed about
your drumming in the midterms why not
call up a foreign leader and and yell at
her the Trump is also threatened to
shake up his White House staff a
separate story in Politico about the
mood of the White House quoted one
staffer who said it's like an episode of
Maury Povich the only thing that's
missing is a paternity test quote of the
month from a White House official right
there that's true we could be getting
that soon dan why is Trump so upset I
thought I thought he said the election
was a total success for Republicans I
thought I heard certain pundits say that
it was only a blue ripple currently does
not read Britain
or Nick Kristof or listen to James
Carville read the front pages Wall
Street Journal all of which would have
validated his idea that it was a blue
ripple they what decision you know how I
feel about that little analyst than many
of the people on television and that is
saying a lot yeah he's uh he doesn't
seem to be taking it too well he doesn't
seem I guess the hashtag red wave did
not come despite all the tweets
predicting it although it is funny how
the organs of the Republican Party are
still pushing that notion I think I saw
his tweet from the Republican Party the
RNC yesterday that was like here's one
reason for our complete success last
week what what are you talking about
because it's just like it just proves
that what has happened is the it has
become the job of the Republican Party
Republican pundits Trump media to just
try to fill the bottomless hole that is
Trump's insecurities as opposed to like
what you would really want if you were
thinking like we want to win elections
if you want your voters to be scared
right right you would want them to know
you'd won what like we have we have a
little experience in this don't wet the
bed everything's gonna be fine
sort of situation it does not end well
and so yeah you like bedwetting is
actually in the sense that you want them
to be concerned that it is not a
guarantee it is you know made it is not
it's not a guarantee the Trump will be
like this like their kid some red wave
will happen it's not the election was
not stolen from you you want people to
think that unless they work their asses
off and donate money and canvas and do
all the things we've encouraged you
Democrats to do to definitely want
Republican voters to do to solve some of
your very real Oh what twenty 20
electoral challenges which we will talk
about later in the pot yeah I mean look
the one time that you're almost
guaranteed to see a party engage in
self-reflection and have some humility
is after a loss in an election like
that's been true for Democrat the
Democratic Party and the Republican
Party throughout time
and yet you know a week later as the
reality of the election results have
sunken in for a lot of Republicans
you're only seeing like you know I see a
few commentators few conservative
commentators here and there some of the
never Trump types saying okay we might
have some problems you see some
Republican strategists who actually
worked on these campaigns thinking yeah
we might have some issues but by and
large the rest of them are just you know
full speed ahead because if you say
there is a problem then Trump will stop
paying attention to you or turn on you
and that it sort that is the challenge
Republicans effect on them and since the
day Trump became their standard bearer
which is if you speak truth to power or
frankly if you speak truth period you
were hurting the team and therefore
thrown off the team and it's not it is
not healthy for the party in alarm which
doesn't mean they're not going to win a
lot more elections no I'm not at all
just they're just less based on
narcissistic idiocy
so speaking of Trump turning on people
the post also reported the Trump wants
to replace Homeland Security Secretary
Kirsten Nielsen possibly with former ice
director Thomas Holman just maybe Kris
Kobach's name was floated just some
really bad characters and he wants to
replace chief of staff John Kelly
possibly with vice president pence his
chief of staff Nick Ayers there was also
a very bizarre incident this week where
Melania Trump got deputy national
security advisor Mira Ricardo fired
after the first lady's office put out a
statement saying she doesn't deserve to
work in the White House so a lot of
possible staff shakeups here not have
happened yet though I'm sure as we're
recording one will as that often does
happen but let's talk about chief of
staff position first who is Nick Ayers
and how much do these shake-up stories
matter at this point
they are interesting and they do because
they are a window into Trump's mentality
at any given moment but remember when
Johnny Kelly was supposed to save the
presidency because we're having a
serious in general in there who could
stand up to Trump and then he just
became one of those dolls that you punch
in the may bounce back up again you
punch again like that was basically
he became for Trump yeah human stress
ball I guess and the so it doesn't
really I would also say we have read
10,000 stories about John Kelly being
fired over the last I know and so he
eventually it means the broken clock
theory of reporting which is eventually
Kelly will Lee and whoever just happened
to have written the story most recently
will get credits for breaking some story
yeah I mean it's it's always
entertaining to read these stories about
Trump's dark moods and how he's freaking
out but they have been written a million
times and like that's not not the fault
of the reporters like they keep
happening so it's smart to write them
but yeah I mean I think I saw former
trauma administration officials say the
other day yeah that John Kelly thing
worked for about an hour when he got to
the White House trying to control Trump
and then everyone pretty much gave up on
that so like no matter which of these
bozos you replace with other bozos it's
pretty much gonna be the same thing
right like yes is it worrying that
Kirsten Nielsen is going to be replaced
with someone even more right-wing and
extreme when it comes to immigration
yeah that is very worrisome but also
Kirsten Nielsen did absolutely nothing
to moderate Trump stance on immigration
and in fact helped him carry out like
her legacy will be carrying out the
family separation policy and defending
it publicly I mean that that is the the
lesson of the last two years in Salette
it's the lesson that should be heated by
anyone who is thinking of taking any of
these jobs
the administration is know no matter how
you view yourself your morals your
policy positions your ideology before
you walk into Trump's Orman once you are
in Trump's orbit he turns you into a
mini Trump because the incentive
structure is to he would he demands
loyalty and wants to be pleased at all
times no matter how absurd that desire
is and so the only way to succeed is he
does resist start doing what Trump wants
and before you know it you have become a
caricature of a human being doing
things and it is Kirsten Nelson was a
theoretically serious person her
relationship was with John Kelly not
Trump she was out like Naga hat wearing
Fox News greenroom drag who's got
brought in the administration but once
she was there
Trump yelled at her enough times and
dressed her down and cut off her axis
and did all that and did all those
things but the only way she thought she
can keep her job was to put children in
cages and then to lie about it in front
of the country because to have not done
what you're appointed to do or tell the
truth about what she wanted to do would
be to be excommunicated from Copeland
and it's it is the fastest way to ruin
your reputation forever just to go work
for Trump and so I don't know why anyone
would take any of these jobs but people
continually make poor choices in life so
who knows so back at Trump's mood that's
seemingly causing all this turmoil is it
possible that a massive electoral
repudiation by the American people is
going to actually worsen Trump's
behavior this morning he was tweeting
about how Bob Muller is a disgrace to
our nation the investigation is the
worst witch hunt ever I mean it's all
stuff that he's treated before but he
hasn't actually attacked Bob Muller
personally for many months but he seems
to be his mood seems to be darkening
especially with regard to that
investigation I think it important back
here that we should remind people of
this and what Trump is currently doing
according to reports from Maggie
Haberman Jonathan Swan and other sort of
other people who have a good sense of
what's happening the White House's child
is spending a lot of time with his
attorneys working on the answers to
Muller's questions
can you imagine answer by the way in
Trump head Donald Trump's sitting and I
just imagined Donald Trump sitting in
the Oval with like ten lawyers around
him a bunch of goofball advisers and
they've got all the questions printed
out and he's trying to write them and
they're all yelling at him and he's
yelling back at the I would love I would
love a good tick-tock on no but I'm sure
we'll get after the fact on what it is
like for Trump to answer the molar
questions
I mean it's got to be wild because his
attorneys job is to prevent him from
committing perjury all order or tall
order doctor from dinner yep and Trump
is someone who does not believe in the
concept of truth who will why he will
sit there and tell you that the sky is
green in the grass is blue and I know
people have pointed out that in
depositions in the past yes I managed to
tell the truth but he is getting worse
by the minute he is deteriorating as a
human being and so it it just seems like
an incredibly tall order to keep this
man from committing perjury of some kind
and so that is the one thing that is
going on
it is also like as you pointed out it is
a long tradition in this country
whenever a president gets hesitant
electoral a huge electoral law from the
midterm to do some measure
self-reflection and change what's going
on
the bloodthirsty members of the
establishment generally demands I'm sort
of firing the there is always this view
of like the people told you what you're
doing is not working and then it's and
it's also the members of Congress who
are now gonna be on to survive the ones
who survived the the electoral slaughter
once you know that they're on the ballot
the next time around and they want you
to fix whatever it caused this problem I
know for Bill Clinton he made a ton of
changes in his white house he I think my
personal thing in swerves too too far in
the other direction by announcing that
the era of big government was over that
the Union did a whole bunch of other
things like welfare reform that we're
pretty gross but he he reflected I don't
I don't agree with some of the choices
he made from his reflection but he
deeply reflects no one wrong it did it
when george w bush say his electoral
electoral reckoning in 2006 he fired one
self the next day is a huge part of that
electoral reckoning was centered around
the direction the war in iraq was going
when Obama faced his in 2010 we made me
made efforts to begin
to work with the new Republican Congress
those will say that maybe you know some
what are you and I might even agree with
some of the criticism that we sort of
too far in the wrong direction sometimes
but you all like you're a
self-reflection the only a measures of
accountability that in the report card
said president yet are on Election Day
first midterm re-election second midterm
and if you get a bad grade you do
something to try to prevent that
happening yeah I'm chess is incapable of
self-reflection and his party is too
scared of Trump's Megabass to demand
self-reflections from him and his staff
is too dumb in too weak to demand
self-reflection of him or themselves so
we're just gonna you see a man to is
constantly double down doubling down
with a hand that is like seven high well
and yet doubling down is no policy front
to I mean you know the first things
we're hearing out of the White House are
you know Trump will willing to shut the
government down if he doesn't get his
wall like if that election wasn't a
repudiation of the idea that he needs to
build a wall I don't know what
is you know but and then also he would
you would expect I mean there is this
there's this you know push in Washington
every time an electoral defeat happens
and there's divided government like now
there must be bipartisanship let's work
together well you know Mitch McConnell
the other day was asked well what about
working with Democrats on infrastructure
remember at the beginning you know one
of the pundit theories was Oh Trump
could work with the Democrats on
infrastructure and that would screw the
Democrats or put them in a tough spot
because you know our base would like
that and Trump would like that and all
this kind of and Mitch McConnell's
like we're not doing a nine hundred
billion dollar stimulus we don't want to
do infrastructure it's like okay well
you just did a billion dollar I mean I'm
sorry
a trillion and a half dollar stimulus
which was for rich people and big
corporations only but no no no
infrastructure Thanks so this idea that
like maybe Trump will work with the
Democrats on some issues maybe it'll be
prescription drug prices maybe the
infrastructure there's zero hint of that
happening and even if Trump was somehow
smart enough to want to reach out and
try to work on those things with
Democrats it's not gonna work because
Mitch McConnell has said that
Republicans are just basically going to
be for you know
gutting health care and giving more tax
cuts to rich people and in confirming
more right-wing judge
that's it that's the agenda if you don't
like it off if you the idea that
TRO would work with Democrats it's just
so dangerously nice about Trump himself
but also the political moment they were
in which is that Trump has for two years
now made zero effort to do anything
other dead keep his 38 percent to 42
percent base excited about him he said
nothing to try to expand that base to do
anything that would win over other
people and every time he does something
he stumbles into it by accident just by
being sort of a dangerously naive
egomaniac he gets slapped on the wrist
by Ann Coulter or Tucker Carlson and he
immediately retreats he cuts a deal with
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer on
dreamers the Morning Joe set erupts in
praise he's very excited about that and
then Ann Coulter tweets about him and he
completely backs away and instead of
dreamers he puts him on the deportation
chopping block and tries to anything
puts in place to you know the family
separation policy and so this idea that
Trump could touch a deal with Democrats
on prescription drugs for assets which
would be politically smart if you had a
strategy to get more than 42 percent of
the the country to support you it is
he's unwilling to trade 6% of his base
for 6% of republican-leaning
independents right yeah because that's
like if you if you were upset the base
it has cost but upsetting the base can
pull Republican something totally
different for Democrats who have more
similarity between their persuasion
message and their motivation message it
could work but he cannot do that because
the thing that keeps him going
it's just know is the the price he gets
from Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson and
if you were to lose that that he would
just melt into the floor like a
surrogate from The Wizard of Oz yeah
he's stuck on that sugar high alright
let's talk a little bit more about
the midterm results and what they mean
we wanted to do this today because we
talked about this last week we were
operating off of partial data and exit
polls that frankly aren't all that great
but now we have some better data partly
thanks to the folks at catalyst
who do their own exit poll and match it
with the voter file which gives you much
more accuracy so here's a quick few
points from their research one there was
an increase in youth turnout and even
more notably the Democratic margin among
18 to 29 year olds how much we won that
group I went from plus 25 in 2014 to
plus 44 in 2018 that is a crazy margin
and this was especially true among young
white voters in 2016 Democrats and
Republicans were essentially tied among
this group on Tuesday Democrats won them
by 26 points and you saw something
similar in an increase in the turnout
and the margin among thirty to forty
four year-olds so now everyone basically
from eighteen to forty four is the you
know turn up without turnout was up
slightly but the margin how much they
voted for Democrats by over Republicans
has swung super far to the Democrats we
also saw that the 2018 electorate was
more diverse than the 2014 electorate
with big Democratic gains in comparison
to 2016 among white voters with a
college degree in asian-americans stayed
about the same among african-americans
and actually lost a little ground among
Latino voters between 2016 and 2018 and
then one more point the turnout was also
slightly down in rural areas and
Democratic gains were pretty big in
rural areas but mainly because of young
voters who live in rural areas who went
more democratic by 17 points the older
voters really just we didn't make any
gains at all
dan what are your takeaways from all of
these data points does it paint a
cohesive picture is it sort of confusing
what do you think well it's confusing
but I make a couple points first there's
this very critical caveat that midterm
elections are not great predictors of
what's
happened two years later yeah the you
know in 2010 the Democrats lost race it
I'm sorry China in 2010 Democrats lost
big races in Ohio Iowa Wisconsin
Pennsylvania and Michigan and Florida
and then in 2012 Obama won all of the
states in some cases by pretty good
margins and so it you just have to
recognize that it's all about the
turnout mix right turnout which for
Democrats was bad in 2010
much better 2012 and that put those
states back on the map yeah so just you
can't draw a conclusive blessed's but
you can you there are things you can
learn that can help inform your 2020
strategy which I think it's the
important things yeah yeah I would say
that there was this I had this fear I
think a lot of people had this fear that
the Midwestern states were moving sort
of quickly and irrevocably into the
Republican column right we've been
having this debate within the party yeah
where it's like what's gonna happen
first are these states that are getting
older and writer because young young
people moving out instead of it into the
state are they gonna are Pennsylvania
Michigan Ohio Iowa Wisconsin going to
become red before North Carolina Georgia
Arizona and even Texas become blue right
and that was sort of a race and we
always sort of thought we were gonna win
that race because Obama and one North
Carolina in 2008 I think absent some
pretty significant voter suppression
Democrat would have won it and 12 and
then it fell off a little bit in 16 and
we thought Florida was moving strongly
in our direction and that turned out not
to be the case but if you look at what
happened in the Midwest you see sort of
some encouraging signs for Democrats
it's it is it remains a possibility omit
it seems like it it's going to be still
be true that has been in Michigan in
Wisconsin will be true toss-up states in
that Iowa there
possibility for the right Democrat to
repeat Obama's performance in Iowa there
are some concerning signs in Ohio
despite sherrod Browns win yeah if you
sort of think about it Democrats hold
the states we won in 2016 and then you
just add Wisconsin Pence when you
Michigan back to your column you get to
two hundred to two hundred seventy nine
electoral votes and you went yeah I'm
gonna win Ohio Florida or Iowa I mean
they're like the past remains for
Democrats they you can see how that you
can see a clear path to get to 270 it's
just perhaps a little more narrow than
we thought it was going to be six years
ago yeah I mean so let's talk about the
Midwest and then we can talk about
Florida in the Midwest I think the good
news is the Democrats bounced back from
their performance in 2016 in a number of
these states the bad news is they didn't
bounce back to the Obama level
performance of 2012 so there is no such
thing as a blue wall anymore and I don't
think there will be in 2020 right like
like you said we're going to have to
compete in Pennsylvania Michigan
Wisconsin intensely then whoever the
nominee is and I do think you know we
saw some troubling signs in Ohio like
you said even though shared won and I
think a lot of these has to do with sort
of the demographic makeup of each of
these states so it does look like the
reason that we carried and when I say we
I mean the Senate and gubernatorial
candidates in Wisconsin in Michigan in
Pennsylvania they carried these states
again is that they by and large ran up
margins in the suburbs that were even
greater than what we did in 2016 or what
we did in 2012 and they made up some
ground in rural areas but they didn't
make we sort of didn't make up ground to
make up enough ground and a lot of like
old you know industrial towns in the
Midwest that have a lot of that where
the population is a lot of non college
educated white voters and because Ohio
has a greater proportion of non-college
educated white voters and older voters
some of the other states were having
particular problems in Ohio because we
can't get enough votes out of the
suburbs of Ohio to make up for a lot of
the other parts of the state sherrod
could so there's a lesson to be learned
there but Cordray didn't we got sort of
shutout in congressional seats and so
that that's pretty tough but I do think
then you look up you like we talked
about this before you look at Michigan
and Gretchen Whitmer you know she sort
of held down the margins the Republican
margins among non college-educated
whites and she ran up the margins in the
suburbs and around Detroit and I think
Tony Evers did that in Wisconsin with
Milwaukee and the suburbs around
Milwaukee so you know I think it's gonna
be it's gonna be a dogfight in those
states in 2020 so what do you think tan
we should do over the next two years
what Democrats can do to make sure we
win at least Pennsylvania Michigan and
Wisconsin I think it it is going to be
very dependent on our nominee in a lot
of ways and I can't I don't know which
person who think which would should be 7
7 people think of running it's the right
person to solve this problem yeah but it
is it's sort of like if you look at what
happened in these states and then
Florida which we'll discuss shortly the
it sort of sways this dumb debate about
do we want to moderate or progressives
right because it proved that that debate
this has been stupid for 30 years and
it's even more stupid now but for
Democrats to win they have to do a in
these states and around the country
frankly is we have to do with knew two
things at the same time we have to turn
out our base including young people
people of color periodic voters new
voters if they turn that turn the base
out of a high rate and win independence
and it is that is not an either/or right
it is if we were trying to win a popular
vote I think you could pick one of those
two choices but when you have to put
together a to hit a win number in a
bunch of different states it's going to
be a different formula
place but it all kind of boils down to
that same thing now my view is you can
do that with a progressive message
because particularly centered around
economics and healthcare we have three
candidates who did that very well in
2018 Federal Work in trachoma Stacy
Abram now none of them have as of yet
one but there are lessons to be learned
from their campaign yep that's right and
Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin by the way
Tammy Baldwin is a progressive senator
in Wisconsin and you know she won 17
counties that went for Trump I mean just
when you think you've got you know
electoral politics figured out think
about the fact that there are 17
counties in Wisconsin that voted for
Donald Trump in 2016 and then turned
around and voted for Tammy Baldwin a
progressive senator in 20 and 2018 yeah
it says a lot about that candidates
matter right it is someone who it's not
just simply like more conservative
therefore we're not going to be for
progressive it's can you convince people
that voting for you is going to improve
their lives whether that's convincing
you to vote for a Democrat even though
you live in a Republican area or to
convince you to go from being a non
voter to a voter because it's going to
map and the best candidates can do that
so I think that that is an important
thing that is one is just one thing that
we should try to move but we will not
move away from that debate because
everyone and and political punditry and
journalism is sort of wrapped around an
axle that was last relevant in 1989 but
such as life
yeah just make one other point about
these states that shows how quickly
things change which is a 2012 we were so
confident of our position in
Pennsylvania Wisconsin in Michigan that
we decided in order to save money to be
able to match the Romney campaign for
for spending that we would not advertise
in any of those three states it was
until the very end when we had extra
money and we knew we could compete
financially that we put up a few ads in
those states and visited those days but
we babe we were so confident that they
were in our column that we didn't
campaign there and then Trump wins them
for
years later in that and now they were
going to be the states that decide the
election as opposed to being the three
states that make up the blue wall yeah
and I'll just say one more thing before
we move on there that's also winning
these states it's about finding the
right candidate for sure but it's also
about being on the ground there and the
democratic party investing in these
states and I know that the DNC and other
entities you know they were in Wisconsin
they and with other groups as well some
you know whether it's indivisible or
swing left or all these groups that have
sprung up since Trump became president
you know they really sort of rebuilt the
relationships with people out with
voters on the ground a lot of these
organizers in Wisconsin in Michigan and
Pennsylvania that you know atrophied a
little bit over the years that Obama was
president and you know because we didn't
even compete in them in 2012 because
they were so safely in our column and
famously you know I mean Hillary
campaign a lot in Pennsylvania but in
Wisconsin and Michigan didn't campaign
as much there so I think sort of
rebuilding the relationships with voters
in those states is going to help us as
well let's talk specifically about
Florida obviously recounts are still
underway but no matter what happens it
was obviously much closer than the polls
suggested Nate cone of the New York
Times upshot rutter analysis the other
day about how heavily Democratic
miami-dade County could be the single
biggest cause of the potential
Democratic disappointment in Florida
Democrats did 8.8 points I'm sorry
Democrats did eight points worse there
than Hillary did in 2016 in miami-dade
and president Trump's net approval
rating was also about 10 points better
than it was in this 2016 election sorry
the margin was 10 points better
so that's fascinating I don't I talked
to Steve shale our friend who ran
Florida for Barack Obama in 2008 2012
two winning campaigns has run a lot of
other campaigns in Florida he thinks
that miami-dade thing is troubling he
also thinks an even bigger issue was you
know Trump really ran up the margins
around Tampa and Orlando and a lot of
those suburban exurban counties we won
them Obama won them in eight and twelve
Trump on them at 16 and it looks like
DeSantis and Scott won
and 18 and actually Nelson did okay
there but that's I guess because his
congressional seat is from there so it
does seem like those are still the swing
counties in Florida and Democrats need
to figure out how to win those but what
do you think about Florida I'm worried
about it because I think we have been
somewhat out organized there you know I
saw also in Somalia that he pointed out
that the Democratic registration
advantage in the state has dropped yeah
difficut Lee over the last many years
and that's a problem and it should be
going the other direction because from
pure demographic point of view the state
should be getting more democratic there
are it is a few of younger people moving
there you have a non Cuban Latino
population who is aging in the
electorate there had there continues to
be a large segment of unregistered
african-americans in the state Obama had
success in registering a lot of them and
Oh eight twelve there's still a lot more
voters there you have Berto Ricans who
move to Florida in recent years but also
since the hurricane who are eligible to
vote and if Democrats have been very
good case to make to them and so there's
a there's an organization organizational
challenge and part of it has been we at
the state level until I think gillum's
campaign here we've been sort of getting
our clock cleaned
and a lot of races and that has that has
an impact right like yeah like what we
we don't know if Gilliam is going to
come out ahead in the end if we're
depending on the recount that's still
pending but prior to that Democrats have
not had the governorship in this century
right and so that's just it's going to
affect it over time and you can't just
have Barack Obama come in in 2008 on a
wave of enthusiasm and win the election
and then organize the state you know
from the perches the White House with
you know with tremendous resources in
2012 and then expect that to change the
direction of politics that say for every
there it def party is the great morning
that we should have all heated after
2012 that demographics are not destiny
right you have to it's organized to work
in and you also have to appeal to a
brave as broad
selection of the weapons are abroad it
has brought a cross-section of voters as
possible and it is that we don't need
hard to get the 270 but if you win
Florida game set match yeah it is
interesting because on one hand
Democrats did flip to Republican seats
in Florida in the Miami area
Donna shillelagh won Debbie mucosal
Powell on the pod who was on the pot she
won as well and yet in that County it
seems like Rick Scott and Rhonda
scientists both made inroads among
Latino voters now Steve talked about
this he said look in in midterm years
you actually get more Cuban Americans
voting that and then because in
presidential turnout years I'm sorry in
presidential elections you end up
getting a larger Latino turnout and in
midterm elections Latino turnout drops a
little bit but among Cuban Americans it
doesn't drop and because Cuban Americans
traditionally have voted more Republican
you get a little bit more of a
Republican electorate that combined with
I guess Rick Scott has done a lot of
work reaching out organizing with
Latinos and I think De Santis ran with a
lieutenant governor candidate who was
also latina so that might have had
something to do with it but it is pretty
weird that we sort of lost ground among
Latinos there yeah I'd be very curious
to see precinct level data among mostly
Cuban precincts that Obama ones wall but
had never been won by a Democrat
previously or at least not template 1968
or something yeah I'd be very curious to
see that and I'd also want to know and
this is an easily normal thing until you
look at the voter file but the age
makeup of the Cuban I'm sorry the age
makeup of the Cuban voters that turned
out right so like there is a to Steve's
point there's a there is a group of
older Cuban Kievan Americans who vote
reliably Republican and they vote
reliably like older voters tend to do
and there's a group of younger Cubans
who are more in line with where the
Obama administration came down on Cuba
and supported Barack Obama
with some pretty great enthusiasm but
I'm curious about whether they turned
they also turn out at a lower rate in a
midterm because their younger voters in
their first in the trial so that at a
lower age midterm so you're sort of
looking at two separate things and and
until you know that answer you don't
know has Trump and Rick Scott changed
the politics in that community or is it
about technically a turnout problem
among Democrats that we need to address
in 2020 you know that sort of that is
sort of the question that dictates
strategy that you can't know until you
get deeper into who voted who did so
let's talk a little bit about how
Democrats can win some of these states
when Donald Trump is on the ballot in
2018 you know we've talked about this
Democratic candidates focused almost
exclusively on health care particularly
pre-existing conditions and generally in
their races avoided Trump and that was
true across the 'light ideological
spectrum whether you were you know
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes or Joe Manchin
you didn't talk about Trump a ton you
talked a lot about issues especially
health care will the big question is
will this strategy work in 2020 when a
Democratic candidate is actually running
against Trump himself is it possible to
ignore him I know you talked about this
a little bit in a Daily Beast story the
other day but what do you think about
this I'm sorry for Gideon rice a news
reporter who reached out to me because I
had a lot of thoughts and I sent them
back bay so I can manifesto of I mean
the person the person you're really
going to upset by that is Brian boy
Larry cricket calm but go ahead the
[Music]
obviously harder to ignore Trump when
you're running against Trump right is
the fact because that it's like you're
easier to say if you're Katie Porter
I'm not focused on Trump I'm focused on
Mimi Walters right right if you're Joe
Manchin I'm not focused on Donald Trump
um focus on fighting for the people of
West Virginia
Patrick Morrissey my opponent I would do
the following bad things to them this is
like an easier pivot but there I think
there are some lessons in there which is
trumps great superpower to the extent
you know in like a super villain sense
of superpower is that he can move the
conversation on to the things that do
not work for Democrats but do work for
Republicans right there's nothing about
the caravan discussion that helps
Democrats turnout their voters or
persuade independents to support
Democrats right like it's just but it is
a conversation that helps motivate
Republican voters and so he like sucks
you into this vortex of culture war
marginalia that is a net negative for
Democrats in that positive Republican so
how do you avoid that right the first
thing you have to do is know how to
pivot we talked about this a lot in the
running of the election about you know
using the carrot calling out the game
what Trump is trying to do to show what
he's the conversation he's trying to
avoid right I'm trying to scare you
about this caravan that's 700 miles away
in Mexico because he doesn't want you to
know that he becomes key power they're
gonna cut your health care cut your
medicare and take your health care right
that's part of it the other thing is you
have to the best candidates are the most
disciplined candidates right were you
you know like as a Democratic candidate
we can do not control despite we're
hoping to tell you what is in the
traditional media right like Trump can
as the president noted States and
someone who drives ratings and clicks he
can dictate what the media talk about we
can't yeah but we can dictate what we
say when we talk to the media or what we
say when we're on the stump from what we
say we're on in our in our advertising
perfectly digital to television but in
our advertising and that's where we have
to be disciplined and so I think there
is a way to you can't ignore some can do
something Cisco's run against them but
you can be incredibly disciplined about
not following and following him down
these rabbit holes that
helped him and her not yeah I thought
our friend Brian Fallon who was in
Hillary Hillary Clinton's communication
shop in 2016 had what I thought was a
really smart tweet storm about this the
other night based off you know you
talking about ignoring him in the story
he basically says that it's extremely
difficult to ignore Trump on a campaign
against him because he'll say something
crazy and offensive and then most of the
media especially television they'll lead
with that and the only way for the
Democratic opponent to get into that
story is to hit back against Trump so
it's Trump says something racist and
offensive sexist whatever you know the
Democratic candidate can't just say oh
no I have my I have my tax plan today or
I'm talking about health care today now
do a story on me the only way they can
get into the story is if they respond to
Trump and then he said this is what's
more interesting quote this creates a
sugar high of satisfaction I'm sorry let
me try that again so then he said
basically yeah so then he said this
creates a sugar high of satisfaction a
fall sensation of being on offense for
once rather than being on defense about
some contrived controversy but the joke
is on you because in reverting to an
exchange of salvos you're playing
Trump's game you can give a thoughtful
speech documenting Trump's many examples
of acting racist but as it is evening
rally he will with no supporting
evidence simply call you a racist back
and the next day's stories will read
candidates trade barbs I thought was a
great summary of what happens and a real
window into the frustration that the
Clinton campaign had in dealing with
Trump it's not that they didn't know
this was a problem is that they couldn't
find a way out of this box
yes that that is exactly right it is the
problem for Democrats is we are still
adhering to the wrong view of what works
in politics and so you're the incentive
structure for a Democratic campaign if
you're on the communication staff is
twofold
is are how much coverage are you getting
are you in the stories right like you
can use I mean you've seen this in
campaigns we've worked on the campaign
manager comes down or and it's like how
come we're not in this story so you got
to get in that sir how do we get
coverage right now
particularly true in primaries where you
you are trying to build name ID and the
second one is you build these massive
Rapid Response apparatuses with
opposition researchers and people doing
digital content and all of this and you
and when you have you build an army of
hammers everything looks like a nail
right so it's like you do the rapid
response meeting it's like what are we
going to hit Trump for today and Trump
gets you 700 options every day but each
of those options has a differing amount
of strategic value to your campaign in a
hit for hit sake is a mistake because
and you look at like what it like how
how do you study measure success like
like think about the Hillary Clinton
delete your account tweet that she did
when she attacked Trump right with us in
2000
yeah and every see became at the time
like the most retweeted tweet ever
mm-hmm and it was funny but what how did
it move the ball forward right it fit no
it just gave a bunch of people
satisfaction that she did it right like
yeah we got them good hit good for her
we win this and or some people made fun
of it you know but that's like well
exactly what what voters mind did that
change what voters mind did that change
to say either I'm gonna vote for her now
or I'm gonna go out I'm gonna get out
and go to the polls and I wasn't going
to before like no one right yeah and
discipline matters and it has to come
from the top and so in 2008 we were
fortunate to have as our campaign
manager David cloth the most disciplined
human alive yeah and he like he was like
we knew the only way Obama could
possibly win the White House was to win
Iowa and so in every senior staff
meeting I ever went to when someone had
an idea
Plouffe would ask you how does this help
us win Iowa because if it doesn't help
us win Iowa there's a real question at
the way there is a good use of limited
resources in time and that you have to
sort of bring that discipline to all of
your communications right how does this
help us turn new voters out how does
that this convince you know expose this
target group of voters to support us
and if your answer is it gets a lot of
retweets or it gets us cable TV coverage
or mainstream coverage or whatever else
that is not a good enough reason to do
things and so you this is where you have
to have you're gonna if your way of
getting your message out is through let
me try it again it's the only way in
which you're going to build name ID and
persuade voters is through the
mainstream media in the trump era you
are going to lose and you're going to
lose pretty bad because they have zero
incentives to cover the issues you want
to come you know uncovered even talk
about the things you want to talk about
they want to talk about trunk because
he's president for sure but also because
they are businesses and the things that
drive ratings and click rates that drive
up ad revenue are things about Trump
they are just because they are marketing
to a niche audience of super engaged
political people who made up their mind
but to their support for president
probably the day they turned 18 and not
the sort of voters that we need to
persuade either to become voters or to
support our kid let's engage people and
so you're gonna have to mostly through
paid advertisement but also through
clever content that you create have an
alternative communication infrastructure
that works because if you're depending
on people who depend on Trump for
business you were going to be playing
Trump's game till the end of time and
that's and if you do that he will be
present until the end of time yeah and
look I and there's also a question about
what kind of candidate can is best
suited for this right and Bryan had a
really smart thought on that too he
basically ends the tweet storm by saying
a nominee best suited to be able to
ignore Trump is one who commands a media
ecosystem
apart from Trump whose life story is
inherently fascinating enough to draw
endless human interest stories whose
social media videos in the car or
carving flank steak are deemed
interesting this type of person can talk
about economic inequality or universal
health care and have it actually break
through because the messenger is
authentic and intriguing enough from a
storytelling standpoint to exert their
own gravitational pull on the media
cycle away from Trump Democratic primary
voters shouldn't make some pundit driven
judgment about who can best beat Trump
they should follow their heart and vote
for someone who inspires because the
same quality that inspires caucus goers
when it will enable them to trend
and Trump attacks into general yes this
is autumn sent right and Brian is
nothing subtler he refers to a certain
candidate who would livestream his trips
to Whataburger recently posted a video
on Instagram of himself carve ago yxy
snake no that would be friend of the pot
bet it will work but there is a lesson
in betos campaign there are a lot of
lessons in venice campaign and i could
talk about them but there what is really
like he is a very skilled politician he
is a very he exudes authenticity which
is very helpful but he also filled the
content void by by streaming everything
and that is not to say every candidate
your live stream everything because many
candidates are not going to be
interesting or charming as they drive to
Whataburger right that's just not
whether their best self or they may they
don't like Whataburger i don't know but
what it is this but you did not you can
get information you can make a judgment
on better or work on better or works
terms as the right to want a judgment on
better world work by looking at his
reflection in the funhouse mirror of
Trump politics and I think it is very
important I think Democratic candidates
either better or walk in 2020 or someone
else think very seriously about that I
mean Obama used to say this all the time
to us which is he you know he believes
the reason he won Iowa is because he was
able to go to Iowa spend months and
months and months on the ground there
meeting as many caucus goers as possible
and he said when I met them and they saw
me and they got to know me they realized
that I wasn't the caricature you know
the you know Muslim terrorist impostor
that they that he was being depicted as
and Fox News and so he's like this the
caricature of me what didn't hold up to
them meeting me now that's impossible to
meet every voter in every state right
but the point is them is the media
ecosystem apart from that and like you
said it worked for Beto to be in the car
right so the lesson is not for the
communications people out there to run
to there can't be like we gotta have
drive around like Beto did in Facebook
livestream it like you got to do what
works for you right like what would have
worked for Hillary Clinton well Hillary
Clinton is a policy wonk
very fluid in every subject really cares
about actually passing policy to help
improve people's lives you know you
could put her at a roundtable live
stream that and she's talking to people
about policy for an hour who you know it
impacts like mothers children families
whatever it may be figure out what works
for you where you're at your best is a
candidate doesn't you know it doesn't
matter what that is and figure out how
to create a media ecosystem around that
I mean we you and I and Tonya all talked
about this on the media episode of the
wilderness Tonya's been talking to us
about the essentially joined crooked
media that you need to find and create
this sort of media ecosystem and fill
the void with content as a candidate so
that you're not defined by the
opposition but I think it's essential
for whoever is gonna be the nominee in
2020 to figure out what works for them
and to have this sort of this entire
life outside of Donald Trump you can't
be sucked into his vortex all the time
because it's not gonna work
you're just gonna get them and we saw
this right like Elizabeth Warren who we
love who's brilliant on policy and has
this great story and it's passionate she
gets she got sucked into it for a moment
there with that video about her Native
American ancestry because it was so much
about well here's what Trump said about
me here's how I'm hitting back and it
was suddenly like her going back and
forth with Trump as opposed to her on
her own who's so much more inspiring and
passionate and brilliant that's right
you know we have referred to in my
before this book that was written in
2006 called the way to win which in most
cases is a pile of hot steaming
establishment garbage that should not be
read in part because it was a treaty
from a 2008 election that didn't include
the words Barack Obama yeah I will
say this they spent a lot of time
talking in there about what they refer
to as the Freak Show which was yeah Fox
News Drudge Report just pal the sort of
the crazy nature of media and this is
2006 before Facebook and Twitter became
dominant parts of Clinton campaign and
the point they made is that Democratic
candidates from Al Gore and John Kerry
had both basically had their public
narratives complete
we disrupted and destroyed by the
quote-unquote freakshow and to win you
have to be a candidate who can survive
the freakshow and walk out you know walk
onto you know walking into the ballot
box on Election Day controlling your own
story and not the one people under the
American people know you for who you are
not for who Fox News or Matt Drudge
think you should be and Hillary Clinton
suffered for that now in her defense she
had been dealing with that for 30 years
by the time she even announced for
president right it wasn't really a fair
it wasn't like she started out and just
didn't navigate in campaign most of it
almost all the damage that was done to
her was done before the campaign long
before she was running for president and
and then was exacerbated by some
decisions she made that the media event
treated really stupidly like using a
personal email server shut up yeah but
like that is what now that is that much
harder because the your opponent is the
person who conducts the Freak Show
that is what Trump does he tells them
what to say about you if he gives you
your nickname it is repeated on Fox News
the the mainstream normal media then
sort of echoes that it's like how it you
know it's how is Jeb Bush handling the
low-energy label right it's just if they
he is able to push it into the brain
firmament of the American people and
your ability to survive that will
determine whether you want to lose in
Barack Obama Barack Obama is the other
candidate that Brian is talking about in
his Twitter friend which is Obama's
story was so compelling and he told this
story so well that tell each other again
Obama's personal story and message was
so compelling and he was able to tell it
better then Republicans were able to
tell it about him and therefore he was
able to succeed twice and that that's
what is what at stake in 20 in 2020 and
that to me is so much more interesting
that a candidate who can tell a clear
compelling story about themselves in
America without featuring
Trump as a major character is a
candidate I'm most interested in 2020
you know me too well
someone who told his story very very
well in the campaign
Andrew Gilliam is is going to be up next
so we will be right back
you
