all right let's talk about some news
that was made this week by one of our
favorite Democrats and out of politics
Stacey Abrams so the former Georgia
candidate for governor announced that
she will pass on the 2020 presidential
race in order to focus all of her
efforts on fair fight 2020 an
organization that she founded to fight
voter suppression and expand democracy
Abrams told the New York Times quote
there are only two things stopping us in
2020 that people have a reason to vote
and that they have a right to vote I've
decided to leave it to a whole bunch of
other people to make sure that they have
a reason to vote Tommy what do you think
of Abrams his decision is focused on
it's focusing on voter suppression
potentially more impactful than either
running for president or running for
Senate in Georgia which she also passed
on good question well I mean look I
think I think entering the presidential
campaign right now would be a very bad
idea for literally anyone even someone
as talented as Stacey Abrams because you
just need time to like build an
organization raise money like do all the
things you need to do right a lot of us
would love to see her be a United States
Senator but she said she didn't want the
job so that's totally fine now I think
the key point is that she would be
governor if not for voter suppression
right and so the fact that someone as
savvy and smart and amazing as her is
going to run an organization that could
try to prevent voter suppression around
the country is enormous ly important for
almost everyone running in every state
so you know the only thing that I have
been thinking about it's like she said
she wants to raise five million dollars
like why not ten why not fifteen
everyone in this theater right now could
help her build the biggest organization
we've ever seen so yeah yeah I think
it's an incredibly important job and I'm
glad she's taking it on yeah and I
should just say so Abrams organization
is it's basically going to provide
technical and financial assistance to
Democratic voter operations in 20 states
it's like you said is going to cost four
to five million dollars they're gonna
help fix inaccurate voter rolls address
shortages of voting machines in
provision ballots provisional
balance formalized rules around counting
absentee ballots they're even going to
help make sure that communities of color
are participating in the census so
they're working on everything all over
the country which is really great
[Applause]
dan what can Democrats learn from the
campaign and the organization that
Stacey Abrams built in Georgia because
we often talk about how you know it's
really hard to persuade some Obama Trump
voter in the Midwest but it's gonna be a
lot easier to actually go out and
register voters and expand the
electorate and Stacey Abrams
actually did expand the electorate in
Georgia so what can Democrats learn from
that well I think the lessons of Steve
see Abraham's campaign other than
running against a corrupt crooked
Secretary of State with access to the
photo rolls is that you can't you start
organizing very very early you go
everywhere you talk to everyone there is
no pocket of unregistered or unlikely
voters that is too small for you to talk
to Stacey Abrams didn't like the bulk of
the Democratic vote in Georgia is in
Cobb County isn't landed but she did
more than that the reason she got more
votes than any Democrat history was she
campaigned everywhere yeah everywhere
where there was any chance she hit any
small handle vote she was there she an
organization getting those people and I
think what she's doing is so important
because in Washington there are
skyscrapers full of Republicans whose
only job is to up our democracy
yeah and it is nice that we finally have
one person in the Democratic Party who
is taking upon ourselves to recognize
that all the things we talk about
universal health care free college
naming a post office none of
those things will happen unless we fix
our democracy yeah yeah in that starts
in 2020
so Janelle one of stacey abrams
achievement in georgia was turning out a
record number of black voters she
changed the electorate so you used to
you know try to democrats basically
assumed they would have the black vote
and then they would try to get moderate
white voters and that's basically the
path in georgia stacey abrams changed
that she tried to basically expand the
electorate boost black turnout as much
as possible and then she also campaigned
in rural areas with plenty of poor white
people so in the 2016 election black
turnout declined for the first time in
twenty years a lot of this had to do
with voter suppression some of it had to
do with the fact that barack obama
wasn't on the ballot for the first time
in eight years what do you think that
the Democratic presidential candidates
and the party itself has to do in 2020
to match basically what Abrams did in
Georgia all over the country well I mean
here's the thing I think her strategy is
sound in the sense of she's not I mean
well I think flipping voters who may
have gone another direction is part of
it but I don't think she emphasized that
as much as maybe other candidates might
have I mean there's a lot of energy a
lot of conversation in this Democratic
field about flipping that Trump voter
well sometimes you can't negotiate with
terrorists right so the best way the
best way to combat that is to get more
people to vote and a lot of it was just
appearing as you said appearing in
places where people weren't used to
having that one-on-one interaction with
people registering and empowering voters
who didn't really feel like they were a
part of the political process I mean I
can't speak for all black people but I
will for the purposes of this stage the
choice the choice that most black people
made was okay I may not be feeling
Hillary but I'm not voting for races so
I'm staying home so you have to get the
people who decided to stay home to come
out and what is it that will energize
them what is it that will inspire them
and a lot of what they will be inspired
by is feeling some level of connectivity
and hope within the candidate and she
tapped into that and you know there's a
lot of research that shows that young
mood I mean millennial voters especially
black millennial
could be our untapped resource and you
have to figure out beyond just okay
saying you'll cancel student loan that
what is the conversation that you can
have with black Millennials that will
inspire them to be a part of the process
because the other downside of 2016 is
that it made people more disillusioned
and made them feel particularly with oh
I don't know the Russian tampering as if
their votes didn't actually count so now
you add their voter suppression to it
and so you have to figure out a way to
let people know that you are mining this
process and that's why stacey abrams
what she's doing is really important the
republicans play the long game on voter
suppression okay and democrats fell
asleep at the wheel there's no question
about it if people know that there is a
concerted effort to try to combat that I
think it will do a lot in regards to
connecting with the voters who feel like
their vote quote doesn't matter yeah so
so Trump the Trump campaign apparently
already is handing out literature in
black barbershops right now they're
doing micro we should take a moment to
just recognize that they are brave yes
we don't have to like them but let's be
honest I need video cuz I don't believe
it oh but go ahead but they're so
they're doing that they're they're
micro-targeting on facebook they're
doing all this digital advertising love
it it's not it doesn't seem like the
strategy of the Trump campaign is to win
the black vote they like to know they
can't do that but there it seems like
what they're gonna try to do what they
did in 2016 which is basically say yeah
we know that you don't like Donald Trump
but the Democrat is bad too maybe you
should just vote for a third party or
stay home like how do Democrats deal
with that dynamic do you yeah I mean
look so first of all one thing just to
add on Stacey Abrams is the other thing
she did is she ran an incredibly
progressive and unabashedly progressive
race in Georgia that excited a lot of
people and gave people a lot of reason
to come out and vote for her leaving her
you know she got out there and she
organized but then she gave him a reason
to give them a reason to be excited and
to help you know that's his strategy
across the board and it's sophisticated
and it is to go into every crevice and
every community and and planted a little
seed of doubt plant a little bit of fear
plant a little bit of hate planted
a bit of dissatisfaction and to try to
chip chip away just enough right that's
that's part of how he became president
not just by turning out white voters in
in Wisconsin in Pennsylvania in Michigan
but also doing his best to and with the
help of a lot of misinformation
antagonized black communities get just
enough people to stay home that's the
strategy that's it it's there and he's
gonna do it again then it's gonna be and
and I think sometimes we we allow
Trump's lack of sophistication to lo us
into a sense of security and I think
some of that was in the coverage of 2016
about how oh you know Jared is this
wunderkind and obviously that's stupid
because he's not but you know I you know
Dan talks about this all the time just
how sophisticated an organization that
they're putting together and I think we
underestimated at our peril they will be
everywhere and we need to be everywhere
- and we can't take any any reliable
Democratic vote for granted because we
just have to assume maybe this is gonna
be a blowout but we have to assume it's
not which means it's not just about
winning the places where we have people
it's about preventing tiny losses
everywhere because we'll win or lose on
the margin so I think in the mind of the
Trump campaign in an ideal world David
loves to shave one or two percent the
african-american for every Democratic
nominee that's actually how Bush won in
2004 was have it was over performing
without African rotors in Ohio but what
he's really doing is when he campaigns
for the black vote he's not really
campaigning he's really campaigning for
the white vote it is part of a strategy
to show white voters that he is not as
racist as we say he is now that is
undermined every time it opens its mouth
right and that is the like that's the ID
on the white board and I mean the term
white board how do you think that we
like reach a lot of these voters because
you know right now Dan you complain
about this all the time like Donald
Trump is spending an enormous amount of
money his campaign on digital ads on
Facebook ads I mean I remember when we
talked to Stacey Abrams and we
interviewed her she was like you know
the typical strategist and the
Democratic Party were telling me in my
campaign oh you got to be up on TV you
got to be up on TV and what I did is
invested a ton of money in organizing
and digital strategy do you think that
Democrats are
heading down that path you think we need
to go there faster this is this is for
you to start screaming about I I think
that some campaigns particularly common
law versus campaign tips thought a lot
about this that's the part because that
is her strategy to win the nomination
right like that is that like that it
that is the vote she needs and she's
gonna overtake were no Biden whoever
else but we can't wait to have a nominee
because we are not gonna have a nominee
most likely until June under the most
ideal scenario June and so it should be
happening right now I think what if that
is the woman a woman here yes and a
later show will talk about why the
increased odds were a brokered
convention but so I think it's twofold
right it is or it is organizing that is
happening in communities right now it's
not waiting for a nominee or a general
election because normally that
organizing starts in the summer and fall
of 2016 or to the presidential election
yeah but it's also digital advertising
because if you think you're going to
reach young people and particularly in
people of color by doing CNN interviews
and doing everything at times you go
 lost your mind what if you want
to speak to old white people have
already made their decision that's a
good way of doing that the other thing
that we should just know is that there
are some state parties that are doing a
better job than others and I think that
the Wisconsin Democratic Party
understands that they underperform in
Milwaukee and that we need to prioritize
sending much organisers to Milwaukee
orally and like be in those communities
early on and not wait for the very end
yeah just one stat that I think should
just both give people hope and make you
want to bang your head against the wall
exciting one by 70,000 votes across
three states like that's what made him
president across the country there were
four million people who voted for Barack
Obama 2012 who didn't vote in 2016
and a lot of studies show that that is a
disproportionately large group of people
of color african-americans and Latinas
and I and I I mean I think when you
think about that population like there's
this feeling and you see it on Twitter
you see on cable sometimes that if
Democrats just adopt very progressive
policies these voters will suddenly say
okay well I'm gonna go
now even though I didn't vote in 2016
and the truth is about these voters is
they are more cynical about government
and about politics and about the
possibility of politics improving their
lives than almost anyone and so I feel
like getting these voters out to the
polls requires a lot more than just you
know spending money and taking policy
positions like I think it takes real
organizing in those communities here's
the problem I think the Democrats are
facing is like all the things that young
people like and by the way I feel super
old by like theorizing what young people
like because that's what old people do
but all the things that young people
tend to invigorate some of our politics
are things that the older establishment
in the Democratic Party does not like
you know the reality is that the younger
people that they want to vote like I'll
see a whole lot more than they like
Nancy Pelosi that's just the reality
right because AO sees real and she's
authentic and what they don't get from a
lot of these politicians is authenticity
and that's the part that they they
connect with and you know you're not
gonna be able to energize people if
you're sounding like moms on Facebook
and a lot of these Democrats kind of
sound like mom on Facebook like yeah
they are right they're just like tell me
teach me about that new dance the kids
are doing it's like that like they
so I would say if they know rather than
look inauthentic by trying to act cool
and speak the lingo of the young voters
I think the digital campaigns are smart
but they also have to tap people that
the young people listen to so if that
means in North Carolina Kamala Harris
you got a call J Cole call J Cole and
ask him to do some campaigning or your
behalf if you're in Atlanta because
that's the other thing that happened
with Stacey Abrams you had killer Mike
you had a lot of uni you had them
mobilizing people young people who
listen to them and they because they
co-signed her they came out and voted
and so yeah that means you gotta have a
hat with 21 Savage do it we have two
politicians in recent years that have
done an unusual job of exciting
young voters and non-voters Barack Obama
and Bernie Sanders and they are
ideologically very different and yet you
have these two people who matter in most
ways yeah many ways different bagel
orders I assume but obama orders lox
hold the bagel yeah no bagel 77 almonds
with lox but I think what they both have
in common is they represented change and
they in everything they do
did in their campaigns and continuing to
do with Bernie and his campaign is
convince you that they mean what they
say and that they genuinely represent a
movement seeking the kind of change
people want and and they have they do
that with authenticity they back it with
the with their character they back it
with their policies they back it with
their way of speaking about the country
and I think it's just you know we're not
doing this in a vacuum we have we have
examples we can learn from what people
are gay and the last thing I'd say this
is and the other similarity between
Sanders and Obama is you know Sanders
slogan right now is not me us yeah which
was which a brock obama said all the
time is both of them understood and i
think it was both Warren gets this I
think a lot of the candidates get this
right now is the need to build a
movement right is that you had this this
is this election is going to be one I
know this is a cliche but it is going to
be one on the ground in these
communities with people knocking on
doors people don't buy television ads as
much as they used to any more like they
want to know what their neighbors are
thinking what their friends are thinking
what people in their communities and
thinking aren't so like when we get to
this election knocking on doors talking
to neighbors talking your friends that's
going to be the way we win this election
that's going to be
you
