one of the big issues on the ballot in
Florida this year is about whether we
restore voting rights to people who've
paid their debt to society our guest
tonight is leading that fight he's the
founder of the Sarasota chapter of the
Florida rights restoration coalition and
a senior pastor at Mount Olive Church in
Arcadia Florida please welcome back to
pod save America
Demetrius Jaffa
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
thanks for being here thanks for having
me thanks for driving three hours to
make it hey anytime what I'm able to get
to Miami I'm there because I get to
learn how to drive again that's good so
you're leading the efforts to pass
amendment for you're also among those
who can't vote right now exactly because
of the the very rules that you're trying
to fix can you talk about your personal
connection to this issue sure I was 18
well 17 going on 18
yeah it was for individuals that I made
a long story short I was charged and
convicted of armed robbery of a
conveyance I received 40 7.25 months so
that was essentially three years minimum
mandatory followed by 11 months in two
years probation in 1995 when that's a
place and what is the history just for
people who don't know about the way
these rules work in Florida you've said
that these laws were actually designed
specifically to keep african-americans
from voting history of the law first of
all this 150 years old and it stems out
of the Jim Crow era now the thing that I
want to be clear of is that the law is
birth out of racist practice but it's
not practice racist now because it's
affecting everyone right but the history
of it is that yes it distant from the
Jim Crow era and it was targeted towards
african-americans during that time and
what's the most common argument you hear
against this measure and and what do you
say to people who are not sure about
passiveness
the biggest argument that I often hear
is why should we vote for you
you've already displayed that you cannot
follow the rules of our state so why
should I stand behind you and give you
the right to vote for people in Congress
that I have that here too well my
response to that is anyone that has made
a bad choice notice I did not say a
mistake but a bad choice and they have
paid that debt well they've done
everything that was handed down to them
and they have come home and they're live
a successful life and there are so many
successful stories that I can share with
you why not give them their civil rights
back yeah then I say well since you have
them what are you going to do with them
yes what are you going to do we live we
live in a country that says that when
the debt is paid is paid so why not
why does that now apply to those that
have completed whatever census they have
given in their home now living a
successful life they have paid their
debt why not honor that we were talking
backstage and you were telling me that
you know through this effort to get this
measure passed right
so many people were understanding this
issue for the first time what has this
been like sort of trying to educate
people about oh there it makes me feel
good when I get to share this
information cuz it it puts me in a
position that I have the I'm the genius
of this particular subject you know for
so many years before this has actually
had the movement that it has now many
people had no idea they just thought
that if you commit a crime and you have
a felony you bar from voting and
sometimes you many people thought that
you cannot get your rights back in every
state they thought that it was actually
the law of the land but over the time
we've allowed ourselves to educate
people to say that hey it is just a
cabinet of three individuals based on an
opinion rather you should have your
civil rights back or not so it's just
Governor Rick Scott and a governor
people deciding one person by person
that's where they have their civil
rights back and whether they can vote
that's how the system works that's how
it is and if you ever go to a clemency
hearing some of the questions have
nothing to do with one civil rights and
some of the questions are do you go to
church how often do you go to church how
often do you make love to your wife well
I mean I love my wife anymore
you know but I love my wife but not in
your case that in my case but that that
is what we're up against and so
thing is is that when we are able to
tell people that yes this the law is
that a law has been broken you have
served your time you're home now you're
still following the law by staying out
and you're doing things with your life
yeah but it gets your civil rights back
you supersede a law and go to an opinion
of individuals who know nothing about
you that's not right last time you and I
talked you told me that this is the kind
of issue that could completely change
someone's life if they said their voting
rights back how would it change your
life tremendously first of all it would
feel that I have taken everything a
large burden off my shoulders secondly
it would allow me to look in the mirror
and say Florida gets it they actually
get it because I've done everything I've
beat all the statistics I've overcome so
much and even though I have overcome all
of that I still can't fight but the most
important thing is I have three young
beautiful children I can't even fight
for them the way that I should be able
to fight so this law being passed it's
not just for me you're actually giving
my children opportunity as well
[Applause]
