and we're back streaming pod save
America live I'm John Lovett I'm
Priyanka Arab Indy I'm Tommy
detour look at that little game we
played here at this dream Wow
got a lot of got a lot of questions oh
yeah we do a lot of questions let's get
into it shall we
please kick us off okay all right so
we'll start with the news of the day
yesterday B House voted to seek
enforcement of subpoenas in Krim or in
civil court okay leaving in the middle
I've never seen someone behaves so
unbirth fashion elation is whatever
whatever okay so they voted to enforce
subpoenas in civil court for Bill Barr
White House Counsel Tom again so that
the Judiciary Committee can get the
documents they want that are related to
the Mellow reports this will also be
helpful for the tons of other House
committees that want documents from this
administration to move more quickly in a
future in court for example the
Oversight Committee issued subpoenas for
documents you miss nothing no worries
doctor requested this for the endgame I
mean I wanted to wear the hat but that's
fine whatever
I'm sure we can just make this fun come
anyways so a bunch of other committees
are gonna benefit from subpoenas the
question here is when a regular person
gets a subpoena and they don't obey it
they go to jail why isn't this true for
administration officials do they have
some kind of special protection the mace
Congress have to go to court
what's the deal like why are they not
having to answer for any of this there's
a difference from between a subpoena
from Congress and a law enforcement
subpoena I think yeah and look I you
know the role the nature of a
congressional subpoena as it applies to
any administration is one of the most
contentious and fundamental debates we
have and we've had for a very long time
it actually long precedes Trump what
Trump has done that is unprecedented is
the blanket way in which he has
disregarded any form of oversight and
the blanket way in which he has rejected
subpoenas and requests for documents
that is new that is new even compared to
some of the biggest fights we've ever
had like
between Congress and Nixon which
ultimately led to his impeachment and it
is worth worth remembering that one of
the articles of impeachment for Nixon
was not was about obstruction not of
just of justice but obstruction of
congressional inquiries and that is a
big deal and it is a violation of his
bait of the president's basic
obligations to Congress but your
delicate questions write Congress's
ability to hold an administration
accountable the independence of an
administration how enforceable
congressional subpoenas are is like
deeply unsatisfying that's always been
true it's especially true now one of the
big one of the big problems we've seen
is you start to go down the list of ways
in which you can enforce a congressional
subpoena and they seem either toothless
or in politically unpalatable or
ridiculous or ridiculous you know you
start to hear things like fines that's
interesting here about you know Nancy
Pelosi made a joke about the jail cell
at the bottom of the capital capital
seems unlikely that you know we'll end
up with Jerry Nadler bringing William
bar three meals a day down there the
sergeant-at-arms yeah flying out to get
them but yeah I mean it's frustrating
it's frustrating in part because one of
the lessons of the Trump era is that
when you are left with shame and norms
as the means to enforce basic tenets of
checks and balances and you have a
president who doesn't experience shame
it doesn't care about norms you suddenly
see the weakness of Congress exposed and
there's no good answer other than to do
everything we can and I think that's one
of the arguments for impeachment because
it has more weight it will have more
attention and it will give Democrats in
Congress more levers to pull and going
off of as more news of the day Oversight
Committee also issued subpoenas for
documents and testimony about the
administration's attempt to add a
citizens of citizenship question to the
census they didn't give a didn't give
over everything that they asked for the
Justice Department and now Trump is
asserting executive privilege over the
documents
what does this mean what do they go
where do they go from here what's
happening now why is Tommy eating during
the livestream I was shooting on a
lemonhead but now it's gone I mean this
is a question you want me to kick it off
and you finish uh-huh okay so where
we're at the administration has been
trying to sneak a citizenship question
into the census they had a lot of fake
answers for it for why they did it we
discovered upon the death of one of the
architectures are cut our context of
gerrymandering because his daughter was
pretty cool and found some hard drives
in his
and gave those to activists we
discovered that it was pretty explicit
the goal of adding the citizenship
question is to increase the power of
white people and decrease the power of
Democrats and people of color in this
country they have been providing a whole
bunch of explanations other
than that I would say I would point to
what a OCS today said or I think was
today or yesterday wherever I saw the
video today when it went viral is all
that counts listen what matters is when
you saw it on Twitter that is when it
happened I saw today it took place today
and she made a really compelling case
you know it's a thorny and delicate
issue like what what we're actually
debating is the fact that a citizenship
question will actually depress the
answers to questions which will distort
the census Republicans like the idea of
a citizenship question because they like
anything that divides people based on
immigration status and they like the
idea of telling their older white voters
that Democrats care about illegal
immigrants more than they care about you
but it also is a rigged game and the way
the way ASU talked about it I thought
was really smart because she covered the
importance in the substance of the issue
but she got at the heart of it which is
you know maybe this sounds
sensationalistic but there is a
conspiracy to rig the census in favor of
Republicans and it was conducted by some
of the most vicious and hateful people
in our politics people like Steve Madden
and people like Kris Kobach that are you
know Kris Kobach's couldn't get elected
governor of Kansas that's how divisive a
figure he is Steve Bennett has to go
hide in the villa and Europe
because he's so disgusting so I'm glad
Democrats are drawing attention to this
incredibly important issue Tommy take it
away yeah no that's it I mean the the
whole their whole goal is to set up a
census question preceding that will lead
to people of color and immigrants being
undercounted so the Democrats have fewer
less representation in liberal states
and the House of Representatives that
services don't go to those areas and the
numbers that were there actually needed
it it's a it's the most cynical thing
you could do in government to find a way
to under count people so that you have
more power you're they're they're
discounting the existence of human
beings they're trying to pretend that
humans don't exist in states because it
gives them more power it's disgraceful
and so what I'm sure a OSI is trying to
do is get they want documents from the
Department of Commerce I assume because
they were talking about Wilbur Ross and
some of the answers he gave which were
just straight-up lies and it's absurd to
assert executive privilege over agency
materials because that's normally
reserved for deliberative materials in
the White House itself yeah I mean
that's the other thing Trump has done I
mean presidents have stretch executive
privilege in the past but there is and
and you know it is amazing how often
Trump requires us to like go back to
first principles about like what we're
talking about for like there is a logic
to executive privilege not here but
there is right that we want the
president to be able to have open and
honest discussions right the power of
the executive branch flows from the
president that is a you know it is it is
enumerated in the Constitution the
government has gotten big and and it
requires the President to deal with a
lot of different things he has to have a
lot of hard conversations and that those
deliberations ought in some cases to be
protected so that people can go into the
go into the Oval Office and tell him
something bad about the economy or tell
him something that he needs to hear or
she needs to hear about what's going on
with a military operation there's a lot
of reasons you want the president to
have honest feedback from his advisers
that might not be immediately revealed
to the public and reveal to Congress but
they are abusing that every single day I
mean he's putting executive privilege
around his tax returns makes no
sense so we just got to keep pushing got
it okay so yesterday on MSNBC we heard
from House Judiciary Chairman Jerry
Nadler
and he said we could see my lure testify
possibly before the end of the summer we
got a little clip for you so you guys
can watch hear it from him himself
you've also been negotiating with now
former Special Counsel Muller has he
agreed to come in voluntarily is there a
date by which if he does not you would
subpoena him well we're carry on
conversations with him and he will come
in and if we have to subpoena him we
will would that be say by the end of the
summer if he doesn't come in I oh I
would think it would be way before that
all right so Jerry Nadler has the
ability to bring up an impeachment
inquiry vote without the consent from
party leadership do you think we could
see him go rogue in this regard and open
up something without their sign-off uh
no I mean I don't want to be in the
prediction business but I don't think he
would do that without Pelosi but I mean
boy get Muller before the end of summer
and what's the rush you know it's uh
it's amazing it's um it's it's like when
we're gonna get the winds of winter you
know it's um we're always two weeks away
we're always two weeks away from justice
in Donald Trump America no maybe by the
end of summer and neither does say no I
think it'll be before then but okay well
summer's here it's 85 degrees in Los
Angeles my a/c broke it's summer I mean
where's where is he
there's a lot of reporting that Nadler
wants to move to a subpoena process
quickly then that Nancy Pelosi does not
we don't entirely know why her she's so
reticent to do so but I personally think
it's unlikely that he would move to an
impeachment hearing process or start the
process without policies explicit
sign-off and without I mean also 60
some-odd members have come out in favor
of impeachment you need 200 13 14 votes
whatever it is to to move forward so it
wouldn't be smart politics yeah I mean I
think people have made this like Nadler
versus Pelosi which i think is unfair to
both of them in that Nancy Pelosi is not
you know standing astride the caucus
stopping them from impeaching Donald
Trump when she says she doesn't think
it's the right time what she's saying is
my Congress doesn't think it's the right
time now I think there's an argument to
be made
saying hey Speaker Pelosi make you know
you can represent your caucus but but we
would like to know that at least you're
arguing for pushing us toward there and
it's not taught it's not totally clear
that that's where she is seems actually
that she's not but that said you know
now they're moving without policies
approval is in some sense moving without
the caucus and that does not seem to be
smart for him or for those who actually
do want to see impeachment begin got it
okay
so I'm gonna use your shirt as a good
plug to get into our next question the
first debate is just two weeks away do
you guys have any debate watching plans
or how will crooked be covering this
what are our plans what are we gonna do
here sign up and vote save America calm
and you'll get more info about all those
plans that's all the Tonya says we're
allowed to say today well so secretive
you guys getting all this I think so
alright guys we're getting some notes
that we gotta stop got it okay okay
perhaps the dumb question this is our
next one what let's have your brothers
protect you you know it's very
old-fashioned but I'm just like yeah
totally I'm sure it is okay so moving on
from that I hope you guys could hear
that it was great well I know the
internet will tell you all right perhaps
a dumb question what actually is
caucusing can you guys explain what is
Coxon yeah in Iowa it's a precinct level
community meeting where you walk in
there and you literally stand in the
corner of the person your caucusing
and if you if the person you support
meets a certain threshold and I what's
15% of the total number of people within
the room at the time
you're viable to be counted towards a
final result that will reward the number
of Delegates that that precinct can
award to a candidate so basically it's
voting with your physical presence in a
room on a night in February at the same
time yes it's like a two or three hour
thing this year the Iowa Democratic
Party's updating it with a virtual
caucus that I don't really understand
how it works quite yet
but yeah a caucus is a physical act but
it's efficient at a physical caucus it's
an oxygen yeah you know I wasn't really
what's that two to three hours kind of
long oh it's super long I mean it can be
really long it can be pretty insane I
don't know if they have food hmm I'll
find out hmm okay cool I bet yes
speaking of Iowa Joe Biden is speaking
of your yes more Joe Biden was there
yesterday and he said a few things one
of which a few things that got attention
one of it which addressed from he said
with Trump gone you're going to begin to
see things change because these
Republicans in Congress know better they
know that this isn't what they're
supposed to be doing basically he's
saying that Republicans will change once
Trump is gone he was vice president
during Obamacare negotiations fiscal
cliff rise of the Tea Party all of it
what's going on here
what do you think about what he said
it's no basis in fact it's driving me
 crazy stop saying that it's not
true Brian wrote about it in the
newsletter I know Brian is firmly
radical on it at this point we are I'm
aware of Brian's views but like Brian's
right Mitch McConnell the day after
Barack Obama was elected said that his
key priority was was making sure there
wasn't a second term they don't care
they don't care if it's Biden he was a
president or Andrew Yang or they were
born they're gonna do everything they
can to defeat the next Democrat we're
gonna win by taking power
that's how we're gonna win not because
they decide to be good guys yeah I mean
they were stopping Merrick garland from
being on the Supreme Court when they
thought Trump was gonna lose the economy
was in freefall we were on the verge of
another Great Depression and even then
we couldn't get Republicans to go along
with some of the measures that we
thought necessary even after
compromising with them whether it's on
the size of the stimulus or the makeup
of tax cuts that's very specific it's a
very like specific thing about what
happened in like 2009 but it was a
moment of genuine crisis and we couldn't
count on them that on on them then you
know I think there's two reasons he
would say something like that one that
he believes it or two that he thinks
it's a good thing to say politically to
people who might want it to be true
think it could be true whether those are
older Democrats who kind of want to hark
back to some era that may have not
existed or to independence who want to
go along with a Democrat even though
they're squishy and dislike Trump I find
both options pretty unsatisfying if he
believes it that's my you know mind
blowing because he's disconcerting if
you if you truly believe that you're
gonna charm your way back into the good
graces of the Republican Party you need
a better strategy and it drives me nuts
and you know we talked about this on the
Pazzi America live show and I will be
talking about this for a while you know
Joe Biden is the frontrunner for this
race there was a poll that came out
today that showed he's doing incredibly
well with with older voters and he's in
the middle of the pack with younger
voters how is that gonna change right I
wanted to change if he's gonna be the
nominee I want that to change and he may
not be the nominee but if he is I want
to know that he understands this moment
and the activists and young people who
didn't show up enough in 2016 who helped
us win the house and safeguard Senate
seats and in 2018 I want to know that he
is going to speak to them in a way that
makes sense and that understands this
moment and to approach it this way is so
frustrating it's so frustrating and it's
early and he can adjust but you know
we're looking to pick someone to go
against Trump in the most important
presidential
election of our lives is the most
important primary of our lives do you
understand this moment do you understand
the moment of our politics that is the
fundamental question and answers like
this suggests not and that's bad for
whoever that that will be bad if he
becomes president but talk like this I
don't think you'll get to be so
frustrating yeah something that you made
me think about now was a piece I read
earlier this week by Jamel Hill in the
Atlantic who's gonna be at our show at
the Greek right good +17 might swear not
everything I say it's pretty fine
anyways so she wrote a piece that
basically it talks about Biden's
elevation to frontrunner status at this
point in the race and hurts the headline
is Trump has killed Democrats sense of
the possible I was wondering what your
guys's reaction is to this trade-off
that seems to be existing in people's
mind right now between like what you
said about wanting to win and I had you
know needing to win to you know make
progress and make the things that
Democrats want possible does that
require like a safe choice is that go
with your gut and there's no way to know
electability what do you guys feel about
that at this moment and what do you say
to people kind of struggling with that I
haven't read jamel's piece I think it's
premature to decide the Democrats have
decided to trim their sails we haven't
voted yet you know what I mean sorry it
was like her that wasn't her big
takeaway it was just that like people
are now abandoning people or candidates
or ideas that they're like oh this is
really cool but we want to get him out
at all costs so I'm not really sure like
they're trying to make this calculus I
don't think I've really seen any
evidence of that yet I think that a lot
of people are talking about really big
really hard things like the green New
Deal and Medicare for all and they're
also deciding who we're gonna nominate
and at some point maybe those things
will will come to a head and be seen as
contradictory or maybe they'll support
candidates who want those big things so
I just you know I think there's I think
people are making a little too much of
Biden's frontrunner status as some sort
of indicator of the broader party's
views I don't think we know that yet
yeah okay cool
Biden also spoke about something
else while he was in Iowa he said I've
worked so hard in my career that I
promise you if I'm elected president
they're going to see the single most
important thing that changes America
were going to cure cancer so will a
person on Twitter wants to know what's
your take on Biden saying he's going to
cure cancer even though he thinks that
Medicare for all is unrealistic or just
in general what's your take on it and
you can incorporate your ideas as well
look it's sort of I've seen a version of
that gotcha Alex I was tweeting about
this yesterday I mean if you cured
cancer
I want Medicare for all - I wish Biden
supported Medicare for all but the idea
behind finding a cure for a disease is
not getting to that point right so I
don't think it's as much of a gotcha as
because people think Joe Biden's son
Beau died of cancer and having worked
with him and having gone through that
experience myself with my own father
like I know gut-wrenching it is
and so the idea that this was set out of
political expediency and not a sincere
place I think is ridiculous and
insensitive and I think there's a lot of
places to give him for things he
said lately we just did for a good five
minutes this is probably not the one I
would have chosen and I think it's a
little bit it speaks to some of the
crassness sometimes of Twitter and our
politics that people decide to like leap
on this of all things if you think that
that's an unrealistic promise it's
medically infeasible science won't allow
it
those are perfectly reasonable things to
point out but I would argue that
politicians promise to do big
aspirational things all the time I think
the green New Deal is a massive
aspirational critically important thing
so I want to see them talk about these
things and make promises so that when
they're elected and they follow through
we can credit them and when they don't
we can vote them out right like that's
how the normal political process works
so for me it's like I was excited to see
someone talking about curing cancer I
wish that was a part of the platform of
a whole bunch of candidates because I've
dealt with that in my life and I'd like
to see a bunch of these diseases
eradicated and never getting to the part
where people need health care coverage
to help them manage a cancer or try to
beat it through chemo right so like
I think it would be great if Twitter
spent a little less time demonstrating a
cynical people can be and a little more
focus on the humanity of like imagining
what it was like for this guy to lose
his son still recently so that's my
thinking you guys have seen a few
elections and primaries and I'm kind of
wondering just from your perspective I
mean I'm sure this is definitely playing
out on Twitter very differently than
past ones have and we also have like 55
different candidates so there's that at
what point do you see primaries start to
get ugly
how would you say this compares so far
with other ones that you see is it
because candidate on candidate we
haven't seen people do to take too many
shots at each other I would say
notwithstanding of the Hyde Amendment
and Joe Biden right yeah this one is
different you know we've had primaries
with just a few candidates we got
primaries that were gigantic we you know
we saw Trump emerge from a crowded field
in which he never received a majority of
the vote but was but was managed to get
the nomination because there was no
alternative I don't think anyone knows I
do think this primary is pretty tamed so
far for the most part we haven't seen a
lot of punches thrown there are you know
the game theory problems in attacking
each other it was it happened during the
Republican primary there was a really
fun example on veep where you want the
attack out there you know if you're on a
stage with ten people you want all you
want everybody but you to be fighting
right that's what's good for you you
want everybody to start squabbling and
attacking each other pointing at each
other's flaws but you want to stay out
of the fray but everyone has the exact
same motivation so I think we started to
see that now with some with people
speaking about Joe Biden without using
his name I would I would say given that
eventually we want one person to stand
across Donald Trump I think people
should be a little bit less squeamish
about using each other's names there's
this old-fashioned political thing that
feels like it's from a time capsule in
the 90s like when you say something like
now there are those out there who have
said whatever you want a a college of
universal college is not affordable
right someone
that's not about Biden about another
candidate just say the name right it's
okay it doesn't make it a heart attack
it's helpful just like please I would
love to know what yeah you should all
I've named him talk about here
I agree at that and and then and then I
do want to see them mix it up a bit and
it's actually part of I don't think
there's a good I'm not critical of
anyone organizing these debates because
it's insane but you know it's one of the
problems of having so many candidates is
the goal is to find the best person and
part of that will be of having them have
a conversation and mixing it up so IIIi
think it's it's coming I mean I'm
interested to see what happens in this
debate because I think there's there
could be somebody who just walks up to
Joe Biden and just whispers in his ear
just an excuse to do that again maybe
that was just a separate whisper that
wasn't an ASMR whispered that was a see
that was a scene of a candidate I know
could run with Bill a brand going up to
Joe Biden and just whispering in his ear
buckle up Joe okay cuz I did it cuz he
it's a Gattaca thing I never left enough
just went back to shore alright yeah I
never looked anything for the way back
you know my DNA sucks compared to yours
I don't watch that scattergun biology
what freshman year biology isn't that
weird physical great movie huh
Gattaca great movie it was good Gattaca
seemed a little and really did but
anyways
speaking of great movie Travis Gattaca
Gattaca ethan hawke uma Thurman
Gattaca well maybe you're doing this
punkin anyways speaking of the many
people running for president the people
want to know is the Starbucks guy still
in it what's going on with him
breaking news yeah as of right now
apparently he told his staff he had like
three back surgeries and I think he told
his staff he's basically out of the race
unless he decides that Biden didn't win
and he wants to jump in in the fall and
 everything up I don't know I hope
his back is okay I hope that this gives
him a nice off-ramp to go do whatever
billionaires do not in politics opiates
and st. Barts I assume
beautiful I'm just I don't know if I
were a billionaire that's what I do
I hurt my back opiates in st. Barts is
not even an insult that's just a cool
smart thing to do if you're a
billionaire lover role model - the
opiates part he hurt his back he's a
legitimate reason to have opiates all
right thank you all right so what did
you guys think
earlier this week mayor Pete gave a
speech on foreign policy I know you guys
talked about in a pod save the world
what do you think give us a little
overview you want to go first like now
you got it loud about this let me on it
that was a good speech I thought was
really well done it was it was
comprehensive it was showed to
sophisticated understanding of the world
and global challenges he said some great
things that I really wanted to hear
about ending the forever wars repealing
the authorization for the use of
military force that happened after 9/11
that's been used to authorize countless
wars for I guess we account them many
wars for like the last 20 years he
talked about essentially withholding
support or aid to Israel if they
continued to annex the West Bank which i
think is a position that Bernie Sanders
has moved the Democratic Party towards
and his interesting CP follow he talked
about the need for diplomacy I mean I
think he just did a good job he's a
smart guy he's experienced he's
credentialed I think everyone's gonna
have to make a speech like that to like
show that you're a credible
commander-in-chief who understands some
foreign policy or at least they they
used to have to before Donald Trump
became president so good for him for
going on early Warren went first or
Bernie Warren have given major foreign
policy speeches previously had there
been big differences between them
I mean Warren's was more economic
focused and then had like four or five
discrete parts so she talked about
really like a equality based global
message that was fundamentally an
economic speech and then she did like
and the war in Afghanistan no first use
nuclear weapons policy and a couple of
things
Peet's was just like the whole globe you
know a section on China a section on
Africa a section you know it was Latin
America
it was more comprehensive yeah I mean
it's interesting that the the primary
has not hinged on foreign policy
differences at all it probably won't
given given who the president is and
giving you the candidates are honestly
so to me a lot of peat giving that
speeches about just sort of taken care
of what could be a critique right it was
a very serious substantive center-left
foreign policy address and I don't you a
center-left you call left yeah okay
what's called left I think you um F yeah
and being I don't think that like every
candidate will get to a place of
conditioning aid to Israel on settlement
construction I bet you a bunch of them
home but by tomorrow any Biden will
probably not yeah I guess it's just more
uh what I'm the point I'm making is only
that like it is about it is less about
any specific policy and more about
demonstrating that this mayor of South
Bend Indiana can say can deliver a
foreign policy address convincingly
right that is that is what this is in
this campaign see me honestly that's not
that's why I was before on had to do it
that's why Bernie had to do it it's a
kind of a benchmark test just to deal
with what could be a criticism threshold
ooh yeah got it okay so speaking of
foreign policy what's going on in the
world we know you guys talked about this
in parts of the world this week as well
there are major protests going on in
Hong Kong right now over a million
people protested last weekend over a
bill that would let mainland Chinese
authorities extradite people from the
city to face charges
protesters are scared that China will
abuse this power take political
prisoners and I believe it got violent
yesterday early today can you go into
what's happening especially because it
seems like it's gotten more dangerous
basically overnight sure I mean so Hong
Kong is a semi-autonomous region they we
used to be a British colony until the
late 90s they will eventually be part of
the full Chinese system and I think like
2040 something but until then they have
their own rule of law there's a freedom
of the internet freedom of the press so
there's like it's it's a lot more
there's a lot more self-determination
and in digital rights in
Hong Kong than in mainland China there's
a lot that is before their Congress
right now that would allow extradition
of citizens from Hong Kong to China for
certain offenses and I think people
citizens in Hong Kong rightly feared
that it could be used as a way to drag
political activists say back to me and
land China on trumped-up charges throw
them in jail and silence dissent so
that's why people are out in the streets
in protesting started over the weekend
their Congress was supposed to continue
deliberation of the law yesterday but
these protests basically shut the whole
city down so they did not so it's a
question of whether they will pick it
back up if they do whether it'll be
passed but it's a big deal I love it no
cool well we're into the fun questions
should we play the jeff elijah cue up
the fun questions all right
love it yes where'd you get the rainbow
pants tell us the story here listen it
is pride and gay people don't want other
people to know where they got their
special pants those are my pants if you
wanted to get pants like that you should
have gotten fans like that you didn't I
will tell you however that when amy
klobuchar asked me where I got those
plans
I checked and was happy to see they were
out of stock you didn't want her to get
a pair um Tommy you've known me for a
while do you think that I like sharing
the spotlight being a trendsetter I do I
would have looked it was on the point
was rendered moot because they were
completely out of stock but I got them
at I believe top man top man well I'm
hell of a stretchy skinny jean Priyanka
and I won't apologize for it it's 2018 I
won't apologize I am happy that they're
out of stock and no one else can rock
your luck thank you okay so speaking of
pride in honor of Pride Month can we
have a current edition of gay news oh
good news
spin a minute I don't know how it goes
beep-beep-beep beep-beep-beep gay news
the Tonys happened beebeep beebeep gay
news big little lies returns for season
2
you know what I'll say about this
because it is a it is gay news you and
it's you say to me that they're bringing
back big little did I say pretty little
eyes I said big little eyes you tell me
they're bringing back big little lies I
tell you what that story's been told it
had a beginning it had a middle it had
an end but then you tell me Meryl Streep
is gonna be there and I say ok I'll
check it out and you know what I'm glad
I did because in many respects it is a
zombie show it is a zombie show that has
gone on beyond the end of itself however
I love seeing my friends I love seeing
Nicole Kidman and wreath Witherspoon and
Laura Dern and I'll tell you what else I
love I love Meryl Streep basically
existing in that first episode to give
three incredible monologues one of which
was like very sad and hard to watch and
it was a serious thing and I thought
they handle ID you know there's real
stuff there and she's an incredible
actress but those two vicious monologues
in the first part of that show both
directed at Reese Witherspoon the second
one as an apology so I'm so happy so
glad big little guys is back big little
lies is back that's this week's edition
of gay news
beep-beep-beep-beep is really good I
haven't seen the first season oh we're
coming up with a straight Pride Parade
hasn't seen big little lies listen
listen I'm talking Tom Brady talking
sorry louder with Tommy hasn't seen up
hasn't seen big little lies all right um
in other news the Obama the Obama signed
a deal to produce podcasts with Spotify
I didn't know that nobody's gonna take
them down or what what's happening we
don't even hadn't even heard it crack
our radar I just like I'm just think
it's such an exciting time and it's cool
to see like people trying to
I get into an industry yeah you want to
root for the little guy yeah like just
you know more the merrier and I think
those kids got a shot you know
if Michelle decides to put her book on a
podcast it's gonna be huge you know
everyone's gonna download down
everything download that alright over
the weekend all these 55 Democrats were
in Iowa and for the Hall of Fame dinner
as Tommy told me before the stream
started and they all had a you know a
variety of walk-on songs some highlights
let's see Old Town Road who did that
that was Tim Ryan oh we've just made
this we shoulda made this a quiz kirsten
gillibrand good as hell bye Liz oh no
that was a good one a cory booker a
lovely day what are you guys as thoughts
on these songs like who had the best one
were there any that you were just like
oh my god i think andrew yang had return
of the mack comma harris did mary j
blige what are you gonna be
beep-beep-beep-beep-beep it's time for
gay news listen die pardon nine-to-five
I'm happy every time well so okay that's
a great example you can go like message
point right warns warns using 9 to 5 as
a message I guess the lyrics sort of
helped tell a story for campaign return
of the Mac is just a song gets you amps
no matter where you are when you hear it
so it's like it kind of do you want to
sort of heavy handedly I would Ark you
push a campaign message or just kept
people in the room pumped I'd go with
get people Pumped maybe party up you
know what honey yet again the straight
Pride Parade rolls right through this
 studio Dolly Parton's
nine-to-five sure does it have a message
absolutely is it one of the greatest
songs ever written did she write both
Jolin and I will always love you on the
same day
Dolly Parton Rose she wrote them both on
the same day Jolene I will always love
you
pppp beep that's gay news and I just
want to also say that uh I think power
of the people from Bernie again very
message II but just you know what you're
hearing a lot of like melody
hearing a lot of and he gets up
there it's just the words power to the
people over and over again and you know
what I respect the hell out of it even
though his speech about democratic
socialism was really a speech about how
he likes his util look if there's any
other good ones here it's not what are
your personal like what do you think
would be your walk-up song I don't know
man I would say ride of the Valkyrie
would be one that I would go with I
think that captures something essential
that would be mine Obama went with
Curtis Mayfield keep on pushing they
wanted a lot of Stevie just like how I
just want to make the room feel good
getting excited and then fill them with
boring political facts I will say Trump
use everything got to fill them to the
brim brimming with boring political
facts Trump using Rolling Stones can't
always get what you want you get what
you need
it's I don't even what the worst message
possible you can't I respect it but it's
like it's it's so confusing yeah because
they got what they want presumably if
you're looking at it from Trump's
perspective well I think that if you if
you just sort of take each sentence it's
you you don't always get what you want
out of politics and you need Trump and
you don't really want him
iMessage sucked you know you need him
it's it really is the most honest thing
about his campaign it's like yeah he's a
prick
and a racist but he's run against
Hillary so you know another
choice you know always get what you want
which was Jeb well you get what you need
which is a white nationalist with a kind
of fascist who like stumbled upon
fascist because there's natural
proclivities every once in a while all
day like today does they're like a veil
with the polish Prime Minister and
you're like I can't believe this
guy's president it's just like the
moments like that just break me
normal president stuffs like you
shouldn't be there you know we were
gonna end on that question but it feels
wrong to so I'm gonna ask one more sure
World Cup happening now are you guys
watching it what do you think I'm only
here for the hot takes about weather
excessive celebration is good or bad no
we watched we were in the office
yesterday their team is nasty they're
incredible
I scored 12 goals 13 goals thanks
I only know when the World Cup is
happening based on angry tweets about
whether or not people are talking about
the World Cup correctly so I really
caught up today I think that they should
be paid the same amount and I think they
should score the the most goals possible
and I think when they score goal they
should do whatever they want that they
feel good about football dances in the
end zone are my favorite part mmm I'm
celebration delightful I feel like gay
news is a great place it's just today
you do a full game is yeah yeah sure
sure well we'll run the traps you know
yeah commit to the people and that's the
stream and it stream
