hi everybody welcome to the Hammer
Museum I'm Claudia Bester I'm the
director of public programs here and I'm
pleased to welcome you all to tonight's
hammer forum tonight we want to take an
opportunity to reflect on the November
2018 midterm elections to get past the
initial barrage of headlines and take a
deeper dive into important short-term
and long-term implications of the
midterms so we can all be better and
more informed and more engaged citizens
our moderator today is Shaniqua
McClendon and our guest speakers are Jon
Favreau and Candice mallet the hammer
forum is a monthly series of public
discussions about current social and
political issues and it's made possible
with support from Andy and branya calif
before we get started I wanna remind you
to please silence your cell phones and
please note that video and audio
recording aren't allowed but we are
videotaping this and we'll make it
available on our website in case you
want to share it with your friends and
family I also want to mention a few
upcoming hammer programs you might be
interested in on January 31st we have
another hammer forum called voting
rights and wrongs where we'll talk about
voter suppression and mismanagement of
polling places in the last elections as
well as the future of voting rights in
America and the future of election laws
and the new legal reforms designed to
eliminate barriers to voting on February
3rd we'll be talking about the u.s.
relationship with Saudi Arabia we have
the former US ambassador to Saudi Arabia
who was the ambassador
on 9/11 he's going to be one of our
speakers unfortunately I just found out
that's the Superbowl so I don't know if
that's an issue or not who knows and on
March 3rd we have a really interesting
program about gerrymandering and we're
gonna go deep into North Carolina as
like the ultimate case study on
gerrymandering so that's gonna be really
interesting and then on march 19th we're
doing a hammer forum on the growing EMV
movement that's coming up as a counter
to the NIMBY people so those are all
upcoming Hamra forums also on February
5th we're doing a program called
speaking truth to power from Thomas to
Cavanaugh
and we will have kimberl√© crenshaw who's
a law scholar and was on Anita Hills
legal team she's going to be speaking
with Rebecca traced her and will also as
part of that program screen the
documentary about Anita Hill so enough
about that we also have all kinds of
other programs including poetry readings
we're having Wikipedia editing workshops
we're having live music all kinds of
things so check out the hammer calendar
and come back
admission is always free and now onto
today's program so I'm gonna introduce
our speakers and the word connect get
started as you probably all know Jon
Favreau is the co-host of one of the
most popular podcasts in the world pod
save America which has one and a half
million listeners every episode lots of
fans in the audience he also hosts a
podcast called the wilderness about the
history and future of the Democratic
Party both podcasts are produced by the
media platform called crooked media
which Favreau co-founded in 2017
and before that he served as Barack
Obama's head speechwriter from 2005 to
2013 so you can thank him for that
Candice mallet is a senior political
editor at the digital media platform
Laverty comm she tracks national and
international politics and his
relationship to black people in America
now it also explores topics like
Technology global resistance and fascism
as an activist and a writer
Shaniqua Shaniqua McClendon is our
moderator tonight she's the political
director for crooked media at crooked
media she led the creation of their
midterm voter engagement program vote
save America she's a graduate of the
Harvard Kennedy School of Government
where she earned her master's in public
policy during her studies she also
worked at pop facebook on their politics
and government outreach team prior to
grad school she worked in various
capacities on Capitol Hill starting off
as an intern in the Obama administration
then she was staff assistant to senator
Kay Hagan and went on to serve as
legislative director for congresswoman
Alma s Adams so tonight we're going to
first get a brief summary of the
November 2018 midterm election
results from Shaniqua to bring everybody
up to speed and then she's going to
mount moderate a roundtable discussion
with John Favreau and Candace mallet
about all the married important things
that came out of the midterms so please
join me in welcoming Shaniqua McClendon
[Applause]
[Music]
okay we'll get started now
first thing thank you to everyone for
coming out today
so as Claudia just mentioned right after
my presentation we're going to jump into
a very interesting conversation with
John and Candice but before we do that
I'm just gonna get everyone up to
support get everyone in the same space
about some of the big headlines that we
saw during the midterms and during the
discussion we're gonna dive into those
headlines and see how we got to the
outcomes of the election and what some
of the larger implications of those are
so the biggest headline of the midterms
were that Democrats yeah we're that
Democrats took back the house and
Democrats only needed 22 flip 23 seats
to take back the house but they ended up
getting flipping 40 of them and so now
Democrats have enough of a majority and
in the house to do all the things that
voters wanted them to do
holding Donald Trump accountable and
splitting our government so that um you
know one party is not in control of
everything there is still one district
that is being decided in North Carolina
the ninth district trying to figure out
some alleged voter fraud that happened
there but they might not figure that out
until I think it might be as late as the
fall when they even have the primary
election so that seat is just going to
remain open till then for North Carolina
that is a big deal but overall for
Democrats they are well over two hundred
and eighteen seats so so they're good to
go
okay so with the 40 seats that were
flipped California played a huge role
and played a huge role in flipping the
house these districts you can see here
there were four districts in Orange
County that flipped but those were just
four of the districts in California that
Hillary Clinton won but we're still
represented by by Republicans so in
total California was able to flip seven
seats which was about a third of the
seats necessary to take back the house
so unlike in other times when California
is just the place where politicians come
to get money voters actually were able
to make a difference in in flipping the
house so that's a good thing okay so a
lot of new faces showed up in the house
this January after after the November
elections and so I guess I can name all
these people so we have Alexandria
Ocasio Cortez who she didn't flip a seat
but was able to be about incumbent
during the primary and has really made a
name for herself frankly since she was
one but now that she's on the hill has
brought a lot of attention to issues we
have Lauren Underwood from Illinois Andy
Kim from New Jersey
Deb Hollen from New Mexico who's
actually one of two women who are the
first Native American women to serve in
the house Katey Porter and Katie Hill
who are both from California
Colin Allred from Texas who actually
beat out Pete sessions who was the chair
of the Rules Committee which is a big
deal Rashidah Talib who is one of the
first pot or the first Palestinian woman
to serve in the house and Antonio
Delgado and Lucy Macbeth who is able to
flip the Georgia six which John Asif got
close but at least he was able to close
the deal this year
and so within this group you can see
that there are a lot of women a lot of
people of color and amongst all of the
New Democrats that came in there are
more that identify as part of the LGBTQ
community so we're gonna dive into what
it means to have these different types
of Democrats under one party and you
know what does that mean for Nancy
Pelosi if she's trying to manage her
entire caucus okay so on the within the
Senate Republicans were able to increase
their majorities there so during the
conversation we're going to discuss how
is it that Democrats were able to have
such large gains in the house but on the
Republican side I mean on the Senate
side Republicans were able to crease
their margins by two seats okay and
create an increase their margins by two
seats but even though they were able to
flip four seats it was kind of a mixed
bag for Republicans they were able to
flip four seats but they also I did that
on purpose they were able to they were
able to flip four seats but Democrats
also were able to flip two seats so they
had a net gain of of just two seats
which is still a big deal considering
you no longer need 60 votes to pass
judicial nominees including the Supreme
Court so then having that cushion given
Murkowski and Collins kind of always
being on well moreso Murkowski being on
the fence that gives them a bit more of
a cushion but they also lost Dean Heller
and in Nevada and well flake wasn't
running but a Democrat still took his
seat so it's kind of a mixed bag but
overall Republicans went out in the in
the Senate so moving on to the state
level Democrats also did well at the in
the in group in tutorial races they were
able to pick up seven seats
and they actually were able to oust
Scott Walker who who for a long time was
someone that the Republican Party
elevated especially after he tried to
take Union or a collective bargaining
away from unions in Wisconsin and so a
Democrat was able to take his place
they overall there were seven seats so
you look at main Wisconsin Illinois
Michigan at Michigan of course being a
state Wisconsin and Michigan being
states that Trump won and so those went
the other way Kansas as well which
Democrats won there it could have been
because Kris Kobach was the Republican
nominee but nonetheless Democrats went
out there Alaska was the only state that
flipped but Democrats were not in
control of that governor's mansion it
was actually an independent but an
independent who was probably more to the
left and to the right going one step
down Democrats also did well in state
legislatures they were able to gain full
control of five state legislatures and
in Minnesota they were able to take over
the house giving them a split
legislature and they also have a
Democratic governor in Minnesota so that
gives Democrats more control over the
overall state government allowing them
to advance more more progressive
policies and overall this is important
especially as we go into 2020 but 2018
and 2020 the elections that happen in
state legislatures have a big impact on
redistricting so for whichever party
wants to have control over that process
these elections are really important
especially layered on with places like
Colorado who now have a trifecta again
Alaska was the opposite and they
actually flipped their house to
Republican and so now they have the
governor's house and both chambers so
one other thing that was on the ballot
this well every election but this Willa
as well were ballot initiatives and we
saw across the country a lot of voters
were able to vote directly on the
policies that they wanted to implement
one that was really popular even outside
of Florida was Florida's amendment for
which restored voting rights for for
returning citizens who were formerly
incarcerated and that actually needed
60% of voters support and it was able to
pass which is also interesting given you
might assume that's a more progressive
policy but Rick Scott and Ron de Santos
went out there so we'll talk about that
some but you also have you also have
states like Idaho Nebraska and Utah that
passed Medicaid expansion so going
around their legislators and putting in
place the policies that they wanted to
see we also had some conservative ballot
measures pass so in Arkansas and North
Carolina voters voted to require voters
to have voter identification when they
voted and in Arkansas and I'm sorry
Alabama and West Virginia they passed
ballot measures that pretty much
codified into their constitutions that a
woman will never have a right to
abortion and that's in case the Supreme
Court strikes down roe v wade they have
made it perfectly clear that you have no
options in that state for abortion but
also and again Arkansas red state they
were one of the states at Arkansas
Missouri actually increased their
minimum wage so this is again another
example voters going around their
legislature to put in place progressive
policies but not necessarily voting for
Democrats Claire McCaskill lost in
Missouri while a minimum wage increase
passed so we're gonna get into some of
those dynamics and try to understand how
did all of this happen in one election
and these I just wanted to highlight
these candidates because they had a ton
of headlines throughout the election a
lot of Democrats a lot of Democrats
wanted them to win a lot were realistic
about their chances but nonetheless
these were tough losses that we're still
in in the headlines after Stacey
brooms campaign went on just because of
all the voter suppression that was going
on in Georgia for Andrew Gilliam he went
into a recount because it was so close
and they were also having issues and but
okay well actually Pharoah and Stacey
especially well now all three of them
came very close by Beto and sorry Oh
overwork and Abrams actually were able
to do better statewide than a lot of
other Democrats in their state so even
though these three candidates laws they
also inspired a lot of people to get
involved to vote and quite frankly we're
still talking about them so we'll talk
about them today and how they fit into
the larger larger equation and finally
the last point I want to hit on is
turnout turnout was a lot higher than it
had been in other midterms and so this
year it was about it was at almost 50
percent at forty nine percent which in
2014
turnout in the last midterms was about
37 percent which had been the lowest and
in about 70 years so we're gonna dig
into that why were people excited to
vote this time where they upset at Trump
where they're a bunch of organizations
knocking on their door every day and
trying to get them to vote or are people
just starting to understand what role
they play in their democracy so that's
kind of where I want to set the scene
and now we're going to invite John and
Candice up so we can have a conversation
on all of it
[Applause]
okay I'm almost done doing all the
talking
so can you give one more round of
applause for my first question is very
easy what were you watching before
election night what were you paying
attention to and then after election
night happen thinking specifically on
Tuesday how did you feel when the night
ended I'll take that
so women for them in terms you know I
think we all kind of got swept in I
liked the possibility like the
excitement of having you know black
governor's for the first time in states
like Maryland Georgia and Florida and so
for someone who might have felt sort of
disengaged by the vectorial process
before there were so many new candidates
that definitely made it more exciting
and so I think I was definitely you know
paying attention to those candidates
paying attention to just like the fresh
energy of just like voting was almost
cool again and so yeah I was terrified
for an entire month two months I
remember you know in October we were on
the road a lot because we were doing
live shows and I just remember it was a
really bad series of headlines in
October if we remember because first we
had sort of Kavanagh and the Cavanaugh
fallout and then right as Cavanaugh was
confirmed we went right into caravan
stuff for another three weeks and then
there were pipe bombs I mean it was it
was quite in October so I was and I was
gonna be at tariff
of 2018 no matter what because of what
happened in 2016 right so I spent the
the weeks leading up to 2018 like
obsessively checking every poll as you
know you saw me in the office do this
obsessively checking every poll but I
was and then and then starting to look
at the early vote even though you know
you tell people the early vote can only
tell you so much about what's gonna
happen but I was specifically looking at
you know certainly those big three races
that you talked about betters race
Abraham's race and specifically Florida
I was looking at because I while I
really wanted Beto and Stacey Abrams to
win I knew that Texas and Georgia are
both really hard States to pull that off
in Florida to me is a state that
Democrats you know can win it's always a
close state but Brock Obama won in 2008
and again in 2012 and we have this like
really exciting inspirational very
progressive candidate named drew Gilliam
and the public polls showed him with a
fairly comfortable lead even though
public polling in Florida is garbage but
you think like you know if they get him
up four or five six seven eight like
maybe he wins by one or two so and then
I remember as I started to look at some
of the early vote coming in in Florida I
started getting a little nervous so I
was sort of terrified about Florida
specifically when we got to election
night which didn't make the first part
of election night - great so after we
didn't see the final results of all of
the midterms for probably a few weeks so
on election night with what we had in
and even the next morning the media
saying oh there was no blue wave there
was no rebuke of Donald Trump is that
how you felt or were you like no I know
more it's coming it's gonna be better
there's gonna be something else
happening well for us over at blabbity
we focused mostly on just like coverage
for like young black Millennials and so
I know the night for election you know
it was really exciting for us because it
was the first time that you know we're
recovering election and I remember us
watching it you know we had all the
different like cable news on and seeing
when we left like you know but there was
a
Kelvin was up Abrams up and we're like
okay we should probably go home and
finish working literally it took me 15
to 20 minutes get home and Gilliam had
conceded or had to concede it and I was
like what happened you know like what
happened in that uber ride and I
honestly like I felt very much like why
did they concede so early and then I
remember staying up and then watching
Stacy's speech and feeling like yes I'm
so happy she wasn't just like oh I'm
conceding cuz I was just such a bad you
know it was just you know we were paying
attention just like the all the voter
suppression that was happening all day
and that was just her alleged voter
suppression that was happening all day
yeah and so that was just really tough
and so yeah the next day just kind of
like sitting and all that and yeah I
think there were like three phases for
me so the first one was when because
remember the first results that started
coming and were Florida which was
started looking closer than it should
have been and at that point I was having
2016 flashbacks in a in a big way and
then Indiana always comes in early
because the polls closed early there and
Jared Donnelly was getting destroyed and
then any McGrath in Kentucky because
Kentucky always closes early and and I
remember I had some friends who did some
work for Amy McGrath and they had told
me that you know she was up eight at one
point in a private poll and then after
Kavanagh and the caravan she was down
two up two
so I already had that fear so those
three races at the beginning of the
night I mean you were in the office we
were all doing a live stream and we also
had been doing a live stream in 2016
when we were at the wringer and I was
just having all these flashbacks and
like and love it and Tommy and I and Dan
we're at one point just all in our
office huddled there and and everyone's
like the live stream is happening
there's people watching and we're like
we're not going into that live
stream this is going bad right now we
were all freaking out and then I think
it was when Abigail Spann burger it
looked like she was gonna win and some
of the other Virginia races came in the
New Jersey races came in
that it started feeling like oh this is
gonna be okay and then by the end of the
night when I went it was exactly what
you said when I saw Stacey Abrams speech
I was like all inspired by that I
started looking at the map I thought
okay we've got 26 called it looks like
they were saying at that point it looks
like it could get up to 35 no one was
saying 40 at that point but I thought
you know if we get to 30 35 seats here
and you know we only lose a couple
Senate seats and we've won seven
governorships this is a really great
night so I felt pretty good by the time
went to bed and then like a week later
then I felt great so you just mentioned
that we no one was talking about 48
seats and possibly 35 being flipped all
of these seats were and well not all of
them a lot of them were in red districts
or blue districts that were more
moderate how do you think so many so
many Democrats were able to win in these
districts but Democrats that we often
hear are not electable because they
won't appeal to enough people and you
know a district with white voters might
not support this person of color what I
guess I kind of threw in an answer a
little bit but how do you think they
were able to appeal to a wide swath of
voters and and actually be successful on
election night I so I'll sit back just a
little like I think one of the bigger
trends that we saw happen in 2018 is the
election was more nationalized than it
has ever been right so it used to be
that if you're an incumbent senator in a
red state or a blue state and you have a
challenge the incumbency sort of helps
you hang on right we saw that sort of
advantage fade away and so basically and
someone said this if it was this
election ended up being less about sort
of like persuading voters and it was
more like a census it was just like you
showed up in a state and it was it was a
lot more about demographics and so I
think like 88 percent of Trump vote
Trump approvers voted for the
looking candidate which is a new record
and then 90% of people who disapproved
of Trump voted Democrat which is also a
new record you usually have more
switchers than that and then it became
an electorate that was more polarized
than ever before so 60% of 60% of white
voters with college degrees or more and
70% of all non-white voters disapproved
of Trump and so if it was a district or
state where there was a more was a more
diverse State if it was more
college-educated white voters then it
was likely whether it was a district or
say it was likely to go Democrat no
matter who the candidate was and if it
was a state that was sparsely populated
non-college educated white voters and
not many non-white voters then it was
likely to remain in Republican hands and
that that was true across the country
now of course there are some states that
are on the margin right and you know
demographics can get you like 90% of the
way they are in terms of predicting the
outcome but then candidate quality
matters message matters organizing
matters turnout obviously matters and we
can talk about all those things too but
I think what we saw in this election at
least demographically is like Democrats
ended up winning a lot of big cities
suburbs around big cities and it used to
be big cities and suburbs and big cities
in blue states and what happened in 2018
which was interesting is we started
seeing Democrats win in districts where
there are big cities and medium-sized
cities and suburbs around these cities
in red states so cities like Houston and
Phoenix and Richmond Virginia which
usually vote Republican started acting
more like cities like Miami and DC and
New York and they acted more like those
cities than they did the states that
they were in the red states that they
were in I think also something to think
on is you know after a 2016 election I
think the idea of you know everything
that is like left and right kind of got
pushed more towards like the right so
therefore a lot of policies that we
might think of like as the left or you
know more Democrat policy
or something that might be more open to
more conservative or more traditionally
Republican areas and so I think just
like the energy of wanting of just
feeling like something going on in this
country isn't right and people feeling
like they want to change that and they
want to move away from whatever the
current is so midterm is usually act as
like a referendum against the president
anyways and I think just with so much
that was happening especially around the
time which you mentioned like you know
there was the bomb threats there was
just so much happening in the country
that I think people really just wanted
something different and so whether it
was you know a Democrat or just like not
the same candidate that they had before
I think people were just wanted to
change looking specifically at
California something I've always
wondered is why I can't remember who
said this to me but they said California
was second for sending the most
Republicans to Congress now granted
California has a ton of districts but
California's also always talked about as
a blue state that we can reliably get
Democrats we don't need to worry about
that like California is good so I guess
I'm trying to see if you all have any
thoughts on why that narrative was able
to continue for so long but why in 2018
someone finally or a bunch of people
probably said this but that there was
like this decision to say no there are a
lot of red districts here and there are
some that we can actually flip and we're
gonna try to do that I think there are
two things that happened the first is I
think it was in 2012 back and this was a
result of what happened when
Schwarzenegger was governor they and
they did nonpartisan redistricting this
state and by drawing lines that were
nonpartisan they at that point they sort
of took down the number of Republican
seats but the Republican seats were
leftovers still you know they sent these
Republicans to Congress irregular for
the next collection what happened was
Trump and so in 2016 you had a bunch of
counties around
Orange County districts yet a couple you
know the 25th district in the 39th
district north of LA and then you had a
couple districts sort of south of San
Francisco and they voted for a
Republican candidate but they didn't
vote for Trump they voted for Hillary
Clinton and so and of course we saw that
at kerr comedian we had our crooked
seven because we thought okay these are
seven districts that voted for Hillary
Clinton for president but they still
have a Republican and the problem for
those Republicans in those seats were
they weren't they didn't decide to be
moderate Republicans they didn't look
around to their district and say oh okay
this district voted for Hillary Clinton
like maybe we have a problem here like
Mimi Walters who Katey Porter beat she
voted with Trump like 97% of the time
she foetid for the tax cut she voted to
get rid of the Affordable Care Act she
supported him on all of his crazy
immigration and so like these
people were very out of step with
districts that had become you know they
had heavily they were heavily populated
by college-educated white voters and
their districts that have become much
more diverse over them so they just they
were hanging on for a while but at some
point the way of just sort of swept them
away I think yeah just speaking I'm not
you know gentrification is like changing
like sort of the landscape of California
right now but as much as these places
flipped you know there is still like a
heavy sense of like Trump nests to
places like Orange County or like you
know if you try to go to Bay Area you
will see like the giant signs that say
like Pro Trump and you know that that
element is still there but I do think
that like other propositions like prop
10 also help more people get out to vote
and so there were other you know
incentives out there other than just
like necessarily voting for
representative that made people come out
and switch yeah and I kind of touched on
this before but what lessons do you
think we've learned from people who are
not white guys winning winning elections
you know I think there's often this
conversation about
delectable and who people can relate to
but we saw a lot of candidates put their
message out it didn't matter what they
look like or what they identified as
people resonated with people and they
were able to be elected so one what do
you think we learned from that but with
having such a diverse group of Democrats
now in positions of power to make laws
what do you think the impact will be on
our actual policy creation as we have
those new people in place I mean I think
that's yet to be seen I mean I think for
what we've seen we've had diverse
candidates that you can't necessarily
hope that just because the candidate
looks like you that they're gonna
represent you and so hopefully that
means that you know that's new freshman
class
well actually like represent the
communities I've wanted to you know see
representation and DC and I think that
also you know that means holding them
accountable
keeping up with like what they're
actually voting on you know we saw
before candidates running on like
apologized but then like vote you know
to find ice and so I don't think so I
think you know having a diverse
representatives is important I don't
think we should necessarily like see
that as equaling equaling that we're
gonna have actually policies that
benefit people that need to be
represented it more DZ yeah is it just
he talked about electability right like
my view on electability now is after two
presidential elections where a black guy
from the south side of Chicago named
Barack Hussein Obama won and then Donald
 Trump won no one should ever be
judging electability again in this
country certainly no one in politics so
and I think look and I think that
happened in in 2018 with the recruitment
of candidates and why not you know and I
was doing the wilderness and I was
talking to a lot of people who you know
recruit candidates and run a lot of
these organizations and one of the
problems is when folks in Washington
start recruiting candidates
they end up recruiting the candidates
who they think are electable and who
they think can raise money and those
people tend to be white and they tend to
be male and their profession tends to be
lawyer and I think what we saw in 2018
was you know first of all credit to the
d-triple-c they did a really great job
recruiting a lot of good candidates but
a lot of candidates also came from
non-traditional places and you know we
saw groups like run for something spread
out that recruited a whole bunch of
candidates from different from diverse
backgrounds and diverse professions and
have a different few points and stuff
like that and I do think that one like
Trump may have helped with Democratic
recruitment and particularly recruiting
candidates that don't always look like
typical Democratic candidates and I
think what we saw is the idea that you
know only some moderate white guy is
electable and a lot of these districts
was proven wrong by most of the
candidates that we feel the best at okay
so we're gonna wrap up on the house now
and shift over to the Senate Republicans
did a lot better in the Senate and part
of that is they had a better map but
when you look at places like North
Dakota Indiana and Missouri where
Democrats lost those seats is there some
type of change happening in the Midwest
that we have maybe missed or you know
were those Democrats lucky and being
elected under kind of Barack Obama being
president or you know either being on
the ticket or president at the time or
some might even say Claire McCaskill got
lucky in her last election with with her
opponent but are we missing something
there especially also if you want to add
in on this thinking about the south and
so again Stacey Abrams didn't win but
our work didn't win and neither did
Andrew Gilliam but they all got a lot
closer then you know people like Phil
Bredesen
so could you talk about some of those
dynamics maybe it's the type of
candidates maybe there's some kind of
geographical shift going on but yeah
what was behind the Senate being the way
it was
um so I feel when I came into the Senate
Canada especially when you mention
Claire McCaskill you know she wasn't an
exciting candidate you know and I would
say as like a moderate Democrat I think
that like in states where you're trying
to flip into a resaw you know that kind
of happened you need to have someone
who's going to sort of challenge more
and bring some sort of like energy to
make people actually want to come out
and vote and I think with one of the
races like in Mississippi with Mike Epps
be you know doblin I don't think people
are really were necessarily paying
attention to until like you know it
became time for like a recount and then
we saw who the person who was like
currently being senator which was Sydney
Cindy hyde-smith who you know yeah who's
now currently senator and so um and so I
feel like you know something to pay
attention to when it just comes to like
the Midwest and the south is that I
think you know we shouldn't
underestimate places and thinking that
you know talking about electability that
someone like a my cups feet wouldn't be
able to bring out like the votes but
definitely making it so that you know
we're doing something to make it where
people actually want to come out and
vote and something where it's gonna
energize it's the base and I just don't
know if in the Midwest those candidates
did that I think that's exactly right
and I think Canada quality in states
like that that have been slipping away
from us is hugely important and you know
one of my favorite things that a whole
bunch of DC pundits and reporters got
wrong is they would always say like what
are all these Democrats given their
money to better or work for and getting
all excited about better or work when
Phil Bredesen has a much better chance
of winning Tennessee because he's a
serious moderate conservative in a
conservative state and better work some
liberal running around in Texas and like
Phil Bredesen didn't even come within a
 country mile of winning that save
in better work did better than any
Democrat in like decades right but a
you think it mean it depends on the
state right I think the three states
where we lost uh put Florida side for a
second but the three states will be lost
by a larger margin Indiana Missouri and
North Dakota like Claire McCaskill Joe
Donnelly and Heidi Hyde camp
outperformed they had a larger vote
martyred a higher road percentage then
Barack Obama did in those states than
Hillary Clinton did in those states and
the only candidates that have gotten a
higher vote percentage in those states
in the last couple decades was the three
of them in there earlier races and all
three of them had much weaker opponents
back in 2012 or whenever they ran last
they had like you know Claire McCaskill
ran against Todd akin it was like a
complete disaster right so she had a
tougher point this time Claire McCaskill
got you know the same percentage of the
vote as Jason Kander did who you know I
think you know ran a very close race
last time around so there is a ceiling
for Democrats in some of these states
and it has to do with what I was saying
earlier which is just non-college
educated white voters who used to make
up I think they made up like a quarter
of Barack Obama's coalition in 2008 and
they are just slipping away from
Democrats now as they're slipping away
from Democrats college-educated white
voters are slipping away from
Republicans right like brocco bomb you
know all the candidates this time did
far better with college-educated white
voters than Barack Obama or Hillary
Clinton did so there's sort of this like
equal and opposite reaction here that's
getting polarized but in states where
there just aren't enough non-white
voters and college-educated white voters
like Missouri like Indiana like North
Dakota I think Democrats are gonna even
with exciting candidates Democrats are
gonna have a very hard time but their
only hope is to nominate really
inspiring candidate to try to juice
turnout as much as possible and one last
question around these Senate wins and
losses
why weren't Republicans able to and
maybe this was all Trump but in places
like Pennsylvania and Michigan where
Trump won and everyone was surprised by
it what happened there for for those and
even Wisconsin Tammy Baldwin didn't
really have a problem winning her real
action what happened with Republicans in
those states yeah this is the big this
is the big exception to sort of the non
college educated white slipping away
from the Democratic Party is in the
Upper Midwest states and some of these
northeastern states like Pennsylvania
and part of it is I think there is sort
of more of a democratic tradition
there's more of a Union tradition in
these states so Democrats like Tammy
Baldwin sherrod Brown and debbie
Stabenow and then the governors we have
reelected three governors in those
states Gretchen Whitmer in Michigan and
then in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin as
well and so you saw both like Hillary in
2016 suffered from a little lower
african-american turnout in those states
and then was crushed among non college
educated white voters oh she in 2018 the
candidates saw higher african-american
turnout and a lot of those non college
educated white voters those Obama Trump
voters came home to the Democratic Party
in those states but those days did act
differently than southern states and
then some of the Midwestern states out
more to the west I think you're also
just seeing like people that voted for
Trump in 2016 like his approval ratings
are just dropping in general and he's
losing his base and so I think there's
just like an overall sort of you know
losing interest and favorability around
those who voted for him in 2016 okay now
we're gonna do another shift into into
state elections do you to feel like you
are following state elections we can
take out the governors races but do you
feel like you were following like state
legislature races really closely we're
paying attention to you know Attorney
General there was like seven black
Attorney General's that were
and we're painted still like the
secretary of state races and I felt like
over all those races state oh no state
races don't necessarily get the same
shine national races but they do hold a
lot of power when it comes to you know
like we saw that bring it back to
Georgia we saw how important like the
Attorney General was and election when
it came to voter suppression just
protecting voter rights so we really
tried to reporting like focus and
highlight on educating our readership on
just you know who was running why these
rules are important and why people
should pay attention and then just like
with ballot initiatives as well just you
know what actual propositions were on
their ballot I think state elections are
actually a way to get people to turn out
to vote who maybe kind of turned off by
what's happening in DC and I think like
state elections can be a way to kind of
bring them back in by focusing on like
local more elections that couldn't
directly have an effect on their daily
life more immediately yeah I mean I am
now you know I wasn't 20 18 but I'll be
honest as long as I've been in politics
I didn't focus as much you know like you
said on the gubernatorial level you
would once in a while but you know it's
part of the Democratic Party's problem
for most of the Obama administration is
that we didn't focus enough on State
Legislative races and AG races Secretary
of State races and I think one reason
it's so important to focus on them now
and to get people excited about them is
you know we elected this really exciting
diverse Democratic House and
unfortunately they're not going to be
able to get much done until we get Trump
out of the White House so when you want
to go to voters and say you know you
want to vote for someone because they
actually do something for you because
they change your life in some way
because they pass a policy where can
that happen that can happen on the state
level and you know my favorite example
of this is the elections in Virginia in
2017 and because there was this sort of
like surge and turnout and organizing
and you know we came very close to
flipping the Virginia legislature and
you know Democrats picked up quite a few
seats because they did because we Ralph
Northam was elected governor Virginia
expanded Medicaid and now there's
200,000 people who will have health
insurance in Virginia who didn't before
and if you can go to voters and say yeah
if you care about the state legislature
race if you care about this Attorney
General rise if you care about the
Secretary of State race it's actually
gonna mean something to your life it's
gonna change your life in a meaningful
way that's how you're gonna get people
to participate in the process again so
why do you think people are not paying
attention do they not know do you think
the media should be playing a larger
role in getting people interested and
not only focusing on on national
politics yeah I think the media
definitely has like important role in
that because when it comes to elections
people are consuming what they're given
and so if you're getting most severe
information from cable news you know
state races aren't as glamorous and so I
think that it's up to us and media you
know to definitely make sure that we're
highlighting
races that are just national and there
are just like flashy
yeah I mean it's you know unfortunately
we live in a celebrity media culture
that focuses on individuals and you know
we can barely see anything but Trump and
you know I one of the things that I
think we all have to focus on is as we
look forward to 2020 you know we're
gonna have like 20-something Democrats
running for president we're gonna have
Donald Trump out there but you know we
still need to make sure we elect a
Democratic House flipping the Senate is
incredibly important and then there's
gonna be another batch of governorships
and state legislators that as you
pointed out in the presentation that we
can potentially flip and that's gonna
matter in a huge way to redistricting in
2021 I mean that can set the boundaries
for Congress for a generation so I just
want to take kind of go back in history
a little as we talk about state
legislatures not everyone was ignoring
down ballot races after the 2010
elections where Republicans were able to
kind of sweep in at every level they'd
ever stop paying attention to those
races so
what went to Democrats miss like did
they miss the memo what happened there
and do you think they're gonna start
paying attention to that now well I
think we know that answer no I mean one
thing Republicans have is they have
billionaires like the Koch brothers who
can go in and it doesn't cost as much
money to you know invest in a state
legislature race in a Secretary of State
race and they flipped a whole bunch of
seats by just pouring a whole bunch of
money in there and we don't we don't
necessarily have that on the Democratic
side so that's number one number two I
do think that just Democrats have this
happened under Bill Clinton it happened
under Barack Obama we first too long
just focus too much on the presidency
right and to a lesser extent Congress
and so we just and also when you have a
it is true that when you have a
president of of the same party you know
in the White House sort of the whole
party infrastructure revolves around
making sure that you reelect that
president and that's true for both
parties and for Democrats that meant
that the DNC and everything else was
sort of focused around Obama and
reelecting Obama in 2012 and by the way
because you know we needed a lot of
money to beat Mitt Romney in 2012
because he was out spending us so a lot
of the money goes up to the presidential
level and there's not as much focus on
the states and like you said I think
that's rectified now with the last bit
terms I think you saw you know DSA for
example really focusing and energizing
more unlikely elections on the state
level and so I think when you see sort
of the Democrats go to like a return to
grassroots organizing and really
focusing on not just the presidential
election but kind of reconnecting with
their base and especially progressives I
think you might see in the 2020 election
more of an effort to get some of these
seats on the state level so kind of at
another layer on top of the state
elections ballot initiatives we saw a
ton as I'm
during the presentation we had three
states past Medicaid expansion but these
weren't states that you would expect to
because if we expected them to their
legislators would have done it already
but voters took it upon themselves to do
it minimum wages minimum wage was
increased in in a couple states does it
tell us something about the voters
because again in some of these states we
also saw a conservative ballot measures
get through what does that tell us about
the voters as far as you know maybe the
level of attention they're paying to the
things they're not getting that maybe
other states are getting or what it says
about their desire to be involved and
kind of what their state looks like it's
in regards to the policies that are in
place that they get to directly I think
people are tired with how slower you
know legislative system is and so I know
people who weren't really excited to go
vote for a candidate but was really
hoping that proposition 10 passed so
that made them want to come out and so
you know when we look at things like
medical marijuana or the passage of like
amendment for like it is a way for
people to be able to sort of practice
direct democracy in a sense and I do you
think people like feeling like they have
more control over their life and they
have more control over decisions and
that you know they're actually doing
something that is possibly you know
making a direct change and so I think
that's kind of like where the drive and
you know for ballot initiatives are kind
of growing I'm really fascinated by
particularly the minimum wage ballot
measures and the Medicaid expansion
ballot measures that pass in very deep
red states because our Democratic
candidates who were proposing those
policies do not win there and Republican
candidates propose the opposite of those
policies and I think it tells you a few
things that you know Republicans and of
course they have an entire
our media infrastructure behind them to
help and now you know a sort of a media
goon and our president to help to are
very successful at demonizing and other
rising Democratic candidates and they
use racial resentment that use nativist
resentment and they fight to make these
elections when there are candidates on
the ballot about sort of this this
culture war right that's what Trump did
with the caravan that's what he did in
that last month but if left to their own
devices and you ask these you know a lot
of these like I said I'm
college-educated white voters barely
getting by if you ask them do you want a
higher minimum wage do you want health
care for your family do you want sort of
the government to step in and give you
and provide sort of the tools and the
resources to support your family they'll
say yes but somehow when a Democratic
candidate is attached to it they won't
and so it sort of shows like you know
how polarized how successfully polarized
the country is under Donald Trump how
he's been successful applause in the
country and you know I I don't I don't
know if Democratic candidates can sort
of overcome some of that some of those
racial resentments and nativist
resentments in those states at least in
states like Arkansas probably not but it
does tell you something about states
like Pennsylvania Michigan Wisconsin
that went to trump that sort of came
back to the Democrats in 18 does it tell
you something about and look a lot of
these candidates in 2018 allow these
Democratic candidates we haven't talked
about the ship but they all ran on
health care they had incredible message
discipline that if you really sort of
hit these economic issues and some of
these states you get some of these
voters back not all of them because why
some of them are lost for good but you
get some of them back maybe just enough
to reassemble the coalition that you
need do you think it's short-sighted in
any way or risky and I guess this could
be on both sides Republicans put
conservative ballot measures like in
North Carolina to to drive turnout
probably to try to protect themselves
from some of
the resentment against the party in that
state but do you think it's risky to go
the route of ballot initiative
especially thinking about what you just
said it's a better alternative to the
candidate because ultimately you do get
whatever policy you voted for in a
ballot initiative but you don't get an
elected official who's gonna then act on
one implementation of whatever that is
but also all the other policies you want
to see because you don't have an endless
list of ballot measures to create a
perfect world for yourself manning is
loading the deck you know I don't think
it should be the strategy to only you
know try to go through like ballot
initiatives but I do think that you know
and you know and sometimes where you'll
have a favorable by Lanisha tubs are
progressive that will pass but you won't
have progressive candidates actually
went yeah it's sort of a sign that that
the state government in that state is is
broken in some way or is at least to
gridlock to pass something right so it's
a it's a it's a decent substitute in a
lot of places but it's no substitute for
you know representatives in the
Statehouse that are more responsive to
the will of the people they'll be much
better so I'm just gonna ask a couple
more questions and then we're gonna open
it up to the audience so you all can ask
your question so you can be thinking
about those as I mentioned during the
presentation turnout was a lot higher
than it has been in other midterms well
I mean even we like directly tried to
participate in that with about save
America but what are some of the the
reasons be it Trump or like what are
some of those dynamics that got more
people to the polls and interested in
this midterm in a way that they've
hadn't been in the past I mean yeah I
think definitely was trauma you can't
kind of avoid that but I also just think
that there was a lot of like exciting
candidates and that even if they weren't
gonna be your representative like they
still made you interested in paying
attention
midterms and I think like the media you
know really definitely took more of a
proactive role in like covering the
midterms you know it felt like 2016 like
it felt like a presidential election
even though it was just my terms
and I just think that's overall because
of Trump you know he's kind of made
politics for better or worse something
that people more care about now
and I think you know people just really
were hoping that you know okay if we you
know switched and the Dems get the house
and maybe he can get impeached or just
like some kind of hope that voting and
2018 would make 2020 come closer yeah I
mean I think Trump triggered sort of an
equal and opposite reaction on the other
side and you know we've been talking
about this since we started crooked
media but you know Trump sort of
represents this national emergency and
the country responded like it was a
national emergency I mean you showed up
there and your slide like the idea that
in certain in a whole bunch of counties
turnout equals 2016 turnout some places
that surpass 2016 turnout which is
unheard I mean it was like you know like
I said the largest turnout is the best
turnout since 1914 and a midterm
election I think I think Trump did that
I think you're right that the media did
that I also think it was just a ton of
organizing on the ground and organizing
from you know the party apparatus but
also the indivisible is the swing laughs
the you know all these different groups
that came together that spread it up
around around the end like like Kansas
said like people came out to vote for
something on the Democratic side right
they were scared of Trump he probably
piqued their interest in politics it got
them nervous they were you know a lot of
people would have like walked over coals
to go vote to just vote against Donald
Trump but in addition to that and this
matters on the margins and a lot of
close races there were a lot of
candidates who are inspiring who who
told you know people that I want to go
out vote for that candidate so we just
kind of talked about a lot of the
dynamics behind a lot of the headlines
are there any things that were not in
the headlines that you thought should
have been covered or
weren't covered enough um I would say
posts midterms I think that we kind of
dropped the ball on covering the voter
suppression that was like so obviously
happening it was like after the like
week of midterms it's kind of just like
no follow-up you know where is the
accountability for you know Republican
Party or for some of these candidates
that might have you know help to aid
voter suppression or some of these
states that we saw where there were just
very clear examples of it so I think
moving forward and looking at 2020 that
like we can't just wait until it happens
and it's too late like really just
keeping an eye on you no one better
suppression is happening but also just
paying attention to like you know
redistricting and you know just
following these elections and like and
post election results longer than just
like the immediate aftermath of election
night um you know there was a lot there
was some coverage before the election
about the youth vote will young people
turn out well that well it turns out
that not only did young people turn out
and young people turn out in in greater
and a greater percentage than they had
in the past but the margins the
Democratic margins among now not just 18
to 29 year olds but 30 to 44 year olds
are just the unheard of we've never seen
anything like that before so now the
Republican Party has two generations
that they've lost you know they have
they have Millennials and they have Gen
Z and as we go into 2020 number one
young people turnout in greater numbers
in a presidential election than they do
in a midterm so Republicans are gonna
have to contend with that there'll be a
larger share of the electorate in 2020
than they were before because that
happens in presidential elections and
also young people will represent a
greater share of the electorate then
baby boomers for the first time in
twenty
and and look even among older voters in
2018 Republicans only broke even which
was something of a surprise as well and
so if they're gonna break even among
older voters they win the Boomers you
know guess the boomers and then and then
Democrats are winning crushing margins
among everyone from 18 to 44 that's a
huge problem for the Republican Party
final question 2020 any thoughts just
whatever you're thinking about it I mean
look I I think the Democrats should feel
no one should feel confident about
anything but they should feel somewhat
optimistic that you know look but the
good news is sort of the the map is set
from 2018 so the backdrop of the 2020
election is set because of what happened
in 2018 and you have to think to
yourself if people we're gonna turn out
in those margins to vote against Trump
in the midterm then in the in the in a
presidential election you know it's
gonna be hard and it's gonna also gonna
be hard to change the dynamic usually
when a president does poorly in a
midterm that president moderates in some
way they changed something in some way
part of part Lepard what happened after
because election night wasn't this like
decisive win and we didn't know it was a
decisive win until a week after is all
the Republicans just pretended that like
nothing went wrong and Donald Trump
pretended that nothing went wrong and
there's going to be zero course
correction between now and then and the
other good thing is he lost 40 seats
with 4% unemployment and that that has
never happened before right and so and
the economy's probably at its high point
as it was in the election right so it'll
either be the same or worse probably by
by 2020 and so it's gonna be hard for
that now on the tough side of the ledger
I do think the one thing that 20:18 told
showed us his Trump's voters show up and
one of the reasons that turnout was the
highest it's ever been is not just
because the Democratic turnout but
Republican turnout turn
and the idea that of some of these
Republican voters and Trump voters are
gonna feel the spirited they're gonna
stay home they did not stay home they
came out and so in a president
presidential election you're gonna see
higher youth turnout and higher African
American and Latino turnout but you'll
probably also see a higher turnout of
non college whites because non-college
educated white voters tend to not vote
as much in midterm elections too so
again you're gonna have both basis
probably turnout in 2020 and the
questions gonna be you know who can turn
out more their base and who can sort of
grab some of those independent Obama
trump voters and bring them to their
side I think it's very important if 2016
is it any lesson for the Democrats is
that you cannot just run on we're not
Trump like you have to give people
something to want to vote for and I
think depending how these next two years
are with the new freshman class and how
much people really deliver on you know
medicare-for-all and some of these
progressive policies I really energize
people to want to go but is gonna decide
whether or not people actually really do
continue to show in 2020
and so I think not resting on the fact
that you know Trump is bad enough
candidate to get someone elected making
sure whoever the DNC candidate is for
president at someone that you know
really represents the progressive basa
has felt like ignored in the 2016
election in making sure that lessons
from 2016 or something that we're
learning and not something that is lost
thank you can you give our guests
another round
[Applause]
so now the ushers if you just raise your
hand the ushers will come around with
microphones and you all can ask your
questions hi there
so since Trump was elected we've seen
obviously way higher levels of activism
than we have in the past
you know we had millions of people over
here hi millions people turn out to the
the women's March for instance you know
largest protests in American history
we've seen you know lots of people
canvassing making phone calls for the
midterms and I'm sure that will continue
into 2020 my question is though after
Trump is gone do you think that'll
continue do you think we have a new
dynamic now you know where people have
become activists they become more
engaged with politics or do you think
once Trump is no longer president things
will sort of return to normal I mean I
think we hadn't engaged sort of like you
know people protesting an active pre
Trump but I do think that we're seeing
like before Trump was elected you know
we had the black lives matter movement
we had occupied during Obama and so I
think now with Trump we're seeing sort
of like people who might have not cared
about what was happening and under the
previous administration sort of feel
more active and I think if Democrats
take you know the president's office in
2020 you're still gonna have people who
you know if issues like income
inequality racial inequality you know
aren't addressed in a real way that
you're still gonna have political unrest
I think that's gonna continue what
you're gonna what you might see is it
being less white people actually showing
up to some of these protests but as long
as there's still poor people and black
people black people being shot by cops I
think you're still gonna see that sort
of political brass continue yeah I mean
I don't know the answer to that but I
certainly you know I hope it's that the
activism continues and I think it's
incumbent upon everyone who cares about
this country and who has been part of
these marches to make sure that the
activism continues I you know as I look
back on the Obama administration one
thing I think about is in 2008 you know
all these young people came out to vote
to organize for the very first time but
there was still sort of this
transactional view of politics where
it's okay
Barack Obama is this really great
inspiring candidate I'm gonna hand him
my vote he's gonna go to Washington fix
everything in the country I can go back
to my life everything's cool and that's
obviously not about what happened right
and democracy is an everyday struggle
and I think and I hope what Trump has
taught us is that long after Trump has
gone there will be frustrations there
will be crises there will be things that
go wrong in government all the time it's
always gonna be like that it is never
going to be fixed but our job is to
constantly try to fix it and you know so
I I hope that's something that all of us
take away from that but that's gonna be
on us it's gonna be on us to persuade
people to do that and I do I do hope
that you know young people people who
are coming of age for the first time in
the Trump presidency I think you know
habits form when you're young and that
if democracy and activism is a habit
that you grow up with it you see Europe
that your parents teach you then it
hopefully is something that continues on
to adulthood so I do have hope for the
generation that is becoming really
active yeah hi thanks for your message
that you've given us tonight it's good
I've heard it said a number of occasions
that Trump didn't win
Hillary lost and when you asked them
what does that mean oftentimes they say
Hillary neglected the 55 year old
blue-collar out-of-work white man who
had been a staple of the Democratic
Party
since Franklin Roosevelt would you care
to comment on that oh and I mean a
footnote that if if the Democrats
continued to ignore that segment of the
population
they'll be at risk so did you have
anything you'd like to say about that
take that one cool cool
[Laughter]
so I think when you dig into 2016
we're sure you know we will be
relitigated right up until 2020 so
there's a lot of factors right that go
come into play obviously we've never had
an election where a hostile foreign
power interfered in the election on
behalf of one candidate that happened
and you know was it effective was the
social media campaign by the Russians
effective was the hack of Hillary's and
the DNC's emails effective you know we
can never know for sure but you think to
yourself okay publish your inbox
tomorrow while you're running embrace
see how that goes you know so so there's
that and it was ten as we're learning it
was targeted it was targeted towards
some of those Midwestern states where
there is a preponderance of non-college
educated white voters what white voters
older voters so there's that problem
there's also the fact that Hillary as
the first female major-party nominee
faced sexism undoubtedly true and so she
had to grapple with that and so there
was that that she had to deal with now
there's also the fact that she was
running against Donald Trump who
activated racial resentment in this
country it's not like he invented it it
was out there but and you know it was it
was maybe dormant in some voters and he
activated he he threw the gas on that
fire more than any Republican candidate
had ever done you know they were they
all engaged in dog whistles for a long
time
but Donald Trump brought the bullhorn
right I mean Donald Trump was a George
Wallace running for president and so you
know that helped as well so those are
all the things that Hillary faced now I
think that
you know would another candidate a
generic Democratic candidate have beat
Trump perhaps what Hillary also had was
ten twenty thirty years of baggage right
some her fault some not her fault a lot
not her fault
right but for better or for worse the
Clintons had been attacked had been
under the microscope for decades then
she runs a campaign where some of the
attacks from the left from Bernie
Sanders were then echoed by some of the
attacks from the right and so she had to
deal with that and so she was portrayed
as someone who was distant out of touch
and not paying attention to the economic
concerns of everyday people maybe the
Wall Street speeches paid played into
that maybe some of the Clinton
Foundation's stuff played into that
right again was it fair other people can
judge that a lot of it I don't think was
fair but the caricature that basically
that they painted of Hillary Trump the
Russians their poke ins was someone who
was very out of touch from the concerns
of everyday working people well okay so
everyone talks about Wisconsin right she
did not come she did not go to Wisconsin
you know where she did go Pennsylvania a
lot you know where she ran a ton of ads
Pennsylvania a lot she spent a ton of
money in Pennsylvania and she lost
Pennsylvania so you're right should she
gone to Wisconsin yeah she should've
gone to Wisconsin but when she tried
that in Pennsylvania it still didn't
work so then you have to ask yourself
was it about her travel schedule not
really when it came to Pennsylvania and
so I do think there was this caricature
of Hillary whether you know some of it
reals most of it imagined that she was
out of touch with no did she have a very
progressive economic policy she did in a
lot of places it was more progressive
than Barack Obama's policies and when he
won twice but that message never get out
there you're right like it never got out
to people that Hillary was concerned
about working-class problems and that's
an issue right is it her fault is it all
her fault at this point it doesn't
matter what we have to make sure of is
that the next Democratic nominee in 2020
has to have an economic message
that gets through that punches through
that connects with people and part of
that is look Donald Trump will go out
there and say something racist sexist
unbelievably offensive and what did the
Clintons do the Clinton campaign says
okay we got a hit back now sometimes you
do have to hit back because you can't
let Donald Trump run around saying
racist and not respond but the
problem is by doing that he sucks you
into his media ecosystem and so it's all
about Trump and his racism and his
nativism and his sexism and then the
other stories about how the Democratic
candidate responds to his and
we need to have a Democratic candidate
in a democratic strategy that operates
in a media ecosystem that is apart from
Donald Trump that doesn't always
necessarily respond to Donald Trump and
I'll tell you what was a good example of
this is you know the other night you
know Donald Trump like a week after
Elizabeth Warren announces for president
starts making fun of her he does the
Pocahontas thing he makes fun of her for
drinking a beer with her husband does
all these tweets you know it was great
about it Elizabeth Warren completely
ignored it she did not respond to it I
doesn't see a lot of Democrats online
respond to it the media didn't take the
bait everyone ignored Donald Trump for
once and it worked you know and so and
you see was Elizabeth Warren had it
dealt with it's early because she put
out this video to respond to the Native
American thing and I don't think that
went very well for her so fast forward
to her roll out and all she doesn't talk
about Donald Trump at all she talks
about her economic message she has a
fantastic rollout you know and so I do
think there's lessons to be learned from
what the Clinton campaign went through
in 2016 I think one of those lessons is
we have to have an economic message the
punches through okay so John I'd like to
take it back a second and disagree with
you on something according to findings
by the Pew Research Center the
Millennial Generation actually had the
highest number of voters in the United
States history greater than the baby
boomers in 2016 27 2016 2016 yes
however they didn't show up to vote
absolutely right 50 percent it was
terrible disaster however they did show
up to vote in 2018 and I want to know
why you think that is and how we
continue that momentum and keep young
people engaged yeah
I mean I think I think it's a little bit
what we were what we've been saying
tonight right is some of it was you know
politics is something that happens
somewhere else I'm not interested
Barack Obama was a cool guy who was
president for two terms I like him
I still feel like I'm facing crushing
debt he didn't fix that politics didn't
fix that and so in 2016
I see Hillary Clinton oh she doesn't
seem to be speaking to me there I don't
know maybe I like her too but I don't
know if she can fix it either does it
really matter you know there's a lot of
that right so then Donald Trump points
in everyone's like oh okay so this
is bad so part of it is Donald Trump
sort of awakens this generation and part
of it is they had like we said
candidates who inspired them who they
went out to vote for and you know David
Plouffe who ran both of Obama's
campaigns always says you need to have a
candidate who you are willing to sort of
stay up all night knock on doors make
phone calls till your bone tired
due up you need to be so excited about
this candidate that you are willing to
do anything for this person if you're
working on the campaign if you're an
organizer and that requires a really
exciting candidate and that's why you
know people oh you guys paid so much
attention to all these candidates that
lost like Beto and Stacey Abrams Andrew
Gilliam because those three candidates
white guy african-american woman African
American dates excited a whole
generation of people so many people were
excited about this case and that matters
that inspiration and excitement that
they got those volunteers to knock on
doors and to do grassroots fundraising
all those kind of stuff that hugely
matters especially in a close election
and so I do think when we think about
who we're gonna nominate in 2020 and
can't just saying this like it has to be
someone who inspires that cohort of
people and I think that's more that's
more important than what the resume is
what they've done what the record all
this kind of stuff like they need to be
qualified they need to know their
they need to have their message down but
that quality that sort of intangible
quality of excitement inspiration that
has to be there I just I think also you
know Democrats went back to something
they didn't like to
with Obama's election was just like
grassroots organizing I think that was
just like a really that's something that
more connects to younger generations and
I think that's something that definitely
brought more people out hi John I wanted
to touch on pod save America in this new
digital space we're seeing which is
public radio and its effects on the
midterm elections its role in the 2020
elections and public radio is a little
bit less Universal than cable news in
traditional news websites so how does
platforms like pots of America and all
the other shows on Cricut media reach
non democratic voters yeah that's
something that we were working out all
the time
no it's tough because you know you grow
a podcast audience to a certain point
and then you still realize that it's a
small percentage of people who are even
listening to podcast right and so you
need to reach beyond that I think you
know as we're as we look ahead to like
where we're gonna go next and what our
what our content strategy is we're
constantly looking at other platforms
like whether it's radio whether it's
television I mean we had that you know
HBO special we're trying to do more and
video and so we are constantly trying to
figure out sort of where you know
whether it's working with snapchat or
Instagram like we're trying to meet
voters where they are right and
especially to go to new places as part
of it part of this is to you know we're
going on tour again and we try to make
sure we go to red states so you know
we're our first first swing is we're
going in New Orleans and we're going to
Louisiana we're gonna Charleston South
Carolina we're going to Durham North
Carolina we're gonna go to Salt Lake
City this year so we are trying to go to
places that are in redder States so we
can expand the audience but look I do
think whether it's us whether it's other
progressive media in general it is key
to sort of reach beyond just people who
live in cities to other voters that said
the Democratic as we were talking about
tonight the Democratic coalition
is clustered in cities and suburbs
whether they're in blue states are red
states and so though that is the
audience that we're trying to reach and
energize and sort of the swing voters
are the one sort of on the outskirts of
the suburbs it's sort of the exurbs so
you got to try to figure out a way to
get to them as well
and to get to young people too because
we haven't talked about this a lot but
one of the most important cohort cohorts
to reach is non voters right people who
think like us who have our values who
believe what we believe but maybe you
don't think that politics is for them or
that politics can make a difference in
their lives and I think that's the most
important thing to do because you know
when you're talking about that 55 year
old voter who is a trump voter now and
may be used to vote Democrat but voted
for Trump still didn't vote for Democrat
Democrat in 2018 you're probably gonna
have a much harder time reaching that
voter than to grab a young voter and say
you know politics actually can make a
difference in your life please register
to vote and you know we'll show you that
it matters so we're just gonna take two
more questions from whoever the two
people who have the mics are now but
Candace did you want to talk some about
the work that blabbity is doing just to
get folks engaged and gravity politics
yeah so in what blabbity politics we're
focusing on you know providing news and
information to audience of mostly you
know Millennials just highlighting
people of color and black politicians
and we're focusing on issues everything
from tech policy to criminal justice to
immigration you know of course 2020 in
presidential election we have an
Instagram page you know because we most
Millennials and Gen Z also getting their
news from social media so we have our
Instagram page i blab into politics and
their daily newsletter where you can get
you know stuff that's not just the
what's going on Russia but other news
that you can go to if you go to our
website at blobby do you can sign up for
and so if the next two questions could
both be asked and then we'll let them
answer it and wrap up all right so so my
question is
this I was paying attention during the
last election to issues relating to
voting machines to jurisdictions closing
down and limiting the number of polling
location locations within the states to
secretaries of state putting
misinformation on their websites about
where to vote and in Florida the
problems of where they placed the
gubernatorial selection at the bottom of
the page so that people missed it and
then Broward County not turning in votes
on time to be counted and I think if I'm
not mistaken that in Broward County it's
Democrats that run that election office
and in places where everything's run by
Republicans maybe there's nothing we can
do but isn't there something we can do
about making our democratic election
officials competent to count the damn
 votes excuse my language
that's my question well just get yours
and then we'll have them answer both of
them it's a basic question about the way
the campaigns go Hillary had a lot of
different positions and so on and like
you said she was actually more
progressive than people realized why
don't they do what Trump did you keep it
very simple like the basic KISS
principle keep it simple stupid you have
some key things that you want to push
you may have other things but keep the
message simple but then people will
remember it versus most of her positions
were lost in all the different things
that she said you know she said go to
the website but she had many different
things in it which were good for for
most people even for fit people who were
55 but it got lost that's the basic
thing it's got to be something people
remember like the wall
yes no look it is um it's very it's
hopeful that you know we've seen
proposals like medicare-for-all like a
grand new deal you know emerge over the
last year or so it's great because they
are bold progressive policies that will
answer the challenges that we face it's
also great because they are simple
elegant policies that are easy to
understand I think as Democrats it's
sometimes it's very easy for us to you
know we like governing right that's our
thing
Republicans don't don't don't like
governing quite as much and so we dig
into our policy papers and our ten-point
plans and our white papers and you know
we want to be responsible and make sure
you pay for everything that everything's
increment that it works and I get that
and I think there's a level of
responsibility there that is important
to have and we shouldn't just be like
make up like they make up we
don't we don't need to do that but I do
think that you're right we can be we can
have policy big policy ideas that are
simple elegant easy to understand and
then hammer those home now look the
challenge is the media the media does
not like to cover your policies all that
much the media likes to cover the
garbage that a lot of the media covers
and so it's a challenge and so I think
Democratic communication strategies has
to figure out ways to go around
traditional media sometimes and to get
their message out you know Dan Pfeiffer
always says this it's like if you're a
communications director on a democratic
campaign like you know 20% of your job
should be dealing with reporters and 80%
of your jobs should be figuring out how
you get the message out in any way
possible in any medium possible and I
think the next Democratic candidate
should probably do that and I think
you're seeing that happen right now with
the new sort of politicians I've just
kind of taken just you know yeah one
they're definitely being schooled and
learned in like social media and like
you know you saw that with AOC in the
where's Mitch and how that really
started trending and catching on and
people started making memes and I think
you know really Trump was good at use
social media in the same way that Barack
Obama was really good at using social
media um in 2008 and I think Dems kind
of like lost out in 2016
and now you're definitely seeing more
even with like the car DB video and then
Chuck Schumer and other senators been
like should I retweet it you know like
that was them trying to catch on to like
engage and so I think you're seeing like
sort of that branding of more just
directly going to the people and kind of
like trying to miss out on that echo
chamber of like the media happening now
and I don't want to miss this question
about our Democrats making sure they are
running elections right yeah I mean if a
Democrat if we have a Democrat in charge
of local elections and they're you know
coming up with ballots where people
can't figure out who to vote for yeah
they should be in that job we should we
should make sure that we have democratic
election officials who are doing a good
job yes Broward County man oof oh it's
always something so we're gonna wrap up
there but if you could just give our
panelists one more round of applause and
thank you all for coming out tonight
[Applause]
