it turns out and you may have missed
this but there was a big milestone in
Avengers : and game this movie broke
barriers this movie had the first openly
gay character in a Marvel movie who was
gay you asked did Thor grab a hammer did
Iron Man man some iron did Hawkeye catch
some arrow did Loki finally stop being
so Loki did carol danvers get to let out
like she clearly was supposed to do and
Captain Marvel but they were too
 no culmination of a decade
of films a grand finale a sweeping epic
that began when we first found out that
Robert Downey jr. was going to be
playing Ironman and we all said to
ourselves okay sure I don't know the
first openly gay character and a Marvel
movie is in one group therapy scene
where Joe Russo the straight director
played a powerless character just some
guy who is sad okay he talks about going
on a first date with someone and Joe in
the character of a gay man says
something like I think I may see him
again and the the clouds part and the
trumpets play and we have learned that
this insignificant unremarkable four
basically nameless character is the
first openly gay character in a Marvel
movie because he went on a same-sex date
off screen
I want to read a quote from Joe Russo
about this where he was asked by The
Hollywood Reporter about the scene he
said representation is really important
to us in these movies and I think the
thing we are happiest most about Marvel
moving forward is it's becoming
incredibly diverse we've done four of
these films and it was incredibly
important to us it was incredibly
important to us to have a gay character
represented somewhere in one of these
four movies we felt so strongly about it
that I wanted to play the character in
the film thank you so much maybe there
was supposed to be a gay superhero but
the studio stopped them maybe there was
supposed to be a more substantial gay
character but it was blocked maybe it is
incredibly important to them but this
scene is not proof of that to me it is
proof of the opposite of that when I was
14 I could have really used a gay
superhero in a blockbuster film and I
think now there are a lot of gay kids
that could really use a gay superhero in
a Marvel movie they could right now and
and all these billions of dollars later
all the patting ourselves on the back of
that how far we've come all the suppose
at liberalism of Hollywood all the fund
raisers for Democrats and all the talk
Marvel has refused to be there for those
fans in these movies that's just the
truth how many movies is gonna take
before Marvel has a gay superhero in
these movies to me this first openly gay
character in a Marvel movie is a sign of
how far we have to go how cowardly
corporations can be and how dangerous it
is when so few of them control so much
of the media we consume it is 2019 and
we will take to the streets if we must
but we will say it the guys in these
movies are very hot
and it's time they each other it is
a chant I have led led before let them
 let them let them let
them I got a thousand Texans
calling for gay sex in a Marvel movie
America is ready
[Applause]
[Music]
