now it's time for a game called okay
stop a roller clip and the panel can say
okay stop at any point to comment this
month Facebook finally got around to
banning right wing right nationalists
and conspiracy theorists like Alex Jones
Paul Joseph Watson and Milo rhinoceros
this goes a long way to protecting
people like the parents of Sandy Hook
victims that are constantly badgered by
the sociopaths and their followers but
Tucker Carlson who is basically now just
Infowars that has been face tuned not
fans doesn't think this is a good thing
let's take a look recommendations and
discovery surfaces aren't highlighting
groups where people are repeatedly
sharing misinformation or harmful
content and we're working hard to
completely remove groups if they exist
primarily due to violate our policies or
or do things that are dangerous
who knew fascism could be so chirpy
groups that do things that are dangerous
what does that mean dangerous like
hurting other people
yes like I don't know why there's I
think I can't really watch Fox this is
like the only fox news I'll watch for
like years
this is violence even just making me
watch this but they're constantly just
like questioning like making they're
gaslighting you and like dangerous what
does that mean like danger like they're
constantly just questioning words that
we already know Mark Zuckerberg is not
simply censoring opinions
he's prescribing which political
opinions neural okay stop I feel like
someone needs to explain the First
Amendment to Tucker Carlson the way we
have to explain Facebook to our parents
like how is he just as wrong about that
it's like no no you you typed what you
were searching into your status update
no censorship is when the government
does it it's not censorship when you
kick white nationalists off Facebook
well it's also one of the things we've
heard I think from Twitter
there was a story that looked at
Twitter's internal deliberations about
how to manage hate on their platform and
what they said is they have this problem
which is it's hard to off platform white
nationalists without catching some
Republicans in the net like it's like
how when they're like it's like dolphin
free tuna wait a minute why is it like
there's they really didn't know how to
build a net that wouldn't catch a bunch
of bottlenose Republicans with
the racist white nationalist tunas and
then all of a sudden you got you got
flipper on the decks of your ship and
he's like I'm in Congress this is I'm
supposed to be allowed even though I'm
also crazy but this speaks to the
problem that Twitter was identifying
which is the second Facebook decided to
get rid of some of the most despicable
voices in global word use an interview
in human conversation all of a sudden
these guys were like how can they do
that they're getting rid of voices
they're they're censoring conservatives
it's been liberals for a very long time
who've been saying hey conservatives
there's a racist fringe that's part of
your movement and you're like you think
we're all racists you say terrible
things about us we're not racist we just
support policies that culminate in
systemic racism for generations and then
the second we try to say hey hold on a
second let's cut off the worst elements
of the far-right these are the these
supposedly acceptable conservatives
throw the biggest fit in the
world interesting even mind that nobody
voted for Mark Zuckerberg he's 34 years
old
he's completely cut off from reality
okay so that's what we're talking about
kind of a movement that has said that
private companies and corporations
should have the ability to do whatever
they want be unregulated
and have no government interaction with
what they're doing but now they're mad
about a private company doing everything
one having no government regulation on
them and cutting off what they're saying
they're doing so you know to me the
hypocrisy John it's the hypocrisy no
it's it's the hypocrisy for sure it's
also yeah can we talk about the
hypocrisy of Tucker Carlson accusing
someone else of being cut off from
reality also yeah he's saying this from
a windowless glowing room don't worry
these people aren't terrifying or
anything so the question is who exactly
is defending us
in all of this us who might dissent from
Mark Zuckerberg view or think that NBC
News maybe doesn't tell the whole truth
all the time
we're don't trust Mark Zuckerberg to
control what we think what about us
who's standing up for us where our
leaders in Congress work okay stop this
is you this is it you're it you're us
you're you have millions of people
you're standing up for them you have a
voice you're on Fox News everybody night
one of the reasons Fox News is
metastasized is because of
Facebook the incredible reach of people
like Tucker Carlson is one of the
greatest and most powerful and awful
forces in all of American politics if
not global politics you are powerful you
reach people you're fine you're speaking
right now empowered by one of the most
welcomed by one of the wealthiest
families on planet Earth
and one of the most important and
powerful media institutions on planet
earth and yet every night he goes to
these poor people I should rephrase that
people who watch his show to feel this
sense of grievance to feel this sense of
attack before they get in their golf
carts and ride up to dinner at five
 thirty
[Applause]
[Music]
