welcome to pod save America I'm Dan
Pfeiffer joined in studio today by South
Bend Indiana mayor Pete Buda judge and
current Democratic presidential
candidate thanks for having me
thanks for being here all right let's
start with the question of running for
president I'm always fascinated by how
people come to the decision to run what
went into your thinking to do that I
mean the way I see it you you look at
the office in what it calls for any
office and then you look at what you
bring to the table and you see if
there's a match and that's over the
course of my life that's a process
that's led me to run for office several
times in its process it's led me to not
run for office several times but well I
look at the presidency now and I get at
the age of 37 as a mayor in the Midwest
this is not an obvious move but what I
see is a moment when there is tectonic
change going on in the country I'm to
the extent that even now we're probably
under reacting and I also see a moment
when people want something entirely new
I see my parties struggling to connect
with places like the industrial Midwest
where I'm from I see a moment that's
kind of crying out for generational
change at a moment when three out of the
last four presidents were born within a
few weeks of each other in the summer of
1946 and I see an appetite for bold
ideas and structural ideas that I think
maybe come more naturally to a mayor
somebody has a kind of problem-solving
mentality we need different kinds of
voices in the mix right now and I think
you know belonging to the generation as
a millennial I think I made the cut by a
few weeks being a millennial but but I
do feel like I belong to the the school
shooting generation you know I was in
high school when Columbine happened the
generation that is going to be dealing
with things like climate change for the
rest of our lives and I think we need to
be putting forward leaders and that
includes at the highest levels of US
politics is there a particular part of
your life experience whether it's
service in the military or your time as
mayor or in business and all the other
things you've done that you think best
prepares you for that role any number of
those things I mean you you always bring
your experience and all the combinations
of things that have happened in your
life to the table right but I think in
particular there's several experiences
in my life not just political but
personal that helped me understand
what's at stake in
politics today because I think part of
the problem with politics is has become
this this game this kind of Horror Show
that's playing out on cable on twitter
we're mesmerized by this Washington
thing that's happening that that
actually decouples it from the reason
why politics actually matters the reason
we have politics the reason we care
about it which is that it impacts our
everyday life in the most intimate ways
so my experience as a mayor Tunes me to
that because I know that decisions we
make on everything from policing policy
to you know wastewater effects how
everyone's life in the city including me
will go I understand it as somebody
whose marriage exists by the grace of a
single vote on the US Supreme Court
like what's at stake in the most
important parts of our lives as a
consequence of political decisions I
understand it as somebody who was sent
to war on the orders of a US president
that these things are not theoretical
they are personal they're intimate and I
think all politics is is local
especially national politics but more
than that all politics is personal and I
mean president is a job yeah it is a
incredibly difficult job right there's a
lot about you know like the moment in
time and the person but the end of the
day and I think I was very fortunate to
spend six years working in that building
you have to manage a government make
incredibly complicated pretty shitty
decisions but on an hourly basis and you
know I presume and you went through the
process of deciding to run wasn't just
like can I win you look yourself in the
mirror and said can if I were to win can
I do the job right and and again
especially sitting with somebody who
worked in that building I'm mindful of
the audacity of frankly anybody thinking
they can just walk in there and do it
right I mean I think there is some
extent to which any of us needs to be
humbled by the the dimmest understanding
of the demands of that role and yet
every person who's walked into that job
has been a mortal with some set of life
experiences and I think the experiences
that I have and I get also that as the
youngest guy in the mix it's kind of
cheeky to be talking about experience
but the experience of a mayor of a city
of any size but especially a strong
mayor system like we have where there's
no city manager right I get the call on
anything it could be a development issue
that's playing out in slo-mo
or it could be a racially explosive
officer-involved shooting and I got to
get on television in a matter of hours
and bring people together and the theory
of executive government that I've landed
on as a mayor is that there's three
parts to this job one is to pass and
implement a good policies two is to
capably run an administration and three
the the most intangible but maybe the
most important is to call people to
their highest values and bring people
together when they're being torn apart
or when the the community is coming
under some kind of strain and I actually
think that map's rather naturally I mean
I get that there is a radical difference
in scale but it Maps fairly naturally
from being a mayor of a city that's
going through a lot of struggle to this
office compared to let's say the
legislature roles and I don't mean any
disrespect for the US Congress but you
look it's okay it's it's a very popular
position I've just respect to the US I
mean I do think we'd be better off if
Congress started looking more like the
community of American mayors and
steadily the other way around I also
think that that look you could be a
senior member of the Senate and have
never in your life managed more than a
hundred people never had that experience
of alternating between you know policy
development and incident command in a
matter of minutes or of having the the
final frontline responsibility for
bringing people together in tents and
difficult moments and do you you know
I've heard you talk about you sort of
your preparation for president and the
context of Donald Trump right do you
which I totally get like the dog she was
seen running around this office hour
pass prepared to be presidents Donald
Trump but when you like I kind of want
to get to the question of like I don't
like I worked for Barack Obama when he
was running for president against
Hillary Clinton and all these people
with you know I'm quoting his vice
president reminded a lot more experience
in him and I I do agree with you in the
sense that like business like serving in
the Congress is about as useful of being
president as like your political science
degree is we're going into politics like
on the first day you're like oh but
there is still this I am curious about
how hard a decision was it to decide
that you were ready for
this like dude did you have to wrestle
with that in a long way both both
running for president given as you point
out the audacity of it yeah but also the
you know the hope and you know perhaps
fear that you could win yeah I mean you
know every really major decision you
make I think is a decision if you're
given enough time to make it properly
that is kind of iterative if you you
take your time thinking through you
picture a lot of different worlds and
this is a world where if you do win you
basically become the property of the
United States for the rest of your life
it's not a small thing for me or for
tastin to think about but I also think
that you know in the same way that that
is a as a mayor by definition you're a
resident of your city you're dealing
with the consequences of the decisions
you make as a citizen I have so much on
the line in the future of this country
and again I think my entire generation
does and you can't you can't just sit by
and watch these things happen
I get the gravity of it I get the
intensity of it at least to the extent
that you can without having actually
done it and I also think that one of the
reasons we seem to have hit a nerve that
the the rooms even in our first few
weeks of doing this in in Iowa New
Hampshire are are full of people more
than we had expected is that we've hit a
nerve with a message that is
substantively I think a little different
and certainly a different vocabulary
than what the others offer it is that is
the substance and the vocabulary our
product of the age difference do you
think the generational difference may be
I mean part of it I think is coming from
the industrial Midwest in just a
different way of talking part of it is
the vocabulary you're used to having
when you're a mayor and you got to make
sure you take the most complex things
and have a way of rendering them you
know in plain English but also just a
generation I think that watched the way
that conservatives absolutely dominated
American politics to the point where
even Democratic presidents we're doing
basically conservative things because
they understood the need to fight at the
level of values and win of values and
ideas argument and on our side of the
aisle as much as we like to think of
ourselves as the intellectual party the
truth is I think our policies were less
connected to our values in our
philosophies than theirs well we
developed evoke
Cabul airy of policy you know we
explained who we were and candidates and
races kind of fought to impress each
other through a policy arms race without
ever really engaging on the values issue
and that's how I think we lost the
debate over freedom and what freedom
means in this country you know to the
point that I think there for years it
was viewed as kind of Pro freedom to be
anti-government as though freedom from
government was the only one that
mattered when you know in my life you
know my freedom was enhanced by a lot of
things that happened in the Obama
administration that were the
consequences of good policy I'm freer
because because of the freedom to marry
and if you take it back over a 50-year
period my family experienced a lot of
freedom because Medicare exists and when
my parents were having health issues we
were free to think about what was right
for them medically not who's gonna pay
for it so big arguments like that that
we just for some reason sort of stopped
having some time in the 90s when we
figured that the way to win was to just
check on their policies and see if our
policies could be halfway there
versus thinking about how our policies
linked up to what we our core values and
what we believed in I think that's a
good transition to sort of a
conversation about what you would do as
president right and so like it is easy
in a presidential camp is everywhere but
it is the president's command people are
gonna ask you like are you for X are you
for y you for Z and you you answer that
question you fill out a questionnaire
you put out a white paper but if you
were to win right the question there's a
huge question about prioritization right
right the you will the easiest bill
you'll ever pass and it may not be that
easy will be the first one right there
like that is when you have the most
political capital you're the most wind
at your back have you thought about what
the first thing you would do the first
legislative endeavor you would take as
president would be I think the first
thing you have to do is move on
democratic reform it's kind of the way
this Congress decided rightly to start
in the house side on HR 1 and it's not
because I have any illusion that that's
one of the easier things to do or even
though some of the things we need to do
can happen quickly I mean we're talking
about building a cathedral on some of
these reforms when it comes to what it
might take to reverse citizens united or
to do way who the electoral college or
to have more a deep politicized Supreme
Court but I think you launch that on day
one as a signal that we're living in a
time when we've got to fix the engine of
our democracy because every other issue
that I
from gun violence to climate change
isn't going to get better as long as our
democracy is this warped and I think our
country has lost the muscle memory of
how to handle structural reforms which
is odd because 40 years ago you had
people like senator Birch Bayh from
Indiana you know not exactly a far-out
kind of guy but authoring constitutional
amendments right and left
you know the 25th amendment which might
come in handy one day changing the
voting age also things that didn't make
it through like electoral college reform
which I'm still for like the Equal
Rights Amendment but they were doing
these things because they knew that we
needed to work on the the very basics
the kind of bones of our democracy in
order to make anything else go well and
I think we need to remind people that
that level of intellectual ambition
needs to be part of our agenda so we can
talk about any number of issues I mean
to me you know within the sort of
traditional issue buckets climate is the
one that demands immediate urgent
national emergency level attention but I
think the first thing you do coming out
of the gate is a package of reforms to
make our democratic republic more
democratic and I think it from the way
you described that that some of those
things would be things that could happen
right now like similar to the package
the House Democrats have been working on
around voting rights etc and some of it
is also an argument around bolder ideas
that may not may require constitutional
amendment may not be able to happen
right now what would be the sort of
things that you would try to like they
could happen right in this moment right
like what are the priorities of that
package yeah I mean again a lot of this
we had a template in HR want right I
mean things like automatic voter
registration I think is a no-brainer
things like making it anything that
makes it easier for US citizens to vote
if only so that we don't wind up also
being one of those rare generations that
would see the u.s. become less
democratic on our watch and I think we
have a responsibility to prevent that
it's why we have to have a discussion
about Election Day being a day off we
have to have easier access to early
voting right now some of the stuff is
pretty basic and by the way pretty
popular the other thing that I think is
really a signal of how warped our
democracy is is the number of things
where Americans get it and Congress can
do it and that's where I do think
leadership from The Oval Office just a
moral leadership of reminding everybody
that these things are ok to talk about
that it's ok to ask whether we have the
right set up on the supreme
court or whether the house has the right
number of Representatives or whether the
US has the right number of states which
by the way it doesn't do you mean DC and
Puerto Rico or DC for sure Puerto Rico
look the Puerto Ricans have has some
decisions to make but but even there I
think on day one I would make the case
that they should at least have a voice
in the electoral process for the
presidency and you know you you have you
sort of raised these you know these are
like you talked about court packing so
let's you know you've raised that
prospect what are you specifically like
you have a specific proposal of how you
would do that and what would your
response be to the people who argue that
that were sort of headed down this
inedible path of like the decline of
governing norms that's exactly what we
got to do something about so to me the
question is less you know do do we in
February 20 19 mm figured out more that
we should in the course of this 2020
campaign have a debate over this central
objective that is to prevent the Supreme
Court from continuing on this trajectory
to become basically ruined by being a
naked ly political institution so to me
that you know this idea of adding
justices is one way to do it it may
actually not be the most compelling way
to do it I mean I'm interested in a
policy where you would have five
appointees of Republicans and five of
Democrats on a 15 member Court and where
you get the other five from is a
consensus of the other ten which has to
be unanimous that's one way to reduce
what's had the political stakes another
way to do it is to rotate people up from
the appellate bench by the way some of
these things could probably be done
statutorily I'm not a constitutional
scholar but I'm told that some of these
things would not require change to the
Constitution just like you know the
number of justices today is not set in
the Constitution the point is not do
week or PAC do we not core PAC the point
is what do we do to stop this from
becoming a political institution where
every time there's a vacancy you have
this apocalyptic ideological battle that
makes the court and the country as a
whole worse off in even under the most
optimistic electoral
the next Democratic president yourself
for instance would is going to have a
democratic house with a majority maybe
similar the one we currently have and a
senate majority of one or two votes
right yeah and which as long as the
filibuster still in place means that
besides the one bill a year that you can
do under arcane rules under budget
conciliation you're gonna need 60 votes
to do anything would you urge the Senate
Democratic leader to get rid of the
filibuster I think we have to have that
on the table I mean I think that's a
conversation you definitely want to have
with the Senate leadership but look our
sense of fair play as a party has come
back to bite us so many times and at the
same time we can't become the thing that
we're fighting we can't emulate the the
current majority leadership which I
think views all of what's going on in
politics strictly as an exercise of
power it's one of the reasons why what
I'm trying to do is return the focus of
our political debate to everyday life
and the impacts on it and I think we can
see very clearly the effectiveness of
that strategy in what happened with the
ACA you know I was running for statewide
office in Indiana in 2010 that sucked
because we were getting absolutely
destroyed over the ACA right why because
it was a theoretical thing and so they
could have these town halls and talk
about death panels and all this crazy
crazy stuff without a lot of
accountability so eight years later ACA
goes from a toxic issue for us to the
winning issue for us and I think what
changed the politics on that was that
people actually experienced it and so at
that round of town halls you had
ordinary people talking about their
lives they're getting in the faces of
these Republican members of Congress
saying hey this is how I get insurance
this is why my life got better and and
you can't take this away from me and
turns out is very hard to lie to
somebody about their actual real
everyday life so I think that provides a
template for how we need to talk and
think how we need to create pressure on
senators no matter what party they're
from or what state they're from to do
the right thing because if we're at a
moment where I'm we're about to see this
again with the universal background
checks right moves through the house
likely to die in the Senate even though
90% of Americans I think something like
80% of
publicans like actual people not
Republican Congressmen think it's a good
idea at a certain point that you can
bring that to a breaking point where
people can only be so far out of step
with the consensus of the American
people now some of its reinforced by
things like redistricting but some of it
also I think can be used by skillful
politics from The Oval Office to create
healthy pressures on if not on the
conscience then I least on the
self-preservation instincts of
Republican members of the Senate in the
Congress I mean that is someone who saw
what this like take guns for instance I
saw I was in the White House when the
Senate failed to get the 60 votes
necessary to pass background checks
after Newtown and the issue has never
been you know had more wide support than
it did then and while I'm sure the
president and his staff at the time you
know probably could have made there are
things we could have done differently
but there there is a sort of structural
problem right with polarization with the
just the general way in which Republican
states are getting more Republican is
you know as someone from Indiana and so
like what like how do you specifically
do that is it like it's like that's the
thing that I'm curious to hear prisoners
are can't talk about which is how do you
either break that cycle or find some
extra legislative or extraordinary way
to get beyond it because like I'm not
like the usual political incentives that
worked decades ago don't work yeah but
again I don't think the solution to this
is tactical I think this is where we
need to think about winning not just one
legislative fight or for that matter one
election how do we win the era right a
40-year conservative era has come to an
end and what's about to happen next we
don't know yet it could be anything from
an enlightened era of social democracy
to this kind of proto fascism that we're
starting to see evolve in a lot of ways
what happens in the next probably five
years I think decides what happens in
the next 40 but I think everything we do
including just the conduct of the
presidential election in 2020
irrespective of the outcome which is
obviously extremely important but even
the conduct begins to lay the playbook
for how America moves and this is why
I'm always harping on ideas like a kind
of progressive grounders
freedom or a 21st century account of
security because what you saw happened
in the 60s was Republicans and
conservatives who were absolutely just
on the edge began to say and do things
that change the terms of the debate not
right away right people like Goldwater
got clobbered but they paved the way for
people like Reagan and if we want to be
smarter on our side about this it can't
just be about how we figure out our
tactical lay down for an individual
legislative fight it's how do we make
sure that the center in America moves
closer to where it actually ought to be
and the classic test case for this is a
whole debate over socialism right so you
know we reached the point where even a
conservative invention like the ACA
cooked up at the Heritage Foundation and
piloted by a Republican governor came to
be characterized as socialism which is
the moment when I think the word really
did lose all meaning once that happened
some people came out actually talking
about socialism in favorable terms and
it just changed the range of motion of
the debate that we were having so you
didn't have to embrace what you know
Bernie was talking about to appreciate
the fact that he reminded everybody of
what a true left-left position actually
is and I think that's the project that
you know in the middle of all the the
what the tactician czar doing to get
through this or that legislative
gunfight that's what we actually have to
have our eyes on and that should filter
through into how a president behaves how
every single one of the 20 20 candidates
behaves and what kind of conversation
we're having in the media space - and we
when you say the 40 year conservative
era is coming to an end like what brings
it to the end is it it's ended yeah I
think what brings it to an end is a
hostile takeover the Republican Party by
a president who does not even have an
ideology who literally does not care I
mean I think you know the only question
now is the extent to which he's in on
the joke or not but that doesn't mean
that the conservative era gives way to a
progressive era it just means that our
politics right now is totally scrambled
the US doesn't have a foreign policy
it's not even clear whether there are
terms for a foreign policy debate and on
the domestic side anything goes I mean
you have people who near
down ideologically their choices for
president Bernie Sanders and Donald
Trump right we're at a moment where it
is just completely beyond what the old
left center right map or the Democratic
Republican tradition can explain and
we've got to recognize the seriousness
as well as the sort of fertility of that
moment to craft a new politics actually
gonna make sense for the next 50 years
and and how do you have sort of I've had
a whole list of policy questions which I
think I will get to but this is a very
interesting conversation about where
politics is going yeah wait and how do
you how do you fit into that right like
what how will your like I completely get
what you're saying I think I think you
were exactly right that the next five
years are gonna determine the next 50
years if not basically the actual future
of American democracy as we currently
understand that's what's at stake and in
how do you run your campaign differently
like what does that look like that makes
it different to respond to that moment
go part of it candidly when you're
running at my age is it
your face is your message and this was
true when I was running in South Bend
right we're a post-industrial community
news we could just call this one of
America's dying cities we'd never fully
recovered from the loss of Studebaker
auto manufacturing company even though
it happened 50 years ago and just the
act of running was an act of hope at my
age and the act of voting for me was a
kind of mandate for something completely
new and so part of it is this is why I'm
making an explicitly generational appeal
not only a generation will appeal to try
to get people my age and younger to buy
in to see themselves represented but
also to get people my parents age and
older thinking about the possibilities
of really investing in the future of
people they love and people they care
about it's why I talk a lot about what
the world's gonna look like in 2050 for
that's the year I get to the current age
of the current president because it
situates our thinking on a longer-term
plan in many ways I think the most
important debates of our time aren't so
much left-right is a long term versus
short term right so it's a short term
gain for some in in these tax cuts
there's a short term
benefit or at least ease to pretending
climate change will take care of itself
but these are things you would never
even on foreign policy there's things
that we're doing now that you just never
do if you viewed the state of the world
in 2050 for is your problem and not
somebody else's and so before we get to
the guts of the policy proposals even
before we get to the kind of settling on
our political rhetoric for the next few
years I think we need to get to that
project of asking people to think about
decisions through the lifetime of those
decisions and and pointing out that that
this is going to affect our lives or our
lives ourselves in ways that are
beginning to show themselves even now do
you think the the older Democrats who
are running you know people I think we
all like like Bernie Sanders and
potentially Joe Biden do they in Kate
like like incapable of thinking that way
or like what like not necessarily I mean
I think you know anybody at any age can
can think long term or can think short
term right I do think that somebody from
a younger generation has a certain kind
of standing just like the fact that I
served overseas in war gives me certain
standing to talk about a lot of veterans
issues and military issues that helps
bring these issues to the surface but
one of the things that's really been
interesting and you know the living
rooms and and the venues that I've been
speaking in Iowa New Hampshire is the
interest that older voters are taking in
the idea of a younger candidate in the
same way that in 2016 a lot of very
young voters gravitating towards one of
the oldest candidates so I don't think
it's as simple as kind of candidate this
age for a voter this age but I do think
that my presence invites people to think
about those longer-term issues
especially since that's also a big part
of the message that I'm trying to bring
forward so and you know you talk about
climate change right and it's a very I
think it's a very compelling part of
your message and an argument for you
know someone who's gonna have to live in
this on this planet you'd like you like
it to be here long after some of these
some other folks Walt what it's of a
couple questions on that fact what is
your reaction to the green New Deal
proposal put out
Alexandra calcio Cortez and Ed Markey so
here's what I think the green New Deal
gets right and why I think it's good
that it's been put forward there's two
really important pillars to this I think
the first is it correctly situates this
as a major national emergency it
identifies this as a problem whose
destructive powers is comparable to a
great depression or world war except
this time we see it coming so shame on
us if we don't do something and that's
how I view it right as a mayor part of
and frankly in the political process
part of what I'm trying to do is just
change them the the mental be role that
people have when we say a word like
climate and get it away from you know
hunks of ice breaking off the Antarctic
and polar bears and move what your
mind's eye pictures to things like parts
of California catching on fire or my own
city where we had you know twice I've
had to activate the emergency operations
center of our city for a flood for a
historic flood one of them was a 500
year flood and one of them was a
thousand-year flood and they have in 18
months apart so this is an emergency of
world historic proportions and the green
new deal gets that the second thing it
gets and the reason the new deal
metaphor is kind of elegant is it shows
this idea that that there's also
economic opportunity from rising to meet
that challenge so you know part of how
we ended the Great Depression was
mobilizing to deal with World War two
but it shouldn't take war to mount that
kind of national effort so look I get
that it's ultimately right now is more
of a set of goals than it is an actual
plan right and we haven't figured out
some of the things that it would take to
meet those goals but for those who are
saying you know is is 2030 the right
year or not to achieve some of these
things I mean the answer is that's not
up to us like that's pretty much in the
science the answer isn't can we it's we
have to and then we figure it out by the
way America has a great tradition of
figuring out how to do things from
ending the Great Depression to beating
Hitler to going to the moon and I don't
know why this can't be taken seriously
at that level
do you have political concern about it
right you're from Indiana
conservative state Trump wanted by 19
points you have Trump out every day in
Republicans saying that the green New
Deal is going to end plane travel we're
gonna take your car away we're gonna get
rid of cows but like is there any any
political concerns or anything or either
you have put Oh concern about is there
anything you said there here's what it
gets right other things the green New
Deal gets wrong yeah I mean it's
vulnerable to being caricatured and
again this is this is very simple
imitation of cows is very similar to you
know death panels it's these things that
are being thrown out there and what we
need to do is concretize this and talk
about what's actually happening I enjoy
going down to get a cheeseburger in
South Bend I just want to not have the
city flooded while I'm on my way there
right and there's a common sense way of
talking about this that I think people
regardless of ideology at least most
people can get you know it's not written
in stone that the middle of the country
has to be conservative I mean much of
the best American progressive tradition
comes from the middle of the country you
got it goes all the way to back to John
Brown in Kansas you think about William
Jennings Bryan from the middle of the
country Eugene Debs outright socialist
from Indiana so it's not that a certain
part of the country has to be right or
has to be left it's that we have to
explain these things in terms that
remind everybody what's at stake and I
would argue that in an agricultural
areas you know my part of the country we
got a lot of corn and soy we have a
whole lot at stake in these issues and
we need to have the vocabulary and the
argument be about that not about farting
cows okay that's that's the you know you
know you say doesn't have to be serve
doesn't have to be liberal Indiana has
probably moved as much in one direction
as any state over the last 11 years
right wins in 2008 Donna Trump on it by
19 points I believe in 2016
do you have a theory about what happened
there well people right so yeah I mean
part of it is the kind of in my view
sort of abandonment of the middle of the
country by our party and I think that's
got to be reversed I think we learned
the hard way what
happens when you do that and and you
know to his credit the Obama campaign
did not do that and it's really
interesting if specially for those who
think of Indiana sort of irretrievably
deep-red to think that the only time we
voted Democratic since LBJ was not for
Bill Clinton not for Al Gore it was for
Barack Obama
so you know investing time and resources
matters but look I mean there is a
conservative drift and a lot of it is
because of the the stories that have
been told a lot of it by the way is also
mistakes that were made on our side of
the aisle especially especially the
condescension that I think has happened
in a lot of how frankly people in our
party especially from the coasts address
the interests or the values of people
from the middle of the country who you
know in many cases voted for the current
president not because they have any
illusions about his character not
because they think he's a great guy but
because with eyes wide open knowing that
the system had failed them and believing
we were saying the system was just fine
they walked into that booth and voted to
burn the house down and until we get
that I think we're really gonna struggle
to be heard in parts of the country like
where I come from what is an exact and
essential thing all the time we're
sitting here on the coast what isn't it
like is there an example of that oh sure
yeah I mean I mean you know a liberal
lawyer from Los Angeles walks up to a
guy in Indiana who's a working-class guy
and says you're voting against your
economic interests you know what that
guy's gonna say back so were you
off you know I mean the the yeah people
understand that there's there's more to
their vote than economics and there's a
lot of different reasons why people make
those choices so you know telling people
that they're voting against their own
interests thinking that we will reach
across the aisle to defeat Trump by
informing voters who supported him that
they were complicit in a crime is not a
very convincing way to reach people look
politics much more than we realize is
about how people feel about themselves
and they look at you based on how
supporting or opposing you makes them
feel about themselves this is I thought
about this a lot when we were having
this whole dust-up over so-called
religious freedom so you know when
actually right around the time I was
coming out in South Bend Mike Pence was
governor and we had this this horribly
embarrassing episode where this
basically anti-lgbt discrimination bill
passed and it made our state into a
laughingstock until they finally took it
back but part of what I noticed there
was a lot of people who were all more
conservative in terms of their general
orientation a lot of business
conservatives just a lot of kind of
friends and neighbors began to come on
board with the idea of equality and feel
good about themselves doing it and it
was really important to kind of beckon
them onto the right side of history not
kind of for whatever impurities they had
or awkwardness they had you know people
who talk to me about meeting my friend
not understanding that there's a
difference between a friend and a
partner but meaning to be nice right
that you know there if we push them into
the corner this is how radicalization
works they have nowhere to go but the
far right if we beckon them to our side
and invite them to basically invite them
to the kind of party you want to get
into not because it's a clue exclusive
but because it's fun and because it
makes you feel good yeah but also to a
substantive level because it makes you
kind of bigger hearted and more secure
as opposed to the politics of making
people fearful and backward looking
which is frankly easier to do through
political rhetoric than making people
feel secure and open and generous but if
we enlist everybody in that project then
I think that that you can transcend a
lot of this ideology I know it can be
done because mathematically there are an
awful lot of people in st. Joseph County
Indiana who must have voted for Barack
Obama and Donald Trump and Mike Pence
and me gee to get those voters back
right there's I've liked you you make
very good points about not being
condescending about reaching out about
trying to understand what brings them
through decisions in a way that is
empathetic
dismissive are their policy choices the
Democratic Party should make or their
changes we should make an end what we
advocate for that could help us do
better in the Midwest or get better back
with the interior of the country I think
you well I think ironically we psyched
ourselves out thinking we couldn't talk
about things like raising the minimum
wage because it would be too far left
and in the course of doing that lost a
lot of Republicans and center-right
people who would have benefited from
that right so you have all these issues
that are centrist in a kind of sense of
this is where the majority of the
American people are but but centrism
kind of did away with them on our side
of the aisle and it is true about you
know at least some flavors of universal
health care so I don't know that it's
about changing our values or changing
our policies I'm in many ways I think
the original sin of the 90s was we
thought we could win in the short term
what we correctly thought we could win
in the short term by you know aping some
policies from the right but what it left
us was this this kind of skewed world
where we were arguing everything on
their terms
so so it hasn't it hasn't aged well but
I think again a lot of it is just a
matter of emphasis it's why I'm
constantly talking about freedom to
remind people that you know the freedom
to sue your credit-card company after
they get rip you off is just as
important or more important than you
know the freedom some business has to
you know pollute a river and also you
know I think talking about security in a
really smart way that brings it home
look we shouldn't look like we're
indifferent to things that conservatives
talk about we're not indifferent borders
and border security
we're not indifferent to faith something
that we've weirdly become almost
completely unable to talk about which is
weird for me because you know as grips
your I read points me in a pretty clear
direction when it comes to taking care
of immigrants and prisoners and the poor
and you know finding that vocabulary in
a way that's authentic and true to
ourselves I think has to be the project
of this generation now coming up in the
political space not only because it
helps cement our values within the left
but I actually think that when we have
done that we become more convincing to
independent minded and thinking
conservatives guys when you think about
you talk about like we should be for
raising the minimum wage and these
things that did sort of lose
they're currency within the Democratic
Party in the 90s and then in the early
2000s they did not lose their currency
in the last ten years right and the ACA
wasn't aggressively progressive was the
most progressive health care bill that
could pass at the time by the standards
of the time yeah yeah for sure and yet
we still mean there was still this drift
here if you think about the next set of
policies let's let's take health care
for instance right because you said you
were running 2010 it was not not a great
year to be running as a Democrat both
because to see the economy but also
because the Affordable Care Act was
being demagogued up and down the ballot
there the you know sort of the almost
table stakes for Democrats at some
position somewhere on Medicare for all
you know where are you on that and how
do you think about in the context of you
know winning back these voters we're
talking about yeah I mean again I think
voters I know just want to know that
they can get health care right and
Medicare for all is the right direction
to move in because it represents a more
efficient system
I mean countries that do this or more
efficient than we are so it's not just
because it's not because we just
intrinsically like the idea of this
being handled by a public effort instead
of by corporate America it's that we
believe it works better it's that you
would pay less on bureaucracy and more
dollars would go to patient care you
know the reality is people say how you
gonna pay for that how do you think
you're paying for health care right now
if you're uninsured you're paying too
much if you're insured you're paying too
much because way too much of the US
healthcare dollar goes into
administrative 'ya not into patient care
now honestly not all of that is fixed by
Medicare for all there are a bunch of
problems in Medicare right now that are
more technical than need to get sorted
out like the number of times some of
these authorizations have to get touched
by a human which should be zero but but
that's not the answer right now and
there's a cost to that now I also think
anybody anybody in the 20/20
conversation who lets the phrase
Medicare for all escape their lips has a
responsibility to talk about a pathway
there that makes people better off along
the way and not worse off and to me the
way you come at this is what I would
call Medicare for all who wanted so the
idea here is you do take some flavor of
Medicare you make it available to buy in
on the exchange as a
public option and then if people like me
are right that this is a more efficient
system it will be preferred I mean it
will give you better care at a lower
cost and more and more people will want
to buy into it so I guess it gives the
corporate players one last chance to
somehow come up with something better
but if they fail to do so as I expect
that they will then what will happen is
it'll be a very natural glide path to a
single-payer environment and by the way
even in a single-payer environment there
can still be a role for the private
sector I mean just think about how
actual Medicare has private supplements
alongside it right and even even in
countries like the UK that are outright
nationalized which is a step beyond a
big step beyond something like
single-payer even there there there's a
kind of ancillary private market for
health care but in the end in the end I
think we need to create that glide path
and I think it will work
do you worry you know you talked a
little bit about sort of starting at the
halfway point and then under this myth
that you're gonna sort of win over this
sort of mythical centrist voters right
this is really important but I'm not for
this because I think it'll help with
centrist voters I'm for this cuz I think
it's the right thing to do and I think
we've lost the muscle memory in our
party to just say what we think is right
and then try to pull the center toward
us and instead we suck ourselves out
with things that are designed to appeal
to this middle that we're trying to get
in the heads oh well I'm not I'm not
suggesting that it's it's not a sincere
belief but it like there if you like
let's first let's stipulate there were
everyone's having a conversation about a
path to single-payer which is a massive
progressive achievement that's even the
conversation is happening in the
dramatic although again in in broader
historical terms it's a it's a down the
middle compromise right between the
right wing solution which is all
corporate kind of Wild West Medicare or
health care and the left wing solution
which is national medicine so I just
want to correctly situate this I know it
doesn't read that way right now but I
want to correctly situate this in the
middle of the debate where it belongs
right but you like your proposal is in
them is in the middle of the democratic
debate on it right between where Bernie
Sanders is and I think Hummel Harris is
and maybe Elizabeth Warren the people
who have endorsed the Sanders bill yeah
and then there's the buying process
where there's been a couple of Democrats
who have said that that's the best way
to start including yourself I think
sherrod Brown where he to run and few
others of
started there but do you worry that if
you start there you end up somewhere
short of that right like were you like
if your negotiating position is the
ideal position or the fallback position
that it gets harder to achieve that like
the argument that I think a lot of the
Senators who endorse inners bill is
let's start there and see what we can
get right that's a matter of legislative
tactics and I'm all for that you know if
I'm sitting in office and we're thinking
about what draft one of the buildings
like maybe we make it as far out as
possible so we can have a healthy
negotiation but again I think we
outsmart ourselves as Democrats by being
way too tactical
when we forget that you know if I'm at
have a conversation with with my in-laws
who are intelligent people with a with a
mom and pop business and in northern
Michigan who do not follow the
blow-by-blow of policy debate they just
wanna know they can get health care they
will find a lot of this reasonable if we
discuss it in the right way but we're so
preoccupied with finding the center of
the American policy elite that we forget
that the center of the American people
is often further left than we think a
and B can be moved and and the project
of candidates not to mention presidents
should be not only to win but to move it
switching to the economy for a sec right
I was a year from Indiana you've got
that you talk about Studebaker I worked
for Evan Bayh back in the day so I spent
some time in Indiana visiting a lot of
plants that where the process of closing
down and certainly many of those plants
that I visited back in the early 2000s
we're not around post 2008 you know we
are dealing with like there was very
specific solutions that like a mayor can
do to help or a governor can do or
anyone to help a specific situation in
this town right we're gonna in inside a
new employer to come in or whatever else
but ultimately we're dealing with these
forces of automation and globalization
that are fundamentally changing our
economy for our eyes and there is not a
piecemeal solution to that right and so
like have you and I recognize you've
been in this race for like two months
now but have you thought about like what
the big picture idea is to
not just help with the transition
between where we are now we're gonna be
but how we get to where the kind of
American economy needs to be yeah
understanding that automation clubs they
should only gonna get worse right so
yeah our city was on the business end of
this I mean we you know we lost
something like 30,000 people when when
the auto jobs disappeared and and a big
part of what I had to do when I started
running for mayor in 2011 was have a
really honest conversation because it
was pressure even then like some of the
old timers are saying we got to get some
version of Studebaker back and every
mayor comes under huge pressure to put
together the incentives that will land
the big factory that's gonna solve
everything and you know it's pretty
clear looking around us that that wasn't
gonna solve all our problems I mean we
did you know sometimes use incentives to
get individual deals to go through is it
kind of a tiebreaker but that wasn't
going to solve the bigger issue of
automation and globalization by the way
this is why you can't have an honest
politics that revolves around the word
again you got to prepare people for
what's changing and most of all you got
to allow people to see a picture of a
world that has changed where they're
winning and if they don't see that then
of course they're gonna be very
responsive to a message saying you don't
have to change nothing's going to change
we're just going to change it back even
if that's that's clearly promised that
can't be kept so I think the thing that
we miss a lot policy-wise on our side of
the aisle is we have these these
retraining programs they're designed to
help people who get disrupted and don't
get me wrong there's it's good to do
training I've supported a lot of
training efforts in South Bend it's
definitely part of the picture but it
completely misses why people are so
harmed and so disrupted by this change
it completely misses why for example we
had a so-called economic anxiety
election in 2016 under conditions that
most economists would describe as full
employment and what it misses is that
even if we can find you another job with
a similar income we haven't really
accounted for what happened to your
identity people's identity is wrapped up
in this lifelong relationship with a
single employer by the way this is true
for white collar workers and law firms
and and CPAs who are increasingly
vulnerable to automation just as it is
for blue-collar workers in auto
factories in
Vienna for example so what we've got to
do is not only on kind of the technical
and economic side be investing way more
in R&D on AI and making sure that you
know productivity growth increases in
the US so that overall wealth can grow
but also something that is a much more
intangible project of helping people
understand where they fit in the world
when you know anybody my on average my
age or younger will change professions
more frequently than my parents change
job titles and that's something that
can't be solved by economic policy alone
I think there are some solutions in my
view the solutions include things like
community itself so a lot of people who
have found a sense of meaning even as
jobs come and go they found a sense of
meaning based on the role they play in
the city in the recovery of the city
they become sort of militantly attached
to the mission of bringing our city back
from the so-called you know Rust Belt
doldrums but that sense of community
identity and purpose can come from a lot
of places it can come from faith I mean
at risk of sounding conservative it can
come from faith or family and if we're
not speaking to that then I think we're
missing we're allowing this void to open
up and I think by the way that void is
being filled by some hideous things
medically hideous things like like
opioids or morally hideous things like
like white nationalism which will rush
in to fill that void so this is about a
lot more I mean I've got a lot of views
on how we kind of modernize you know II
citizenship and and figure out you know
how to tune up our AI strategy so that's
at least keeping pace with some of our
agent competitors and so forth but
there's something deeper going on that
we got to pay attention to and that is
something that both the policy tools but
fit even more than that the kind of
moral authority know something like the
presidency can help with have you
thought about the idea of universal make
it bit sorry if you thought about the
idea of universal basic income as one it
was one thing that might be the policy
mix to deal with the rapid transitioning
yeah I mean obviously this is less
responsive to that kind of spiritual
yeah I'm talking about but the income
problem won't go away and so we've got
to look at that I think that it's worth
taking seriously there's an experiment
underway now in Stockton to see what it
does I know there are many times that
we've been
sitting around the table working on some
kind of elaborate policy contraption to
do something like boost third-grade
reading levels when a lot of evidence
would suggest that by far the simplest
and most effective and cost-efficient
way to do it is just give the family a
little more cash because turns out not
being poor is one of the best things
that can help you make it to third grade
reading level because the nutrition or
stability or whatever it is there are
different ways you can structure it I'm
attracted to structures that connect it
to work but also have an expansive
version of what work is especially if
some of the physical repeatable tasks of
manufacturing or being automated away
let's give a little more regard to
things like caregiving and you know
raising children that are absolutely
work they're just not in the formal kind
of economy the way that they're
traditionally being compensated so I
think we're the richer and thicker
understanding what work is some kind of
relationship between a guaranteed income
and work and some kind of structure that
makes it equitable but which might be
along the lines of expanded tax credit
or even the negative income tax idea
that first got floated in the 70s I
think that I don't know that anybody can
say now that they have a fully informed
considered opinion on this but I think
it's the right moment to have that
conversation because it is something
that's responsive partly to this this
issue of automation which is as you say
only going to accelerate there's no you
can't get the horse back into the barn
on this one and we shouldn't want to
right if we get it right I mean if we
get distribution right and forget
society right this should be a really
good thing what it means that society
can make all the goods and services it
needs with all of us working less the
problem of course is that as that's
accelerated we haven't all been made
better off and it's one of the reasons
why even though there's a lot more this
is a lot more related to automation than
it is to trade it is one of the recent
reasons why there's such hostility to
trade in my part of the country because
we were promised that the rising tide
would rise and it did and we were
promised that it would lift all boats
and it didn't especially where we live
alright let's let's transition to what
the kind of campaign you'd run okay and
one of the biggest decisions that any
candidate has to make is particular when
running against Trump is what
what's the case you're gonna prosecute
right Castillo the challenge we had in
2016 at least in my interpretation is
there were a hundred arguments against
Trump all very true and and damning but
if you tell a hundred stories you tell
zero story so exactly have you thought
about like if you are in there making
making the case for votes like what like
what is your argument for why you not
Trump I think the less about him the
better so I think when he realize we got
it corrected and when he does something
wrong we got to confront it and we got
to say like hey I think we can all agree
this isn't working out and I've got
something better but I think it pretty
much ends there I think the more
attention we pay to him in any form the
more just kind of absorbs it and grows
so this is gonna take a lot of
discipline like everyone in democratic
politics has whether they'll admit it or
not has fantasized about the moment
there on the debate stage and the
zingers they're gonna serve up they're
just gonna knock him flat right we all
have those I've got my I'll share some
of them with you because I would never
actually use them but I would look you
know it would satisfy some deep pitch to
be able to say look the difference
between me and this guy is you know I'm
faithful to my spouse when it was my
turn to serve I did not fake a
disability in order to get out I went
and I look people in the eye when I'm
hiring or firing them right like that
would that would my enjoyable friend but
that's actually not what we need to be
doing because the moment you're you're
playing that game you're playing his
game and it all it creates this
framework where it's almost as if he's
the one we're trying to impress and we
need to get out of that we need to get
back into a world and it's one another
one of the reasons why I talk so much
about what the world will be like in
2050 for because he said himself of like
when for example his tax policy the
bills on that come due he literally said
I won't be here and we need to prepare
people for a world where this president
and his presidency has come and gone but
also be responsive for the problems in
our economy and the problems in our
democracy that made this presidency
possible because I I'm starting to think
if it wasn't him it'd be somebody else
this is a symptom of much deeper
problems the presidency like that yeah I
know he cheated and was popular vote
whatever but somebody like this does not
get anywhere close to the highest office
in the land unless there are profound
issues in our democracy and in our
economy
we got to be responsive to those and
talk about them in a long-term picture
where frankly people like him are going
to get left behind and the sooner we're
talking about that world and the less
we're talking about him the better off
we're gonna be
you wrote a this was sort of an amazing
thing I learned the other day but at a
young age you wrote an essay about a
politician here to pick one and you
picked Bernie Sanders which is amazing
on many levels one of which being just
at the moment which you wrote that
Bernie Sanders was not a famous person I
feel very hip yeah before you is cool
but now you are running against Bernie
Sanders so I'm curious about what drew
you to Bernie Sanders I think a lot of
people at that time would have written
about some of my Paul Wellstone or there
were sort of other progressive icons so
you made a very specific decision to
pick this lesser-known independent
Democrat who identified as a Democratic
Socialist and now you're you made a
decision knowing that he was likely
gonna run to run against that same
person so I'm curious about how that all
came about and what you think about it
now yeah I mean the fascination to me
when I was 18 and entering that that
essay contest was that here was somebody
at this moment everybody else seemed
like they were able to kind of outgrow
their values in order to win here was
somebody who really just said what he
was for and he didn't seem to care as
much about the politics of it and you
know you had this word socialism which
even more than now much more than now 20
years ago was a pretty much a kill
switch on a policy or a career if it got
credibly thrown at you and he was just
running with it he just owned it and so
I felt like you didn't have to agree
with him on everything to really admire
the straightforwardness and the courage
and then the other really interesting
thing about him was you know he was from
a state that that was not you know the
left-most state and it was actually
somewhat effective in the house and
working with independent or with
Republicans and it showed that there's
more to working with Republicans than
ideological centrism so all of those
things were appealing then all those
things I think are still appealing now I
think there part of his appeal so it is
a strange thing that I absolutely would
not have pictured then that
wind up you know potentially competing
with him but I also think that I'm first
of all glad he's in the picture I think
it you know represents a real important
way to establish kind of what the terms
of the debate are but also think in the
end I have a somewhat different message
and I'm obviously a very very different
messenger I wonder if you had done odds
on what was more likely when you wrote
that essay that Bernie Sanders would be
a front-runner for the presidency you'd
be running for the presidency probably
one of it about the same yeah yeah
there's no way I would have guessed that
I'd be in this situation or him are you
having fun out there campaigning I am
it's really fun not I mean it's hard
it's it's very demanding very difficult
but getting to know people and I'm it's
hard to say this without sounding like
I'm just bathed in cliches but really
it's true they're like getting to know
people in their living rooms and going
to different communities and
understanding what they care about it
really kind of helps you grow it really
extends you and I feel like Chaston and
I are making friends everywhere we go
but also really expanding our life
experience to understand you know how
other people who are affected by
politics and and it just kind of
enriches this you know my whole account
of why politics is important is because
of what it does to us in the everyday
and so you you get to peek into all
these people's everydays and understand
why they care you know the the travel is
exhilarating as well as exhausting and I
also think that this particular moment
is really really important but it's a
formative moment as you say I mean the
future of the Republic might hang on
some of the decisions that are being
made and it's not just the election
outcomes it's the conduct of these
campaigns this is the most important
conversation in the world right now and
I've got this enormous privilege of of
being in the middle of it and you know
how can that not be compelling and
inspiring
well close on this like you have
mentioned your husband a number of times
here you mentioned they bill your
ability to get married due to a Supreme
Court decision that happened while
Barack Obama was president and we've had
a number of groundbreaking campaigns on
the Democratic side at least in the last
few years you know obviously Barack
Obama's first african-american president
Hillary Clinton is our first female
nominee but we shouldn't it shouldn't go
without noting the historic nature of
our first
openly gay presidential candidate and
have you thought about what that would
mean to the country to LGBTQ youth
around the country just a the factory
would be if you were to win like how do
you think about where you fit in I know
this is sort of a daunting task and
brocco bomb had to wrestle with it but
where you fit in sort of the sort of the
civil rights history here yeah I mean
I've actually drawn a lot of lessons
from the way that Barack Obama handled
the historic nature of his candidacy and
I'm conscious of I'm a bit torn because
part of me thinks what success looks
like is a world where it never comes up
and it's not newsworthy right I thought
about this when I was coming out I was
thinking you know straight people don't
have to come out like what why do I and
and you know shouldn't it just be that I
like show up at some event and my dates
a dude and everybody puts it together
and nobody cares and some parts of the
country I think it's we're probably
there but that was not the case in
Indiana under Mike Pence obviously so I
think that's the destination but I know
that we're not there yet
and when I think about or frankly when I
hear about or or meet people who let me
know usually young people who let me
know what it means to them or older
people who never could have pictured
this and being right in the middle of
that generationally you know I'm young
enough to know that there's a world a
possible world where it's not even a
thing but I'm old enough that you know
when I got into elected office I mean
which is not that long ago it was a
given in my mind that you could either
be out or you could be in office not
both just as when I joined the military
was law that you could be an officer in
the military or you could be out but not
both and so to see that change and to
think about what it means for young
people who are really struggling with
their sexuality or were their gender
identity which is is not something I've
experienced but at but I think you know
can also relate in some ways that I'm
aware of the responsibility that comes
with that and also the the potential to
really do a lot of good I always think
back to the day
after Barack Obama won in 2008 a note we
got at the campaign from a an older
african-american gentleman who was
related to one of our staffers things no
Nicole or something who said never again
will an african-american child be born
in America without believing they can be
President and that you know that says I
think it you know you are like you were
right that like the American be best if
it was if it was not if it was not
historic if it was normal but there you
know there's you know the mere fact of
your campaign I think means a lot it's a
lot of people so mere P Buddha judge
thank you for being here on pot save
America thank you for being so generous
with your time just then thanks Redmond
good luck on the trail and we will see
you again sounds good
you
