everybody tweet the stream between the
stream welcome to another edition
what about save America live I think we
should brand it something what are you
drinking I am drinking a beaker full of
a Starbucks iced coffee the beer makes
many live stream appearances for some
reason it's I don't know that ice
clinking up close to the glass what the
people here as always we've got Priyanka
on the Q&A is Elijah on the ones and
twos gnar behind the scenes on the
what's a camera term on the focus on the
tries and pods on the tries on the on
the apertures let's take some questions
Yanks what we got yeah all right okay so
we're coming in hot today
was there anything explosive in the
Muller report that we didn't already
know some lot of anecdotal stuff I mean
Colin corey lewandowski or former
campaign manager and trying to get him
to go to sessions to shut down the
investigation or at least curtail it it
was exactly the kind of thing we talked
about how it would be explosive if
reported and figured out behind the
scenes by reporters versus tweeted as
Trump likes to do with most of his
obstruction of justice that detail
jumped out of me yeah I think that the
level of the level of coordination
between what we saw as public
demonstrations of obstruction and
private actions to try to truly obstruct
the investigation renew the full
accounting of ten different occasions
that Muller documented of obstruction of
justice I also think that the level of
coordination between the Trump campaign
and the Russians was pretty
extraordinary it wasn't just about it
wasn't very cat it wasn't just a casual
well just yeah they depress plan yeah
prepare for the wiki weeks is close sure
this was it's a trade deal coordination
and eugen and again you know just wasn't
criminal conspiracies Bob and so says so
says Bob Muller and bar did a great job
of conflating collusion and conspiracy
but clearly is going well beyond what
Muller found Muller
it's hard to see it's impossible to
describe what Muller found is anything
other than collusion what he didn't
clean
that he could what Muller didn't claim
is that he could prove conspiracy and
even that I think there are lawyers that
are looking at this and doubting it it
seems like that is a we're in a
situation where Robert Millar erred on
the side of caution and was very
conservative in his decision-making any
kind of the tie went to the runner and
the runner Donald Trump and and of
analogy and it was the first time he'd
run and the first time he'd run Walters
got those hips moving he I bet he's got
I get he's got bet I bet I bet Donal
Trump has some pretty tight hammies you
know I do not think he can touch his
toes ham hocks he's gonna have some of
those you know look old men will shuffle
toe shuffle cuz to get those those
hamstrings get tighter and tighter
he's a shuffler well he goes for a toe
touch there's like mid-shin maybe I he's
gotta go two knees has no account for
him to drop a if he drops an UGG he
drops a check he drops a McNugget get
down on all fours to pick that thing up
we can not he could not he can't even
get no was the last time he looked down
in the shower and saw the the feet jump
to yours nice question alright so what
happens now so after the Muller report
it's out where do we go from here yeah
good question so look we I think that
there are there are two spec just there
are two spectra spectrums there's the
Republicans and the Democrats the
Republicans seem to run the gamut
between Donald Trump is totally
exonerated let's arrest Hillary Clinton
again back like the good old days all
the way to the Mitt Romney's of the
world who are just so horrified they
learned but are gratified to learn that
it wasn't a crime oh thank goodness we
found out it wasn't a crime that is the
way they're getting out of this thing to
sit to look at all this obstruction and
declare it it awful a not a crime to
claim the collusion is awful and not a
crime I'm the Democratic side I think it
runs the gamut between the Democrats who
are currently saying impeachment for
getting impeachment proceedings should
begin at once that this obstruction
evidence is so clear and unequivocal
that there's no choice there's a
constitutional obligation to pursue
impeachment all the way to I think
people who are for both political
reasons maybe also for you know genuine
a genuine concern about what happens in
Congress that it's the time we should
have investigations we should have
hearings but that to go to impeachment
now is a bill is a practical and
political mistake and I think that's
sort of where the debate is inside the
Democratic Party it seems like we'll
land on some sort of hearings and
investigations and you know people like
Steny Hoyer at first said we shouldn't
even consider impeachment he's now
walked that back because I think he was
hit by fully tweets up to the face that
said what are you doing so now they're
all kind of at some place of impeachment
must be on the table but one should be
careful etcetera etcetera that's right
agreed cool I'm jumping ahead really
quick Elijah but Christine asks anyways
could explain the process of concerning
or the process concerning Congress
wanting to see Trump's tax returns what
happens when he doesn't hand them over
and is there a chance that it'll never
get them I know he missed a deadline or
Department yeah today I think so okay
Congressman Neil requested from the IRS
six years worth of personal and business
tax returns from Donny Trump the
president knighted States Steven Oken
producer of mostly bad movies Suicide
Squad yeah really bad whenever you're
men you can I just want to do manukan
Elijah he knows we're talking about he
sounds like Fleming became a person is
so mannequin he's delaying the decision
he says he needs until May sixth to
assess the legality and he's waiting on
DOJ guidelines now the tax code
provision is very very clear actually it
it says the Internal Revenue Service
shall furnish in quotes the information
to Congress when requested so I don't
know what he's looking for but we now
know that we do not have an independent
Department of Justice we have William
bar who is gonna be doing Trump's
bidding even more so than Jeff Sessions
so I suspect that the guidelines that
mean you can get some DOJ will say you
have to do it
privacy concerns some other we
don't to start a precedent that you can
seek out tax returns as if the president
United States has
and almost always release tax returns
for decades and decades so that's where
we're we're at Trump's personal lawyer
has advised Treasury not to do it
there's coordination between the Trump
White House and the Treasury Department
so you know we could add up at an in in
court here yeah all right
Troy is wanting to ask about this
situation as well he says the Democrat
or he wants to talk about the Democrats
inability or unwillingness to act when
confronted by this administration like
waiting till round three for example of
minuchin denials on tax returns what do
you guys think about this what should be
happening here what can be done etc so I
think I think it has taken time for
congressional Democrats to realize that
there's not a lot of benefit to the
old-fashioned approach which says give
people a chance to comply treat them
with respect you'll seem more reasonable
than when you issue a subpoena then when
you go harder you get the the plaudits
and the credit for having done it a more
congenial way first I think what we're I
think that this is a new era in which
there is just very little you get for
that kind of behavior all you do is give
them time and time is what they need
that we have a limited amount of time to
get the information we need to hold
Trump accountable and give the public
the information they need before they
vote in 2020 so to me you know I said
this on pot save America but it's like
we need a little less Ned Stark a little
more a little finger that means treating
people a little bit sooner in the
process as if they have heinous
motivations because they all work for
Donald trauma yeah I mean there's
a really great this American life on
Jerry Nadler staff the Judiciary
Committee I believe and they are
diligent and they go by the book and
they make sure the the the Republicans
on the committee are copied on every
letter or an email and they do
everything appropriately and then they
get stonewalled and the other side cries
some process foul that they
invent and so I don't understand why we
are you know painstakingly going through
these hoops to do it the perfect way I
think they should start subpoenaing
things now Trump is going to claim
overreach no matter what so let's fight
it out hurry up yeah that uh get those
subpoenas going fire the subpoena cannon
no more style points no way to know
can't wait to understand your Game of
Thrones references I just started on
Monday what yeah well I mean you guys
started season one online well too many
people have been asking me and like
making references and I kind of was like
that is so awesome I'm jealous
so you currently you have there there
have been 69 episodes of Game of Thrones
there are five there we have 62 episodes
too in the next five weeks if you want
to watch the finale we could do it I
think you can get it done yeah just
throw two of those bad boys on a day get
it done get it done love it I were
living together during season 1 and we
felt like we were the only we're kind of
nerdy read only be watching it's true
and it was a cult II thing and then we
got it her and better we got everybody
to launch at people didn't people were
very skeptical a former chief
speechwriter part Obama was very
skeptical about Game of Thrones it was
very he was like what is this what is
this Hobbit nonsense I loved it
busted out the adapt the mat I was like
I got to see you got to see the mat
which and here we are all the originator
loving yeah yeah loving Game of Thrones
that is some real influence their stuff
we got going okay next question Laura
wants to know she's asking about this
article in The New York Times about
Kirsten Nielsen being told by Mick
Mulvaney not to raise any concerns about
foreign interference in elections
Russian interference in elections with
Trump to keep that kind of concern away
from him so she's asking how the
are we gonna protect our elections next
year when we're learning stuff like this
article can we at least get dem
candidates to hammer the national
security message and how the GOP has
demonstrated that they can't be trusted
we gonna do yes Lauren that story is
really scary really scary the way an
issue gets attention and gets dealt with
in the White House when there's a
billion other things going on is the
president United States demands that his
team or her team focus on it and they
hold meetings at the highest possible
level and the national security team
need direct resources in
if a bunch of intelligence community
officials and DHS officials know that
the president literally doesn't care
enough about an issue to be briefed on
it and it makes him mad they won't care
about it they won't focus on it so like
the integrity of our elections mariska I
mean they Putin ran the most successful
intelligence operation maybe in history
in 2016 and it's still dividing our
country to this day we need to get on
this the House Homeland Security
Committee should subpoena Nielson and
make her testify and confirm or deny
this under oath tomorrow and then
Democrats should run on this as an issue
it's like it's a major deal this
would be like George HW w bush
ignoring a PDB report on al Qaeda before
9/11 yeah be just like that because if
he got a thing that said bin Laden
determined to strike within the u.s.
that it happened Republicans never would
have run this country again damn it nice
question lemon-lime 100s you know what
honestly let's see let's talk about the
fact that your screen names make it hard
to take you seriously I'm in Liza
community Instagram yeah mm-hmm so she's
asking she he I'm absolutely sure Sri
Lanka why is it not being talked about
in liberal circles like Pittsburgh or
New Zealand can we talk about what went
on there and why it's not receiving the
same amount of attention as some other
attacks uh I don't know that that's
right
I don't agree really with the analysis I
think Pittsburgh was a bigger deal
generally because it happened in the
United States and so of course that the
u.s. BD is gonna pay more attention if
something happens in the US I think New
Zealand was so novel and shocking and
the way it played out on social media
that it returned you know got attention
to those elements I do think a lot of
attention is paid to Isis and Islamic
extremism I think the death toll is
horrific it's like 360 something there's
major reporting on the fact that the Sri
Lankan government had intelligence that
could have prevented this attack and
didn't so
I don't think we can blame the media
here I don't I don't see that yeah I do
think you know there's a it is true in
that that if there is a terrorist attack
in Europe it tends to get covered in the
u.s. more than say a terrorist attack in
Sri Lanka that is just that is true
there is a bias there towards what
happens in white and Western countries
that's certainly true but I don't I
don't think the comparison in this case
that you're making applause got it
sorry lemon/lime sorry all right well
then once know where you got what you
guys think about Cuba where it should
fall in foreign priorities with 2020
candidates do you think the Cuba would
be willing to reopen an Obama ask dialog
um and with the new policy they another
a bunch of new policies that were rolled
out last week we can talk a little bit
about yes a Trump has been walking back
all the reforms Obama made to try to
open up US relations to Cuba
so they limited the amount of money
Americans can send back to Cuba
something called remittances that are
really important to both Cuban people to
small businesses to the entire Cuban
economy they limited travel so if you
want to go to Cuba to go fishing or
diving or whatever now you might have a
harder time doing so it's also going to
really hurt US businesses that are
helping people get air beam bees there
or guiding tours or airlines that are
setting up routes so it's really
damaging to the Cuban people not the
government the people and it's a shitty
terrible policy a Democratic president
could walk back Trump's walk back it's
the good news we can fix this I think
that there's probably a young Cuban
community in Florida that would be very
receptive to Democrats talking about how
we should not go back to Cuban embargo
times in a failed policy of 60 years so
yeah be I would love to see that cool
okay this next one's about the Supreme
Court and this big census question
that's up for discussion can you guys
talk about the case and friends to bring
court currently about the census citizen
question and how or if we may be able to
mitigate the effects of a decision to
allow the question to stay on this
so we're we're the issue right now is
the Trump administration has tried to
add a question to the census against the
wishes of the kind of non political
appointees of the census that would ask
people whether or not they are citizen
there was a question there have been in
the past questions about citizenship on
the census
however there hasn't been one since 1950
studies made clear that when you add a
question about citizenship to the census
it causes people to not answer and it
distorts the results it distorts the
results in a very specific way it will
under count immigrant communities and
will underground in places like New York
Texas California and it could have
far-reaching consequences for the way
money is spent for the way congressional
districts are a portion that will punish
democratic areas and reward Republican
areas it will punish areas with
populations of people of color and it
will reward places that are more white
and older that is the reason the Trump
administration is doing it it is part of
their sort of anti-immigrant agenda it
has been something that they've been
pursuing since back when Steve Benin was
a you know skulking around the White
House
getting mustard on couches and their
goal was clear they want to they want to
scare people who are Brown from
answering the census and to tilt the
elections toward Republicans and
resources toward Republicans in fact
that that is so clearly the reason that
they had to go shopping to find another
explanation so they found some
convoluted reason to claim that the
Justice Department thought it would help
them enforce the Voting Rights Act
though that was a clearly a
thing even Sonia Sotomayor during oral
arguments said you clearly went looking
for a reason you didn't have a reason
when he when Wilbur Ross first testify
testified about this he claimed that it
was a just Department making them doing
that was not true so what it boils down
to is the conservatives on the Supreme
Court are basically saying what's the
problem
there have been citizen questions before
they've been citizenship questions
around the world you're talking about
statistics and models and can effects
but ultimately this is just one more
question of the census and we don't
think it's that unreasonable what the
Liberals on the court are making the
argument is and what liberals are making
an argue
now generally is there's no reason to do
it there's other ways for us to find out
who's a citizen and who's not the only
reason you're doing it is to under count
the Constitution creates an obligation
to do our best to count the number of
people not the number of citizens number
of people in in this country and if
you're go if you if you are legally
bound to do the best job you can to
count the number of people in this
country and putting on a question design
to make that harder is something the
court should strike down so that's where
it is we don't know how it's going to
turn out we don't know how the courts
gonna rule it does seem as though the
Conservatives were pretty sympathetic to
the Trump administration position which
is terrible and it will have
far-reaching consequences how we fight
that if this goes through is a really
really hard question but and I am when I
honestly don't know the answer to but it
really is a kind of it will be a
devastating and difficult result that
will have an effect for a decade I mean
seem yeah it seems likely that the
conservative five justices will be in
favor of a lot in this go forward while
the four liberals will not we know one
thing for a fact that including this
question will make it more likely that
an exercise we conduct every ten years
for the sole purpose of getting
statistics and counting the country will
be less accurate so that on its face
seems really dumb so why would we do
this well Republicans like Steve Annan
and Chris Kobach and Donald Trump see
that the country is getting less white
more diverse more people of color more
immigrants they want to figure out every
way they possibly can to keep them from
voting and having representation and
hurting the Republican Party at the
ballot box so this is part of a many
step voter suppression process yeah it
is like they're animating purpose in
government and it is part of a larger
effort that's even more frightening and
is one in which we change how we count
who counts in terms of who goes into a
congressional district is it based is it
people
is it citizens is it voting citizens
right there's questions about there's
fundamental questions about how we
organize our democracy that that are
currently being attacked this is one
route to attack them and I imagine
there's going to be a lot of groups who
make it their mission to inform and to
educate voters to educate people that
they should answer the census and they
should answer this question they should
answer and give it and and and
participate in the census because it's
so important for resources it's so
important for a voting it has just huge
impacts on our democracy although yeah I
mean I imagine it's gonna be a it's just
gonna be a huge mess
all right on to 20 20 questions
hopefully well be a little more lively
see Alex is asking how we balance
genuine criticism of Democratic
candidates without quote-unquote eating
our own
I know Twitter isn't realized but it
seems like every time someone criticizes
a candidate someone else accuses them of
destroying any chance of winning the
election what do you do about that
Alex that question was a
terrible and you were clearly paid off
by corporate interests to ask that in
this forum it's I think you should
apologize that's how you don't shame
that's how you don't criticize someone
on yes agree with shame on you shame
shame arty favor great so I think it's
very good for Democrats in a primary to
talk about policies and debate them in
the strongest terms possible I think
it's totally fair to say Bob Smith
candidate says he supports X thing but
he voted against it in 2011 when he was
serving in the House right like all that
is fair game
should be a little careful when were
attacking motives
we're going after people personally
that's the stuff that I think that we as
a party and as concerned Democrats
should try to police because every
primary is gonna get heated it's okay
it's fine it's just we don't want to so
thoroughly turn off the other person and
supporters that they won't come together
in the end that's the way I think about
it yeah great question Alex all right
this next one is about how we can get
people to stop fearing electoral sexism
and get them in a fighting mindset if
they genuinely want to support a female
candidate but are instead projecting
their own fears of misogyny onto voters
what do you say to someone who's like oh
I don't think so elect someone so
it's this it says it's this like
circular problem where people I think
this is a lot of people say oh well I
obviously would support a woman but I'm
worried that other people won't support
a woman well I'm not gonna support a
woman and I think um I think it's a huge
problem I mean there's what there's what
we should do like collectively
and then there's what each of us should
do it individually individually
to me as individuals I think one of the
most important things we can do is not
accede to that frame and you know we
talked about this with Jessica Yellin
who is on the pod yesterday and to me it
there's two different there's there's a
lot obviously and it's that I think that
first of all like male candidates have
flaws and female candidates have fatal
flaws like it's just there are ways in
which men are just freer to be to make
more mistakes and then there's this
other piece of it where like Paul Ryan
considered to be considered an
intellectual leader while Elizabeth
Warren isn't it's like that he gets to
be on the cover of Time magazine and and
it takes Nancy Pelosi a second
speakership to get on the cover of Time
magazine and so to me as individuals I
think it's just about not living in that
frame and making sure that when we talk
about female candidates when men talk
about female candidates what women talk
about female candidates that we use
terms around leadership and courage and
intellectual significance and substance
that we don't that we don't play in to
the expectations of pundits which tend
to just be much harder on women because
of systemic misogyny that's baked into
so many of our political debates now at
all of us together what do we do about
this funk this problem I don't know what
do you think Priyanka I mean just
don't I think just don't be a pundit
I mean you talk about your candidate
yeah I'm at a candidate talk about all
the reasons that you think she is great
all the things that she will do for the
country for the nation
why she's the smartest and best equipped
to lead and if people say but I don't
think a woman can win say no one thought
a guy named Barack Obama who was an
african-american Harvard Law Review
professor and whatever that meant with a
funny sounding name collection right
like what's the actual term guest
lecturer yeah yeah whatever no one
thought that guy could win either what
do you did yeah got a yacht we
got it basically a we got a spray tan
races baked potato in there now
everything is possible all right these
are all strategy questions I'm realizing
but Libby wants to know how lesser known
candidates can get airtime stand apart
from the rest of the field especially
big names who have been around for a
little while you know that's a great
question um to me I think you have to
look at Pete Buddha judge as an example
pee Buddha judge was an unknown figure
he is a mayor of a midsize Indiana city
and yet he has made a name for himself
how did he do that he did that by a
having a case and B having a case that
made him having like a genuine case and
B having a case that made him
distinctive and interesting not just to
reporters but to democratic voters so
you know I think a lot of I think
someone can go for it's in this culture
somebody can go from being not very well
known to very well known pretty quickly
but the less well known you are the
higher the bar is for for needing that
kind of breakout moment and especially
now when candidates are getting in when
there are 18 19 people in it already you
have to be going in saying that I'm
offering something that I don't see and
I'm offering something I don't see
and and that others will see that too
and they'll see that what I'm saying is
special and different and that separates
me from the pack and if that's true it
will resonate with people it will be
obvious when you see it and you hear it
and then those people will get the same
kind of I think attention but to me it's
that yeah I mean I'll just think like be
creative 19 candidates are fighting for
scraps in time on like the sunday shows
that are all about politics and
like seven people watch anyway you know
so the this kind of started back in the
Bill Clinton was running and he did
Arsenio Hall but you know now you're
seeing you're seeing all kinds of
candidates do do The Breakfast Club and
DC's Amero and like shows that real
human beings like and enjoy and watch
who are necessarily thinking about
politics but where you can reach voters
or you have an audience that isn't
getting bombarded with talking points in
 all day like you are in cable
news so I would try to do
non-traditional shows I would try to
think about creating my own media
ecosystem and you know stealing from
better O'Rourke's and a campaign in
terms of all the live-streaming he did
and and all the stuff they did to get
out there and like stand on stand on
tables you got to stand on folding
chairs you got to stand on radiators
wave your arms and then also like don't
don't be the 19th person to jump into
this race or the 20th burst and jump in
the race and have a whole bunch of
typical boring policy points that are
setting you up for a general election if
you have something to say say it
be bold be interesting be big try to
reach people and inspire them otherwise
don't waste your own time yeah I mean
this is we've said in a million times
this is this primary is the most
important primary of our lives it is an
incredible challenge that we have set
for ourselves which is picking someone
to represent us in a presidential race
in which so much is on the line at a
time in which I think Democrats
generally feel unmoored and unsure about
the right thing to do because they were
caught off guard in a big way by the
current occupant of the White House and
so to me if someone's gonna get in the
race and they're gonna try to make a
name for themselves it better be because
they're looking at what they're seeing
and saying no one's diagnosing the
problems in America and nobody's
bringing the fight to Donald Trump that
I think we need to bring and I think the
reason Pete has resonated is cuz that's
the kind of case he's trying to make do
you see really quick before we move on
aside from Pete who you've mentioned any
other candidates who you think are like
distinctively doing this as a boat like
standing out from the back mm-hmm like
who comes to mind when you think of that
to me I think you can look at I think
you see I think Bernie Sanders has a
perspective on what is broken in this
country and what politically is
necessary to to win it is Casey made in
2016 that
it heard well enough and it's now a case
that has been embraced by a lot of
people but it is still his to make I
think Elizabeth Warren has been making
an incredibly rigorous policy argument
about what's broken in the economy and
what we need to do to fix it and the
policies we need to do to fix it after
that to be honest I think there's a lot
of candidates making a really strong
argument but I think that there are
chunks of speeches that some have given
that others could give and none have and
and and and none have been as I think
none have built such a complete story as
I think those there's like some baby
breakthroughs right like Andrew yang the
yang gang no one would saw that coming
yeah he's met the threshold to get on
the debates and saying and by the way
like offering his own diagnosis and a
set of policies like universal basic
income that I think is worth discussing
it again where we are a guy who did
something very different he wanted Joe
Rogan's podcast and that was the big
breakthrough moment right so you know
non-traditional media planned
tulsi gabbard who I'm you know like it's
interesting to me that she met the
threshold for donations she's clearly
hitting some so you know people are
doing it but not there's no one like
breaking away that I've seen something
that recently came up in CNN Town Hall's
which is like the absolute opposite of
what we're talking about they should
still do them but very much in the
traditional media ecosystem is this
discussion of letting incarcerated
people vote where Democrats stand on
that Katie wants to know what you guys
think about it how do you feel
what should we allow people to do you
know like this week is the first time
I've ever thought about this um I'm
totally fine with like a non-violent
offender voting wall in jail why not
what's the argument against it why would
we not want a bunch of people in prison
who have a bunch of free time we
probably take really seriously
the process of voting and and the issues
at stake to develop a habit where they
become voters in prison then we get out
what is offensive about that I guess if
you're a terrorist you're a murderer
like there's some agree a rapist m'g
regis crimes yes let's draw a line and
say you did something that's so awful
you don't get to participate in society
as a citizen anymore it's over for you
great but like those other ones I'm
totally fine with it is odd that this
would become a flashpoint I didn't
expect this but yeah I mean it's become
a I feel like there's two things there's
why we're talking about it there's the
issue itself and that's why we're
talking about it I think if we are
serious about trying to rehabilitate
people if that's part of the reason we
are locking people away and we want
people to become members participating
members of society
when they leave prison with an
opportunities to rebuild a life you know
treating people in prison while they're
being punished as as human beings with a
voice and who are part of the society I
think has has value now then there's the
issue about why we're talking about this
now I think that this is something that
Republicans will want to demagogue right
they're gonna they're gonna want to say
like look at these people you know they
want to let murderers vote they want to
let in criminals but they want to let
rapists vote they want to let the
pedophiles vote they want about the
worst human beings being vote I think
right now if I were talking to a
candidate what I would say if they were
asked like should people currently
imprisoned be allowed to vote what I
would say is talk about criminal justice
reform you know talk about the steps you
would take to reduce systemic injustice
in how our laws are applied in the laws
themselves I've talked about the way you
know we were legalizing marijuana while
people rot in jail for non-violent
marijuana related offenses and that
predominantly fall on people of color
I've talked about the importance of what
we just achieved in Florida given felons
the right to vote the importance of
letting anyone who has paid their debt
to decide society have their right to
vote back I think right now Democrats
are kind of getting stuck into these
little debate like it's almost as if you
know Democrats moved really forward in
the policy debate in 2016 and now we're
moving forward again in the policy
debate in 2020 and that's a really good
thing except for the fact that we
haven't had power this into our time and
we actually so it's it's a little bit
like we're on the next thing but like
hold on a second we still gotta get
people who are let out of jail you don't
even got a lot of work to do it's just
so interesting that we're getting mired
in like are you a socialist or not do
you want people in jail to vote or not
it's like we should be talking about
health care we're talking about economy
fascist Cheeto in the Oval Office we
gotta go yeah big big right here yeah
sure
okay we're onto the fun stuff now so
let's see what we got here Shelby
is asking Oh someone please ask Tommy
about his newfound love for Queen Liz Oh
Tommy tell us about it I mean what do
you need to know she's electric music's
great but like she performs her ass off
dancing up there they have the people on
stage with her are it's not a bunch of
like waifish dancers that are ripped
it's like people are representative of
all body sizes and like it's a really
inspiring show she's incredible super
fun blown away no thoughts love it
nothing I'm Liz oh I wasn't there I will
say only this I did leave I will say
only this age a part of the politics
team here at rookie media she said this
to me as I was arriving to the office
she said I thought I was too old for
Coachella but then I saw you Johnny
Tommy there it was really inspiring
she's right
she said it the way you would talk about
like a senior citizen running the
marathon so beautiful you named me now
next question was oh come in LA in
October yeah I know I was like I gotta
go all right next question why Jon love
it Oh mm-hmm
that's not grammatically correct why is
Jon love it no longer twitching
parentheses the video game app not I so
I was away right I went on tour
I've now back I want to get so right now
I just have my ps4 and I was twitch
streaming SiC here a sec you're oh she's
a great game having a great time doing
it I want to get properly set up I want
to get a camera I want to get a PC so I
can like stream really well I'm gonna
work on it I'm coming back I very much
enjoyed streaming video games that
combines two of my favorite things video
games and attention so we always call
him the PewDiePie of crooked me don't
you dare the same exact traps
you Dave I don't you dare we do I have a
question for like the uninitiated here
do you film yourself or do you film the
screen or do you film so how's it work
so so what it is is what people would
see if they went to the the John Levitt
which stream is you would see a video
game
box that shows me playing it and then
you can interact in a chat and ask
questions we have a little conversation
but how do you do like it doesn't
require a lot of Commerce like thoughts
to play and play and talk you know there
are moments where you quite you're quiet
because you're in a difficult
circumstance say your place say you're
fighting the Guardian ape right and he's
got three phases all right
phase three is the hardest all right
because you can get terrorized and if he
successfully fills your terror bar you
will die this is real this is real can I
touch myself watching Game of Thrones
you can just whatever you want lianca I
mean that would just be like a YouTube
maybe last room no but like then they
can watch Game of Thrones also because
they well any more than you would have
to subscribe to HBO why don't you just
bring up bring your phone to Avengers
end game and bootleg it we're talking
about what are you talking about are you
part of our society no you can't just
angsty Oh HBO and put it on Twitch I
think stay tuned for my twitch guys then
we're gonna we're gonna pivot to piracy
in that way I did and the Dana Carvey
show Dana Carvey said that ABC's most
popular show was a family watching
Seinfeld anybody who's really current
reference I love it
next question Priyanka marathon runner I
love it anyway
Madison answering oh now it's an
answering question answering question
from last week Lovett is a Leo and do
you both agree with the zodiac
assessment of him Leo traits strengths
creative passionate generous
warm-hearted cheerful humorous
weaknesses arrogant stubborn
self-centered lazy and flexible Leo
likes theater taking holidays being
admired expensive things bright colors
fun with friends
Leo dislikes being ignored facing
difficult reality not being treated like
a king or queen
so listen son kami it's really
unfortunate how well that describes
certain people who may have been born in
August however I still rejects the idea
that the location of the planets and
mercury in retrograde has any impact on
our daily experience and everybody who's
talking about it sounds ridiculous what
is mercury
in retrograde mean so I believe it is a
reference to the fact that when you look
there are certain times of the year when
you look up at mercury it appears to go
backwards in the sky and remember you
know originally and when they thought
the earth was at the center of the
universe you looked up and you saw
mercury and it was like the part of the
air where mercury was going backwards
but really it's because Mercury's going
around the Sun it if you know we're
going around the Sun we're all going
around the Sun I know because
this was a thing that came up was
brought up came about back when we
thought you know there was a time when
like in there's a there's an old chart
that has all the deaths in the City of
London and one of them says the most
common cause of death was planet because
it was like I don't know maybe Saturn
killed them
check it out so where do we fall as we
agree disagree I don't agree that you
just described me yes we agree cool I
mean I'm just asking for Madison anyways
show you what that's all we got
that's it thank you beautiful story nice
dream great stream thanks for coming out
see you next week see you are you guys
on tour next week no we're here next
week
what's our you want I'll be and where
are you going again I'll be in Houston
I'll be in Dallas I'll be in Austin may
2nd may 4th May 5th I believe have you
announced today yes we have not
announcing guess what we've got some
interests a tune stay tuned some big
guns cool one so check it out check it
out cookie calm slash events and extreme
you
