I am here with Stacey Abrams because
vote save America and fair fight are
coming together to raise money to take
ballots from the hands of Republican
voters that right so it's a little bit
different okay the goal is to ensure
that everyone who's eligible to vote has
the rights to the we're putting ballots
in the hands of more people and if you
want to vote twice you want to vote
three times we're gonna make sure that
you have that ability
we'll give you a little mustache you can
wear or we would explain to me that
that's called voter fraud oh and you
would be the first examples of voter
fraud and dozens of years because that
affront isn't real but voter suppression
is and so we're trying to make sure to
vote one time but make sure that vote
counts
so this money is going to go towards
like you know they're gonna have
parachutes and they're gonna jump out of
planes and go to a cup that's an idea we
can hire voter protection teams and put
them in twenty battleground states to
ensure that every voter has someone
who's looking out for their rights of it
uh-huh
and they are armed to the teeth with
information Franken dren we're gonna
make sure they have the resources they
need that means we have a nominee for
president when we have a nominee we're
gonna scale it up yes we're gonna make
sure everybody can vote all right
Americans people from other countries
only if they've become naturalized
citizens in America yeah
wait not making legally uh-huh because
we know that every American whether you
were born here moved here we want to
make certain that you if you are
eligible to vote in 2020 yeah yeah yeah
