I think a lot of people haven't heard of
you yet part of it right yeah for sure
and I think a lot of people may have
started hearing some rumblings about
this Andrew yang person you're running
on Medicare for all universal basic
income that I mean every American would
receive a monthly stipend and something
you're calling human centered capitalism
what does that phrase mean yeah so I'd
like to talk about my wife who's right I
literally got off the phone with their
face time where she's at home with our
two young boys one of whom is autistic
in her work counts as zero and GDP which
is clearly not an appropriate reflection
of the value and so GDP right now is
leading us off a cliff where we're
cheerleading this measurement that we
made up almost a hundred years ago and
so one of the things I ask people is how
many of you were excited about GDP when
you woke up in the morning I mean if
you're like I'm gonna make a big
contribution today and so what we have
to do is we have to update our
measurements to things that would
actually reflect how we're doing so
things like mental health and freedom
from substance abuse health and life
expectancy clean air and clean water
that if you have the wrong measurements
you can't make progress and right now
GDP is going to keep hitting record
highs even as our life expectancy
shortens and more and more Americans get
left behind so human-centered
capitalism's about updating our
measurements to actually reflect how we
are doing
[Applause]
in practice you know so you're elevating
these other measures of what makes a
society healthy right
but in practice you're talking about a
better social safety net you're doing it
through ubi and medicare-for-all you're
talking about better regulations of
corporations and protecting people from
corporate abuses both as workers and as
consumers when you put aside the the
terms how does that differ from the
version of capitalism that say Elizabeth
Warren advocates for one with a much
more strict regulatory regime to protect
workers and consumers and a much much
stronger social social safety net which
might include Medicare for all what's
the actual policy difference which we
make the more the more mainstream
Liberal Democratic candidates I'm a big
fan of Elizabeth Warren's I think many
of the Democratic candidates for
president have very aligned in similar
visions we just have slightly different
points of emphasis as to how we get
there
so I think in America with Elizabeth
Warren as president would be vastly
better you know I think that we just
have a slightly different paths to get
there but you know like I have many
friends who are working with Elizabeth
Warren right now so I mean it's to me
part of it is that there is one one
thing that I think Democrats tend to get
a little bit too emphatic about which is
sort of like trying to curb the harm and
so to me it'd be even better to start
trying to figure out what the good is
and the direct more of our energies
towards it instead of always trying to
curb the abuses I mean curbing the
abuses is definitely needed and
something we need to do but we also need
to keep our eyes on the prize about how
to improve our own lives let's talk
about memes for a second you developed a
big online following yang going Eddie
yang Geiger's out there a few a few
don't worry we'll get the rest of you
soon yang Gang at the wing
but this file you've drawn attention
even some support from some of the
darkest and most hate-filled parts of
the internet including alright trump
country there was one image that I
thought captured at least part of this
sentiment can we put up this meme what
does this do you believe that this is a
real phenomenon and and what do you make
of it right like what do you make of
this of your relationship to this part
of the kind of worse part of the
Internet well one of the themes of my
campaign is we have to solve the
problems I got Donald Trump elected and
one of the main things I got Donald
Trump elected is this economic
dislocation around the country that is
not being driven by immigrants furthest
thing from it it's being driven by
technology in the fact that more
Americans labor is getting minimized in
value and so I certainly completely
disavowed any support from anyone who
has any kind of hateful or racist
ideology and I myself I'm the son of
immigrants I mean one of the things it's
like do I look like a white nationalist
it's been kind of a point of confusion
but I think that my campaign is drawing
in people from different ideologies
because they can tell that I'm just
trying to solve the problems on the
ground and improve Americans lives
alright let's talk about universal basic
income and I think this is for a lot of
people something new that they're
learning about so just to let people
kind of know what the policy is every
American adult would get a thousand
dollars a month no strings attached paid
for by adding a value-added tax which
businesses would pay and it seems like
there's you offer come two rationales
one is that there's automation and
technology that's gonna eliminate a lot
of jobs and the other is just the
benefits that you see of a universal
basic income that it will help people
pay for things it will make it easier
people to to negotiate for their own
jobs because they don't no longer feel
like they can be exploited that it it'll
it'll increase the it'll improve the
economy it'll give people the ability to
find a new job that kind of thing but
these to me seem to be in tension
because one is based around the jobs
that will go away and the other is about
how people can improve their own lives
find work and find careers that are
fulfilling is part of your belief in
universal basic income that you believe
that there won't be new jobs to replace
the jobs that automation makes go away
yeah so we're in the third inning of the
greatest economic and technological
transformation in the history of the
country it's being called the fourth
Industrial Revolution and here in Boston
folks at MIT have been saying look this
is going to be two to three times more
dramatic than the Industrial Revolution
at the turn of the century there are
going to be many new jobs that get
created with artificial intelligence and
robotics and new software but those jobs
will tend to be for different people in
different places with different skill
sets than the folks that are being
displaced and unfortunately the dynamism
between those two environments and
context has been going down not up
so a universal basic income would help
strengthen Americans ability to make
that transition but as you say there's
this very compelling social rationale
for it as well
and one thing I like to say is that the
Democratic Party wants to be the party
of empowering women which we should be
but right now there are millions of
American women that are in abusive and
exploitative jobs and relationships that
would be improved by getting $1,000 a
month
but I want to stay on the issue of what
will will automation mean to you that
there will be huge numbers of Americans
who get I get this basic income because
they will not work again is that part of
it is part of your rationale for this
that that in the future there will be
more Americans that don't work that will
not have jobs because there simply will
not be it will not be jobs to replace
the ones we've lost well so a couple of
things if you can imagine an economy
where all of you were getting $1,000 a
month just think about where that money
would go that money would go to tutoring
services and car repairs you've been
putting off the occasional night out and
the you know like some hardware store
and all of those businesses might then
need to hire another person or two to
meet the increased demand we doing we'd
create over 2 million new jobs based
upon putting this consumer buying power
into people's hands but if you look at
what's happening right now in our
economy where in year 10 of an expansion
and our labor force participation rate
is already down to 63% a multi-decade
low in the same levels as Ecuador and
Costa Rica and this is your tenth of an
expansion our life expectancy has
declined for the last three years
because of surges in suicide and drug
overdoses that has actually gone hand in
hand with people finding no spot in the
workforce so when you say do I project a
future where people aren't going to have
jobs I don't need to project a future
because it's in the data right now and
we need to think much bigger about how
we can help Americans move forward and
create those jobs that they can actually
access in their communities let's talk
about the labor force participation so
you're right so right now we're at 63
percent at the worst part of the Great
Recession I think it dropped to 60
percent right the peak is say 1990s
around 67 percent right so what we have
is from so roughly nineteen fifty four
to nineteen to now the participation
rate of men dropped from ninety eight
percent to eighty eight percent right
and women came into the workforce it
Peaks in 1990 and then the
happens in if lands and yet labor force
participation rate in around 1954 is
around sixty somehing percent today it's
around sixty sixty three percent men
still eighty eight percent are in the
labor force a a drop that has not
precipitous based on technological
change now it's a change that's been
happening literally since 1954 can you
look at that data and say you know what
actually we've replaced jobs that have
been lost to automation that automation
won't actually end up that this is that
this is once again the kind of
prediction we've heard before that
automation like the Industrial
Revolution was going to make certain
jobs obsolete and there wouldn't be
wants to replace something Eddie would
this in your mind is this the first time
that that truism hasn't worked out that
this is the first time ever that new
jobs didn't come to replace the old ones
yeah so I wrote a book on this topic
that sussed out the data around what
happened to the manufacturing workers in
the Midwest and I studied economics at
Brown University any brown alums in the
room yeah do you want to compliment me
on the data I pulled out of my
goddamn head you know it was really
impressive just like had a graph I was a
should say so if you look at what
happened to the four million
manufacturing workers that lost their
jobs almost half of them left the
workforce and didn't work again and then
of that group about half filed for
disability so this was the mat and and
this went hand in hand with the decline
in the labor force participation rate
from 2000 to 2015 so that has been to me
the single biggest sign that this time
really is different that our labor force
is not realigning in the way that we
would hope it would okay I know I'm at a
data so I wonder what the politics of
the U of U yeah and I I want to focus on
this because this is what you made
central to your campaign I think it's
something that is interesting and
important because it's it's a new debate
that we're having so right now we're we
see political fights and they're not
about passing universal basic income
right there's a fight about a work
requirement for Medicaid
when AOC and Merkley announced the green
New Deal a single poorly worded talking
point about a benefit for those on what
I say mark
did I say Merkley instead of Marky and
I'm in Massachusetts
I said Merkley but I met Markie and
we're in Massachusetts and he's from
here
when aoc and Markie announced the green
New Deal if you laugh I can't make
myself look smarter in the edit I'm
gonna edit that out now leave it in it's
all part of the show
all right anyway to my point you Boston
animals is uh I can't take these people
anywhere a single talking point about
people being unwilling to work became
central to the Republican critiques of
it you know I went we also just beat
back a privatization effort on Social
Security seems to resurface every few
years I looked up the the HHS
description of TANF right this is a
program that provides a small amount of
financial support for women who are
pregnant in need it provides help for
food and rent and utilities right it's
for to make sure that women when they're
pregnant and in need that they can
provide for their for their children and
provide for their families these were
the this is what the HHS website
currently lists for the purposes of TANF
it says provide assistance to needy
families so that children can be cared
for in their own homes it then adds
reduce the dependency of needy parents
by promoting job preparation work and
marriage prevent and reduce the
incidence of out-of-wedlock pregnancies
it goes on from there and the reason I
bring it up is universal basic income is
this huge big idea that will provide a
benefit to everyone right rich and poor
people who are working people who aren't
working and yet the fights were having
right now in politics seem to be so
difficult and so rooted in this idea of
dependency and earning things that even
a program for helping needy pregnant
women to get through to get through our
political system has required this
language about dependency how do you
square this vision for something as big
as ubi with the amount of struggle and
fight it's taken over fifty years to
build this patch or
of benefits we have now you know I I
couldn't agree more of the examples you
cite where people are being forced to
defend benefits that by any standard we
should just look at and say of course
that these expected mothers should be
getting these benefits of course that
the these children should have more
support and that's one reason why I'm so
passionate about the freedom dividend
which is what I've rebranded universal
basic income is that it helps change the
battleground to something that becomes
much more universally appealing because
instead of it being presented as
something that someone else in some
situation gets which unfortunately
Americans right now like seem to lack
the compassion empathy to see that as
something that we should be championing
if you say look everyone gets this then
all of a sudden people ease up and be
like oh I'm everyone like you know like
I qualify and so this no longer becomes
like in US versus them fight it becomes
a universal right of citizenship in the
richest and most advanced economy in the
history of the world and so what I start
pointing people to is like look it might
seem far out but Thomas Paine was for
this at the founding of the country
Martin Luther King was for this in 1967
Milton Friedman and a thousand
economists signed a study saying this
would be tremendous for the country and
one state has had a dividend for almost
forty years where everyone in that state
gets between one and two thousand
dollars a year no questions asked and
what state is that and how do they fund
it and what is the oil of the 21st
century technology that's right
and so well Don a second what kind of
 yang gang plants do we got out
there you didn't applaud when he says
he's like oh there's I guess there's no
yang gang members here yep what is this
I you have rigged casino games tapping
each other messages sorry so I love the
Alaska example because Alaska is a deep
red conservative state and they've had
this dividend and his wildly popular has
created thousands of jobs has improved
children's health has decreased income
inequality and stood the test of time
and Alaskans like their
dividend so much that that a majority
said they would accept higher taxes to
fund the dividend it's the reverse of
all of the fights we're having over
benefits to to mothers and children and
so if you make it Universal then you
make it something that everyone can get
excited about so you know there were two
things too you have a very large number
of very specific policy proposals some
big some related to say MMA fighters and
you know you run the gamut on that
website but there was two policies that
I wanted to talk about with you you
called for a local news fund and a
national news Ombudsman at the SCC and
to me these were these are ideas that
strike me as interesting and then you
think about what happens when an idea
like that meets our political system
meets the realities of partisan politics
and you start to worry well I don't want
the federal government getting involved
in local journalism and making those
decisions and I certainly don't want the
FCC deciding what's true and what's
false when I see an idea like that I
think oh this is somebody from tech this
is somebody from business not somebody
from politics what do you say to those
that are concerned that yeah you have
these big ideas but you've never been in
politics before and calling for
something as big as ubi calling for
proposals like this it reveals that you
know you've not been in the political
trenches and therefore don't know how to
move things through Congress move things
through the bureaucracy if you were to
become president no it's a it's a fair
question so first I want to address the
local journalism piece because I think
it's really important if you're going to
have a functioning democracy you need
journalism and over 1200 newspapers have
gone out of business in communities
around the country and it's been shown
that if you don't have a local paper
then your voting becomes more polarized
than people have lower information so as
a country are we just gonna say and say
well local newspaper is their time is
done because the market doesn't support
them anymore or do you say if you
believe in democracy then you have to
actually support local journalism so my
plan is just to have a matching set of
grand funds
to initiate public/private partnerships
in many cases cooperative business
models or nonprofit business models
because a lot of these communities can
have a local paper it's just not going
to become a huge moneymaker yes so this
is like the vision is to put public
resource to work but of course the
federal government is not gonna decide
what the heck is going on in that paper
it's just gonna come and say hey what's
that you have a proposal like here's
some money to help you make the
transition in terms of me and in
Washington DC and getting things done I
spent the last seven years running a
national nonprofit that I started and
anyone raise your hand if you've worked
in nonprofits or you you've yeah so if
you have then you know that the way you
get things done is by consensus and
having a vision that other people get
behind you have hundreds of stakeholders
I am the opposite of the guy who will
say I'm gonna run government like a
business because anyone who says that is
dumb they're just completely different
things with like different leadership
models and different it's completely
different skills required but in
addition to running a business that was
acquired like I started in ran a
multi-million dollar nonprofit that was
extraordinarily human and I think
getting things done is going to require
the same sort of galvanizing people
around a shared vision that would help
move this country forward what do you
think Howard Schultz man I have a rule
not to say not nice things about people
but I've been around Howard and let's
just say his force field is strong okay
I'll take it
you
