welcome back to pod save the world I'm
Tommy Vietor I'm Ben Rhodes Ben today we
got a lot of stuff yeah I always say
that but so let's start with some right
wing domestic terrorist threats because
that's a blast then I think we should
get into the escalating trade war
between the US and China there have been
some updates on the protests in Hong
Kong
updates on Iran updates on Afghanistan
some new national security personnel
update you want some of the things we
talked about last week at the DNI why
tensions are increasing between Japan
and South Korea also in the Kashmir
region the Trump administration made
another move of against Venezuela there
is some concern that arms control
treaties are dying and then finally
Lindsey Lohan
yeah it's not going well no not for
Lindsey Lohan and that for all Neph arms
control our guest is former National
Counterterrorism Center director Nick
Rasmussen who has worked with
Republicans and Democrats to disrupt
Isis plots al Qaeda plots and
unfortunately now domestic terrorist
plots so he's a a great guy worked you
know in a bipartisan way and yeah a real
expert on this stuff two quick
housekeeping things our August crooked
mini-series is coming out on Wednesday
it's hosted by crooked media's very own
Shaniqua McClendon it's about it's
called rigging North Carolina it follows
the story of a political consultant
accused of fraud in the subsequent trial
in North Carolina's ninth district first
episode is dropping on Wednesday it's
gonna go through the scandal it's a
really great story check it out
one other thing Ben you have a major
piece on Burma coming out in the
Atlantic on Thursday this week yeah so
it'll be online on Thursday it's in the
next print edition you know a long piece
about long Sochi what happened on sunk
suci the Ranga crisis aiming to draw my
own experience but also some reporting I
did traveling to Burma earlier this year
to try to understand what is going on
there you know hopefully people can read
it again online on Thursday and then you
know we can talk about it next week and
I should add our friend Samantha power
her book is coming out September 10 yes
he's gonna check that out
Suzy also has a book coming out in
October so you know we'll have
you know a double-header there the book
game is strong I have read your Burma
piece it is not a just the defense of
the Obama administration policy it's a
really tough look at what the hell
happened yeah something I think all of
us been wondering like long Sun Tzu Chi
was this Nobel yeah prize-winning like
Human Rights icon hero yeah now you know
as part of a government that has been
engaged in ethnic cleansing you know I
just wanted to answer this basic
question what what happened to this
person how were we wrong is she the same
person was she never that person and so
I hope people check it out yeah it's an
awesome piece okay let's start with this
week's just horrible domestic terror
news Nick's gonna dig into some of the
more policy details later I think but
you know we were talking over the
weekend about how in some ways what
happened with these white supremacist is
really the worst case scenario we always
feared with al Qaeda these these
individuals you know shooting up malls
are in the country already it is
painfully easy to get a weapon of war
they figured out that you don't need to
do some hardened target like shoot at
the Pentagon or the White House you just
go to a movie theater and you can
terrorize an entire nation um I'm
curious I mean you and I you know
experienced discussions of these
policies in the White House starting
back in 2009 but why do you think the
response has been so slow and how do you
think the government should better
approach the threat from domestic
terrorism well first of all I think you
know there is an eerie comparison to
Isis here Isis kind of figured out right
you know al Qaeda had guys in training
camps and they were constantly trying to
plan these spectacular attacks and
hijacking aircraft are putting you know
explosive printing cartridges on cargo
planes Isis figured out that all you
have to do to terrorize people is to
walk in a crowd and shoot people yeah
Isis also had a phenomenon where
individuals were radicalized online and
essentially they didn't need to be a
part of a terrorist group they just went
out and acted on that ideology and it
feels like the white nationalist
movement has mimicked Isis the
radicalization happens online you don't
necessarily have to be in person
recruited you can just self radicalize
and you commit these these acts of
violence
you know part of what happened here
Tommy you know I remember we had a
summit at the White House laid in the
Obama administration for instance on
countering violent extremism and that
was the name of the summit and we were
mocked widely for not calling it the
summit on radical Islam and in people's
just pause enough like that was the
single talking point out of Republicans
over and over and over again and the
reason we didn't call it that is because
we said at the time actually there's a
threat from white supremacist extremists
in this country too and we had to view
the totality of this threat and yes
they're talking point was to minimize
the white nationalist threat and say
it's all about radical Islam and that
they kind of browbeat the administration
you know in Congress this idea that if
you talked about anything but radical
Islam you you were selling out America
and you weren't taking the threat
seriously I also think you know right
now there's an uncomfortable reality
which is it if you were trying to deal
with this as a Nash security challenge
and saying what is the threat to the
most American people and how do we put
resources against that you would have
the FBI in the Department of Homeland
Security spending a lot of money and a
lot of time trying to unravel word of
the sources of white nationalist content
what are the sources of this
radicalization how do we get deeper into
community so that someone who spots this
behavior can alert the authorities and
the uncomfortable reality is for them to
do that they'd be essentially pulling a
thread on Trump's political base and I
have to think that the political
pressure of having a president who
embraces some of the same narratives as
these white nationalists that kind of
makes people think twice about moving in
that direction yeah it is a huge huge
challenge
let's get these goddamn guns off the
street and then go from there okay let's
talk about China for a minute because
this trade war is is continuing and it's
rapidly escalating so late last week
Trump said he was gonna slap ten percent
tariffs on basically all Chinese imports
so those new tariffs take effect on
September 1st they will cover 300
billion dollars worth of stuff including
a whole bunch of things you might want
to buy around the holiday
is like phones or video games or toys or
whatever so then on Monday the Chinese
government devalued its currency for the
first time and I believe a decade and
the stock market just collapsed it went
down like the Dow went down I think 800
points later that afternoon the Treasury
Department in the u.s. responded by
labeling China currency manipulator
China has announced that they're gonna
halt the purchase of American
agricultural goods so like the tit for
tat chiz escalated when in one day so
bent we start with the basics what does
it mean when you devalue your currency
and why do you think China wanted to do
it and and what does it mean you get
labeled a currency manipulator by the
Treasury well so first of all China was
responding to Trump escalating the trade
war by imposing these new tariffs and as
we've said before these tariffs are not
just a penalty in China there are tax on
the American people every single
American every single American is paying
a tax because essentially you're gonna
pay more you know when you buy any goods
made in China the price is gonna go up
because the companies that sell those
Goods are gonna factor in the tariffs
right so you are paying for this that's
the first point second point you know
the Chinese haven't so what it's been 10
years since it was 7 RMB that's the
Chinese currency to the dollar right so
that means that the the Chinese acted to
make their currency essentially weaker
against the dollar that's a very logical
reaction to tariffs because if your
currency is weaker it is cheaper for you
to export goods though the price of the
goods you're exporting becomes cheaper
and so what they're trying to do is
they're trying to make up for the
increase in price for the goods from the
tariffs by making the currency weaker so
that Chinese exporters won't be hurt as
much it frankly also hurts them a bit
too because you know it begins to drain
their foreign currency reserves the
prices for goods are going up in China
as well but Trump takes this step of
labeling China a currency manipulator
what is the effect of that nothing right
I think this is like a really important
point and by the way pox on Chuck
Schumer - he's been yelling about this
for years but the reality is what
happens you you're labeling it it just
means you're declaring that we think
that they're manipulating their currency
all that means in practices we go to the
IMF the International Monetary Fund and
we essentially complain
say we think the Chinese are
manipulating their currency
interestingly under the current level
the Chinese currency the IMF does not
even believe that the Chinese are many
building their currency to the point
that they should face a penalty so this
is purely symbolic unless ever anyone
think that it's just a bunch of liberals
complaining about Trump who said this
basically the chief economists the deal
with China it's City and Goldman Sachs
said the same thing yeah it's a
political response but why does it
matter it matters because both Trump and
ji Jinping have signaled that they're
not looking for the off-ramp that the
trade war will escalate you know so it
looked like there was going to be
agreement in the spring and said an
agreement we got new tariffs from Trump
and the Chinese currency crossing this
threshold of 7 RMB to the dollar and in
Chinese if you look at Chinese state
media they're gearing up for the fight
you know they just like Trump has been
attacking China they're now attacking
Trump they're saying it's patriotic we
have to dig in we have to fight this out
and so the reason the markets I think
plunged and the reason we're in for very
rocky waters is neither China or the US
seems to have an end game for this trade
war we're in and the the consequence
could be ever-increasing tariffs and
responses from China China saying
they're not going to buy any US
agricultural products a big huge hit on
American farmers and it's introducing
all this uncertainty the global economy
it's going to make it harder for
consumers to buy things right because
prices are going up in both the US and
China when consumers aren't buying as
many things the economy never slows down
so what Trump is doing with this trade
war without any kind of logical goal
that he's shooting at is putting at risk
the stability of the global economy and
American farmers and American consumers
without any sense of like where this
plane is going to land
that's exactly right I mean so this
latest little Twitter tariff tantrum
happened because negotiations haven't
been going well despite the fact I think
mannequin said three months ago that
they almost had an agreement there was
another meeting at a high-level in
Shanghai and it like ended after one
dinner and a quick meeting the next day
nothing I'd accomplished so Trump
freaked out and said that you know the
China has to follow through on
commitments divided these agricultural
products or
fentanyl sales so I don't really know
what he thinks was agreed to but you're
right he's completely backed himself
into a corner he's scared of looking
soft domestically but at the same time
the Chinese know exactly where to
squeeze him to hurt us economically and
politically so like to your point
who wants a knot like did the Chinese
even want an off-ramp or they just gonna
wait him out and see if they can get a
new person and negotiate well yeah no I
think that's why the currency thing
matters in the chinese state media
posture matters is what the Chinese are
signaling is we're not going to be
bullied by you and we're you know China
China is not Mexico and Canada which
frankly didn't even make that big
concessions to Trump at the end of the
day anyway but you know we're the second
biggest economy in the world and we can
dig in and we can hurt you and you know
the important thing to remember here is
yes she has some politics but he's not
worried about his next election right
right so if there's a trade war and some
constituencies in China are hurting it's
not like geez worried that he's gonna be
ousted what he can do is he can squeeze
really hard in electoral important areas
and farmers are in the Midwest farmers
are in electoral important areas in the
United States so Trump thus far has
tried to patch that by shoveling money
at farmers right paying them off paying
him off with I think 15 billion dollars
in assistance which you know is real
money that we're paying to you right so
we're paying this tax through the
additional tariffs we're paying to bail
out these farmers which is let's face it
wealth redistribution it's just a
redistribution to people that Trump
likes called Joe the Plumber yeah
exactly right in the wealth around here
and and and meanwhile I think the
Chinese have every reason to say well
let's at least wait and see what happens
a year and half from now in the election
rather than make kind of fundamental
systemic concessions here to trump and
reward his behavior and and you know
this could precipitate I mean everybody
file this away because if the economic
downturn happens if there's a recession
or a global financial crisis it's very
likely the Trump's actions in this trade
war will be a precipitating factor for
that yeah that Joe the Plumber joke was
a Obama Oh a deep cut credit to you if
you get it out there Google spread the
wealth around okay
let's stay with China so the protests in
Hong Kong are getting more intense
according to New York Times on Monday
protests are disrupted about 200 flights
and they blocked roads and railways and
they're calling for a general strike so
a government spokesman went on the
record and told the times that 420
people been arrested in a thousand cans
of tear gas have been fired
odd thing to go on the record to say
we're a couple months I think nearly two
months into the protests which isn't as
long as the protests in 2014 but they're
getting pretty intense Hong Kong's chief
executive spoke for the first time in
two weeks on Monday she's openly siding
with China a Chinese government
spokesman for their Hong Kong office has
been putting out some very ominous
statements today he said demonstrators
have quote exceeded the scope of free
assembly he warned them not to take
restraint for weakness I called the
protesters who attacked one of their
offices they're rampant and deranged and
said a blow from the sword is waiting
for them in the future
yikes I think you have to wonder if
we're gonna see the Chinese military
which has a big contingent stationed at
Hong Kong move in soon it's also notable
that trump has offered no solidarity in
fact he is basically signaled that he
doesn't care he doesn't think it's our
business and he wouldn't do anything to
step in if there is a Chinese crackdown
yeah and you know thus far the Chinese
have not used the military directly we
talked about some of these thugs who
showed up in front of the protesters I
think the more we learn about that the
more does become apparent that the
Chinese government was probably at least
giving a wink to people if not
encouraging people if not paying people
home to essentially go out and confront
the protesters and make this look
violent
there's even some reports that they
might be leveraging organized crime in
Hong Kong to play this role so they're
playing kind of subterranean hardball if
they roll the PLA the People's
Liberation Army the Chinese army into
Hong Kong and try to kind of restore
order that way the problem for them is
it puts any lie to this idea that there
are two systems that there's you know
it's supposed to be one country two
systems so one country China but there's
a system in Hong Kong that is freer and
more open than the system in mainland
China once you cross the threshold of
putting the military you're kind of
putting the lie to that and frankly that
ends up hurting them
in other places like Taiwan where they'd
like to see Taiwan essentially come into
this similar arrangement the Hong Kong
the Taiwanese are looking at and
thinking like that is this what we want
do we want and yeah we have a democracy
in a pretty open country do we want to
centrally be swallowed up by China and
have the PLA here in ten years
the protesters seem to be escalating in
response by showing them okay look if
you mess with us like this we're gonna
mess at the Hong Kong economy and this
is a one of the most important financial
centers in the world if flights aren't
getting in and out if there's kind of
perceived chaos in the streets it's
gonna have an impact on the Hong Kong
economy they're willing to take that
risk to send a message to China that you
know we don't want to live under your
thumb so I think this is going to
continue to be a real flashpoint and the
Chinese are clearly pivoting in the
direction of zero tolerance here yeah
man one to watch let's stay in Asia for
a minute things have gotten very bad you
flagged the story for me between Japan
and South Korea Japan apparently was so
pissed off that they threatened to stop
exporting certain materials that are key
to South Korea and manufacturing a bunch
of protesters took to the streets in
response in Seoul South Korea apparently
threatened to withdraw from an
intelligence sharing agreement that
allows us to monitor North Korea with
the Japanese and with the rocks this is
all coming as North Korea just
repeatedly firing into the ocean nuclear
weapons yeah well Trump like literally
pretends everything is fine and tweets
about his good friend in North Korea um
when asked if Trump would mediate
between Japan and South Korea he said
that no it would be a full-time job so I
guess he wants to keep like tweaking at
the TV yeah so anyway this is an old
dispute it dates back to World War two
and bubbles up periodically can you just
like give us a quick overview of that
history and what's happening here so you
know the Japanese were longtime
colonizers of the Korean Peninsula
then in World War two they committed a
series of atrocities against Koreans
most emotionally for the Republic of
Korea a thousands of Korean women
so-called comfort women were essentially
enlisted into sexual slavery by the
Japanese you can see why this is a
searing wound
for the for the
Korean people and their over the decades
been a series of efforts to kind of
mediate this history to have the
Japanese pay compensation for these
women for have the Japanese apologize
for this history but it flows up
occasionally it flared up under Obama in
a very serious way in part because some
of the last of these comfort women are
dying so we brokered an agreement
between Japan and South Korea in 2015
that involved you know a mix of of
Japanese expression of apology and
regret also involved things like you
know building monuments to the comfort
women you know setting up foundations
that deal with commemorating this issue
and and essentially we're able to get
them back to working together
I should add the reason this is
important is those are our two closest
allies in Northeast Asia and if you're
dealing with North Korea as a united
front the three of us we all share
intelligence our militaries all
cooperate you're in a much stronger
position if we're all split if Japan in
South Korea I'm working together and the
u.s. is isolated from them that's a
giant opening for the Chinese and the
North Koreans to take advantage like
while we're over here fighting North
Koreans are basically what's happening
yeah without this is what the brisk is
which is North Koreans are building
nuclear weapons they're firing off
missiles the Chinese are essentially
trying to make up for the breakdown in
Japan Republic of Korea relations by
moving in as a trading partner and over
time the Alliance falls apart
China gains influence the North Koreans
are emboldened right that's the risk now
what's happened is Japan has a pretty
Nationalist government under Shinzo Abe
a and members of his party have
essentially made inflammatory statements
at times or you know have not kind of
sufficiently been willing to atone for
the past
there are textbooks in Japan that
suggests that it's an open question as
to whether the Japanese forced these
comfort women into sexual slavery or not
the Koreans respond to that by
complaining by you know threatening to
stop buying certain products
and what's needed is the u.s. to play a
really aggressive mediation role and to
keep them talking to each other
Trump Chloe doesn't want to do that Mike
Pompeo clearly despite his quote unquote
swagger has been unable to do that
they basically insulted Pompeo by saying
they weren't gonna have this meeting
with the three of them and try to reach
an agreement so the u.s. looks weak in
Asia and our allies are fighting with
each other and if it leads to the South
Koreans suspending this intelligence
relationship that's a direct problem for
our national security because
intelligence sharing on North Korean
threats is essential you know what are
they up to what is their military during
one of these missiles doing when there
is a North Korean launch or test the way
in which we know what happened is
usually because lots of information is
shared among the three of us so this
will have real gnash security
implications yeah and we got twenty
eight thousand five hundred US service
members sitting and sitting in Korea and
a whole bunch more in Japan so yeah
hopefully Pompeo can find a way to and
it's it's out it's a sign that this
national is in the trump represents is
infecting everybody you know because the
Koreans and the Japanese are acting in a
very nationalist way you know we're
fighting about history not looking
forward I think it's you know yet
another consequence of this nationalist
trend we see everywhere yes and we'll
have a little more of that later when we
talk about Kashmir yeah um do a couple
of personnel updates so in a win for
common sense
Trump's pick for Director of National
Intelligence Congressman John Ratcliffe
withdrew it became clear that he had
lied on his resume about like any
relevant national security experience he
might have had before getting to
Congress and then he has essentially no
interest in the intelligence committees
work he didn't go to the reading room so
look at intelligence he didn't go on
trips he did nothing so great pic let's
hope this one doesn't sit vacant for too
long the Senate did confirm Kelly Knight
craft to be Trump's ambassador to the
United Nations she actually got five yes
votes from Democrats it's mystifying its
mystified but the way she got it was she
finally had to state that humans
contribute to global climate change but
it's a praised and what she obviously
doesn't believe when people should know
that this is the wife of like a cold
magnate so her that her primary
qualification to be ambassador to Canada
which was before issues
- a rich cold guy and she gave an
interview in Canada saying with their
two sides the climate science right this
to quote Trump like we're not sending
our best here you know yeah that
does not fly in Canada I mean just a
reminder that nikki Haley was confirmed
ninety six to four so like bipartisan
votes can't exist if you put up a
qualified nominee like someone who
believes in climate change yeah so the
last person Trump had put up for this
position Heather now or former Fox News
host becomes a State Department
spokesperson she washed out over vetting
concerns what you mentioned how Kraft
was ambassador to Canada she was
criticized for spending seven months out
of two years at her homes in the US so
apparently she wasn't the best
ambassador it's an important position
yeah she shouldn't have been confirmed
it's hard for me to muster the outrage
because I'm just generally out of it but
damn it this sucks yeah I mean the UN
Ambassador is often like the first form
of response to something happening
around the world like there's a Russian
invasion of Crimea or there's a crisis
in the Middle East or there's a North
Korean nuclear test and all tension
turns to the UN and the UN Security
Council and the first person giving the
view of the United States is your UN
Ambassador the person who has to
literally mobilize the world behind say
like a sanctions regime through the UN
Security Council is this person what is
your qualification to do that like like
I mean this is absolutely insane like
that we care so little about the rest of
the world we care so little about the
United Nations that the wife of some
Trump donor who doesn't believe in
climate change who couldn't even like
Canada's not a hardship post we have to
be home seven months out of two years
like it's also right across the border
right you can hang on Canada like it's
it's not like but rails nice it's not a
tough place to be right and this what
kind of message does it send to the
world it's a middle finger they did this
is the person we think should represent
sit behind a placard that says United
States of America and represent our
country some big big big names have been
in those in that seat let's see Adlai W
Bush so the height of the Cuban Missile
Crisis Adlai Stevenson convincing the
world that the Russians had moved
nuclear missiles to Cuba George HW Bush
Susan Rice and Samantha power under us
Richard Holbrooke you know you john
bolton unfortunately under bush to him
good ones it's also just worth flagging
that john huntsman has resigned his post
as US ambassador to russia he's gonna
run for governor of utah i know that
some people like huntsman they think
he's moderate they think they wish the
republican party were more like him i to
be honest i just see a guy who is like
so naked lee full of ambition that he'll
work for Trump he'll work for Obama
he'll do whatever he's just kind of a
hack so in 2009 Huntsman was our
ambassador in Beijing for Obama and we
were there and I was it was in a room it
was just me and Huntsman and Obama and
David Axelrod I didn't remember why that
group of people was talking to did it
when a weird like Saturday yeah and and
Huntsman was talking about the health
care debate and he said you know I don't
know what's happened the Republican
Party you know in 2009 right this is
pretty like kind of losing its mind and
you know in private I think the reason
why I like a lot of people say nice
things about John Huntsman is in private
he's like you have a problem party it's
gone off the rails he was saying that to
us back in oh nine and yet he agreed to
serve as Trump's ambassador in Moscow at
a time when Trump is doing the Helsinki
summit cozying up to Putin Trump is
running to our intelligence community
Trump is kind of doing nothing to stand
up to Russian aggression
you know he's consistently kind of
compromised what people surmise he
thinks about things yeah to be in these
jobs and you know now history will
record that he was the US ambassador to
Russia when the American president stood
in Helsinki and essentially agreed with
Vladimir Putin over his own intelligence
community that was a fun day yeah good
legacy yeah Congrats John a couple
Afghanistan updates so last week we
talked about how Trump told Mike Pompeo
that he wants to get all the that he
wants to withdraw troops from
Afghanistan by the election not all of
them but a big chunk so like clockwork
here Lindsey Graham went to the press to
lobby Trump you keep them there so
not surprising but there were two
articles that I read recently as two
recent data points that I wanted to flag
then make a a national security argument
for why I think we should probably get
out the first is a UN report that says
Afghan security forces and coalition
forces have killed more civilians in
Afghanistan than the Taliban so the UN
says that in the first six months of
this year 1,400 civilians have been
killed in 24 under wounded they believe
that Afghan and and allied coalition
forces are responsible for 52 percent of
those civilian deaths so I obviously
can't verify those numbers I'm not
pointing the blame at US service members
here but it's impossible to win hearts
and minds if that data is accurate if
we're more of a threat to the people who
live in the country than the Taliban the
second report was the Times reported
that there's a split between the
military in the Intel community over
whether Isis forces in Afghanistan
threatened the West or not so from the
military thinks that Isis in Afghanistan
could inspire or direct attacks against
Western countries the Intel guys believe
that they are more likely to fight the
Taliban yes they're waging an internal
war in Afghanistan so I guess like you
you see these two you know data points
and it's a best debatable whether
there's a threats of the US homeland
emanating from Afghanistan anymore
the suffering for the Afghan people is
unimaginable I mean like even if you try
to set aside the politics the history
like we were just deciding this blank
slate it's hard for me to really think
of a good argument for staying except
that people think we need to prop up the
government well look the tragedy to is
that this country has been basically at
war since like the 80s Soviets were
fighting down there can you imagine your
whole life and you know I I think that
the the civilian casualty number is an
indictment of the Trump policy in the
sense that at the end of the Obama
administration we had drawn down to
10,000 troops but we'd also
significantly scale back the kind of
support we weren't doing air support for
offensives offensives by the Afghan
security forces we were trying to kind
of restrain elements the Afghan security
forces and some of the offenses that
they did when Trump made his policy
change he essentially you know we're
taking the gloves off like we're gonna
be back in the business of providing air
support
we're gonna have troops back in combat
it's not the fault of the troops it's
the directors that are being given the
rules of engagement if you start
dropping more bombs on the country
you're gonna kill more civilians if you
are supporting and encouraging the NSF
to go on more offensives they're gonna
kill more civilians into what end
because you cannot win this war
militarily like the Taliban is not going
to be defeated on the battlefield like
that if that's not clear after 20 years
like well how much longer do we need to
wait before we have that evidence and
better to wind down the fighting try to
end this violence and try to play a
diplomatic role to encourage these sides
to essentially come to some power
sharing agreement the ISIS thing like of
course like this is the justification
like well if we don't leave here maybe
there'll be a threat from here that's a
recipe for never leaving and continuing
to pulverize this country that has
already had decades of war and again the
Senate indictment of our troops it's a
policy that is being given to them to
carry out and the fact is if we leave
and there's an Isis safe-haven emerges
we we could fire missile at it you know
we could treat it as we do Isis safe
havens other places you don't need to be
fighting a war in the country with 15 to
20 thousand US troops in order to take a
shot at an Isis state safe haven so even
if there is a threat like the idea that
we need to be permanently fighting in
this war that is not working that is
killing civilians that is not
eliminating the Taliban because maybe if
we aren't fighting that war some day
there could be nice a safe haven is an
insane rationale yeah I mean the reason
I led with that Linda Graham anecdote is
not just because I love slapping him
around and I do I think he's a little
bozo
but that conventional wisdom you you're
from Lindsey Graham I heard it from ash
Carter when he was sitting in that chair
Obama's Secretary of Defense which is
the basically the argument that if we
just show enough resolved in
stick-to-itiveness and and weighed out
the bad guys that we'll eventually get
to a better place and negotiate a better
solution and it will lead to a more
peaceful outcome for the Afghan people I
just think that 19 years have shown that
that logic is faulty and that it's time
to try something if you are 25
your old fighting in the Taliban you've
been fighting your entire life the idea
that if the u.s. shows resolve through
the form of Lindsey Graham on a Sunday
talk show halfway around the world and
more bombs being dropped on her country
which is part of these and while you're
fighting the first place like that's
just a willful ignorance of what we've
learned over the last 20 years the
Taliban lives in these places these are
tribal connections in certain places in
Afghanistan it's just it's just the
reality of the makeup of that country it
doesn't mean the Taliban don't do
horrific things they do it just means
that unless the United States is willing
to put in like five hundred thousand
troops to pacify the entire country
we're not going to defeat them with
fifteen or twenty thousand US troops in
perpetuity we've we've learned that
let's stay in the region let's stay in
the region and talk about Kashmir we've
we've talked about a few times on the
show it's a potential nuclear flashpoint
between India and Pakistan with a long
fraught history on Monday the Indian
government made a major move and they
revoked Kashmir special status and
limited its autonomy um Ben can you give
us like the quick endure yeah what that
means are the significant good nerding
out there yeah that's fun
so essentially Kashmir is the only
region in India that has a Muslim
majority in in the province right and
the Indian Constitution and Indian
governance has always provided a certain
degree of autonomy for that region so
it's a part of India at least India
views it that way Pakistan sees it as
contested but there's been this degree
of autonomy there what the Indian
government did is essentially eliminate
that and restore kind of direct federal
authority and responsibility for
governance which is hugely inflammatory
in Kashmir because people don't like
this it will create openings for
extremists and Pakistanis and frankly
just ordinary people who resent this and
it could lead to more violence in the
form of terrorist attacks in Kashmir or
you know provocations emanating from
Pakistan so it's a pretty aggressive
move and I think what it shows is two
things this
this Hindu nationalist government under
Narenda Modi that just got reelected is
feeling emboldened and feeling like they
can blow through previous lines that
weren't crossed the second thing it
shows we sat here like two weeks ago
Donald Trump you know after putting the
Pakistani Prime Minister on the People
Mover Dulles has this crazy press spray
in the Oval Office where he indicates
he's going to mediate the dispute yeah
how'd that go within weeks of doing that
the Indians essentially say not only are
you not gonna mediate this dispute we're
gonna get ahead of you in restore direct
control here this is a gigantic
embarrassment to the present nine states
and nobody will talk about it because
everything on the fact that he's a
racist white nationalist understandably
but my god what a failure you know like
literally within weeks of the guy
hosting the Pakistani Prime Minister and
saying he's gonna insert himself into
this the Indians essentially insert
themselves into it and say we're gonna
do one of the most provocative things
that we can do i you know yet again his
his his is random comments and sprays
that seem like they don't have
consequences we'll look at the outcome
of what he's done yeah and this I don't
if the Intel community somehow missed
this we got problems because the Indian
government moved 35,000 additional
troops into character last week tourists
were evacuated as you know cut off
internet service I think for a PBS
Kashmir officials that you said
condemned the moved as did Indian
politicians who opposed Modi the
Pakistanis are furious Imran Khan said
quote I fear they may initiate ethnic
cleansing in Kashmir to wipe out the
local population I mean that's a big
deal but I mean I you know you sort of
alluded to this earlier about this
nationalist spread from China Japan
India I mean in your opinion how does
this compare to the Chinese government
cracking down in Hong Kong or the
Russians annexing Crimea
I mean how should the u.s. respond to
something like this it's a great
question I mean I think what you see is
look that another analogy is the Chinese
government having a million wee girls in
detention in western China
big powers China Russia the United
States India the big powers clearly feel
like there's no reason to abide by
traditional international norms or
standards they're UN Security Council
resolutions about Kashmir and
how this should be dealt with that India
is ignoring for instance in this case
and you know we hear a lot about norms
international law it seems like this
kind of you know inconvenience or this
thing that a bunch of weenie lawyers at
the UN talked about until you need it
right and and I think what you're seeing
is when countries feel like it's the law
of the jungle and international law or
national norms don't matter anymore
like you get pretty unstable outcomes
and the first people to suffer are
ethnic minorities right because if
you're sitting in Kashmir and you're a
Muslim citizen of that state and you see
35,000 troops coming in bricked-up and
direct row you're freaked out I'm
vulnerable maybe I'll end up like the
Weger is in China or maybe you know I'll
end up like the the Muslim Tartars and
Crimea who the Russians are suppressed
right but ultimately these things can
lead to actual Wars - yeah right because
you know wars are usually fought over
territorial flashpoints and the more
we're creating these you know with the
Indians and the Pakistanis in Kashmir
with obviously the Russians going into
Crimea with the Chinese and potentially
Taiwan and Hong Kong like this is you
one of these flash points will actually
catch fire right and it's this scary one
it's why the US needs to be for an
international system of laws and norms
and consequences for countries that
violate those laws and norms like
because if we just toss out the rulebook
you know everybody's gonna break the
rules and that's what's happening under
Trump yeah you could have strong
diplomats to UM two things I guess
there's more in the just sort of update
category so on Tuesday of the Trump
administration put in place a total
economic embargo on Venezuela
so things they're freezing all
government assets they're prohibiting
any transactions with Venezuela the
National Security Advisor John Bolton
he's in Peru today Tuesday and is gonna
give a speech where he justifies the
move by talking about how previous
embargoes on Panama and Nicaragua or
effective Cuba yet not affected that
one's going real well
what will your we on six decade so the
Wall Street Journal pointed out that in
July the International Monetary Fund
predicted a thirty five percent economic
contraction for Venezuela this year so
that means we are like hammering and
crushing
an economy that it basically already
collapsed so again I mean this is a
question that you raised earlier that a
couple issues frankly it was like what's
the endgame like I know they want Maduro
to go
they are crushing me even as well
economy and not really incentivizing
them to leave or seemingly having any of
the talks we need to make that happen
yeah I mean the one thing you know is
this will hurt more Venezuelans
they will suffer more what it feels like
to me is trauma was frustrated Bolton
was frustrated remember jumbled and
taping videos declaring that Maduro is
about to leave Mike Pompeo putting out
that Maduro had a plane on the tarmac
and was getting get on it well here we
are
yeah weeks if not months later and that
hasn't happened step back China trade
war getting worse North Korea building
more nuclear weapons and firing off
missiles
Iran preparing to restart its stockpile
of enriched uranium Maduro is still
there none of these planes are landing
you know and there's no aircraft
controller you know to try to you know
detangle what all these different crises
and I mean this is really this is really
frightening stuff because the bottom is
kind of falling out of the Trump foreign
policy and all it really is this is you
know
and and where where's this going there's
no sense of like all they know how to do
is is the next your pressure point and
we don't like you know how trying to
respond to our terror so we'll label
them a currency manipulator nothing will
come of that we we don't like the
medoras and left yet so total embargo
well the Venezuelan people will suffer
and I don't see Maduro leaving right now
and so they're just firing bullets and
emptying the chamber without any real
strategy to get from A to B yeah and
okay so they're also just flailing yeah
I mean they're the the foreign policy
the grand strategy is unclear and then
the the tactics in the near term are
silly so let's take an example iran's
Foreign Minister Javad Zarif was invited
to the meeting with Trump in the Oval
Office two weeks ago then the
administration when he said no decided
to sanction him so the invited the guy
to talk the guy who would negotiate a
diplomatic solution and then they
sanctioned him so meanwhile Iran is
still seizing tankers in the Strait of
Hormuz meanwhile like Chinese companies
are finding ways to smuggle fuel out of
Iran
the international community is totally
divided on the response so again this is
more an update than it is a question or
anything else but it does feel like the
bottom is falling out a little bit on
some of these policy choices well it
runs a great example right like and you
just gave the they say they want a deal
and they're so eager for one that
they're doing something that we never
did inviting the foreign minister to an
oval office meeting and then when that
doesn't happen for pretty obvious
reasons because if you're Zarif like you
can't go meet with the president who's
just throwing all these sanctions that
you hurled all these insults at you
almost bombed your country you know
without getting on a limb that gets
sawed off yes the hardliners back home
are gonna be like you know what are you
doing having that meeting when all we've
gone from the Trump people or threats
and sanctions and instead of trying to
figure out how to to build up to that
kind of kind of meeting right
diplomacy hard work multiple meetings at
a lower level right or you get in the
room they just say okay we're gonna
throw sanctions on this guy I saw some
reports that said that they wanted to
you know fire another bullet of the
sanctions you know because it would make
you know AIPAC happy you know they
welcomed it Netanyahu the Saudis showing
that we being tough to all this
collection of friends trump has but like
in practice that you just slam the door
in your own face for the diplomacy you
want to get so there's there's this kind
of incoherence and the only thing they
know how to do is escalate and again the
thing that worries me really is like you
keep escalating all these different
places like the China thing could lead
to a global recession the Iran thing
could lead to a war the Venezuela thing
is going to hurt a lot of people like
the escalation has a cost yeah not great
in Iran
speaking of arms control Ben so okay
this is a story that I think should be
getting a lot of attention but just
isn't so I wanted to raise it today
previously you've talked about how John
Bolton hates arm control and they are
just systematically walking away from a
whole bunch of arms control agreements
with the Russians that were set up you
know used to be bipartisan that Reagan
was a champion and of and you know
suddenly
a very different place so we pulled out
of a treaty called the inner need we
pulled out of a treaty called the
intermediate-range nuclear force or INF
treaty with Russia in fairness we did so
in part because they were violating that
treaty but that doesn't mean you abandon
the whole thing yeah you could try to
amend it but now the u.s. is developing
new weapons which apparently is pissing
off the Chinese who announced overnight
that they will not quote stand idly by
and be forced to take countermeasures
that the u.s. deploys intermediate-range
ground missiles in Asia so there's some
consequences that they probably didn't
anticipate oh then there's the New START
treaty this treaty that Obama negotiated
reduces the number of nuclear weapons
that are deployed by the US and Russia
it expires in 2021 and the trump
administration is apparently not sure
that they want to renegotiate it because
you know Bolton says it's another Obama
deal that's bad blah blah blah but I
mean no look the thing had to go through
the Senate and got 71 votes so again
it's just an issue that in normal times
I think would be front-page news would
be on TV will be getting talked about
because at the end of the day the number
of nuclear weapons that are on you know
red alert in a plane or in a bunker
somewhere is a big existential deal but
we're just distracted from all this
stuff yeah I mean after World War two
the thing that the world decided you
needed agreements for the most were try
to limit the spread of nuclear weapons
because the more people have nuclear
weapons and the more nuclear weapons are
the greater risk that they get used and
at the end of the Cold War there's this
opportunity to rollback the threat of
nuclear weapons and a lot of agreements
are reached and agreements like the INF
treaty were fundamental to the global
kind of non-proliferation arms control
regime and you know by kind of
systematically taking apart the global
non-proliferation regime and arms
control regime they're just
green-lighting the Russians to build new
nuclear weapons the Chinese to build new
nuclear weapons we know the North
Koreans are building new nuclear weapons
Trump doesn't seem to care about that as
long as it gets nice letters from Kim
this is going to make the world more
dangerous in and the the there's the
things we've talked about come together
because think about some of the
situations we've discussed the Indians
and Pakistanis have nuclear weapons
right the Chinese have nuclear weapons
the the the more there's this kind of
mixture of a lack of agreements and
treaties to regulate and limit nuclear
weapons combined with escalation
different areas like the unthinkable
could happen at some point right and so
I think this idea of how do you
reinvigorate and reinvest in arms
control agreements and reduce the spread
of nuclear weapons and limit the use of
nuclear weapons and and in deployment of
nuclear weapons has to be a part of the
foreign policy for all these Democratic
candidates I'll I'll try to find the
silver lining here in Tommy which is
that yes Trump is kind of taking an
eraser to the world you know to to the
agreements and institutions and
practices that have kind of governed how
the world operates we've talked a lot
about the downside I think the
opportunity for a Democrat is to say
like here's my vision for how to restore
this and build it back better you know
like what is an updated 2.0 version of
all these arms control agreements look
like and yes I'll be hard to get the
Russians into that but at least put
forward that vision start talking to the
Chinese about this how do we strengthen
the international system to better deal
with some of the flash points that we've
talked about you know the Iran nuclear
agreement was meant to be a starting
point for that type of effort obviously
in eliminating Iran having a nuclear
weapon but also having a diplomatic
channel open with the Iranians and so I
think that that candidates should be
thinking big about okay Trump is
essentially broken apart this
international system what should it look
like in 2021 and I think that's really
important debate to be had frankly would
involve moderators and Democratic
debates actually asking questions about
foreign policy yeah how'd you feel about
that yeah yeah well you know because
this is all this stuff is happening on
the world and you know I get that it's
not as fundamental as health care but
any one of these things could become you
know we could have a lot of people from
Venezuela coming here we could have a
war breaking out somewhere we're gonna
tensions in Kashmir I think where these
candidates are going to have the most
power as president is in foreign policy
and so that we should hear from them on
it's also just a good way I mean these
questions are not what candidates hear
every day on the stump so that's a good
way to figure out who's been briefed
who's doing some reading
remember when Trump was asked by Hugh
he would of all people now a Trump
Lackey but then someone who is seen as a
reasonable journalist what the nuclear
triad is and that's the three different
ways that the United States has to
deploy nuclear weapons ash Carter a big
supporter of them yes he clearly didn't
know what the nuclear triad was and I
think it exposed him as someone who was
totally unqualified for the job now that
didn't prevent it from getting elected
we all saw that but I mean I think you
know the exchange between Steve Bullock
and Elizabeth Warren at the debate
showed that she's really been thinking a
lot about you know nuclear weapons and
non-proliferation in her campaign and
it's put forward agenda and he didn't
seem to have the greatest handle on the
concept award the policy yeah and look
these are issues that matter in people's
lives I remember talking to Stacey
Abrams about this and she said yeah I
got foreign policy in Georgia like I got
farmers who are suffering because of
this trade war you know I've got guns on
the streets that are national security
issue you know we've got the risk of
conflict that you know we've talked
about Afghanistan look we got troops
fighting over there we spent trillions
of dollars there like this stuff matters
to your pocketbook to your security to
the economic context that you're in and
and we need to hear the vision from
these candidates about where they want
to lead not just the United States but
but the world and you know what we need
some woke world those out there you know
woke on arms control here not just
because yeah because essentially like
people out there care like people listen
this podcast care and and I you know
politicians will be responsive that and
you're right it reveals something about
your kind of basic knowledge and
preparedness for the job if you're able
to talk about this and before division
try to deal with this and it's connected
to the democracy piece if we're not
getting our democracy in order at home
how can we advocate for these things
abroad right so all these pieces kind of
fit together in the vision that you want
from a presidential candidate yeah
agreed
okay most important issue of the day
page six reported on rumors that Lindsay
Lohan yes that Lindsay Lohan is friends
with or maybe romantically linked to a
friend of the pod Saudi Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman Freaky Friday indeed
their reps denied that this is happening
there's a report that he gave her a
gift-wrapped credit card I assume that
beyond the kingdom he's flying around
his jets
some people were surprised by this this
pairing I would argue that they might be
perfect together well let's remember
Tommy I mean we're talking about a very
pious mature world leader of Mohammed
Simon yeah you know would never
associate with the likes of Lindsay
Lohan I mean he's trying to open a club
in Mykonos well it also just shows this
kind of bizarre vision of status you
know like like you know I'm a
trillionaire right I'm sitting on top of
like hundreds of billions of dollars of
oil in the sand and a gigantic sovereign
wealth fund and yachts and and and and
my target for who I would like to fly
around on jets and give Craig Carter
who's like Lindsey Joe big her be like
pop culture stop and like mm what five I
mean was Britney Spears not available
this isn't the weirdest or like of all
the people to be friends these two bozos
yeah I think there's just an
International Jet Set community of rich
and famous no Lauren was part of that
international Jet Set community yeah
that's a fair point but I I well maybe
it's a sign like you know a few months
ago or maybe he'll over a year like
before Jamaal khashoggi like you know
Muhammad and Salman was over here in
California hanging out with like the
rock yep and now he's with Lindsay
Lauren right so maybe well maybe there's
been a bit of it you know des munition
and his star power there are some
questions about the sequence saying
maybe they were friends maybe these
reports her whispers are from before
that Khashoggi incident so you never
know but you're right
Mohammed bin Salman was the great
reformer taking United States by storm
hanging out with Jeff Bezos hanging out
with Tom Friedman hanging out with
actors in Hollywood's and agents and
screenwriters and now we're in a very
different place it does speak to the
fact that like there used to be at least
outwardly this effort to demonstrate
kind of sobriety and piety among leaders
and countries like Saudi Arabia they the
I mean is it kind of interesting like
Muhammad Solomon's whole MO right it's
kind of impunity I can do whatever I
want
yeah I can chop up a journalist in
another country I can hang out on yachts
with Jerry Kushner you know I you know
and now it's like yeah I can date
Lindsay Lohan because I
you know or maybe not just hang out with
her I don't know what they're doing but
like please give a bunch of money just
yeah it would probably not be seen as
acceptable is that the first lady yeah I
mean it's kind of there's something
interesting there somewhere and you know
we are living in kind of like these
bizarre times where like if you look at
these different leaders right you got
Trump you know stormy Daniels and the
sexual-assault and you've got you know
bolson ro and you know he's his kid is
like you know in all these corruption
schemes there's this there's this kind
of sense of like impunity I can do
whatever I want I can hang out with
whoever I want
I can enrich myself in any way I want
and lots of places and I think my hope
is you know that there's there's this
kind of backlash to that globally that
like this the the the the anger that had
previously been directed at kind of
amorphous political elites like no look
look at what these leaders are doing
look at the choices they're making and
in their policies in their lives like
let's like maybe mobilize here and try
to get the type of leadership that's
more responsive yeah agreed
I'm not sure how I got from Lindsey
Loren to that you know what I followed
you yeah I went on that journey with you
when we come back I'll talk with Nick
rez mucin who is the former director of
the National Counterterrorism Center
from 2014 to 2017
you
