like in ten stories this morning yeah I
mean and basically from the time we sent
the outline there were like nine other
impeachable offenses they came out I
kind of all rolled them into one and I
actually I don't I took off the Mara
Lago thing because I just think
everything else is too long but if we if
you feel the urge you can throw in a
comment about it okay yeah okay welcome
to pod save America I'm Jon Favreau
later in the pod my conversation with
our friend and former senior White House
advisor Valerie Jarrett about her new
book finding my voice we've got a lot of
news to get through today as well from
Trump's plan to make the next election
about health care to the House Democrats
firing up those subpoena cannons to all
the latest 20/20 news also the next
installment and our pod save the
candidate series will be out on Friday
Tommy will be interviewing former HUD
secretary and former San Antonio mayor
Julian Castro right here in Los Angeles
finally we talked to sorry finally we
talked to you a few weeks ago about
organizing Core 2020 a program that will
recruit and train a thousand field
organizers who go to work in seven key
twenty20 battleground states for the
Democratic ticket the deadline to apply
to that program is Monday April 8th so
if you're a college junior who's
interested or if you just want to
support the program and sponsor an
organizer please go to organizing core
2020 comm you can apply you can donate
it is a great cause we need to get field
organizers in the field now so that when
we have a Democratic nominee there's
going to be a staff in place and there's
gonna be a young diverse field of
organizers who know what they're doing
this is a really important program so
please check it out all right let's get
to the news last week Donald Trump
promised that he was moving forward in
courts and legislatively to replace the
Affordable Care Act
this week the president reversed himself
and said that he was quote never
planning a vote prior to the 2020
election on the wonderful health care
that some very talented people and now
developing for me in the Republican
Party it will be on full display during
the election as a much better and less
expensive alternative to Obamacare this
will be a great campaign issue will it
Dan while campaigning on the repealing
the Affordable Care Act be a great
campaign issue for Donald Trump and why
do you think he backed off his earlier
promise to come up with an Obamacare
replacement before the election well
these two questions are very connected
no not be a good issue and we know that
because of the centerpiece of the 2012
election which the Republicans lost it
was a centerpiece 2018 election was the
Republicans loss and so were you to make
it a centerpiece of the 2020 election it
probably does not the lawful Republicans
the reason it Trump backed off of it in
fact office of the very board he
pretended he never said the original
thing favored Trump tactic is that the
Republicans had no interest in following
Trump off this class which is unusual
for them I know but Mitch McConnell say
in precedents in in dickish nests but
that he said he would be happy to look
at any health care legislation that
Nancy Pelosi and Donald Trump could
agree on it was a funny joke for Mitch
McConnell I mean miss McConnell is not
known for jokes so I mean my question
about this is like first of all the idea
that Donald Trump has been coming up
with a health care plan or is going to
come up with a health care plan or that
Republicans are gonna put forward a
health care plan I mean we've heard this
now for how many years
like since 2010 they've been coming up
with Obamacare alternatives like why did
they think they can get away with
continuing to say that there's going to
be some magical alternative to Obamacare
that basically does what people like
about Obamacare protects pre-existing
conditions all that good stuff and that
somehow we we never see this well it's
impossible that thing it is an
impossible policy problem to solve
because you can't get rid of the parts
of Obamacare that the Republicans hate
and Prateek the parts that they want it
that they
profess the like that don't actually
like protections for pre-existing
conditions you you have to why you have
to get as many people into the pool as
possible in order to make it affordable
to protect people with pre-existing
conditions for insurance company so it's
an impossible policy problem to solve
the I you know I listen to you guys to
talk about that someone day before Trump
backtrack off of this I think you're
there's two element to this one is I do
think he hears all the time that health
care is the biggest problem and so he
I'm starting shot again he thinks he
hears all the time that health care is
the Republican biggest problem Democrats
biggest advantage and so he's sort of
drawn to it like a moth to a flame
but then there's also he just had this
politically self-destructive instinct
which is he insists on always following
what seems like his best day with his
worst day by you know I think he's you
send us home Monday grabbing the third
rail and I think there was like oh I'm
doing really well post molar report
according to all of my friends on Fox
News what can I do to mess that up I'm
gonna I'm gonna grab one health care
again yeah I mean the other thing too is
he does have a health care plan they
laid it out in Trump's a budget a few
weeks ago his administration did I'm
sure he doesn't know that or didn't read
it but the Congressional Budget Office
nonpartisan scorekeepers in Congress
looked at the proposed policy that's in
Trump's proposed budget right now they
estimated the plan would cause millions
of people to lose coverage
it would give States the option to let
insurers return to discriminating
against patients with pre-existing
conditions and it would allow states to
give insurers the flexibility to decide
what gets covered maternal care of
eternity care you know anything that
they want so basically he does have a
plan that he's proposed in his budget
and it's it's a bad plan so like
how excited are Republican politicians
to make this a central issue in 2020 I
mean didn't Trump basically end up with
the worst of all options here because he
brought up health care he pretended that
they were gonna have a vote on it you
know sometime in this this year or early
next year and then he said no no I'm
gonna punt this until after the election
thereby ensuring that the election
itself will be about whether or not
people want to repeal the Affordable
Care Act which we know they
I always give the sensor the McConnel
treats Trump like parents treat toddlers
which is he basically just promised them
that terms like I want health care I
want health care I want health care and
kind of like you can have health care
after the election we'll deal with it
after the election right it's easier to
do that into he's here to the lay
gratification than to deny it and Trump
being a toddler decided to tell everyone
that's what the plan was which is the
worst of all worlds was just to say that
if the Republicans take the house and
Trump wins reelection that the exact
immediate result of that is the repeal
of health care that's an argument that
Democrats would make and Republicans
would try to a wide but now Trump has
embraced it and so it is in some ways if
Democrats play their cards right here a
bit of a reprise than what McConnell's
very devious Lee did with the golden
nomination which is to say to hang out
this vote over the election so that
Republicans who were uncomfortable with
Trump yeah could give them give
themselves a rationale for voting for
Trump which is I don't like Trump he
seems terrible he seems racist teaching
holding unfit for this job but if he
wins the next immediate result is we get
to protect the balance of the court and
so this is the Obamacare version of the
garland effect on of 2016 and so with it
but it'll be up to Democrats to make
this argument and keep this story
relevant for a very long time which is
challenging considering the fact that
collectively as Americans we are unable
to hold last week's impeachable offenses
in our heads for more than five minutes
but yeah no I mean I think you're
absolutely right and I forget which
story it was but there was some focus
group of like you know Obama Trump
voters and one of the people said you
know I really like Donald Trump but I
might not vote for him in 2020 just
because I'm really worried that if I do
I'll lose my health care again you know
like that there's there's sort of a a
preconceived notion from a lot of voters
rightly so that Republicans and Donald
Trump are just bad on health care and
Democrats are good however they feel
about the
parties and the individuals otherwise
and I think that's a strength Democrats
have but as you say they have to figure
out how to capitalize on that strength
and to that end you know somewhere in
the Twitter stream of Trump's verbal
diarrhea on health care was also an
attack on Democrats he said quote
everybody agrees that Obamacare doesn't
work premiums and deductibles are far
too high really bad health care even the
Dems want to replace it but with
Medicare for all which would cause a
hundred and eighty million Americans to
lose their beloved private health
insurance dan how worried should
Democrats be about this line of attack
and what can we do to counter it I don't
say this often about Trump and this is
not uncover right there is a there's
sort of the health care debate in 2020
sort of operates around the following
axis there is the Trump plan to repeal
the Affordable Care Act either by
lawsuit or by legislation there is the
Democratic plan to protect the ACA there
is a debate around what comes after the
ACA whether that is a Sanders like
Medicare for all plan whether that it's
something like Medicare for America
chalmers a buy-in or something like a
public option right like what is the
next step beyond that and then there is
the Trump plan to cut Medicare to buy
nearly a trillion dollars to pay for his
tax cuts for corporations Wall Street in
the multi and so how which part of that
which part of that argument you can draw
the most attention to with determines
how the Democrats will be successful
there is and if it is a CA versa no see
a CA that is good for Democrats if it is
no ACA verse Medicare for all versus
Medicare cut Democrats are going to have
to argue the right point I think
personally that the Medicare cuts in the
budget gave them correct a huge
advantage here which is I think it
should be easier to argue about giving
Medicare to some people who don't have
it then to cut Medicare from the people
who do have it and the Democrats can
focus on that then the years real chance
to success sure but it is a lesson for
Democrats that regardless of whether
you're a Sanders plan
or something less than clean up
quote-unquote lesser then Trump is going
to say you're gonna kick all 118 million
Americans off their health insurance
that is what Trump will do it's what Fox
will do it so the Koch brothers will do
that will be the outer balance of the
date and look we should stipulate here
that you know 180 million Americans that
wait where he's getting that number from
is that is the number of Americans who
get health insurance through their
employer right now so those Americans
will not lose their health insurance
under Bernie Sanders plan their private
insurance plan would go away and instead
they would be enrolled in Medicare and
by the way not just the Medicare that we
know of now basically sort of a Medicare
plus version where there aren't premiums
and there aren't deductibles and there
aren't co-pays it's it's free health
care that's what it is but it would
require a transition away from the plans
you have now into that plan now Medicare
for all advocates would also say that
you know if you get your insurance
through your employer today your
employer can change your insurance plan
at any time and often does so it's not
like when you have your current plan now
you are in control of what that plan is
and when it changes you are not your
employers in control of that so there is
an argument to be made there but you
know there's also an argument to be made
if you're for one of the other Medicare
for all plans that offers a slower
transition or offers a choice that okay
Donald Trump is proposing massive cuts
to Medicare and to repeal health
insurance for 20 million people what
Democrats are proposing is if you like
the health care you have now great if
you want to enroll in Medicare like
seniors have been rolled in Medicare for
decades and decades you can do that no
problem if you're an employer that wants
to you know enroll your employees in
Medicare you can do that too and no
charge you just enroll right into the
program if you don't want to do that
that's fine too that seems to me like a
pretty a pretty strong message and also
a way to enroll a whole bunch of people
who don't have health insurance who have
health insurance that's not working for
them into Medicare I think that's great
I also think that there are some things
the Democratic can't
that can sort of agree on that would
help win this argument belong right
right which the first is every candidate
can and should say every day on the
trail that what this election about is
health care that it is about if Trump
wins the help the Affordable Care Act is
gone we should repeat that every single
day it is to the benefit every candidate
says that and it's important to make
sure that that sinks in over time let's
use the long run where we have to the
election to our bin and share by
drilling it into public obstacles so I
can I think we should also be
highlighting Trump's plan to cut
Medicare right that is the best argument
against his argument about Medicare for
all but I also think Democrats should
not demagogue each other's Medicare for
all proposals we should disagree about
them we should there should be a a vowel
around the policy details but if not
more moderate Democrats use right wing
talking points to describe the Sanders
plan for Medicare for America I think
that just does Trump a huge favor well
and for people on the Left it's you
characterizing someone's position for a
more a slower transition period or a
buy-in or whatever else is somehow being
in the pocket a farmer or insurance
companies also does Trump's business for
them right wait we should have a good
faith the date on the policy issues
without making Republicans arguments
against Democrats either that we are
captive special interests or are trying
to kick people off for health care or
whatever that is let's have a real
debate around the issues and that will
that will get us in a better place but
if we do Trump's dirty work for him in
the primary that's a huge problem and
again this all happens to be true
not demagoguery each other's plans right
because on one end you're talking about
automatic enrollment of everyone in this
country into a Medicare program that
just takes place over transition period
of four years on the other end you're
talking about giving people the choice
to enroll in Medicare if they want and
then in the middle which is what we're
Medicare for America is you're talking
about automatically enrolling about half
the folks who currently aren't Medicare
and giving the other half of the folks a
choice so that's what it is and it's you
know they're different programs there's
benefits and drawbacks each of them but
they are all about you give
more people the ability to enroll in
Medicare and to get health insurance and
to get affordable health insurance
that's what these plans are about all
right but yet Democrats should be
talking about this every day and
you know it's funny the people who have
like the one person who gets this
message right all the time is every time
Elizabeth Warren talks about health care
and talks about health care plans she
always makes sure to say well before we
talk about all of our plans and all the
different plans that Democrats have
let's just remember the Donald Trump and
the Republicans are out there every day
trying to take our health care away she
starts every single health care answer
like that and I think you know every
other Democrat should probably do the
same thing before you start talking
about your plan when you go back to 2016
I think one of the things the many
reasons that led to the hall result we
got was also that there was this
assumption that the Affordable Care Act
was safe yes right we it survived
multiple elections it's fives in
Republican Congress and multiple
challenges Supreme Court so it was data
sort of a mall the land and the salience
of that issue was diminished in voters
Minds we have the opportunity to make
sure it's at the top of the agenda at
this time because it is at the top of
the agenda this time because the
Affordable Care Act will be gone if
Trump wins and probably I take the house
it's that simple that is a recent for
voting that is a reason they even if you
don't love the Democratic candidate that
we have you can understand how it can
affect your life and the lives of
members of your community or your family
or whatever a hundred percent and people
people should know by the way too it's
not like if Trump wins again Trump wins
again there is a very very high
likelihood that if he wins 270 electoral
votes it means he also had enough votes
and Republicans had enough votes to take
the house back because a lot of these
House seats we took by very small
margins in a very good year for
Democrats and so if it's a bad year for
Democrats and Trump wins it's a very
possible that Republicans win the house
back and then you're absolutely right
the Affordable Care Act goes away that
is what is on the line in 2020 all right
let's talk about the most openly corrupt
and incompetent administration of our
lifetime and what a Democratic House is
finally doing about it earlier this week
the House Oversight Committee issued
subpoenas for information regarding the
growing scandal over the Trump White
handing out top-secret security
clearances to staffers who were
determined to have security concerns by
national security officials the House
Intelligence Committee is investigating
potential illegal foreign donations to
Trump's inaugural committee the house
ways and means committee is now
mobilizing to obtain Trump's tax returns
from the IRS and the House Judiciary
Committee voted to subpoena the full
unredacted totally exonerating Muller
report which we learned last night from
the New York Times in the Washington
Post is apparently far more damaging to
the president than was suggested by the
four-page letter written by Trump's
hand-picked attorney general surprise
surprise according to Muller's own team
the report contains quote alarming and
significant evidence but the President
of the United States obstructed justice
oh boy and the subpoena cannons are out
the fuse is lit the subpoena can
encompass I had no idea I have no idea
where he came from I don't know if I saw
it on Twitter I know if Lovett said it
who knows but it's here some random
person on Twitter or loved it are the
two most likely answers my question yeah
that's where I get all my crazy things
to say let's start with the House
Oversight Committee which is
investigating the security clearance
scandal as well as the administration's
decision to add a citizenship question
to the census forgot to mention that one
why do you think House Oversight chaired
by Elijah Cummings started with these
particular issues what do you think I
don't know why and I think they're
totally fine issues I think in general
Democrats have been a little too wrapped
around the optics axle about all the
stuff that we so it really matters what
order the letters go in or when we do
things and I think we're spending too
much time worrying about how people
interpret the requests for information
then we are about how they're going to
do the responses to those requests to
the actual information I think these are
totally good the citizens the
citizenship question on the census is a
huge problem and it is a potentially
massive undermining of democracy in a
way it's a political power play
that will last a decade by denying
representation to mostly
democratic-leaning communities all
across the country so that's very that's
a huge field of security clearance
things also be a huge deal but still we
are in April here and we've had the
house for three months and we're I think
we're moving slower than we need to be
and Democrats have to recognize that the
under reach if you will about oversight
of the Trump administration is a greater
political is a greater political peril
named quote/unquote overreach yeah so
let's tick through some of these
different issues starting with a
security clearance scandal as mentioned
earlier a whistleblower from the White
House Office of Personnel named Trisha
newbold
recently told the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee that the
White House handed out top-secret
clearances to at least 25 staffers
including Jared Kushner who national
security officials had already
disqualified over security current sorry
had already disqualified over security
concerns they discovered during their
background check including quote borne
influenced conflicts of interests
concerning personnel conduct financial
problems drug use and criminal conduct
drain that swamp baby just drain it how
do you say Jared Kushner or did you say
official one as he is known in the memo
oh yeah missile one a fissile one
directly related to be married into the
one family how how big of a deal is this
scandal and are you and are you
persuaded by the official Republican
response that actually only four or five
of these security clearances have been
denied for quote very serious reasons
we're just sort of serious reasons not
to give an individual with security
concerns in their background yes
Topsy it's like the whole thing is a
little bit of a microcosm of Trump
scandals in general which is it's this
huge problem that beyond any we've ever
possibly seen any answer is no actually
it's not as bad as you think
it's just normally one of the biggest
scandals you've ever seen and so the
fact that it but if the original story
was five
White House officials have been granted
security clearances over the objections
of career professionals will be a
massive scandal that would dominate the
news for six months instead as is the
quote-unquote exculpatory talking points
for the Republicans it means this is a
giant deal and it should be the subject
of massive amounts of investigation both
the process of politicizing the secured
investigation process but also what it
is in Jared Krishna's background a
person who has access to the most
closely held secrets in the American
intelligence community what is it that
caused such alarm that is for someone
who is the right hand of the President
we need to know that answer and again
just so people know this the reason that
the FBI and national security officials
and the White House do a background
check on their employees and try to find
out about you know things like drug use
debt financial problems purpose of
personal conduct all stuff is not
because they want you to be an
upstanding citizen though they do but
they are worried that you will be
subject to blackmail by foreign
officials foreign influence foreign
agents who say to you okay well you know
all these secrets well I know something
about how much debt you owe or I hold
the debt that you owe or I know a secret
about you and unless you tell me the
secrets that you have access to in the
United States government I will release
the secrets that I have on you that that
is the one of the primary reasons why
people conduct such thorough background
checks and also why if during your
background check you are honest about
some of the issues you've had in your
life sometimes the FBI and the White
House say okay well at least you were
honest about it on the security
clearance on the security forms and
because you're honest and it's out there
then it's harder for them to blackmail
you so well you know well let you get
the security clearance but the fact that
there was a bunch of people who probably
lied on their sf-86 which is the
form that you fill out when you're
trying to work and get a security
clearance and they had all this
concerning stuff in their background
foreign influence criminal conduct etc I
mean that
clearly set off a bunch of flags in the
in the national security apparatus and
they're pretty worried about it and they
didn't want to give those people access
to the most sensitive information that
the United States government holds I
mean just to put a very fine tornados to
Jared Kushner
geriatrician spelled out as sf-86 and he
quote-unquote from God to include and
meeting with Russians to explore a
secret back channel that would allow
Jared Kushner in the Trump Amisha to
communicate with Russia outside of the
eyes and ears of the US law enforcement
intelligence community that slipped his
mind that he was filling out a swarm
where you list your contacts with
foreign government to foreign foreigners
and so yes there are a red flag or two
in his file I imagine and again it's
like Jared Kushner also has a lot of
financial interests and a lot of
financial interests abroad and the
question is when Jared Kushner is trying
to you know Forge Middle East
peace which is doing a great job on or
talk with the Saudis or talk with the
Russians you know we have there every
right to know
whether he has any financial benefit to
making certain deals or certain
agreements with these foreign powers
like the American people have the right
to know that that's why you go through a
security clearance background check
unfuckin real so let's talk about the
House Judiciary Committee finally voting
to give its chairman Jerry Nadler the
authority to subpoena Robert Muller's
full report Nadler who had previously
given Attorney General William bar until
April 2nd to release the report is now
saying that he won't use the subpoena
right away and we'll be giving Barre
time to change his mind
dan what is the strategy behind this is
why would you give Bauer more time I was
originally I bar ready to fire off some
hot tweets about this just out of pure
frustration then I saw a tweet from Andy
Wright who was an attorney in the White
House counsel's office and we were there
working on these very issues and he
explained that the reason why the
subpoenas authorized but not issued yet
was in this is his conjecture based on
his experience working on both sides of
these conversations both in the White
House and on oversight committees on the
hill is that there is a
there will be a legal battle over this
and it is important for the
congressional committee to show that it
did everything it possibly could short
of the subpoena before they get the
sphere so that's why there was always a
process of negotiation got a sort of
compromise on how these things are done
but you have to show that you tried to
do everything before the subpoena if you
just issue the subpoena right away
without that pre sort of preparation
work then it's likely that you're not
going to win in court so this is Andy at
least believes and he's very very smart
about these things that it is about
ensuring that if this if there were a
legal challenge to this as the problem
will be that now those committee has the
best chance to succeed so I didn't send
this week you didn't so no hot tweets
but it was good but it was gonna be good
it's gonna be very angry I'm sure Brian
boiler sent them anyway because I know
he's he's annoyed about this so the
Republicans on the Judiciary Committee
voted against giving that ler the power
to subpoena the report which is odd
because every House Republican voted to
make the report public just last month
Trump is also backtracked on his initial
willingness to release the report that
he says totally exonerates him very
weird ha Dan what could what could they
possibly be worried about in in
releasing this full report what do you
think's going on oh I don't know it
seems suspicious and it is notable that
Republicans both pre during and post
Trump feel essentially no obligation to
be burdened by the position they held
three days ago no difference in that
that they said release it last week this
week they say don't release it now
they're gonna be against the release of
it it's just sort of it's all part of
being Republicans you have to have the
part of your brain that interested in
its shame surgically removed prior to
party acceptance I mean what do you what
do you think about the New York Times in
Washington Report were blue eye in
Washington Post reports last night that
Muller's team has been telling people
that they are quite annoyed and
displeased with william bars four-page
letter that tried to summarize their
report when in fact what we learn from
these reports is that Muller's team hit
already written summaries of their
report in front of each section and they
wrote them believing that they would be
released to the public
almost immediately and yet William bard
did not do that
William Barcia that even their summaries
the Muellers team summaries somehow had
grand jury information or classified
information in the summaries but it's
sort of weird like why would Muller's
team write a summary that they believe
will be released to the public that
contained classified information or
grand jury information seems a little
odd I have a lot of thoughts on this I
mean first let's just stipulate that we
yelled at the press for writing the you
know Muller you know clouds clear over
Trump best day of terms life not ever
having read the report and basing it on
the four page summary of a man who did
not believe the Special Counsel had a
the authority to investigate the
personal questions like obstructing
justice
so we yelled at them for that so let's
not go completely the opposite direction
not having read the report but the
general take is no like this was so
obvious at the time that there was at
least something more damaging to Trump
than was in bars letter because Bob
Miller who is a man very careful in the
words that he says it's in rights said
he did not exonerate Trump on
obstruction of justice so now what are
we to believe that there's a high
likelihood that there's a lot of
evidence that suggests that I don't know
Congress for instance would want to look
at it in C and make their own judgement
and then there's this part of a letter
that drives me insane which is Barr
essentially himself not Muller clears
Trump on instruction yeah and everyone
was like well Trump's in the clear
despite the fact that that is Bars
opinion it is Bars position position
Department of Justice that Trump cannot
be indicted is president of States so if
you cannot charge Trump then you cannot
clear it you are simply offering your
why is no-one making that point it means
nothing why is the only people who can
render a judgement on this as
Congress and bar is currently denying
cut access to the evidence to make said
judgment so the other thing I would say
about this is hey Muller team where were
you last week like why did it take you a
week to let your concerns bubble to the
top you are free men and women now you
can speak you can leak like it would
have been better to not let us get
however many weeks it's been since this
came out for the bar summary to sink
into the public consciousness before you
decide to express your concerns and even
now I should say the sourcing on the
post and the time stories is not
Muller's team tolds the times or told
the washington post's there's an
intermediary
it's Muller's team has spoken to
officials who have spoken to the post
and the times so they are very they're
clearly very nervous about leaking
Muller's team still i mean it very well
might be that they thought well you know
bar can have this four page stupid
letter come out but this thing's going
to congress soon anyway and then as the
day's tick by and bar continues to
withhold a report they're starting to
think oh maybe maybe this isn't
getting the congress as fast as we
thought it would be and now this guy is
going to has already framed the
narrative and our work is going to be
seen as you know our our work is going
to be buried
which seems like it's happening right
now and look again you said let's not go
overboard in the other direction and i
agree it seems unlikely that the report
actually says you know trump did
conspire with the russians and he did
obstruct justice absolutely right like
it's not like barn bar smart enough to
know that he couldn't get away with too
much of a cover-up but he's also smart
enough to realize that if he frames that
if he framed that letter in just the
right way and you know by omission left
out a whole bunch of really damaging
information about donald trump and
potential criminality and evidence of
criminality then by the time the report
comes out if he can just slow walk it
long enough the narrative about trump
eggs being exonerated would already be
set and that once the report does come
out and democrats start screaming about
it which we will if they
bad in there then everyone will say
uh just sore losers those
Democrats just complaining about this
report the president's already been
exonerated why can't we just move on
that is very likely that bar could have
done that very likely this is a very
esoteric and painful sports reference
but to remember in the playoffs last
year when my Philadelphia 76ers were
getting their ass kicked by your Boston
Celtics man doing one of the games the
Sixers hit what they thought was the
game-winning three-pointer as the clock
was going out yeah and whoever runs the
confetti cannon at Wells Fargo Arena
fired off the confetti cannon only then
find out it was a two-point game a
two-point shot and a three-point shot
which meant it was a tie then the Sixers
lost in overtime yes yes they did that
is how I feel about the collusion party
sorry
identify I feel about the exoneration
parties that all different people had
after work just looked like there was a
hug between Kelly and Conway and Sarah
Huckabee Sanders there was that
nauseating airtime story that we talked
about a few weeks ago about how they had
all these parties and celebratory dinner
parties well maybe it was a little early
for this party it's what I'm saying a
lot of confetti on the court right now
Dan a lot of confetti yeah all right
let's talk about some 2019 elections
before we get to the 2020 elections in a
special election on Tuesday Democrats in
Pennsylvania flipped a state Senate
District in suburban Pittsburgh the
Donald Trump carried by six points in
2016
Pam Aveeno won that seat that opened up
when their incumbent Republican left to
run for Congress last year
unfortunately Democrats got much tougher
news in Wisconsin where a conservative
state Supreme Court candidate declared
victory and a race that could have a
significant impact on that state's
politics for years
Brian Hagedorn is a coke brothers backed
candidate who's called Planned
Parenthood a quote wicked organization
the n-double-a-cp a quote disgrace to
America and founded a school that bans
gay students and teachers his liberal
opponent judged Lisa Newbauer
still hasn't conceded because the race
could be within the margin for a recount
but regardless of how things play out
she under
performed significantly in a state
that's critical to the party's chances
in 2020 dan first before we get to what
it means for 2020 what does this mean
for Wisconsin now and in the future it's
terrible it's this one was a real gut
punch on a whole host of levels and
Tuesday night was a little bit of what
it wasn't like to be a Democrat in the
Trump era which is really exciting good
news followed by some sort of
devastating bad news like right back to
back and I was super excited about the
Pennsylvania win and then I started
tracking the Wisconsin race and I saw
neubauer what's up and then she wasn't I
was waiting for Broward County to come
in I recognize it's not fully done yet
but prospects don't look great
and it effects the ability of Democrats
to take control of this court which has
been in the Wisconsin Supreme Court has
been a huge problem for progressive
policies access to the polls union
organizing everything the Democrats care
about there's been this backstop at the
at the COPE Fund in Wisconsin Supreme
Court and we needed to see to have a
good chance to reverse the balance of
that court in 2020 when you would hope
and expect that there would be a more
democratic leaning electorate than there
was in the midterms yeah there's there's
people know there's a 4-3 conservative
majority on the court right now this
will make it 5-2 conservative majority
which means that so there's another seat
open in 2020 and it's the the this the
election is on the day of the Democratic
primary in Wisconsin so you have a
better electorate so what Democrats were
hoping is win the one on Tuesday when
the one on 2020 and then they have a
progressive majority in the Supreme
Court now we won't have a chance to flip
the Supreme Court until 2023 a liberal
Supreme Court in Wisconsin what it could
have done is it could have upheld
governor eavers veto over whatever
gerrymandered maps the legislature draws
in 2021
so you have a conservative legislature
in was
and the reason it's conservative is
because the state districts are very
gerrymandered and so they would come up
with a new map in 2021 eavers would just
say it I'm gonna veto that it would
go to the court and if there was a
liberal majority then the liberal
majority probably uphold the veto now
that probably won't happens which means
we will have a gerrymandered Wisconsin
for quite some time and that legislature
has already tried to take power away
from the Democratic governor it is very
very bad so what happened in this
election like what do you what why
people thought that Newbauer was going
to win there wasn't really a lot of
polling but she actually outspent her
conservative counterpart and and yet you
know he's still he still pulled it out I
just every everything I was hoping to
see that would make me feel better about
what happened we're out of the political
environment where whereby this happen
make me feel better about that as
opposed to 2028 implications were so
famous like first Koch brothers phony
candidate must have dramatically
outspent the Democrat so I go work that
out Democrat actually spends I think two
million dollars more than the Erb sorry
Dean
the liberal spends two million dollars
more than the Conservatives in the sense
that these are not quote unquote
nonpartisan races be that was like oh
maybe it was just democratic you know
turnout when I was good special
elections and new bow were actually did
significantly better than the last time
the last time there was a candidate
judicial race in twenty
Sariah neubauer performs very well
relative to previous judicial races
the problem is Tom's turnout I'm sorry
breathe it the problem was turnout among
the Republicans was through the roof and
there was not a equivalent surge among
Democratic and one we saw in 2018 to
counteract that and so it is very
worrisome and it is a reminder that what
happens in a midterm is interesting but
not necessarily indicative of what's
going to happen this one
20 we have a lot of work to do if we are
gonna win in Wisconsin in 2020 and all
these other states like it there is a we
have to presume through the roof
conservatives trump based turnout and
we're gonna have to counteract that with
through the roof Democratic turnout and
winning a good number of independents
and up for grabs starters I think I
think that that's extremely important I
mean like if this was in a situation
where you know Democrats just stayed
home and they and they didn't care about
the race they didn't come out you know
you could say right we just boost our
turnout to the levels that you know it
was in the mid term and that does not
seem to be the case it seems to be the
case that you know Democrats turned out
like they did in last April special
election Supreme Court seat election in
Wisconsin and Republicans just they came
out the margins the margins in the
suburbs of Milwaukee the Republican
margins were huge and we cannot we
cannot you know bet on the fact that any
Trump voter Trump fan is gonna stay home
in 2020 we have to assume that they're
all coming out and we have to get our
base to turn out but getting our base to
turn out is absolutely necessary but it
is not sufficient we have to win over
independent voters we have to win over
swing voters we cannot win the election
without doing that you cannot and this
is the important this is the important
caveat so people will take this out of
context on Twitter is it winning over
swing voters it's not a call for more
centrist or quote-unquote moderate ideas
that's not actually well actually think
a compelling progressive populist policy
platform a message is the best way to
accomplish those two goals but it is if
we were in a popular election situation
you can we can win by simply turning out
more Democrats then because there are
more Democrats and the Republicans
country but unfortunately and it's
really stupid but we have electoral
college and therefore in these
Midwestern states where the Democratic
base is actually shrinking because young
people are moving out in the States
population is getting older and whiter
we have to do both and that's just how
it is and you're right I mean
fortunately I believe - a populist
progressive economic message
when over these independent swing voters
it did win over those voters in 2018
because we made the election about
health care but that is the message that
those voters have to hear from us they
have to hear about health care they have
to hear about how JPMorgan just
got four billion dollars from Trump's
tax cut like those messages have to come
from the mouths of Democratic
politicians to the ears of voters and
there's a lot of in between that
that can screw up the message and they
can't hear about Democratic infighting
and they can't hear about people
complaining about this and that and all
the that we talk about
every day they have to hear about health
care about the economy about jobs about
tax cuts they have to get that message
and as Democrats we have to do
everything we can to make sure that
message is directed to those voters and
that it actually breaks through the
noise very important a lot of people
were tweeting about the need for less
coverage of 2020 and more coverage of
down ballot races between now and 2020
what do you think about that sure like
yes there needs to be much more coverage
of down ballot races I like I'm hesitant
is that the answer is to see yell at the
press until I cover 2020 less put your
reasons 1 2020 is important like who the
Democrats picked you know run against
Trump is really really important and we
it should be part of an important
conversation but also the answer to a
problem and then political firm
identified by Democrats cannot be some
sort of change in how the press does
their job we have no control over it so
we're gonna happen in two ways both ads
Democratic operatives as people who has
a podcast and of progressives need to
come to you guys have as Democratic
voters how can we find ways to drive the
conversation around the things we care
we care about in to shine a spotlight on
the thing to get less attention from the
traditional media and funnel the
activist energy into both winning in
2020 picking the right nominee a lot of
people to be passionate about a
Democratic primary candidate they care
about and win in Wisconsin I think we
had in races like movie determined so we
have to tend sometimes speaking about
that - just like simply like yelling at
the New York Times today
and cover Democratic presidential
candidates less is I think not the right
prescription to what is a very real
problem yeah I mean the most important
thing is you know nominating a Democrat
who can beat Trump in 2020 and it's not
going to matter much what happens down
ballot if we don't get that right at the
same time it's absolutely correct that
if all we do is figure out who to
nominate and concentrate on the
presidential election that you know we
won't pay enough attention to the down
ballot races and that Democratic
president could have a real problem on
their hands when they finally get into
office and try to pass it so both are
important and we have to do both but I
do think like the most most important
thing is whether we're talking about
presidential level or whether we're
talking about Congress whether we're
talking about the states talking about
the message we want to get through being
positive as possible as opposed to
trying to you know eat each other alive
here is going to be very important to to
winning in 2020 up and down the ballot
so with that the big piece of 2020 news
you've probably been hearing a lot about
lately is the first quarter fundraising
totals Bernie Sanders is leading the
field with 18 point two million dollars
raised since declaring his candidacy on
February 19th and that came from 525
thousand individual donors and without
holding any fundraisers Kamala Harris is
second she raised twelve million dollars
from a hundred and thirty eight thousand
donors in a little more than two months
and about half of her total came from
online donations the rest from holding
fundraisers Beto O'Rourke is in third
with nine point four million raised over
eighteen days from two hundred and
eighteen thousand individual
contributions don't know the number of
donors yet but that's also all from
online without holding any fundraisers
Pete Budaj edge is in fourth with seven
million raised from one hundred and
fifty eight thousand donors over a
little more than two months and
Elizabeth Warren's campaign said it
reached its goal for the quarter but
hasn't yet announced its total and we
have not heard from the other major
candidates dan what's your reaction to
these numbers and did anything
interesting pop out at you
all very good numbers right I think all
of them should feel very good about what
they did both in a short period of time
like that it worked in a small
constraint at a time like Bernie did
Connell Harrison's numbers are very good
I think we will have a sense that how
good they are when we see everyone
else's numbers it's probably somewhat
telling that no one else has put their
numbers out right okay if you think your
numbers are great you put them out at a
time and they'll get the most coverage
and if you think they're not great you
wait till everyone else was there less
ideal numbers out and trying to be stuck
in the same story with them and so I'm
curious is what the difference is
between Peabody Joseph number and you
know a kirsten gillibrand or a Cory
Booker and because that tells you
something right yeah and so that's one
two I think the thing that sticks out in
my mind is Bernie Sanders's cash on hand
number which is twenty eight million
dollars cash on hand which is a
mind-boggling sum which means not just
that he's raised a bunch of money but he
has been able to spend it efficiently
because they've done a bunch of big
rallies they've hired a lot of staff
they've been spending money
no I'm digital this building and stuff
like that but they've been doing it in a
way in which they still have a lot of
cash and a question will be that
theoretically and historically the
second quarter numbers are more
interesting than the first because
people get a huge bump on their first
day they have some set of supporters who
can write max out checks like Hummel
Harris raised six million over 12
million offlined if I remember correctly
yeah is that right yeah that's right
yeah and so how but like how what is how
much more it's offline base and can you
sustain that level if there isn't
success going forward so that will be
interesting but all of these campaigns
in Canada should be very pleased with
their results it is notable that comma
ylim Bernie and meadow all have heading
into this race the largest email list by
far and they couldn't benefit from that
from being smart enough to develop and
nurture very successful primaries unless
heading into a presidential campaign
what do you think about I saw some
people talking about this you know first
quarter
2007 Hillary Clinton Clinton raises 26
million dollars Barack Obama raises 25
million dollars John Edwards raises 14
million dollars some people are saying
well these numbers this time around
aren't as impressive as those numbers
back in 2007 two reasons I guess they
might not be as impressive that don't
have to do with you know dampened
enthusiasm or whatever else is one
there's many more candidates in the
field this time sort of splitting up the
hall and two you know Obama and Hillary
did do a lot of those offline
high-dollar fundraisers back in those
seven and this time around you know the
emphasis is on online grassroots giving
what do you think about that I think
that's right I also think if you
remember correctly back in O seven a lot
of people in the traditional Democratic
donor bundler world who would give to
both Obama and Clinton right they went
maxed out in primary dollars to vote now
there are so many candidates that it is
much I don't think you have people
giving a lot of people giving to
multiple candidates right late big
donors I'm not I'm sure there are small
dollar small donors who have given every
twenty fifty dollars the most different
candidates in the sense that you want to
support them or in the case of pico de
Jin she made a very clever play to get
people to give to him to get him into
the debates which go ahead quick so
we're getting into because he had seven
million dollars so there's I think the
there's less and this is a good thing I
think well there's less big money going
around this time and you have two of the
three candidates who as far as I
understand to him not held a single
traditional fundraiser where you go to
and you know some chicken dinner and
shake hands and people take photos rich
people they've done it basically all
online or you know maybe Direct Mail but
not the sort of in-person fundraising
that there's been a hallmark of
campaigns for ever basically and that's
that's new right the fact that you
basically have Bernie beto and Elizabeth
war and even though we don't have her
total yet have not held a single
high-dollar fundraiser yet that like
that doesn't usually happen right
no never it never happened I don't know
what sort of fundraising Bernie did into
that person being maybe Bernie Weston I
kind of remember there being like a
small handful but yeah I mean I know I'm
the only one of his money was online the
ways in which campaigns are being funded
has changed dramatically and for the
better right I think we talked about
this yeah a few weeks ago about Biden
that he has this massive rolodex of
donors and he's very worried about
paying out raised online by people like
Bernie bent out and Tom Lowe who have
larger lists and I think that's great
the democratization of campaign funding
is a step in the right direction towards
a you know a more equitable better
cleaner system obviously have to get the
public financing and something better
than what we have but yeah it is better
than relying on people who can write you
know $2,000 checks to support your
campaign so at the risk of lighting our
mentions on fire I have a question
Bernie is leading the pack in
fundraising got half a million donors
polling at about twenty to twenty five
percent nationally in Iowa and in New
Hampshire while everyone else is in
single or low double digits except for
Joe Biden very big exception who hasn't
yet entered the race as of right now is
Bernie Sanders the front-runner has to
me absolutely has to be yeah and his he
has a very clear path through the early
states in the sense that he almost won
Iowa last time and crushed in New
Hampshire so he's got tremendous
strength and you cannot just count the
idea that he can win votes and when you
win the first two is you get a pretty
big Steve ahead you know head of skiing
to head into the other races he has
clearly the money to compete all across
the country and a very fired up engaged
donor base and I think they're great not
just in terms of people give him $5.00
but people showing up a engaged
supporters show up at rallies
volunteering cetera so we he would have
to be at this current moment the you
know the front-runner well hey how do
you think that but he has tremendous
strength and it should not be just
by anyone yeah he also has very very
high favorability ratings among
Democratic voters
he's more voters second choice than any
other candidate right now according to
polls you know there was a lot of talk
in 2016 and there a lot of truth to it
that he had problems with black voters
this time around he's winning about 20%
of the african-american vote in a far
more divided field in 2016 and
importantly it's about the same amount
of vote that he's winning overall so
those are all the strengths the
counter-argument Nate Silver made
yesterday he said Bernie is back down to
polling around 20% that's not that
strong for someone with a hundred
percent name recognition in my opinion
he's one of the four most likely people
to win the nomination but he's certainly
not an odds-on favorite or really a
traditional frontrunner especially given
he trails by Dhin what do you think
about that and what are the other
obstacles you see to Bernie
capturing the nomination I mean Nate is
right and that Bernie has we believe a
very high war on his support and a low
ceiling and I say low ceiling only
because he is 100% named ID so you're
room for growth is theoretically lesser
than someone who has 30% name ID or 60%
name ID in the sense that people if they
know you they theoretically made a
decision about you it's easier to win
someone over who doesn't yet know you
than to win someone over who knows you
and it's already decided to support
someone else so the counter-argument to
that counter argument is that in a
multi-candidate field his high score is
more than enough to win the chaplet he
has to twin challenges I think one of
which every candidate has which is polls
at least at this point it indicated that
Democrats want someone who can win and
can Bernie make a argument that a 70
something year old Democratic some
identified Democratic Socialist from
Vermont is the most electable Democrat
right and there he has an argument to
make he is making it already on the
stump it is you know his team has
actually been making it since the 2016
election in the argument that he would
have won over a lot of those Obama trump
voters that left the party - in 2016
because of this populist economic
argument and so he's got to win that
argument the second one is the same
thing that that contributed his defeat
in 2016 which is he's doing well as you
point out african-american voters but
can he do well enough to not get blown
out in the delegate race in a two-person
race and so there's an important thing
to understand about how you become the
nominating which is democratic delegates
are allocated allocated proportionally
by a congressional district and in most
cases a lot of districts have
even-numbered delegates and so any 52:48
race or a 5347 race you're gonna most
likely in any individual districts with
those delegates - - right but there are
a lot of districts because of
gerrymandering population trends etc
that are heavily african-american and
what happened for Obama in 2008 Hillary
Clinton 2016 the circuit was winning
those african-american districts by 3040
you know some cases 50 points so she's
taking most of the delegates there so if
Bernie can't do better than he did
against one individual Democrat among
african-american voters he's going to
run into a wall that will prevent him
from getting a delegate lead in the
two-person race now on a multi-candidate
field that could be very different but
if Hillary Clinton or a Democratic
opponent of Bernie Sanders and has a
similar lead among african-american
voters I don't think Bernie Sanders came
away and so that he's gonna have to be
able to do better there indications he
can and they seem to be focused on it
but that still remains a challenge I'm
going to come to the actual work of
getting the delegates you need to win
the nomination yeah I mean I think he
Bernie Sanders also by the way has
probably the highest unfavorable ratings
among Democrats of anyone in the field
even though he's got very good favorable
ratings and this is this is also what
comes with having nearly 100% name ID in
the field people have made up their
minds about Bernie Sanders and in the
general election when you pulled general
election voters he's got one of the
higher unfavorable ratings as well so he
has those challenges and
that is I think one reason why you see
him he's won't may basically one of the
only Democrats out there right now
who's running who's really focusing on
this electability argument which is
interesting from you know the sort of
lefty socialist candidate is out there
making the electability argument all the
time he's talking about how many of his
donors are registered Republicans how
many of his donors are registered
independents he's tweeting out polls of
general election matchups against Trump
that show him beaten Trump by a few
points like he's really trying to hammer
home this electability message because I
think the Sanders people realize that
you know there is an unfavorable ratings
issue both among Democrats and among
voters in the general electorate but I
also think by the way that it's like it
has been very underestimated or at least
not talked about that much by pundits
how so much of this race is dependent
primary race could be dependent on the
sheer composition of the number of
candidates in the field right like who
wins Bernie Sanders is hanging on to 20%
in a 10-person field he's doing a lot
better than Bernie Sanders hanging on to
20% in a 4-person field right that's
very obvious but it's just it's
interesting that the number of
candidates we that are actually
competitive for this nomination really
does matter because if you have Joe
Biden jumping in a race and he's sitting
there 25 percent around 25 percent
Bernie sitting there around 25 percent
and then there's no just one third you
know sorry and if there was like another
candidate who was getting all the rest
of the votes then you know both of them
might have trouble winning but instead
there's like four candidates five
candidates who are splitting out the
rest of the vote therefore you could see
possibly like Bernie and Biden go in the
distance but again it is very early in
sort of two more things about this one I
understand exactly why Bernie Sanders
was making in his campaign are making
the electability argument so aggressive
way I do things that electability is
something that it's better shown not
told or in a sense that you demonstrate
electability in the things you do not by
telling everyone's you're electable yeah
I think that when your argument becomes
electability then you're not really
making a true
for some it seems almost offensive and
like you and then the second thing is to
your point about the size of the field
the reason why like there's been some
comparison to the Trump to the
Republican 2016 field in the sunset you
had all these canít they stayed in to
the end that allowed Trump to succeed
but there is a difference in how
Democrats and Republicans allocate
delegates and pick their nominees
Republicans do winner-take-all
so chop benefited from all these other
people being in the race taking 2% 3%
away from a Rubio or a Cruz who whoever
else were the Trump alternative
Democrats is different in the sense that
there is you have to reach a threshold
to get delegates in a lot of places and
so there could be 18 people on the races
but oh if only two or three of them were
polling at a decent number then it's
really only a three-person race as it
becomes delegates
that's me didn't you think about 2008
when we were running in Iowa there were
a lot of people in that race Kucinich
Biden Chris Dodd Richardson all these
people but only Clinton Obama and
Edwards were able to get any real number
of delegates out of Iowa and so you have
to like the question we now know people
in the race and how many people are
doing well enough to get W be in some
sort of top tier to actually get
delegates and where the delegates come
from last that make sense I'm gonna get
we're gonna spend a lot of time next
year being pretty nerdy and not
delegates but I sort of know an
important way in that today it's
important and look that's why you know
some of these campaigns
I remember khamel Harris's campaign
touted this you know are talking about
like even hiring people who know
delegate math right like having someone
in your campaign who knows the party
knows the party rules knows the delegate
math is extraordinarily important even
though it sounds like a nerdy math thing
as as this race goes on because this
becomes a you know this could become you
know trench warfare for a delegate by
delicate and all these in all these
states and it could go on for a long
time and so knowing like you said which
which congressional districts you can
sort of score the extra couple delegates
out of becomes of the utmost important
as this race continues I love that staff
Elise from Kyle
that's like here's our campaign manager
who's our communications director here's
some guy was like Robert quote-unquote
delegate Bob Smith any question was his
nickname included the word delegate it's
efficient I am yeah I'm very great but
it's a sense of savviness both that they
hired that person and that they thought
to make sure we knew that they hired
that person last question in terms of
what we were just saying that showing
electability might be better than
talking about it Fox News announced this
week it will host a town hall featuring
Bernie Sanders on April 15th in
Pennsylvania the events gonna be
moderated by Bret Baier and Martha
McCallum and its focus will be about the
economy and jobs
why would Brittany do this and is it a
good idea I presume the answer is
electability that he so can show he can
go anywhere to make an argument and then
his argument can be persuasive to Fock
viewers which is a proxy for will like
people who supported yeah I assume
that's the reason I mean my personal
view is it is a huge strategic error for
Democrats to grant an increment of
legitimacy on a Trump propaganda network
that fuels political division and white
nationalism in this country I am a
hundred percent against doing that I
think it was right for Democrats not to
do a debate there I don't frankly don't
think Democrats should waste their time
on it a lot of people in the party
disagree with me on this Elizabeth
Warren included who talked about who
done some stuff on Fox
clearly Bernie does so there is a debate
on this the other side there's another
side to it who thinks it's the right
thing to do to go into the Lions Den and
try to reach these Fox News viewers
through Fox for seconds those people
wrong but you know let the world decide
I mean I do I agree with you I do think
there's a slight difference between you
know granting Fox News a democratic
debate which as we all know I think is a
 terrible idea going on a typical
Fox show signing up as a contributor for
Fox
I think all of that is garbage I think
there's a difference between like
spending a couple minutes with Tucker
Carlson if you're a Democratic candidate
or if I can Sean Hannity or any of those
losers and having a town hall where you
know Bret Baier who's still pretty
conservative ask you some questions
that's right he's a 6
yeah he's now he's not quite at 10 yet
he's a 6 but having Bret Baier I ask you
some questions but then you know getting
to getting to answer questions from a
town hall even if the Town Hall is
filled with a lot of Republicans and
being able to get your message out to
you know a bunch of viewers most of whom
are Trump fans are never gonna vote for
you but yeah there may be a few people
who voted for Trump and are like and not
so much about him in 2020 maybe you can
reach a few people I still think
generally I would you know as you've
said the most precious resource on a
campaign is time I might use my time in
other ways if I was on a campaign but I
see less harm in holding a Fox News Town
Hall than doing the typical Fox News
circuit you know I mean I think like
Pete Buddha jej went on Fox News Sunday
did an interview with Chris Wallace you
know maybe that did him some good too
I don't know it's it's I don't know if I
would send my candidate on that but I
don't think it's quite the same as
hosting a democratic debate on
that network oh yeah I don't like those
are - oh those are great huge gradations
of difference if I were to make the
strategic argument for Bernie why he why
you would do this is every candidate is
doing a CNN Town Hall and in this NBC
Town Hall with Chris Hayes which are
getting good attention I think they're
great things that those networks are
doing to expose Democrats to their
candidates to give them a chance to have
a longer discussion about the issues
it's like obviously sort of some
candidates very well Carla Harris is the
most watched a moment and too good a
judge obviously got a chance to extend
his project America pumped by doing said
Town Hall but by Bernie doing Fox he's
going to get more attention from and
it's going to get more coverage I'm sure
it's going to get a lot of eyeballs is
because there's a spectacle in the
Democrat on Fox you know in the early
years of Obama we this is a trick we
used to use I was a huge advocate of it
I
there's a lot in my book but I came to
realize it was a terrible mistake but
there is an argument which is you want
you're not doing this just for the Fox
viewers you're doing this for an event
they'll be covered by lots of press and
lots of press will cover this because it
has that Lions Den atmosphere to it and
so like that is like that is why you as
a campaign you may decide to allocate
those that those value more resources to
this right okay all right
when we come back we will have my
interview with Valerie Jarrett author of
the brand new book finding my voice
you
