so then late Sunday night the White
House announced that an aircraft carrier
Strike Group and a bomber taskforce were
being deployed to the Middle East in
response to indications that Iran was
planning to attack US forces in the
region
Axios I believe later reported that the
warning was based on intelligence passed
along by the Israelis so we don't know a
lot of specifics here we do know that
Iran has a long history of giving Shia
militia groups in Iran
we do know that we do know that Iran has
a long history of giving Shiite militia
groups and Iraq weapons that they later
used to attack our troops we also know
that they have a history of harassing
ships in the Strait of Hormuz
but I mean deploying one of our 11 total
aircraft carriers is a pretty big deal a
pretty big response what did you make of
this decision well I I was pretty
disturbed by it Tommy you know I think
there are few things to say about this
one commander in chief Bolton you know
kind of made this blustery announcement
yeah and I think we need to be honest
here they pretext for war like the track
record matters here and so I don't think
we should just take at face value leaks
too friendly you know journalists or
even unfriendly journalists about how
there's this intelligence and we haven't
seen it and john bolton has a history of
cherry-picking intelligence and frankly
lying about intelligence he did that
before the war in iraq he did that on
cuba and trying to say the Cubans had a
biological yes one of the reasons he
wasn't confirmed as UN ambassadors he he
demanded that the State Department tell
him that Cuba had a biological weapons
program and they don't right so I do
think we just have to be very skeptical
and we need to have our antenna up on
Iran or Venezuela or anything else John
Bolton also went out a couple days ago
and said that three Venezuelans were
prepared to defect from Maduro and none
of them did right so his intelligence
has not exactly borne out oh I think the
second thing is look this idea that the
Iranians might be targeting US forces in
the region when the decision was made to
designate the Iranian Revolutionary
Guard as a terrorist organization we
were told in reporting that the Defense
Department in the intelligence community
opposed that action because they worried
that it could put our troops in harm's
way that the Iranians might feel that
they need to engage in some reprisal act
so I don't know if that is related to
the intelligence but what we've seen
consistently is a pattern of this
administration seeking to provoke the
Iranians into doing something whether
it's you know stepping out of the
nuclear deal or some escalation in the
region that doesn't in any way shape or
form
give the Iranians car punch to do that
and they should not do that but what I
see is is this administration goading
the Iranians into some action and
frankly having an aircraft carrier and
you know some bombers on call
demonstrates what this administration
wants to do in that scenario which is
essentially potentially engaged in some
military action Iran so I think we've
talked for months on this podcast about
the potential for escalation with Iran I
worried that we may be seeing that in
real time now yeah I mean again we've
talked at length about the IRGC and the
Kurds force and how they are bad actors
but there's also a long history as we've
also discussed in this country of of
Wars needing a pretext from the gulf of
tonkin to remember the main - you know
name your incident it's worse I mean
here's the other thing that really
worries me we pulled out of the Iran
deal despite the fact that Iran is
complying with the Iran deal we are
ratcheting up sanctions against Tehran
new ways that will their economy
hurt the Iranian people how do we climb
down from this where is the diplomatic
effort that will help reduce tensions I
mean that Boulton clearly has a regime
change strategy and if we provide the
Iranians with two choices capitulate
completely or fight I'm pretty sure I
know which one we're gonna check in a
fight and and you know this is the
problem it's one year since we pulled
out of the Iran deal throughout that
year Iran continued to comply but the
u.s. was the one who's isolated we were
isolated from our European allies were
isolated obviously from Russia and China
we isolated ourselves not the Iranians
and we did put these sanctions in place
they are having an effect they're not
having as big an effect as they would
have in fact if you look at Iranian oil
exports they're not they're not
following actually in part because not a
lot of other countries are going along
with this and not a lot of the countries
are refusing to purchase Iranian oil now
there are reports that the Iranians
might not
comply with parts of the Iran deal right
and that was almost inevitable if you
put if we violate the deal we
essentially tear up the deal and then
the Iranians pull out and we say you're
gonna have consequences potentially
military action because you pulled out
of this deal that we tore up the rest of
the world is not going to be with us in
that effort we're gonna lack the
legitimacy to do this and and so again I
don't see what the strategy is unless
the strategy is to go to and go to and
go to and press and press the Iranians
until they do something and then we have
a pretext for military action and that's
a cynical view but I'll you know I'll
give you a couple other data points why
is there no Secretary of Defense I this
must be the longest we've gone in
history true without a secretary defense
nominee it's been for five months we
know that mattis was resisting efforts
to go to war with Iran and mattis had
argued to stay inside the Iran deal it
may be they don't want a strong
Secretary of Defense to say hey this is
a bad idea guys they're not good
military options here there was also a
consulate that we had in Basra in
southern Iraq which is a Shia majority
part of Iraq this consulate was open
through some of the worst times of the
Iraq war we close this consulate a few
months ago saying that was too dangerous
to keep it open some of the people you
know I know who have been working in
that part of a rock thought immediately
well are they closing this consulate
because they're removing a potential
target for the Iranians in the event of
a military action so there are these
warning signs that they're kind of
setting the table to escalate with the
Iranians and I think we have to take
this you know very seriously I hope that
nothing happens but you know we got
Bolton out there making belligerent
statements talking about intelligence
that we can't see
you've got aircraft carriers going to
the region you've got the Iranians now
finally looking like they might do
something potentially to not comply with
parts of the Iran deal this can spiral
pretty quickly if there's a triggering
event Jesus
I didn't sorry I didn't mean to be no no
I mean look yeah I'd not heard that
about the Consul in Basel and you know
the the irony of it is
the one of the actions that they cited
was an attack on the Iranian consulate
so it wasn't even the Iranians who were
involved in the threat information per
se but again I'm not aiming to be a
conspiracy theorist year because frankly
this is not conspirator it's all in
front of our eyes you got them issuing
threats them designating the IRGC
stacking up sanctions you know sending
an aircraft carrier to the region
obviously closely aligned with Netanyahu
and NBS who want this conflict of the
Iranians and again the only way I think
we are assured in which there's not a
conflict in the next year and a half is
if the Iranians show a significant
amount of restraint and very little
about their politics suggests that they
can sustain that they have hard
hardliners who are comfortable in some
kind of adversarial if not conflict
situation with the United States and
we're playing into the worst elements in
their system by provoking them like this
you mentioned that Yahoo I mean so let's
go to Gaza for a minute after a very
scary weekend of fighting there's a
ceasefire in place between Israel and
Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip
the AP reported that 25 Palestinians and
for Israelis were killed the Israeli
Defense Forces said Hamas and other
militant groups one called Islamic Jihad
launched nearly 700 rockets into
southern Israel many weren't receptive
by Israeli defense systems like the Iron
Dome which is a system that US tax book
which is a system that US taxpayer is
paid for in part thanks to Obama by the
way but um you know look I'm I'm very
glad for everyone involved that this
this ceasefire is in place again I worry
that this fighting is very likely to
happen again unless there's a diplomatic
effort to resolve the broader tension
and the in the situation in Gaza after
12 years of being blockaded and Hamas is
is rule seemingly stronger than ever
yeah I mean I completely sympathize with
any government saying that you can't
have rockets fire indiscriminately at us
hitting civilian territory putting
innocent people risk
schools hospitals kids I mean yeah
elderly unacceptable at the same time
you can't ignore the context of 12 years
I mean I saw some people commenting you
know well and the Israelis don't even
occupy Gaza and the way that they occupy
the West Bank but I don't they don't
occupy it physically with troops but
there's this blockade that prevents all
kinds of materials from getting into
Gaza because the Israelis have very
liberally defined a material that could
be of benefit to Hamas and so you have
people essentially living in squalor cut
off from the rest of the world
restricted in their movements and you
can feel the boiling frustrations from
within the population in Gaza 60%
unemployment yeah these people have no
jobs no hope no nothing they're hungry
and they feel humiliated by this
blockade and yes they have terrible
governance from Hamas but you know what
like I'm a little bit over the just
blame the Palestinians for everything
that happens when the reality is as you
said this policy is not succeeding in
dislodging Hamas you know a policy of
closing off and hermetically sealing
Gaza is not addressing the governance
challenges in the Palestinian
territories in Gaza
it's entrenching Hamas and and you know
making them stake their claim on being
the ones who stand up to these rallies
and I think you unless you want to be in
this endless cycle where you have
Palestinian civilians occasionally
killed by Israeli security forces and we
should note it's not always just when
their rockets fired I mean the day that
our embassy moved to Jerusalem
dozens of Palestinians were killed when
they tried to approach the security
barrier there there there have been
significant amount of Palestinian
casualties throughout this there's going
to be this endless cycle of building
tensions in Gaza rocket fires or
protests and then very aggressive
Israeli reprisal lives lost human misery
in Gaza and and I think you have to get
it the broader dynamic which is how do
we improve the lives of the people in
Gaza how do we make them feel connected
to the
world how do we give them alternatives
to Hamas and I don't think the current
approach of just keeping the boot on
their throat is the the way that's gonna
succeed yeah I mean this is these
flare-ups could happen at any time yeah
and we also know I mean another relevant
data point to just be mindful of is
Jared Kushner has said that he's going
to put forward the Trump administration
peace plan sometime after Ramadan so you
know I guess June July and from all
early reports and indications it sounds
like that plan won't have much to offer
the Palestinian people in in terms of
territory they're gonna try to buy them
off with a bunch of economic sweeteners
that I just I I it's hard for me to see
a scenario where this is viewed as an
acceptable plan and that there's not
some sort of response no and you are you
are treating the Palestinian people like
they're not been paying attention to
what's happening the United States has
closed down our diplomatic
representation to the Palestine people
in Jerusalem so we basically said we're
treating you as stateless people the
Israeli prime minister has said he is
going to annex the West Bank or at least
major West Bank settlements the
president States has recognized the
Israeli annexation of the Golan Heights
so over here you see the US president
the Israeli Prime Minister clearly
preparing to consolidate Israeli control
over pieces of the West Bank in Israeli
control over Jerusalem and then over
here you got Jared Kushner talking about
giving some minor economic assistance to
some parts of the West Bank and by the
way for all we know is that going to
Palestinian people or is that line in
the pockets of some people they're
trying to pay off there if you really
wanted to address this issue you need to
include territory how can you how can
you solve the dilemma of there being two
people's living in this area and not
provide one of those people's with a
sense of where their state is going to
be who would accept that deal nobody
would accept that deal right and and so
I think they're gonna put this on the
table the PAL seems to reject it and
they'll say oh well the Palestinians can
never say yes to a deal well that's not
a real deal yeah and by the way
if you want to help
people you need to address this blockade
in Gaza because we have hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians living in
complete and utter humiliation and
destitution in Gaza and you know this is
not working it's not like it's
dislodging Hamas let's improve their
lives if we're really gonna have a
humanitarian effort aim and helping the
Palestinians it's also hard to say that
you're offering aid or any sort of
economic incentive when in February of
2019 the u.s. cut off all aid to
Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza
so you take something away you try to
give it back now it might be much more
substantial in terms of numbers or
whatever who knows what jared has been
cooking up for like two and a half years
but uh you know it's I don't think it's
likely to look go over well in that
region a deal is something where both
sides give and both sides get yeah the
deal that they've been cooking up is the
Israelis dick not just these Raley's
Bibi Netanyahu dictates the terms of
Palestinian surrender right and of
course the Palestinians say no to that
and then they blame them and what we've
seen time and again is it
Trump has certain groups of people that
you know he sees his enemies Cubans
Palestinians Iranians some Venezuelans
and and there there is no such thing as
a deal it's just like you completely
submit or there's nothing then he's got
his buddy like Kim jung-un
who's done literally nothing who is the
most brutal dictator in the world who's
now firing off missiles and he's
praising him on Twitter right so this is
not on the level if you're if you're in
the groups of people that you know Trump
has in his crosshairs this is not
diplomacy diplomacy would be how do you
negotiate Maduro is exit diplomacy would
be what is the outline of a two-state
solution diplomacy is not you accept our
terms which are your complete and utter
defeat and humiliation yeah let's let's
go to North Korea as you mentioned it so
on Saturday North Korea fired several
short-range projectiles off its coast it
is not been totally clear what kind of
projectile missile whatever you want to
call it was though secretary Pompeo
helpfully clarified on the sunday shows
that it wasn't an ICBM capable of
hitting the US so I guess it's all
hunky-dory for him you know just the
kind capable of killing you know tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands of
Americans living abroad along with all
our closest allies in the
so that should make everyone feel better
um what do you think Kim's doing here
and in I guess if you were advising
Trump like what do you think the next
step should be first of all there's a
rank smell of hypocrisy here and because
the Iranians sometimes fire off
ballistic missiles or space vehicles
that cannot hit the United States and
Mike Pompeo rushes out like
General Patton like this is the biggest
crisis facing us in the world today
right and meanwhile the North Koreans
are firing off missiles that could take
out tens of thousands of US service
members in South Korea in Japan never
mind
take out major population centers in our
treaty allies South Korea and Japan and
he's like well no big deal because he's
out there spinning for this complete
failure of a diplomatic process that
they've had with North Korea clearly
what the North Koreans are doing is
trying to get our attention say you
didn't make the concessions we wanted we
didn't get our sanctions relief we are
gonna be ratcheting up this this
pressure they've made no concessions no
rollback of the nuclear program no
inspections the nuclear program
no rollback of the missile program
nothing and now they're showing that
they're willing to start testing these
things again they want concessions if
I'm the the Trump administration you
know what I'm trying to do is try to
figure out what our incremental steps
that we can take right you don't go to
the big big deal first where you say
we're gonna lift all sanctions on North
Korea in exchange for something the
North Koreans are never gonna do you say
what are some incremental steps that we
won do we want some inspections of North
Korean nuclear facilities do we want to
see the North Koreans begin to dismantle
pieces of their infrastructure other of
their nuclear program in exchange for
some limited sanctions relief make this
a step-by-step process and not just this
like periodic super bowl summit thing
where nothing happens yeah Super Bowl
summit I like that yeah um so let's
update folks on the situation in
Venezuela as well a lot of huge issues
out there and the news if it were to
jump it around but so right before we
recorded last week it looked like there
could be a major power shift towards the
Opposition in Venezuela Juan Cueto the
man the international community mostly
recognizes as president was calling for
an uprising by the military
another one event as well as most
prominent opposition leaders a guy named
Leopoldo Lopez re-emerge from house
arrest but then somehow it all fell
apart the Maduro loyalists who were
supposed to switch sides from Maduro to
the opposition never did US officials
said that Maduro is about to leave the
country but then was stopped by the
russians and never left to go to Havana
it's hard to figure out what happened
but again with particularly worrisome
for me is that the chatter about US
military options seems to have increased
like I I'm just I'm trying to gut-check
how serious we think officials in
Washington are about some sort of
military intervention like imagine
you're Mike Pompeo or John Bolton you go
over to the Pentagon you meet in the
tank where the Joint Chiefs have their
big military planning meetings like
aren't those guys in uniform telling you
that this is an insane idea yeah and I
do think we had to just come back to
this point of like it's a pretty
astonishing thing how many things that
this administration has said it just
didn't happen right right these guys are
the fact that this is the third time
that they basically come out and
announced that their respect to win in
Venezuela and none of these things
materialized it seems like if I'm going
to be generous to them and first of all
I'm gonna do this I've done in a while
hmm
imagine if we've done that like imagine
if like Susan Rice went out and said
that three Venezuelans are gonna defect
and we're gonna win today and nobody had
affected and like Lindsey Graham
would've lit himself on fire and and and
and and and senior ensign Rubio would be
like the marching up Pennsylvania Avenue
like ready to scale the fence of
the White House and meanwhile now
they're just a keepin preys on this guy
right so get that out of the way I
clearly Bolton thinks that he's engaged
in some kind of SIOP yeah he's releasing
little videos of himself well it's
obvious he's saying like these three
people were willing to defect and Maduro
was going to get on this plane and I'm
gonna go meet in the tank and talk about
military options with the generals he's
clearly thinks that he's getting inside
the heads of the Maduro people but
there's no evidence that that's working
you know
and and there were some pretty troubling
signs that day even if you're
sympathetic to guada on the opposition
which I think most people are you know
quite oh nothing there was no broad
military support that came behind him
Leopoldo Lopez getting out of house
arrest was a step but by the end of the
day he's taking refuge in the Chilean
embassy which doesn't suggest that he
feels it's even safe for him to be out
and about in Venezuela yeah it doesn't
feel like a situation that is tipping in
their direction so it feels like in the
absence of that happening Bolton just
thinks he's running this psychological
operation on the Venezuelans but there's
no evidence that that's working there
was also a report that in a meeting at
the White House in the Situation Room
the kind of meeting you were in a lot it
sounded like a deputies meeting and you
remember how the the the number to guide
the Joint Chiefs was always in the
deputies yeah usually Winnefeld
hard-ass guy yeah they're great you know
by the book and it's now this guy Paul
Silva and some armchair NSC ideologue
staffer for Bolton was apparently
hectoring him about the need for
military options you saw this right I'm
just trying to imagine some situation
where some like backbench and a sea guy
is like yelling at the vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs demanding
military options for Venezuela that
there's a reason they don't include who
apparently slammed his hands down on the
table so hard and so loud that I assume
like his West Point class ring nearly
snapped table and the meeting was
adjourned like that's how it ended and
these guys they look like they could
break you in half over their knee you
know mostly because they could but
because but like the realities what what
do you mean but what is the military
option are we going to send in the
special forces to capture Maduro are we
I've heard force and humanitarian aid so
what u.s. ground troops are going to
enter into Venezuela like are we gonna
bomb something in Venezuela like they
keep talking about military options like
what the are they so let's talk
about that for a second because so
Venezuela has lots of Russian weapons
and hardware it's about the size of
Texas so one of the great mistakes the
u.s. made and the Iraq war is that when
our troops rolled towards Baghdad there
were all these massive weapons caches on
the side of the road that we're never
secured right so unless you have
literally
200,000 300,000 400,000 troops that gets
sent in you're not going to have the man
power to like keep the peace win the
fight secure all these weapons caches
and then you just again have the most
well armed insurgency you could possibly
imagine like this is a this is a rock
style disaster in the making if these
guys do this and and it would be in a
you know it would be just like you drew
insurgents from across the Middle East
to Iraq every leftist revolutionary
would descend on Manas whele we have to
prepare ourselves for the fact that
let's say there is a military option and
let's say we knock over Maduro like
picture the Saddam Hussein's statue
falling right
the triumphalism that will explode the
New York Times analysis piece saying
that Donald Trump though the bread
Stevens takes that is not the end of the
story it's the beginning of the story so
let's all be prepared that if this
happens in Venezuela or god forbid Iran
which would be an even more complicated
war the first day of hot takes from
everybody saying that down Trump just
became president and the Brett Stevens
column and the the the the deification
of Donald Trump is the beginning of what
will be a very violent and chaotic and
and almost certainly negative outcome
over time because again like Maduro has
been arming paramilitary groups he
they're drug traffickers they're it's a
hornet's nest of violence and competing
factions so any military option is gonna
have to involve not just like knocking
over the head of the regime but like how
do you prevent civil violence how do you
prevent looting how do you prevent just
the further destruction of this country
and in human suffering mass
displacements of people in the Americas
by the way a lot of people will try to
come to the United States right and both
in specifically said he would not give
TPS temporary protected status to or he
didn't answer the question Marco Rubio
private Rubio has floated the idea of
giving TPS to the Venezuelan people
Bolton will not do it again showing he
doesn't care about them yeah and so
temporary status allows you to come here
and seek asylum so the reason that this
administration can never get there is
because ideologically they're hostile to
the concept of asylum Trump is actually
proposing policies to make people have
to pay for that and to make it more
difficult they say their policies about
helping the Venezuelan people and yet
there are millions of Venezuelans
outside that country who need
3.5 slamming the door in their
face which tells you everything you need
to know about how he actually feels
about the Venezuelan people the reality
I think as a cynic is this is largely
motivated by his domestic politics he's
attracting support from some hardline
well in hardline but from Cuban American
and Venezuelan American elements in
Florida but he cares less about that
than he cares about his immigration
message and that's by the way a message
to those Cuban and Venezuelan Americans
he doesn't really care about you and
your people he cares about his own
politics right I think there are two
other points to make here one is neither
Venezuela Iran there's no legal
justification to go to war no not even
close and so Congress should be saying
and I would even be passing resolutions
in the house that there is no
authorization for military force in
either Venezuela or Iran without this
administration coming to Congress that's
a marker worth worth laying down you
know right right now because they're
gonna try to you know drum up all kinds
of clever legal rationales we need to
get on the record now that there's
nothing authorized about this yeah
agreed
um let's talk about a different kind of
war we are back in a trade war with
China over the weekend Halloween yeah
week over the weekend Trump threatened
to expand tariffs to cover nearly all US
import from China that understandably
spooked the markets on Monday I believe
they're off 2% today as we record on
Tuesday Trump's trade representative Bob
Lazar said that the US would implement a
25% tariffs on 200 billion dollars worth
of Chinese imports starting on Friday
this is all happening as I believe
Chinese negotiators are either in DC or
on their way to DC for talks so you know
look the bit the the Chinese are tough
negotiators but do you think that that
level of brinksmanship is is the right
play no in part because like first of
all all the tariffs so far have hurt us
more than China yeah so the people who
were paying for the tariffs are US
consumers are paying higher prices and
US AG that is not selling some of their
goods in China China is is you know
suffering this economic uncertainty but
the concrete
paid for by the tariffs come here and I
think Americans do understand that and
if not Democrats should be yeah making
Trump lies about it every life every day
that they're not filling our coffers he
makes it seem like tariffs or a cheque
that a foreign country pays to you when
no it's something that raises the cost
of goods that are imported here and that
means that you just pay more for those
goods right I mean that's one of the
most clear manifestations in which
tariffs has an impact I think the other
problem here is it's like North Korea
like step back and let's look at Iran
like the art of the deal here what is
the goal what is the goal in Iran what
it is it regime change is it the a
better nuclear deal nobody knows what
he's doing he's just ratcheting up what
is the goal in North Korea is it full
deed nuclearization of North Korea it
doesn't seem like that Trump has
certainly walked back from that what is
the goal of this trade war what is
success
I've long thought that what Trump would
try to do is essentially have the canoes
make some cosmetic concessions you know
like agree to buy more you know like
when we got them and to agree to buy
more beef or something right and he'll
go out and say he won this great victory
when nothing really structurally changed
in the relationship but what is he
trying to is he is he really trying to
completely overhaul the nature of the
trade relationship and how many goods
they sell to us versus what we sell to
them is he trying to get them to abide
by intellectual property protections I
don't think anybody watching this knows
yeah why is he he's putting at risk the
health of the global economy and and
again I think people have to understand
these consequences which are that this
is introducing an enormous amount of
uncertainty in the markets it's slowing
down the Chinese economy
okay Trump points to that as some kind
of win if the Chinese economy slows down
the Chinese buy a lot of stuff from us
like this could slow down the entire
global economy this could unravel the
decade-long economic boom that we've had
in this country which by the way most of
which took place under brock obama and
and so he's gambling with essentially
our own account
in the health of the global economy and
it's not even clear in service of what
that I mean I think that's the key point
I think that Trump's goal in all the
areas you mentioned China Iran North
Korea is good headlines yes I don't
think that he has a real policy decision
which is why you read stories to this
day about Gary Cohen and Steve Bannon
and all these trade advisers at each
other's throats like literally nearly
coming to blows in meetings over China
policy and when Trump doesn't really
have a North Star to guide them like can
you imagine him sitting down in a
National Security Council meeting and in
really doing the hard work of talking
through objectives and where he wants to
end up absolutely not he's upstairs
watching Fox and Friends he's got
another to do so these guys just
like whoever is up in in status that
week like implements his or her own
strategy right now it's Bolton yeah and
and I think you know this is a really
important broad point and the world owes
out there you know you listen to the
podcast because they care about these
issues the problem is it kind of works
in the short term so if you look across
the board I'll point to a few foreign
policy things he gets a headline of
Trump acts on redline bomb Syria after
the chemical weapons attack Trump keeps
campaign promise pulls out of Iran deal
Trump has historic summit with Kim
Jungman Trump getting tougher than any
US president on China Trump recognizes
Democratic opposition in Venezuela all
those are actually pretty good headlines
right and people are thinking like this
guy's doing stuff well after he bombed
Syria nothing changed in Syria not a
single thing the Syrians even rebuilt
that runway that he bought that day
after he pulled out of the Iran deal
nothing changed with respect to Iran's
behavior across the region that he was
complaining about certainly didn't
improve it didn't impress ounds like it
got worse since we'd sent an aircraft
yeah yeah if that's true then it's
gotten worse right Trump you know North
Korea has the summit no change in the
North Korean nuclear program right you
Trump recognizes Venezuelan opposition
well Nicolas Maduro is still sitting
there in Venezuela right so on each in
China you know Trump gets tough puts all
these tariffs on board but where is that
leading what is it where did the Chinese
doing that actually really matters in
the long run so he gets the headlines
but no
I need to be smart enough and I think
they are to understand that like this is
not changing anything what is hurting is
American credibility across the board
right the idea that we would keep
agreements right so if you're Kim
Jungman
and you look in Iran you're thinking why
the would I ever make a nuclear
deal with someone who's shown that he's
just willing to pull out of it right if
you're looking at the China trade stuff
he pulled out of TPP which was the way
in which we were gonna organize all the
other Asian countries to put pressure on
China together so all these short term
headlines that he's getting are not only
not achieving their objectives they're
gradually weakening the United States
over time and the bill is gonna come due
for this and what Trump is counting on
is that the bill comes due later after
he's gone
after he's reluctant when it doesn't
when he never so worried about running
in the last thing I'd say is that Trump
also ran this is a point Democrats
should be making on getting us out of
Wars but look at Iran look at Venezuela
and even look at this craziness with
China not that it's gonna lead
necessarily in the near term to a war
but this guy is getting us more in
involved in conflicts that could lead to
either military actions in Venezuela
Iran or deeply destabilizing economic
wars with China so he's doing the
opposite of what he said he was gonna do
yeah let's say on this China peace for a
second because there was a great article
in The New York Times about how human
rights are just not a part of these
trade talks with China at all so as
we've discussed on this show a couple
times
the Chinese have put millions literally
of weaker Muslims living in western
China in concentration camps Michael
barber oh and folks of the daily did a
two-part special on this that everybody
should listen to because this is one of
the greatest crimes against humanity
happening on the planet right now and
it's not getting the attention it
deserves so but but back to the talks
you know the issue of the Uighur is
reportedly not a part of the talks and
you know my initial reaction to that was
it infuriated me but I wanted to
gut check something with you because
thinking back to the Obama days you know
we were doing a negotiation over the
Iran nuclear agreement with the Iranians
now they do a lot of terrible things
they suppress their own people they lock
up political prisoners they fund
terrorism those issues weren't part of
the Iran nuclear deal talk
because it was seen as such a critical
national security objective that putting
in other issues on top of it could
overly complicate things do you think
that this is an analogous situation or
like I don't know I'm trying to be as
charitable as possible to them in the
midst of a negotiation as the way of you
know maybe understanding their
priorities better well yeah I I I do
think that it is fair that you negotiate
with countries on specific issues right
we negotiated arms control particularly
adversarial or competitive countries
right so we negotiated arms control
agreements with the Soviet Union we
didn't like a lot of the things that
they were doing we negotiated obviously
the Iran deal without bringing in other
issues because it's it's a way of
isolating a set of problems and
accomplishing something and if you
create linkages those can actually
become problematic because we are we
suggesting that the we Gers are like a
bargaining chip you know it now what is
also true though is that so I'm I'm
sympathetic to the idea that they might
not make the the Weger issue kind of an
agenda item in the trade discussions
what is also true though is that the
us-china relationship is very big and
there's a lot of issues and the way in
which it's usually structured is you
have dialogue on lots of you know on
economic issues on cyber issues on
Taiwan I'm not confident at all that
they're raising that we Gers at all
right so my concern it would probably be
less that they are not you know making
the Weger as part of the trade
discussion my concern is is probably not
raising at all and they're not
publicizing information about it and
they're not bringing it to the UN
Security Council and they're not frankly
they're not even on UN Human
Rights Council which is where you'd
raise the price so I'm worried that
they're not raising it period in that
there are all kinds of other places in
forums that they could be raising it in
also Trump's own behavior seems to
validate you know he praises kim
jung-han and as someone who's beloved by
his people when kim has people in camps
right the issue we've talked about with
her hanga has donald trump said word one
about the ranga has he called Hong
sang-soo Qi or anybody in
about that he just doesn't seem to care
about this set of issues again unless
it's in Venezuela or Cuba
you never hear word one about human
rights so in its own way you know I
think that is is lending credence to
this broader perception in the world
that democracies small d-- democracies
are in retreat and that autocracies are
on the events at the chinese model of
state surveillance and suppression of
religious minorities is more and more
than normal in more places and that
frankly the trend even in the West with
people like Trump and you know Viktor
Orban and hungry and far-right parties
in Europe and the rogue's gallery of air
dhawan and and Yahoo and duterte that
all this suggests that that's the future
direction of things that's the most
worrying part to me about the the
dynamic with the weavers yeah well so
that's the perfect segue to the last
thing I want to ask you about which is
the White House announced that they're
gonna host Hungarian Prime Minister
Viktor Orban at the White House on May
13th you know this you know it's not
really jaw-dropping anymore of course
they are but I mean I just can't think
of a leader who has more systematically
undermined democracy over the last
decade basically he seized control of
the media civil society and hungary has
been smothered with regulations and
rules that make it impossible to
function it's a constant drumbeat of
xenophobia and Islamophobia and now we
welcome this dude into the Oval Office I
mean is there any argument for for
taking this no no is it what was hungry
like is their nuclear weapons interest
in Hungary is there there's no reason
there's no pressing national security
reason the only reason to have Viktor or
Viktor Orban is an authoritarian he has
engaged in trafficked in anti-semitism
he is you shut down free media he's shut
down the independence the rule of law
he's so outside the boundaries of what
our democratic values in the West that
the EU has been in this constant fight
with him
so for Trump to validate him with a
White House visit is sending a message
that he's on the side of
authoritarianism in Europe
at a time when Europe is teetering
between the knot I won't even say
progressive just democratic values right
versus these authoritarians our bond is
kind of the quintessential he's the
frontman he was the first guy to test
out this model and have it work where he
consolidated power through authoritarian
means and so for Trump to validate that
is incredibly dangerous it's saying that
America is not on the side of people who
are fighting corruption and hungry and
fighting anti-semitism hungry and
fighting for a free press he's on the
side of the man who's locking those
people up or intimidating those people
and that that to me is incredibly
troubling it was also notable that this
meeting was announced the same day that
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is
meeting with Chancellor Merkel in
Germany and her foreign minister was
camp yeah it's like a big you what
what world are we living in when they
get along with Viktor Orban who's a
crypto-fascist and they don't get along
with Angela Merkel who's been holding up
almost single-handedly the the free
world in Europe for four years now it's
mind-boggling that this is happening and
it's also interesting get you the
headline issue like he doesn't pay much
costs for it no no I mean when you
really step back we got more heat from
Congress and the media for like a
diplomatic agreement with Iran to
prevent a war or you know for some of
the efforts that we you know engaged in
overseas to change problematic aspects
of our foreign policy then this guy just
kind of gone full authoritarian on us
you know yeah we just don't have a we
don't have our own state-run media to
drive a message remember when the Dalai
Lama visited the White House and he went
out a side entrance and he had to walk
by the trash and it was a horrible
horrible optic and it was embarrassing
for us but you know Fox News did that
non-stop for a week and like it was the
thing that broke through and we just we
don't have a way to make that happen
yeah Viktor Orban is unless we tell him
to me the worry I have is that the
consequences of this again they play out
over time and you know if we look up in
five years five years of this stuff
there is no international order there
there are no more
alliances authoritarianism is sweeping
the world and no one will be able to
point to the one moment when it tipped
but it's been happening before our eyes
the whole time and and and the press
doesn't seem to be able to find the
language to describe it you know that
this is this is profoundly abnormal to
have a president who's more comfortable
authoritarians and Democrats to have a
president who like a bull in china shop
tears up agreements and goes around the
world looking for fights yeah have a
president who not only doesn't defend
democratic values around the world he
attacks them at home the independence of
the rule of law the the role of a free
press in our society like you have to
kind of consistently pull yourself back
and be like this is not normal like we
have a fundamentally Authority non
Democratic president and then sometimes
seen if someone like me all say that and
you know I'll get the response at
Twitter like Oh like you know go you
know look at roads he's so upset like
okay so you want to turn this country
into a fascist dystopia to own the libs
you know like like what is wrong with
people out there you know like this is
because the same Lindsey Graham used to
get on the high horses John McCain talk
to us about democracy and how we needed
to be doing more to stand for democracy
and now he's so busy you know carrying
Trump's briefcase and owning the libs
that he's literally embolden and in
enabling and validating like a
fundamentally authoritarian approach to
politics and foreign policy yeah
counterculture for our parents was like
opposing wars and going to Woodstock and
counterculture these days seems to be
like these strange creeping
authoritarian you know chat rooms and
fortune and age yeah unnerving
yeah let's end with one happy thing
Prince Harry and Megan Markel had a baby
do you give a do I do you turn to
you are you a royal watcher did you
watch the wedding when the remember when
the Europe director at the White House
National Security Council Europe
director had a wedding watch party that
I think kicked off at 3 a.m. Eastern or
something so they could
see it I'm like I'm kinda into it and I
have to say so I met Prince Harry really
yeah yeah it's one of the cooler things
about me
I obviously that I met Prince Harry like
a year and a half ago we went over to
Kensington Palace I was at the bomb we
spent like an hour hour and half of the
guy like just super cool smart guy was
focused on how to improve the situation
for youth around the world does a lot of
community oriented stuff in the UK does
a lot of stuff with wounded warriors
like he comes across as like a
fundamentally decent guy who's been
through a lot of right I mean I
just step back here I mean you know
that's a pretty rough deal he was
handing your mom your parents had this
weird divorce whatever he knows about
your mom gets killed in this horrific
accident you know he had his ups and
downs as a teenager and to see him kind
of come out the other end like that's
why people pull for the Royals it's not
just because there are these like rich
powerful people it's in part because
you've kind of seen this guy go through
a bunch of and come out on the
other end is a pretty fundamentally
decent human being and he's married to
an American he's married to American
who's an African American that that
matters she's cool as suits fan way
before I care about the wedding nonsense
Obama was the suits fan I actually you
know I wasn't but I'm there for it yeah
I'm here for the suits and I'd like that
that's matters to people that this the
the ultimate emblem of kind of you know
for lack of a better way of putting in
white prints you know the British royal
family doesn't get more than that
did ya look an african-american member
who's welcomed into that family and you
have some diversity in that family like
that I think that matters to people
around the world is a symbol so in
addition like the worlds were just kind
of like the Queen is cool like do you
know did the I don't know I'm asking you
this but the British people like they
pop of the rose popular I mean are they
is there a significant faction that's
like why are we wasting our taxpayer
dollars on these people no I think they
are the Queen is popular and Harry and
William are popular no offense Charles
but I think it gets to some of the the
people and they're easily
yeah I mean maybe Charles is too I I
think that look we we've talked a lot
about brexit in this pod you know every
country what is the
an identity of the country right and
when you look at the rules and you
particularly look at the Queen like she
was there and World War two when they're
in the she was there the breakup of
the British Empire handled that
gracefully has weathered has been a
presence in the lives of the British
people through everything that has
happened and has kind of carried herself
with a certain kind of dignity and I
think you know people under that and
that matters to them have I ever told
the story on the spot about when I
what happened me with the Queen in
Normandy de though so I should put this
in my book but it was a good story was
that the trip I was on
yeah no no this is uh this is in this is
on the 50th anniversary of the d-day
invasion yeah so in 2014 and we're in
Normandy and I had been out the night
before in Paris as one does with Cody
Keenan and some other people and because
I had nothing to do that day like the
trip was over the last stop of the farm
trip you always remember the last thing
in the foreign trips and I yes right and
the only cheese done speech is done the
meetings are deferences brief only thing
that was gonna happen the last day is
this kind of ceremonial event with the
leaders in Normandy
so we fly there and I'm not feeling that
great and I'm in the staff area there's
always some staff area where people are
grazing on a bunch of food and all the
leaders are in some Chateau and in
Normandy and suddenly Pete Souza comes
looking for me or Susan Rice or
somebody's like Obama's talking to Putin
Obama's talking to Putin and this is at
the height of tensions over Ukraine and
I'm like oh god look someone's got
to be there just to hear what happened
and maybe the officer to the press so I
run with Pete Souza into this chateau I
didn't even occur to me that I wasn't
allowed to be there you look his leaders
only because I'm just like I'm thinking
I'm just I got to get there right so I'm
like running through I'm like running
past Angela Merkel all the leaders are
sitting there watching this some of them
have iPhone cameras up of Obama and
Putin so I get up next to Obama and
Putin and they're talking Pete's taking
pictures I'm trying to listen to it and
this conversation ends and I'm like you
know I'm wiped out
so I go to find the restroom and I swear
this pays off you ever like go up to the
door and you're rattling the door and
you can't get in
no but you don't know whether it's
locker though so like four or five times
I'm like jangling that nah
wanted to go run some cold water my face
I'm like
so I finally step back from this door
life and the second I step back the door
opens and it's the queen of the
Queen of England but the Queen of
England then like that's what you say
like the top person in the world like I
hope you don't laddle the door while
she's and she looks at me going pee or
whatever no she always has that handbag
yeah she like just she holds up her
forearm and just adjust this handbag on
her forearm and looks at me like I'm the
biggest loser that has ever
walked the face of the earth and just
kind of makes eye contact and just walks
right by me not saying anything did you
go tell Obama like I think I just did
I went really ignorant of war so then I
went and actually Obama was a David
Cameron and so I told him this
immediately of course and the two of
them laughed for about three minutes and
made fun of me the rest of like the time
of amazement
you know it's too bad Cameron led to the
greatest guys he was nice he was
friendly nice you know it's like walk up
the staff that's my girl that's my queen
unfortunately that's my queen status I
have a much better at Prince Harry story
we could do a hell of a queen of English
or a and a great place to hang God next
week
I don't know what we're gonna talk about
no I don't know cuz it's bad and there's
all this bad news the Queen's of funny
wrote down on cuz like whenever you
think it's really bad you look at the
 Queen of England you're like
we've been through some more yeah
they don't Blitz and all this stuff like
we're not there yet not there yet that's
a that's a great tagline for the show
yet alright thank you guys for listening
we're gonna do a thing where we just
force ourselves to remember and tell
more fun stories from the White House
days because the majority of them are
not cool they're not like the West Wing
where you write the phrase that save the
day and you know solve the problem it's
trying to rip open the doorway between
the big ones taking a piss like that
that happens more often you think and
those are fun yes we good all right guys
you
