now it's time for okay stop go roll
equip and the panel can say okay stop at
any points a comment
what if Babar wasn't just a sweet young
elephant but actually a conniving and
titled little boy Jared Kushner recently
sat down for an interview with Axios
let's see how he did Alexandra Cosmo
Cortese she calls she has cold President
Trump a racist have you ever seen him
say or do anything that you would
describe as racist or bigoted so the
answer is no okay sorry I just want to
say that I do believe Jared Kushner is
resting collusion base
[Applause]
absolutely not you can't not be a racist
for 69 years then run for president be a
racist when a lot of the Democrats call
the president a racist I think they're
doing a disservice to people who suffer
because of real racism in this country
was birtherism racist um look I wasn't
really involved in that I know you would
mm-hmm was it racist like I said I
wasn't involved in that um look I know
who the president is and I have not seen
anything in him that is racist so again
I was not involved in that did you wish
he didn't do them like I said I was not
involved in that that was a long time
the other issue that often gets brought
up in this conversation is that he
campaign okay sorry
so honey I was gonna ask since we have
an actual real journalist on stage we'll
surprise if you're interviewing someone
like Jared Kushner what is the strategy
is it like Swan just did and you follow
up like five times as he keeps giving
you the same answer or are you
looking to like maybe just ask a more
substantive question like what do you I
would start quoting back Donald Trump to
him and make him respond to every single
statement
he campaigned on banning Muslims would
you describe that as religiously bigoted
look I think that the President did his
campaign the way he did his campaign did
and I think you wish he didn't she wish
she didn't make that speech I think he's
here today and I think he's doing a lot
of great things okay stop he's here
today I think he continues to exist on
our plane can we talk about that tie he
looks like he just said something really
awful to Brendan Fraser in school ties
like yeah that's like the meanest prep
school boy who has ever walked it's so
nice didn't they do this interview
between biology and self-esteem yeah
there's a young there's a poor or
shorter Jew doing the work for him
sorry sorry sorry 2016
you were sent an email with an offer of
help for the drug campaign from the
Russian government I'm sorry which email
[Applause]
email has interviewed about by 15
committees and the email from not Ron
Goldstone look Jonathan question to you
my question to you okay job before we
get to the question I just do want to
point out that when he says what email
you're talking about it does seem to me
the moment where where Jared Kushner has
truly come to extend that this wasn't
the softball he was counting on yeah
that this wasn't five things you didn't
know about Jared this may well be and
this is important for history the very
first obstacle Jared Kushner is based on
his life
why didn't you pick up the phone and
call the FBI it was an email that said
Rashad that said the Russian government
was trying to help let me put you in my
shoes at that time okay I'm running
three companies I'm helping run the
campaign I get an email that says show
up at four instead of three to a meeting
that I've been told about earlier they
didn't know what the hell was about but
the reality is is that the meeting was a
total waste of time but just don't be
that this is we're talking about Russia
here they are a long term have this area
of the United States decades of
hostility including spying does it not
set off at least some alarm bell when
you see an email saying that the Russian
government wants to help like I said the
email that I got on my iPhone at the
time basically said show but for it
didn't scroll down I didn't scroll down
this is one of the most successful
efforts disrupt our democracy in
American history it has upended our
institutions and helped with Donald
Trump in charge of our government a
foreign adversary was able to influence
our country and buy off our president
and the reason we're in this mess is
going to this
it's claiming he did scroll down
would have thought about that had rusher
in there in the subject again girl down
pal Russia in the subject line
[Applause]
[Music]
