I realized hi everyone hey we're taking
some questions today because we figured
a lot of news has happened since the
election we sort of thought maybe the
rest of the week would be quiet boy
happen Elijah needs those clicks you
know engagement so we are and we have
Priyanka here hey the camera is but hey
oh hello
perfect well we can kick it off okay the
first question is from Katie can you
guys please break down what is going on
in the Florida and Georgia elections I'm
very confused and need to know if I'm
getting my hopes up and that it will go
well for us us two were confused it's
mayhem
nothing good Katy yeah we'll start with
Florida that's a little bit easier Rick
Scott leads by 17,000 votes which is
only 0.22%
which means under Florida law if it goes
under 0.25% it triggers a hand recount
of balance DeSantis and the governor's
race leads Gilliam by fewer than 39,000
votes which is 0.47 percent under
Florida law if it's under 0.5 percent it
triggers an automatic recount so Enrico
sorry Richard machine recounts and so
we're gonna have a recount in Florida
mark Elias Democratic Attorney is down
there
Elias his we know mark and he's been
through many recounts and he is very
cautious as most lawyers are and yet he
said we believe at the end of the day
senator Nelson is going to be declared
the winner so mark thinks something's up
look if there's one thing Democrats are
good at its recounts in Florida we have
an unblemished room they're just kidding
we totally that up in 2000 yeah
it's really confusing and there's no
people who know how it leads you to
wonder why are we so bad at voting still
all these years later and the conclusion
I wind up at is because Republicans want
us to be bad at voting and yelling votes
and keeping people from voting because
that's how they win so be angry we just
put up a link both say of America calm
slash donate if you want to
support all these recount efforts we
bundled them all together so you know
that what's going on
one thing that Elias has been pointing
to is in Broward County there are tens
of thousands of ballots where people
voted for governor but did they ballots
did not record a vote for senator and
that is unusual because there's a great
map that I had somewhere but if you look
at you can google it if you look at the
state they show where there were ballots
where someone voted for governor not
senator and in Broward is like the only
place where that margin is huge there's
no reason why in just one County in
Florida a whole bunch of people would
decide to leave senator blank and not a
guy and and just vote for governor it
just wouldn't happen in one County so
they think is what Elias thinks is there
is a machine error that the Machine
counted the gubernatorial votes and not
the Senate votes and if that's the case
that's a County that's heavily
Democratic so you can imagine Nelson
picking up a bunch of votes the other
things that are outstanding there's
provisional ballots meaning if you go
and someone says you're not registered
and you get a ballot so that's happening
they're gonna count those are gonna come
military ballots overseas ballots
absentee ballots so there's a lot of
ballots left to be counted in Florida in
both races as to whether to get your
hopes up Google hanging Chad and then
get your hope the one thing one thing we
can say is it since election night as
the votes continue to be counted and
there's all these absentee provisional
ballots everything else is counted it's
the lead is narrowing for these
Republicans so it's getting closer and
closer whether it gets closer enough we
don't know they seem very confident then
in the Nelson camp in the Gilliam camp
they had conceded conceded and then
today they took back the concession so
clearly the Gilliam I can't thinks
there's a chance but that's that you
want to about Georgia sure Georgia is a
super cool case because Brian Kemp the
Republican nominee for governor until
11:59 a.m. Thursday was also the
Secretary of State which means he was
overseeing the elections so that should
make you feel good about him giving both
candidates an even shot at it as of his
resignation as Secretary of State his
office said he was up he had 50.3% of
the vote and held a lead of about 63
thousand votes over Stacey Abrams to win
the governorship he needs an outright
if he falls short of 50% it goes to a
runoff election which means they do it
all over again I think the election date
would be December 4th so Stacey Abrams
campaign says she is about twenty three
thousand seven hundred eighty three
votes to get a recount in the race in
25,000 I'm sorry and then and then a
runoff if she can gain twenty five
thousand six hundred votes so they're
chasing down all kinds of provisional
ballots so if you voted and you had a
provisional ballot yeah you need to take
another couple steps in Georgia to get
it counted so figure that out and make
sure you do it you know people in
Georgia let them know Stacey Abrams
campaign has like they have radio ads
they're doing a full-scale cancer and I
try to get people to chase people and
they're perfect to taste people's
provisional ballots the other than like
he says like you know the Kemp said the
Kemp campaign says oh it's
mathematically impossible there's not
enough ballots out there but we don't
trust them they haven't provided every
any evidence because of it they also run
the Secretary of State's office on that
note we have a follow-up question about
Georgia from Sheryl she is asking she's
talking about Brian Kemp obviously there
is a conflict of interest there you guys
have addressed this but are there any
potential criminal ramifications for
what Kemp has done here none that I'm
aware of no I mean they're the the
abrams campaign is suing everywhere they
can they're filing a number of lawsuits
about the election itself but I don't
think there's anything at least not that
I know of there's nothing they not that
I know it should be criminal yeah
outrageous that you got to oversee a
campaign where he is one of the two
candidates I mean in the guy it's on top
of him doing literally everything in his
power to suppress the vote to make it
harder for african-americans to vote you
had hours long lines and suburbs of
Atlanta where Stacey Abrams got a lot of
votes so it sucks it's very frustrating
all right now I have a question about
another candidate this one's from Trevon
claw do you think beto should run for
president in 2020 or should he challenge
John Cornyn more broadly what are your
feelings about candidates who fail at
one race running for an even higher
office it's Trevin claw-like a ravenclaw
kind of mashup right maybe I think so
yeah change your opinion got it
meadow run run I think
I think everyone who is really good
period every Democrat that's like a good
campaigner is a good messenger that
something to say something to contribute
should run for president Beto is at the
top of that list yeah I think that I
think he's a once-in-a-generation
political talent that you don't see come
along very often I think that about
Andrew Gilliam I think that about Stacey
Abrams I think I think that about a lot
of the people we saw in 2018 and there's
one thing you know I took from Tuesday
night it's that Trump is certainly
beatable in 2020 but it's not gonna be a
cakewalk no he's good and that's why I
completely agree with Tommy that I am
I'm Pro everyone running who wants to
run into things they can run and I have
been so inspired by Beddoes campaign I
mean what he did in Texas I was reading
into Texas Tribune
Christopher hooks wrote a piece about
this and and he was one who was
skeptical about Texas turning blue and
he wrote a piece today that said Texas
is now a purple state and I mean it's
the best it's the best statewide
performance of any Democrat since Ann
Richards in 1994 losing Texas by 2.6
percent is crazy for a Democrat Andina
and you know the the second part of that
question I think was you know what do we
think about candidates who lose races
want to go on to a higher office so I
think it depends on the race right like
the one thing I want everyone to
understand is how different states are
and the demographics in each state are
right better ran for Senate in Illinois
and lost by a couple percentage points
I'd say yeah he probably should have won
Illinois because Illinois is a heavily
Democratic state he won a state that
Donald Trump won by nine points
that's Barack Obama lost by 12 13 14
points then no Democrat has won
statewide and since 1994 and he came
within two points if you take betos
performance in Texas and you lay that
across the nation he has an electoral
college majority Barack Obama lost his
first race for the US House of
Representatives and then one is Senate
campaign right many ran for president
that turned out pretty good run bet oh
yeah we got a follow-up question on bet
Oh
bread's what are the honest chances of
him running in 2020 and what would he
have to do differently with the country
than what he did in Texas I'll take the
second half first Brett he would only he
wouldn't have to do anything different
than what he did in Texas yeah he could
repeat that Texas performance he wins in
a rump he crushes his opponent what are
the honest chances I honestly don't know
yeah I think the key for a Democrat to
win in 2020 what they're going to need
to do in the country is juice turnout
among the Democratic base so and the
turnout was incredible on Tuesday night
but it needs to be you know even what we
got in 2016 it needs to be beyond that
so you need to excite Democratic voters
and everyone who's a possible Democratic
voter that's number one number two you
need to bring out new voters people who
haven't participated in politics yet or
we're having voted in a very long time
haven't voted ever you should bring them
out and you would need to win
independence in this country better or
walk did all three things in Texas he
won independence he brought out new
voters and he juiced the Democratic base
three he didn't win is because in Texas
Republican registration far out matches
Democratic registration but that's not
true an independent in Massachusetts is
like a Pepe the Frog cartoon you know
it's like he won conservative voters in
huge numbers and in terms of whether
he'll run you know I he said he wants to
spend a lot of time with his family
right now because he's a very good
family man and so I think it's gonna
take a lot of convincing see you get him
to run so everyone convince them when
you run for president you raise some
money you have a plane you bring the
family on the plane see him all the time
but if you believe that better should
run like we believe better should run
please tell him because I think yeah I
need a lot of convincing it's right cool
thanks for dressing all these 20/20
questions we haven't been a ton more but
I'm gonna jump to one from someone named
Libby she is asking what would you say
to someone who worked for a Democratic
candidate who lost in this election
cycle it's really difficult and the
first time I'm experiencing it and she's
wondering if you had any words of wisdom
for herself and her friends Libby big
livestream hug for you here got my ass
handed to me in my first campaign in
2002 with I was more of a 3-week thing
no big deal mm convulse oh my
Erskine Bowles for Senate North Carolina
I went out to a Buncombe County which is
in Asheville and I would make field
calls and said my name is Jackson Jessup
from the Buncombe County Democratic
Party and you were going to help him
write the bull say yeah that I wrote a
really boring tax plan know that I
worked for John Edwards in 2004 we came
this close and we lost a John and John
Kerry and I was crushed and I went and
lived on my friend's couch in DC for two
months and watched the west wing for two
hours a day because it was on Bravo and
from like 11 then 12 to 1 and I was sad
but like a couple thoughts one you
fought your ass off for someone you
believe in no one can ever change that
or take it away win or lose to you have
a group of friends now who did something
together that you can never forget or
take away and that we will always have
that special bond and so in politics you
win some and you lose some and we were
very lucky to work for rock Obama and
when enormous Lee at a young age but a
lot of people didn't have that chance
for a long time but keep fighting
because it's worth it and it's kind of
fun and the two of us ended up working
for Barack Obama because of the losses
that we both had is right for so I was
when Tommy was in Edwards in 2004 I was
with Kerry and we won the primary but
then obviously we lost the general and I
remember where I was I was in Boston out
of the election I went home to North
writing the next day and I was just like
sitting at my house for the first time
by myself my parents house that I then
like what Beck's DC got my stuff moved
back home
live back with my parents I thought like
I don't want to be doing politics
anymore I was crushed I worked so hard I
was tired I was 10 20 pounds heavier and
then 25 and then Robert Gibbs who had
been my boss in the Kerry campaign and
had then went into work for Barack Obama
in the Senate race called and said Obama
needs a speechwriter and I interviewed
with him Tommy had just started and then
Tommy and I started in Obama's Senate
office neither of us thinking that he
would run for president at the time we
just thought we were gonna sit in that
Senate office and then we both did the
most
you know incredible thing of our lives
and work for Barack Obama in the
campaign and so I you know it's cliche
say that everything happens for a reason
but you know you put in this time in a
campaign you worked your ass off take
some time it took reconnect with your
family reconnect with your friends rest
and then realize that politics is the
long game it's an everyday struggle and
find another campaign find another who
inspires you and you know good things
will happen
stay in there Libby stay in there you
got it and thanks for all your work yeah
seriously okay that was a very inspiring
answer and really nice and I am sad to
now make this livestream a little sad
okay have a question from Nicole Nicole
says there's been yet another mass
shooting in Thousand Oaks a city that
was considered by many to be safe quote
unquote from tragedies like these what
should happen next policy wise yeah I
mean so my parents moved down here a
couple years ago and they live in
Thousand Oaks and so I woke up this
morning to a bunch of texts from people
saying you know everyone has everyone
okay and I remember my parents bragging
about how Thousand Oaks has been rated
the third safest city in America when
they moved there which is similar to
what we saw in parkland remember those
students were saying oh that was one of
the safest cities in America too so it
literally can happen anywhere in terms
of policy I was just talking to my mom
before this livestream and she said the
shooter used a bump stock which remember
Donald Trump promised that they would in
the Republicans promised that
they would ban after they were used in
Vegas and the Vegas massacre and nothing
happened
so policy-wise yeah we should ban bumps
talks that's one thing yeah we should
ban semi-automatic weapons this was a
semi-automatic weapon as well we should
ban that we should have background
checks but nothing is gonna happen as
long as Donald Trump is president so
nothing's gonna happen at the federal
level you know the one ray of light here
is because so many Democrats swept into
governor's mansions because we picked up
so many state legislative seats you know
on the state level a lot of states can
start passing stricter gun control
regulations and I believe there was even
an amendment on Tuesday that I think
those in Washington State
that strengthened gun control
regulations too so we have ballot
measures we have state houses and we
have governor's Democratic governors who
can pass gun legislation and we should
push them all to do that now
agreed thank you
this next question is from Emily and she
is switching gears back to the midterms
do you guys think that the results of
the midterms will motivate any
Republicans in the Senate who are up for
re-election in 2020 to stop putting up
with Trump's
or be a little more bipartisan I wish I
don't I don't see that that was my I
mean so so happy with the results the
the further we get from the results of
Tuesday night the happier I am
me too the fact that we are not just in
charge of the house but overwhelmingly
in charge is a huge deal
the fact that we sent so many great
human beings not just Congress people
but like brilliant people is a big deal
what I wanted was a even firmer
repudiation of the little Trump light
 like Ron Santis that
scumbag we didn't get that so you know I
think Trump his first act was to
threaten literally any Republican that
dares to cross him because that's who he
is
I mean he wants to them to fear him so
he's gonna continue his my way or the
highway approach I think most elected
officials are cowards
and they will try to duck and run from
you know his wrath and do it he says so
we should not look for them for courage
yeah the political dynamic that the 2020
candidates Republican candidates in the
Senate are facing is the same as we saw
in 18 which is they first have to worry
about a primary challenge from the right
and so they will act as Trump II as
possible to try to avoid someone on the
right challenging them so Lindsey Graham
will be there their model yeah exactly
they will so like and some of them will
think about what the general electorate
looks like when they're running so like
Cory Gardner is in in Colorado is
probably the most endangered Republican
incumbent because Colorado is trending
very democratic so you could see maybe
Cory Gardner think to himself I can't be
too bright wing because I have to win
this
in general but you know I don't have a
lot of hope there but like Tom Tillis
and North Carolina I'm sure we'll you
know worry about a primary challenge
Joni Ernst in Iowa will probably be as
Trumpy as possible these people are
looking to be heroes of the Republican
Party and heroes to the Fox News crowd
and they're not looking to be bipartisan
because there's no incentive to yeah
they suck got to beat him all right
this next one is from Skyler who's
asking about North Carolina specifically
Scylla what's that hey Scylla in North
Carolina we had a few really close races
like North Carolina a ninth that didn't
get a lot of support or attention for
2020 do you think that the DNC should
spread its money more broadly or more
focused like they did this year do you
see more attention on North Carolina for
2020
I just think two quick things about this
people should understand that the DNC
itself is not sort of an organization
that is dictating where all the money
goes everywhere you know it's like sort
of a National Party building
organization it does do fundraising for
the National Party it's really about
like the North Carolina the ninth
district was a really tough Trumpy
district right like we did better in
other places in North Carolina but in
terms of 2020 North Carolina is a very
important state and I think Democrats
should compete vigorously in North
Carolina whoever the presidential
candidate it is because we we won North
Carolina in 2008 in the Obama campaign
we didn't in 2012 and then you know the
Republicans in North Carolina have been
some of the most anti-democratic easy
 people and we have a great
Democratic governor there Roy Cooper and
I think we win we won back a couple
seats on the on the North Carolina
Supreme Court yeah I'm gonna help we
broke the trifecta we broke their total
control of the government which means
they can't do some of the craziest
they were trying to do like essentially
strip a Democratic governor of power
right so I think that in terms of voting
and voting rights in North Carolina it's
gonna look a little better in 2020 but
in terms of like demographics across the
country North Carolina is a state that
Democrats should be able to compete in
and we were able to compete very
vigorously in 2008 and my hope is that
as we get towards 2020 that's a state
that we look to as a
possible flip speed this next one is
from Willow who was asking about new
voters how do we make sure that the
millions of new voters who showed up on
Tuesday don't get discouraged by all the
nonsense that's gonna happen so we don't
end up with the 20/20 as a repeat of
2010 where voters stayed home because
everything wasn't magically fixed after
2008 well part of this expectations
management nothing is ever gonna be
magically fixed it's gonna be a constant
slog two steps forward one step back one
to 2020 will be a presidential year so I
think that will likely motivate a lot of
people Donald Trump's on the ballot
people yeah that doesn't mean we don't
have work to do it doesn't mean we don't
to make sure people understand why it's
important but I'm hopeful that all of us
are really focused now and if we keep
talking to our friends and family about
why this matters it will get stuck in
their heads and they will not be rid of
us yeah like I don't know about you but
I had this feeling after Tuesday night
that of like relief that we got the
house I felt inspired by all the
wonderful candidates we had running but
it was this sort of incomplete feeling
for sure and I and I hope that everyone
has that same feeling and that like we
can't rest until Donald Trump is out of
that White House and 2020 is the
everything we've been working at 2018 is
like you know it's half time here but
this is not this job is not done until
we watch him walk out of that
White House get on that plane and
hopefully never see him again that needs
to be the motivating force and then get
turnout in a presidential election
Melania divorces him on their on the
chopper on the way out too because one
thing that worries me is people can say
oh well the Democrats won the house now
so shouldn't we be able to fix
everything we have more power we've
talked about some of the things
Democrats can do they can hold Trump
accountable stuff like that but until we
have the White House right until we have
the Senate in the White House we're
still not going to get a Tunde we can
stop things we can't fix really anything
right and so yeah so the only way you
can actually change laws change policy
change the country in a real serious way
aside from things happening on the state
level is to win the White House in 2020
2020 is
everything all right now I have a
question I have another question about
the house now might be interesting
following that up but this one's from
bean I think what is the first thing
that the new house should do next year
and is that the DREAM Act that would be
great and pass it I mean they'll
probably pass a whole bunch of bills
that outlined Democratic priorities like
something about protecting the
Affordable Care Act at pre-existing
conditions some build that outlines a
tax policy for working like I don't know
what they there will be message bills
designed to send them over to the Senate
and get them right have I'm sure that
Mitch McConnell just buried Mitch
McConnell yeah just throw it at a
lobbyist or whatever basically what I
think the House Democrats plan is is to
have a series of bills that they pass
through the house that they can go and
campaign on in 2020 and say you give us
a Democratic president and a Democratic
Senate and this bill becomes law because
we just passed it through the house and
say you know what we we tried to tell
the Republicans we want campaign finance
reform we passed a bill they said no we
tried to tell the Republicans here's we
wanted to pass a DREAM Act give people
citizenship they said no and so that's a
that's a powerful you know campaign
message I think in 2020 in terms of
things that can actually do I think
they're gonna start a bunch of
investigations yes oversight hearings
and also all these and it's not
just it is about Muller it is about you
know Russia and all that kind of stuff
it's about a lot more than that right
now how many stories that we heard about
corruption in the Environmental
Protection Agency in the Interior
Department in the conference Department
basically you pick your cabinet
yeah secretary and they've been corrupt
in some way close your eyes throw a dart
at a board there's corruption and up
until now the only way to know about
that corruption is you know really
outstanding journalists who've been
writing stories about them but then the
story comes out then that's it yeah it's
gonna be a lot different when Democrats
haul their asses before Congress under
and now we have television cameras on
showing the corruption and the Trump
administration I think that's what
Democrats can do in a house to tomorrow
and positive the world or actually today
on pot save the world it'll be out soon
you'll hear about all the things we can
do in foreign policies so
don't get too excited all right I have a
question for Megan that I think you guys
are like I don't know Megan is wondering
what your guys's thoughts are on how
Mitt Romney will act as a senator will
he become a Trump acolyte like Lindsey
Graham I mean will he maintain a
backbone what do you guys think I'm
calling him new Jeff Flake I mean you
know I think it's probably a question
what admit what do you want to do with
your life are you gonna try to run for
president again right because if you are
he will probably be Jeff Flake light
Trumpy if he wants to just be a
statesman if he wants this job maybe
he'll surprise us yeah it's it's useless
trying to predict I know we're you know
cuz you could say maybe I was president
really come on we know Mitt Romney maybe
we are I don't allow me to be hopeful
yeah yeah horrible he's he sent out a
tweet yesterday saying he's very
disappointed about the sessions the
firing sessions so now if that's all he
does then he really is the new Jeff
Flake but if he follows up on it and and
has power and tells McConnell like
you're not gonna get my vote on this or
that thing then great good for Mitt
Romney but it remains to be seen so far
there has just been the tweet we'll see
all right this next one is from Rachel
she asks bras don't cinemas still stand
a chance you think there are still six
hundred thousand late Early's which
haven't been counted yes she does what
is happening I want to apologize and to
secure cinema and the cinema campaign
and everyone else because on the pot
yesterday we we were victim to all of
the analysis Tuesday night which was
like oh there's plenty of vote still to
be count in Arizona but cinema doesn't
have a path and Mick Sally's got this
thing no not true not true at all
apparently last night I saw that there
were in Maricopa County which is a
county that Democrats do well in cinema
had four hundred thousand votes mcsalley
had four hundred seven thousand votes
and there were four hundred thousand
votes left to be counted in Maricopa
County why do we suck accounting so
vicious not that hard
so everyone should everyone should watch
Arizona I think that you know the cinema
people think that they have a very good
shot at winning this thing
the mcsalley people are saying the same
thing but with that many ballots to be
counted who the knows so we should
watch that race if that race goes into
recount territory if it gets really
close then we will add that race to our
fund and people can donate but yeah we
definitely have a chance in Arizona for
sure keep eye on it you know as someone
who had to change the numbers over there
on Tuesday counting is harder than it
looks okay but we have a new another
question this is a comments from George
George is asking do you think Democrats
should make a leadership change who are
some figures you think would make good
replacements for Schumer and Pelosi and
when is the right time for Dems make
that change if at all this is a tough
one this is a fraught one these are the
ones we've hunted till after the
election but now we got to answer I
think let's start with the house there's
no question that Nancy Pelosi is one of
if not the most effective speakers of
the house of all time yeah the
affordable care act wouldn't be law if
not for her that said I don't think
she's always the best messenger for the
party and I think we've been hurt
because absent a president or or or you
know speaker or some very senior like
central person in the party with Barack
Obama gone it's not always clear who
that messenger is that sort of taking
the fight and taking the message the
other guy Pelosi through no fault of her
own has been demagogued for years and
has incredibly high negatives and a lot
of districts and it creates political
problems so I do think she's talked
about being transitional in this job I
take her at her word I don't know who
should come next I have no idea yeah
that's the whole he's not somebody over
70 like I think that's the problem is
like if people want to push her aside
the rest of the men that come that are
in leadership are pretty senior that
themselves right yeah like I don't think
that Steny Hoyer is the answer either
here he's not lighting this thing up
look you like you said you know Nancy
Pelosi is extremely effective she is one
of the best vote counters that the house
has ever seen in either party one of the
best strategist one of the best
tactician --zz she keeps her caucus
like all things that both Republican and
Democratic speakers before her have not
been able to do as well as her Nancy
Pelosi is awesome in that regard
that said like I'm glad she said she was
gonna be a transitional leader I hope
there is a date set for that I think
there is value in having someone with
Nancy Pelosi's experience as Speaker
especially in these first months and
maybe this first year to go through
these fights and won by fights I mean
these investigations
she knows she's been there awhile she
knows how to handle this she knows how
to handle oversight there are a lot of
new House members who haven't had
experience there before so I think it
helps having her there but I totally
agree with Tommy that we need in all
facets whether this is the House the
Senate everyone like we have seen what a
new generation of leadership and the
Democratic Party looks like in 2018 and
I would love to see that in the House
and Senate everywhere else yeah in terms
of Schumer like I don't have any
particular problem with Schumer I think
he's done a good job in some respects
other times I've been bummed out by his
leadership especially around the Iran
deal for example but I also think it's
true that when you look at the way
Kamala Harris can cut somebody up at a
hearing that's impressive and I want to
see more of that
when I hear Chris Murphy talk about
literally anything I want to hear him
out as a messenger for the Democratic
Party more so I don't know if that
manifests in leadership or just putting
these people out more Harry Reid was one
of the best leaders we've ever had in
the Senate and Harry Reid has said
before you do not take that's this job
to be loved yeah you take it to to fight
and to do what you need to do and
sometimes I worry the Chuck Schumer is
in his job because he wants everyone to
like him and I would like to see I think
Chuck Schumer is very smart I would like
him to be tougher when everyone says the
Democrats aren't tough enough and
sometimes I fight back on that and be
like what are you talking about when
your fight in the Senate is where you
need a fighter basta John in the Senate
is where you need a fighter and I think
Schumer strategy leading up to 2018 was
I want to give the moderate senators who
are up in 2018 breathing room to do what
they want to do
and take sort of the moderate centrist
positions because they are in tough
races and if they can take more moderate
centrist positions and not fight Donald
Trump is hard they will win those races
that strategy failed they do not win
those races yeah now I'm not gonna blame
Schumer for that for them losing their
races but now that that has happened
I want Chuck Schumer to spend the next
two years holding Donald Trump's feet to
the fire in every way he can they should
all be saying Schumer Plus everyone else
it is unconstitutional for Matthew
Whitaker to be the acting AG right now
he's conflicted out of that job he
should not be in that job and they
should shut down the capital
until until that guy is out do it they
should use every level of power they
have every tactic they have can't just
pluck some meathead out of Iowa and make
him Attorney General without any votes
it's not that the Constitution says so
rageous so my hands aren't Schumer's I
want you to be a fighter the next two
years more than he has been the last two
years guys you're jumping into the next
questions already all right for this
next one I want to combine two I'm not
sure if that's allowed have we got a
shot of Elijah's mustache in the stream
it's a sight to behold okay
truly November I can't I can't grow one
so it's jealousy this next one comes
from a combo of Twitter and I think
Facebook from Dave and Katie Davis
asking what recourse do we have if
Muller is fired and Katy is following up
if Robert Miller has mostly finished his
investigation can Whitaker prevent him
from presenting what he has already
completed knowing that these questions
would come I spoke to our fearless
editor-in-chief and Russian
investigation expert BB BB Brian boiler
what kind of knowledge a BB drop before
before we got in here first of all Brian
wrote a piece a couple months ago
predicting Russians president peace as
always with Brian that the period
between Democrats possibly winning the
house and Democrats actually being
seated in the house taking over Congress
would be the most dangerous time for the
Russia investigation because Trump would
try to quash it and
is exactly what's happening yeah I'm
pretty scared right now because I don't
know what recourse there is I think the
the hope that we have to have is that
there are a bunch of unsealed
indictments ready to go which even if
you know Muller was fired that wouldn't
matter because the indictments are there
indictments and they would be unsealed
at a certain time and and it would go
from there
so we have to hope that otherwise we
have no hope that Muller has some kind
of a plan yeah we hope Muller is a plan
I think that if this it seems like first
of Whitacre it is unconstitutional to
name to place him in the job of Attorney
General and the reason I know that ESPYs
Kellyanne Conway's husband wrote an
op-ed explaining very clearly a very
strong constitutional case for why
that's the case so I recommend George
Conway hang out with us chat about
politics chat about mole or anything
else we're gonna seat for you he seems
kind of funny I don't know
so anyway meet Jackie from Iowa acting
AG former chief of staff that can't
happen the guy used to sell hot tubs
online so that's one thing so it does
seem like he could you know not allow
Muller to go forward with indictments or
refused subpoenas or all sorts of like
bureaucratic ways he's all on he's on
record hundreds and hundreds of times
over saying he thinks that there's no
collusion that he doesn't think Trump's
taxes or finances should be touched so
you know some disconcerting things the
good news is Muller has farmed out some
of this investigation that would touch
on the Trump Organization to the New
York prosecutors so they can work on
their own without the interference in
the AG but to get back to my point after
a long diatribe um I do think if they
take more active steps to end this
investigation people do to take to the
streets like we need a women's March
sighs to protest yeah I know move on
organized a march right now in DC I
think people are participating in to try
to protect Muller but look I mean once
Democrats take power
I think Adam Schiff and other friends in
the house can demand if there is a
report that Muller rights they can try
to subpoena the report they can try to
drag Matthew Whitaker and anyone else
who tried to
kill this investigation and engage in a
cover-up they can drag them before
Congress Oh in Flake apparently in Chris
Coons are gonna put forward legislation
next week or something to protect Muller
okay so well flake hope springs eternal
Jeff Flake spotted outside our office
yesterday and intrepid reporter yeah
Megan wagon I mean it got the exclusive
got a pic after we photoshopped Travis's
head on it after the only journalists in
the organization Brian boiler begged the
rest of them someone go down there and
be a journalist try to set know he's
wearing sweat pants but ya know this is
a very scary time for the Moller
investigation and it could be that
Muller can't do anything else without
getting what occurs sign off which
Whitaker will not give him and if that's
the case we're headed for some dark
times and I think House Democrats right
now we're probably thinking of what can
we do what power do we have to stop this
how can we send subpoenas out how can we
hold these people accountable and I
think the rest of us have to put a lot
of pressure on on the investigation
Alex Reno asked how is John's remake of
The Lion King going
speaking of correspondent Travis is a
Sherpa in the slacks right now he says
that CNN is currently showing a massive
protest to protect Muller cool right now
on TV so it's already happening turn off
the stream go take to the streets but if
not we have more questions this one is
from either Aang or ang not sure she
says hey guys conflicted college senior
here what is the benefit of getting a
political science masters degree as
someone who wants to go into a political
campaign administration or
communications mm-hmm do you like debt
do you love debt then just do the
campaign yeah give me a masters
political science major here in college
philosophy I'm I'm glad that I'm I'm
glad that it was my major in college I
learned an incredible amount for my
political science professors who I love
I think that's what I needed to know I
needed that after I was done with that I
needed experience on a campaign and then
getting a master's degree in it I don't
know that the value of the master's
degree is so much that or outweighs the
experience that you get by joining a
campaign what's so funny Travis lacking
me terrible things campaigns are so much
fun you learn more in a year than you
ever would in school do it it's the best
realize they're the best yeah I'm not
saying you know skip college for the
campaign masters okay yeah skip the
master skip the dead gotcha
next one is from assemblee how do I
donate my ribs and internal organs to
Ruth Bader Ginsburg Oh Harvey G good
that was scary this morning - yeah the
hits just keep coming I let's just say
pray she's okay I don't know what was
she walking for I don't know we can
transport you everywhere you need to be
why was she alone come on people it's
big Kagan
justice Sotomayor maybe be good friends
and colleagues to Ruth watch her invite
her over I don't know take care of her
take care of her oh she's your friend
what else well see yeah yeah I got two
more this one is from light freed her
how scared should I be that lame ducks
will repeal Obamacare don't worry about
it they don't have the votes in the
Senate because they still have the same
Senate but they had before I mean they
technically could make another push I
don't want to predict anything and sit
here five weeks from now being like
where's the Affordable Care Act but I
think that Republicans don't get many
messages I do think they got the message
especially the fact they're about to
lose the majority that the they should
not make another attempt at the
Affordable Care Act since it cost them
the house yeah that would be my take now
we're we're not out of the woods is
Donald Trump is continuing and the Trump
administration is continuing to try to
 up the Affordable Care Act as much
as they can with regulations and stuff
like that and so they are they will
continue to do damage to the Affordable
Care Act unfortunately and so the only
way to truly protect the Affordable Care
Act is to get him out of office in 2020
all right this one's our last question
it's a combo of two Amanda asks
obviously you guys deserve a break in
vacation obviously but do you guys plan
to go on the road again in 2019 and
Steph is following up asking what fun
self-care things you guys are gonna be
doing this weekend
to rest and recharge post-election
Amanda you're so sweet we don't deserve
vacation we have the best job in the
world
and yeah we're going on the road we
can't wait I can't wait to go on the
road with it I wanted to Iowa I'm gonna
go to New Hampshire I go South Carolina
South Carolina Howard Dean joke we're
already planning our tour nothing's done
yet I'm gonna try to lock in dates by
the end of the year but we are so
excited not just to go on tour but to
figure out okay if if you know the 2018
midterms were like you know a big game
on a Sunday like 2020s is Super Bowl how
are we gonna cover that helped you guys
figure out what's going on be a part of
it try to get the candidates to do the
right thing and Kohner it the right
direction in terms of policy so we're
pumped this weekend I'm going to my
wife's hometown to hang out their family
and I I'm doing nothing
John is streaming and then I talked
about going away and then I was like you
know what we should just stay home in LA
for a couple days you're in Oh on Vegas
I'm too tired I'm gonna see my parents I
want to see friends that I haven't
talked to in too long because we've been
focusing in the election yeah we're
taking the cows that's cool Luke is
coming Luke on the plane Luke in the
airport's really fun she's like prances
around it's a good time we're taking
over a thing in our hometown that's
called the waterfowl festival so they
have actual working dogs like I don't
know what they do retrieving doctors I
don't things you do in towns where
people hunt ducks is what the dogs
where's where's the poppity place you
know whatever la dogs say I'm so excited
though for the Friday and Monday
everyone's getting off so we have a
four-day weekend coming up I'm just
gonna read some tweets Elijah how long
is that stash Damon it's November right
it's move ember no I can tell what are
you doing Priyanka
what's your weekend moving tomorrow
right yep well that leaves a lot of
other days
yeah I don't know okay Phoebe D very
private person I guess I'm not gonna be
thank you guys thank you thanks for your
questions thank you all for all you did
in the election - yeah it's really cool
and we won we won applause what weird
net we are headed to 38 seats in the
house crazy
2006 was the last midterm wave Democrats
won 31 seats and against a president who
had a 30 percent approval rating and
everyone thought it was like the
greatest thing that had ever happened to
the Democratic Party well we have a
president with a higher approval rating
that we just wanted more seats against
yeah and I think Dan made this point of
the day because of redistricting but
also because of like the way the
populations are shifting it does feel
like these aren't seats we're just gonna
immediately lose back it feels like
these are C's Democrats have a
better-than-average shot of hanging onto
so that's cool yeah so congratulations
on the work you all did thank you all
right look at media out
you
