we're going on tour in the New Year
check out crooked comm for tickets to
our February swing in New Orleans
Charleston and Durham and there will be
many more dates added throughout the
year we would love to see you at the
show
those are fun cities yeah yeah fun
February swing my mother called me and
you said good news we're gonna be in New
Orleans when you're there we're gonna
that's where we're gonna meet you no way
yep like oh great that's the perfect
place that's that's perfect
you ran Robert one of those big-ass
beers they sell I'm very can't wait also
sorry if you want to see this little
podcast in action live on your computer
screen you can go to youtube.com slash
Creek media sign up join smash that like
button oh there we go there we go okay
to the news on Friday a federal judge
ruled that the Affordable Care Act is
unconstitutional just one day before the
end of the enrollment period for health
care coverage even some conservative
legal scholars and Obamacare opponents
were surprised at the scope of the
ruling by Judge Reed O'Connor who'd been
considering a lawsuit filed by a group
of Republican attorneys general and
ultimately argued that the entire ACA
must be dismantled because Congress
eliminated the individual mandate in
2017 which requires that everyone carry
health insurance or pay a fine that
means every part of that law would go
the Medicaid expansion protection for
pre-existing conditions staying in your
parent's insurance until your 2016
everything the case will be appealed up
to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals by
democratic attorneys general and
Democrats in Congress and it could end
up in front of the Supreme Court or all
five justices who upheld the ACA in a
landmark ruling in 2012 remain on the
bench guys why do so many experts and
scholars from across the political
spectrum think that this ruling is
horseshit
Ted Frank a lawyer at the Competitive
Enterprise Institute whose critical of
the ACA called the decision
embarrassingly bad Jonathan Adler who
was the architect of the last
conservative strategy to dismantle
Obamacare through the courts that failed
called the ruling surprisingly weak why
was it so bad brutal smackdown brutal
smackdown illegal but conservative legal
scholars okay so when we talk about the
20
17 tax cut you often say that the the
individual mandate was struck down
that's not actually accurate what
happened was the tax was reduced from
whatever number it was to zero dollars
but the individual mandate itself still
exists so Republicans a whole bunch of
attorneys general and states across the
country filed this suit and they went
forum shopping for this specific judge
because I don't think that you know
what's where is he again they were Texas
sorry there's a specific thing um they
went form shopping for this specific
judge judge O'Connor the Texas AG does
this all the time he liked to try major
cases challenging Obama era policies in
Wichita Falls Texas where he's the only
district judge who hears cases and in
Fort Worth where he is the only district
judge who is not semi you're right yeah
this uh you know remember back in the
day when you got your Republican AG
installed you got a judge in
somewhere yeah remember when Republicans
used to talk about legislating from the
bench and activist judges this is the
definition of it so what they did was
they they they went to this judge and
they argued that Obamacare is now
unconstitutional because it's no longer
a tax with the individual mandate and
that those provisions you can't separate
them from the rest of the law I don't
think anyone agrees with that nobody
agrees but that's called a severability
argument but that is what this judge did
which means now the insurance companies
can discriminate against people three
existing conditions it means well not
now I'm sorry I'm sorry let me say it
again it means that if this is upheld
and it will be appealed it'll go to the
Fifth Circuit and maybe the Supreme
Court depending on what happens but if
this was well it would get rid of all of
Obamacare all of Medicaid expansion all
protections for previous and conditions
the little calorie counts on the menus
at the restaurants you go to all of it
is now gone because of this little
minutia tax argument so that's one
bright side I get those calorie counts
off the menus I'm at sizzler for a
reason I don't need to I don't need to
know what's in this crusted chicken
Romano Cheesecake Factory
no one needs to know no one needs to
know that's not information what's first
you get it what's so
Nickolas about this is judge O'Connor
wrote that the law remains coercive
because quote the individual mandate
continues to mandate the purchase of
health insurance but that is simply
wrong simply wrong
as as Chief Justice John Roberts noted
in a case where the Supreme Court upheld
the Affordable Care Act saying that it
attaches quote no negative legal
consequences to not buying health
insurance beyond requiring a payment to
the IRS a payment that is now set at
zero zero then O'Connor says the entire
law is invalid because in 2010 Congress
claimed that the mandate was essential
to the operation of the Act and the
judiciary is supposed to uphold the
intent of Congress the problem is that
completely ignores the intent of
Congress in 2017 which was to eliminate
only the mandate penalty and leave the
rest of the law intact so you're
supposed to uphold congressional intent
but progressional and conditional intent
specifically in 2017 said only 2010
intent ouija it's so it is so crazy old
intent so most people think that this is
a complete joke that this will not
survive scrutiny by the Fifth Circuit
though even if it even if for some
reason the Fifth Circuit does uphold it
some people say you know it could be
possible it would be very tough to
imagine the Supreme Court upholding it
since the same majority that upheld the
last mandate would is still sitting on
the court of course the problem becomes
I think the bigger problem would be is
if there was another Supreme Court
vacancy while this works its way through
the appeals process which would take a
couple of years it's very scary so
that's the steps this case and just to
go through the stakes real quick
according to the Kaiser Family
Foundation 52 million people or 27% of
non-elderly adults have a pre-existing
condition and so they could be denied
insurance and and again Medicaid
expansion is at risk in 37 states that
have accepted it as well as Nebraska
Idaho and Utah where voters just
approved it in Maine where the governor
is about to approve it so before
Obamacare the uninsured rate for
non-elderly adults with 18.2% now it's
ten point three this is just a grenade
rolled into one six of the economy to
the most sensitive thing that we all
deal with in our lives it is you know
potentially a massive deal if upheld so
sorry and it's sorry you won't organize
I make the point I was gonna say I think
one of the one of things that makes this
so
troubling is on its face it is silly
right it is silly to say this whole
thing must be thrown out because of this
one provision on its face it is seen as
being legally specious on its face it
seems like something we shouldn't have
to worry about and yet you know we can't
be certain we can't be certain because
the same trend that led to this kind of
manipulation of the law to get it in
front of this judge that would lead this
judge to make this kind of ridiculous
argument is the same trend we see
playing out in bigger and bigger ways
all the way perhaps to the Supreme Court
at some point and so we're in this place
where if if things were fair if the
rules applied if we could count on
conservative justices to do not even the
right thing but in this case don't drive
40 miles out of their way to do
the wrong thing we'd be ok but we just
can't be certain which is I think why
despite the fact that this is so
frivolous it is something that we're
talking about it is something to worry
about
and it was timed to be announced right
before the end of open enrollment in a
blatant effort to make people read the
news and say oh my god Obamacare was
struck down not accurate but then you're
not very likely to enroll if you think
that might be a possibility right and
that's an issue I think what's very
important is that everyone listening to
this knows that in the short term this
means absolutely nothing for the
Affordable Care Act nothing has changed
nothing is weakened you can sign up for
health insurance all of the provisions
remain and that will remain true
throughout this appeals process which
again could take munch could take years
months could take years um specifically
O'Connor has not ordered an injunction
of the law right the Trump
administration has said that they don't
want an injunction of the law that's the
Trump administration which operates on a
different plane than the actual
president HHS are actually saying like
we don't want the thing to be stopped
and then while Trump is celebrating its
own bowler nothing during the appeals
process but of course you know we have
to worry about the appeals process and
worry about the Supreme Court it does
seem like it's very obvious that if the
same supreme court hears this case has
heard the last mandate case it will not
be upheld because it's just Roberts
reasoning is
exactly contrary O'Connor's reasoning
but we do like you said we have to worry
if there is another vacancy so let's
talk about the politics of this Dave
Weigel wrote a good piece in The
Washington Post where he said that
Democrats are happy to talk about this
ruling while Republicans or not he wrote
that quote in 2020 Democrats plan to
make this decision infamous and ask
voters whether they want their health
care to be decided by some judge they've
never heard of is this a no-brainer
issue for Democrats to focus on in 2020
no matter what happens yes yes I mean
what one thing that I think is
fascinating about what's been happening
in the past few years is it's almost
like the the anti Obamacare forces have
kind of become zombified you know it
began at you know first they tried to
stop it with every tool at their
disposal and then it passed and they
said it people weren't you know it was
they were gonna try to stop it before
went into effect and then they said oh
people are gonna hate it and ultimately
you know it will it will collapse under
its own weight all their all their
prognostications didn't happen all their
abilities to stop it didn't happen and
it was always predicated on this idea
that we're gonna replace it with
something better that this that
Obamacare is terrible gonna make your
health care worse we're gonna repeal it
and we're gonna replace it and we're so
far from that idea now right because
this is an a this isn't an effort to
repeal and replace Obamacare this is an
effort to just rip it away and replace
it with nothing
something that Donald Trump supports
something that Republican AG's and
Republican governors have supported
across the country and what to me is
interesting about all this is that it's
easy for them to try to make Obamacare a
boogeyman before we can't run into
effect it's it's also easier to make
Obamacare a boogeyman when you don't
have to be responsible for what happens
if it goes away but now now they're like
oh right look if this were to
actually happen if we actually see what
they're gonna get it's politically
complete completely it's politically
unacceptable and I think that Republican
politicians are not going to be able to
just let this go by pointing to this
judge and saying oh it's his fault if
you voted to gut the mandate which
everyone did from Senator Collins and
Collins on down you'll respond work for
this rule totally and so like and I
think the Democrats can fairly campaign
on you know first of all Republicans
just lost 40 seats in the House and then
a whole bunch of governorship based on
health care is one of the biggest
based on this suit but in a lot of cases
and now Democrats are going to be able
to say this Republican politician has
cast votes to destroy Obamacare and now
the fate of Obamacare and the fate of
health insurance for 20 million people
pre-existing condition protections all
the rest hangs in the balance
because of the votes that these
Republican politicians have taken yeah I
mean in a bizarre I guess it's not
bizarre Trump didn't defend his the law
of the land he instructed his his
attorneys to to say that essentially you
know they agreed with the suit but they
didn't want Medicaid expansion to go
away so they were sort of tiptoeing
around this to begin with
I think Dave waggle is like one of the
smartest political reporters out there
the characterization of Democrats is
happy about this ruling goes too far for
me because I think we're all scared to
death of this ruling so you know but I
do think this cuts right through the
Republican lies about health care I mean
they were attacked based on this suit
during the campaign they all pretended
that they can pass the pre-existing
conditions are bad and we hate them too
active 2018 and make it all go away but
that's not how the system works well
that's yeah that's to me like this is
just a bigger version of that fight
where we said you know all these
Republicans that lined up on this
lawsuit they don't believe in protecting
you from pre-existing conditions and
they all acted with this from the whole
range how dare you yeah how dare you say
that about us you know that I want to
protect my children
have pre-existing conditions I am a
pre-existing condition I am a case of
asthma and yet and yet of course as
Tommy says when push comes to shove
right this is the policy they got behind
and now we're gonna see that exact same
fight play out oh think over Medicaid
which is equally popular on the same
plane of popularity as protecting people
with pre-existing conditions because now
this lawsuit has sort of become an
effort to get rid of Medicaid where
they'll all now say but I don't want to
get rid of Medicaid I just sued ya to
get rid of Medicaid and I will say that
yeah I am NOT happy about this at all
I'd rather I'd rather have people keep
their health insurance than have a
political issue in 2020 I think we'll
have plenty of those wykel also wrote
that quote the legal threat to the ACA
has radicalized Democrats growing their
internal constituency for a massive
expansion of health insurance through
Medicaid and Medicare which have faced
no legal opposition in 50 years why are
some people on the Left arguing that
ruling could lead more Democrats to
support a single-payer system like
Medicare for all I mean I think this is
and I think as workbook I agree with him
here I think Ezra Klein wrote something
similar which is the Obamacare approach
thanks to Joe Lieberman you guys have
heard us mention how great he is before
was a market-based approach to expanding
healthcare to getting more people
covered we worked with Republicans we
took a bunch of old Republican ideas and
cobbled together this plan that wasn't
the one some on the Left would have
wanted but I think it was the most
achievable option at the time I think
when Republicans attack an effort or or
a policy that they once supported in
these bad faith ways you can draw a
direct line from death panels to today
these attacks and they've you
know cut all the funding to market the
plan and try to undercut it in a million
ways then that does make me think okay
the only thing they can't try to
sabotage is a Medicare for all type
plant you know it's it what is the why
wouldn't we push for something like that
we know that they're gonna do this
because Medicare is protected both by
its political popularity and by the fact
that you know like you pointed out
there's been no legal challenges to it
and so it's but as you point out right
and and it's good for ever to notice I
mean we we make fun of Joe Lieberman all
the time for this it wasn't just Joe
Lieberman I mean fixing the health care
system and reforming the health care
system requires a bunch of moderate
Senate Democrats and the caucus as a
whole right now is more liberal than it
was back in 2010 but still think about
all the Senate Democrats who were
worried about daca we couldn't get on
board for this that the other thing like
it is still going to be difficult for
Democrats to find well the truth is no
one's finding 60 votes in the Senate for
Medicare for all it's just not happening
so the only way that Medicare for all is
passing if the next if there's a
Democratic president is to get rid of
the filibuster and pass it with 51
buttons even then it's gonna be hard to
get 51 votes for Medicare for all but
for sure it's not passing with 60 votes
and look I think if we had gotten rid of
the filibuster in 20 2010 it still might
have been hard to pass a public option
but we might have had a better chance
yeah I mean the right cuz Lieberman
Lieberman wasn't alone and killing the
public option i think sometimes
lieberman actually it was Nelson there
you
the Lieberman you know there's a lot of
people that use Joe Lieberman like a
human shield on the public option
there's that people wanted it to die and
Joe Lieberman's taken a lot of the blame
for it I mean he deserves it he sort of
led the fight but he was really
responsible for killing the Medicare
buy-in for even people 55 and older I
think it's an important distinction
because it tells you just the razor's
edge we were on to try to get something
through because the last thing to come
out of the bill was allowing younger
people to buy in kind of a public option
for middle middle aged people and even
that was considered tool evil liberal
for people like Joe Lieberman the one
thing I'd add to this too that you look
at what's been happening with Obamacare
and all the attacks and all the
successful fights have been around the
market-based side of it it's been around
the mandate it's been around the
exchanges where Obamacare has been at
its most robust is on Medicaid the place
where we just made a government program
to give people health care not only has
it except with the one exception of the
Supreme Court ruling that states do not
have to expand Medicaid yes so yes what
we're dealing with so right well so
we've had Republican got Republican
legislators Republican governors being
unable being unwilling out of spite to
take free money from the federal
government to expand Medicaid for their
people and bring money and for their
hospitals which is one of the most
despicable acts in modern political
modern public life but at the same time
even as Obamacare is viewed as this
partisan cudgel we saw Medicaid
expansion pass in Idaho and Nebraska in
Utah so even in some of the most
blood-red conservative states in the
country the the government-run parts of
Obamacare are the most politically
palatable Kentucky yeah I mean look
people want voters want a simple goal
I'm sorry
voters want a simple elegant solution to
health care that is easy to understand
that is not complicated this has been
the problem with health care right Clint
you know when the Clintons tried to pass
this was an extremely complicated policy
to explain Obamacare became by the end
and extremely complicated policy to
explain it is when you have a simple
expansion of public health insurance
whether it is a buy-in whether it's
voluntary whether it goes all the way
whatever it may be it's not only easier
to understand it's easier to withhold
withstand legal challenges and it is the
reason why Democrats are going there
because the private health insurance the
the basis for Obamacare was okay
Republicans are at least go
to be willing to compromise to go along
with ideas that they themselves have
supported in the past you brought up and
that is not true Republican politicians
do not want to go along with ideas of
this format so they we can thank them
like that they wonder why we're going to
Medicare for all it is their fault
so but I feel like there's a distinction
here though because originally the idea
was let's do this compromise we'll get
some Republicans on board all right and
we'll do a market-based balance of some
public some private some regulation some
cost controls and we'll cobble this
thing together to try to get everybody
health care because is the most most
that we can do in a bipartisan way that
dance lasted for the better part of your
year but when Chuck Grassley and Olympia
Snowe and all those senators went away
this task of passing anything even with
just Democratic votes became a huge
problem and so yes this started out as a
bipartisan compromise but even when it
was a Democrats only bill this was still
the most liberal thing that could pass
us right baby I mean yeah exactly I mean
just the individual mandate was a
Republican idea like we like Mitt Romney
you proposed this idea so therefore you
should support it yeah did not work and
look to you know those moderate
Democrats we can blame them for this but
they are also responding to voters who
have real fears when you try to change
the health care system I mean a medic
just so everyone knows like a
medicare-for-all system would move 160
plus million people off their health
insurance that they have now through
their employers to a plug system that
that will be better and that will
protect them better it's gonna be better
insurance but think about what we went
through in the Obama administration when
just three million plans were canceled
to give people better plans with more
protections it was the biggest scandal
of the year I think the lesson of 2016
is that you campaign on big clear bold
policy ideas but we should not fool
ourselves that the implementation
passage of these laws will be easy
because it will be messy it's one-sixth
of our economy
massive jobs special interest money all
kinds of fights will happen around this
doesn't mean we should trim our sails no
I do it I do think that politicians who
were talking about this should let
voters know just how difficult it's
gonna be because otherwise it sounds
like another broken promise when it
becomes when they realize how tough it
is yeah one thing also I think is gonna
there's you know we see like the
contours of what the debate is gonna be
in 2020 and I think it's gonna be some
version of you know is it Medicare for
all with a transition period is it a
Medicare buy-in which is more like a
public option
and my and you know I think that there's
a policy question there there's also a
political question as to what we should
be advocating I do not think it's a
clear-cut case and the one thing I would
say is if we ended up in a system where
there was a Medicare buy-in that that
work that were anybody who wanted to buy
into Medicare could have it what people
could keep their private insurance and
take that political cultural off the
table that would be a really really good
thing and there are very progressive
Democrats who have advocated for it not
because they're afraid of Medicare for
all not because they're afraid of
single-payer but because they
legitimately believe it is the best and
fastest way to the most progressive
outcome and I think that is a legitimate
debate and I don't think it is fair to
make the buy in debate versus the
single-payer debate the buy-in versus
Medicare to all debate a purely
ideological one because it just isn't
justice or to like I hope all the
Democratic candidates debate those two
options and actually there's many more
options and they're worse but like I
really hope that you don't start
attacking people as sellouts and
traitors and stuff like that just
because you pick one of those yeah they
are all like lightyears ahead the only
way to avoid that is to stay off Twitter
real quick shoutout hum Sarah Kliff and
Dylan Scott did a rundown of all the
Democratic health plans that are out
there for Vox and it is fantastic it's
so smart and well done and easier to
understand okay let's move on to the
Trump family crime syndicate here's the
Washington Post over the weekend two
years after Donald Trump won the
presidency nearly every organization he
has led in the past decade is under
investigation
that includes his business his
charitable foundation his campaign has
transitioned his inauguration and his
administration his former campaign
chairman deputy campaign chairman
foreign policy advisor national security
advisor and personal lawyer are either
in jail have gone to jail or are going
to jail and federal prosecutors have
implicated the President himself in
multiple felonies I know that we've all
been waiting for
Muller to drop the big one and he's
still may
but even if he says even if he never
says another word isn't Trump in a very
different place politically than he was
just a few months ago yeah I mean I feel
like what thing what we may realize is
you know you can go up to the counter at
an ice cream place and you can say give
me the biggest sundae you have
and then you a few minutes
you have no Sunday then a few minutes
later somebody hands you a gigantic
sundae and that's a lot ice cream you
can also go to a place like Yogurtland
and go from little thing to little thing
all right and put a little bit of each
flavor into your cup with the toppings
with toppings and all the rest and maybe
maybe you didn't notice
but over the course of that walk down
the ice cream row maybe and down the
toppings just a few poles yeah few min
and then you start putting fruit on it
cookie dough and and maybe and maybe
it's hard to define it right maybe you
couldn't say it's one it's not just a
peanut butter cup right there's a
there's a gummy worm in there there's
snow caps in there you took a brownie
bite you don't know but but I gotta tell
you it's pretty delicious I don't know
that I do
so the 62% majority who say Trump has
not been honest about the investigation
into Russian interference in the 2016
campaign who are they in the metaphor I
think there are I think there are people
waiting to check out with their ice
cream their cast you're waiting to pay
for the sundae yeah I don't know maybe
they work behind the counter look we'll
work on it um yeah I don't know where
you want to go with this because there's
so many yeah I think that we have we
focused so much and we've talked about
this in the past couple of weeks on
impeachment versus indictment or both or
some combination but the truth is even
if I mean we have an election in 2020
where the voters will render a verdict
on Donald Trump and even if we don't
have an impeachment or an indictment
there seems to be enough criminality
enough potential criminality enough
wrongdoing and mishaps here on the
counter the on the on on behalf of the
Trump family and the in Trump himself
that Democrats should have a pretty good
story to tell if he wasn't president
he'd be indicted if you if you guys
listening out there want some motivation
the statute of limitations on campaign
finance violations expire in 2021 so we
got a win or he's home free now that
doesn't seem like how the system was
intended to work no but it's worth
noting I mean also just to focus on one
of these Pro Publica did a pretty great
investigation into Trump's inauguration
so some quick numbers his inauguration
raised a hundred and seven
million that is more than double what
Obama raised in 2009 Bush's second
inaugural planner was quoted as saying
that the Trump team had one third of the
staff and a quarter of the events but
they raised twice as much and like where
where did this money go there are the
answer is Trump's pocket they did all
their events at Trump Hotel and now
there are emails where Ivanka is
negotiating the price on behalf of the
pic of the Presidential Inaugural
committee on behalf of the Trump Hotel
where the top planner for the inaugural
is saying hey you're overcharging us and
it's against the law and that they ended
up offering a discounted rate the hotel
ended up offering a discounted rate of
175 grand per day for use of the
ballroom in a meeting room for Trump's
friends and family event at his own
inauguration and the planner was like
the fair market value is actually 85
thousand per day and so like the the
grifting the corruption is so vast and
it's sitting right there because you
know they don't know how to account for
like 40 million dollars worth of
donations you got rich off his
inauguration you got rich off his vision
let's just talk about how Trump is
defending himself from this legal
onslaught which is with sweets and with
Rudy Giuliani but who is a human tweet
the president tweeted that Cohan is a
rat and then falsely accused the FBI of
illegally breaking into Cohen's office
when in reality they had a warrant but
went on to suggest that the FBI should
have broken into the DNC and cricket's
office now this is fun for us and then
on Sunday we finally heard the words
collusion is not a crime from Rudy
Giuliani who also rejected the
possibility the Trump might sit for an
interview with Muller saying over my
dead body but you know I could be dead
is there any discernible strategy here
so anymore from Trump and Giuliani
there's no one there is one and it is it
is there okay so Rudy goes out there and
it is it's it's fascinating to watch it
is really just sort of classic sort of
gasps he's not a lawyer he just plays
when I television it's this point you
know his glasses are trying to escape in
real time he's barely cogent he's just
firing off sentences over and over again
George Stephanopoulos can barely get a
word in but inside of that word salad
are little bits of of important
information yes right where he further
incriminates the president well not well
it's further incriminates but it's get
something out of the way for them so one
thing these seeds in this in this sort
of you know in this word romaine salad
is that
yeah we're discussions about the tower
going on till november sure sure sure
sure
and you wait that's a big deal
because originally they said january now
cohen saying august we don't know when
this conversation january cohen lied
about january it was dense a jew a june
yeah yeah and now rudy saying november
and the big the big difference there by
the way is between June and November
what did we find out we found out that
publicly that Russians were trying to
defer in the election and at the
convention at the Republic convention in
July
that's where they changed the platform
to make it more Pro Russia so they were
doing the deal while they changed the
platform yes and that and that that
conversation goes on till November which
is a very interesting month because
something happens in November which is
there's a presidential election and then
November keeps happening for weeks after
that's the crazy thing about November so
what Rudy is saying so Rudy goes out
there and it's a lot of performance it's
a lot of bravado it's a lot of stuff
that barely makes sense but in it he
kind of lets out some information so
that when we learn it in an indictment
when we learn it in a press conference
when we learn it in a confession it
doesn't have as much impact that's one
of the things he does yeah there was a
couple other things from that interview
that we should note he was also asked if
Roger stone gave Trump a heads up about
WikiLeaks and the hacks and the release
of the WikiLeaks information and he said
no no no no no I mean I don't think so I
don't believe so but even if he did not
a crime where's the crime collusion to
commit hack just a but like oh that was
the other thing he said during that
interview he goes uh the crime is
conspiracy to hack conspiracy to hack
that's the crime no that's not the crime
there are a lot of crimes but it's also
I mean here's the problem with what he
just said what he wanted to say is the
crime is hacking conspiracy to hack
means that there is multiple people
agreeing
just something happening hack
dissemination so yes if Roger stone told
Donald Trump and told the campaign
WikiLeaks is coming out with a bunch of
stuff which you know we think they might
have in the case of you know WikiLeaks
found an email about Hillary's health
scare and they told the Trump campaign
you and and right-wing media outlets you
should start talking about her health
because there's this email we had this
coming yes
if the Trump campaign and Trump himself
or involved in all that yes that is a
crime well what that what he's trying to
do is say he's this is again this is the
little bit of strategy in there which is
you let out the air by saying maybe
Roger stone did call Donald Trump and
tell him this was coming but then he's
then then then now the goalposts have
moved he's no longer saying he never
knew about it what he's saying is even
if Roger stone gave him advance notice
that's not the crime you have to
participate in the hacking you have to
direct the hacking in some way for it to
be a crime so he's just a guy being told
might as well be in The Washington Post
gonna run the story might as well have
been the New York Times they got the
emails he's just a innocent bystander
being told journalistic information he's
a clown I mean I I think the guy is not
a good lawyer he's running around the
country trying to negotiate contracts
for himself with every nasty dictator he
can find and I think that they are just
doing a public messaging campaign to try
to play for an impeachment vote down the
road to protect Trump that's right you
know it's yeah they're they're not smart
so let's talk about whether the strategy
is working Tommy you referenced this
this poll earlier a new poll by NBC and
the Wall Street Journal found that more
than 60 percent of Americans feel the
president has been untruthful about the
investigation into his 2016 campaign by
forty five thirty four percent voters
say the investigation should continue by
forty six to twenty three percent voters
think that the crimes of trumps aides
may also implicate Trump that's a key
number the president's approval rating
is at forty three and fifty two percent
that they'd probably said that they
probably or definitely vote for the
Democratic nominee in 2020 dad doesn't
sound like it's working it's not it's
not it's look I don't think it's working
I also think we should be very sad that
these numbers are as high as they are it
just is sad that Donald Trump is at
forty three percent it never stops being
sad Gallup has him at thirty eight
today's rate it's trip it's the same but
here here's the thing it is sad for sure
but now we had an election we had the
2018 election and Donald Trump begins
the quest for a reelection in
in the hole right like he can't he can't
go into 2020 at 38 to 43 percent and
hope to win this election so everything
that happens between now and 2020 has to
be some good news for Donald Trump
Donald Trump improving his standing
among the American people and so far
we're seeing it it's as flat as it's
ever been and at the low end of where
it's been yeah I mean you know I we're
so used to Donald Trump's bluster and
you know it's so hard to tell how
conscious he is of it right what he
believes versus what he just thinks he
could say because I don't know where he
lets that car down but one thing that I
always come back to is that he was
really surprised that he won yeah in
2016 he was terrified and surprised and
so even as all this is going on even if
even we even all the kind of the show
he's about to put on for his reelection
all the lying and all the claims of how
well he's doing right there is that
kernel that knows what's going on and so
when I think about how this story ends
it's again only three ways can be
impeached and removed you can resign and
then Mike Mike Pence can fulfill his
sacred duty was just a pardon don't
Trump or we can defeat him and to me I
think that the all these three things
are kind of coming together in one place
I think that impeachment and removal is
still the least likely option but the
story I think so which is why I think
the story we need to tell about Donald
Trump has to be a story that makes a
compelling case that a he's a criminal
who will go to jail if he leaves the
White House and be he can't win because
of what he of the crimes he's committed
because part we don't know what the
future holds this is not a prediction in
any sense but I want to know that we're
doing everything we can to create the
pressure on Donald Trump to choose to
leave rather than face an existential
thing because what Tommy pointed out is
really important this election is now at
this election is not just a referendum
on Donald Trump his freedom may be on
the line and that to me is so terrifying
that everything we can do to create the
pressure for him to think he cannot win
and cannot escape culpability through
through normal political means I think
is really important and that's that to
me is what I'm thinking about yeah and
look I think there's a message here for
Democrats too you don't just have to run
around saying he's a criminal like
Donald Trump lies cheats and steals to
become richer and more powerful and
every Republican politician has let him
do it
he puts find his puts his own financial
interests ahead of America
I mean it's very like and there is a
million it doesn't even have to be about
Russia
now we're going beyond Russia Russia
Saudi Arabia Turkey
right you could autocrats rich people
right-wing populist all over the world
he's in bed with all of them so he can
get richer and screw over the American
people that's it I mean that's the
that's the message that is the PJ that
was the P tape the whole time someone
said that I saw someone tweet that Rudy
Giuliani Rudy Giuliani is the kind of
person who goes on TV and says it was a
P DVD okay I won and by talking about
one of trumps many autocratic customers
Saudi Arabia last week with the help of
five Democrats Paul Ryan used a vote on
the farm bill to basically block a
separate vote on ending assistance for
the saudi-led coalition in the war in
Yemen which is one of the biggest
humanitarian disasters in the world the
Senate actually took a vote on Thursday
to limit presidential war powers a
bipartisan statement pushing back on the
Trump administration's reluctance to
hold Saudi Arabia accountable but in the
house Ryan essentially slapped a rider
on the farm bill and convinced a handful
of Democrats to go along with him Tommy
for people who don't know why are the
Saudis at war with Yemen and why has the
United States why have units been
helping Saudi so they've been involved
in a civil war in Yemen for several
years it started during the Obama
administration they're fighting a group
called the Houthi rebels who are aligned
with the former president of Yemen
president Saleh and they are you know
call them what you want the Trump
administration wants to call them a
terrorist group they're an insurgency
they're whatever that it's deeply
destabilizing and the Saudis view this
as a proxy for their ongoing constant
war with Iran so I mean first of all we
just give a shout out to some of the
senators who have been fighting for this
Chris Murphy Mike Lee Bernie Sanders
they're the ones who really been pushing
this bill to withdraw US military aid
first Saudi Arabia's warned Yemen it's
the first time that Congress has ever
agreed to pull US forces from a conflict
under the War Powers Act it's a big deal
and it also included this provision
that blamed Mohammed bin Salman for
khashoggi death so again like important
bill good good for them for fighting for
this Paul Ryan is just going out with
like Craven act after Craven Act he
snuck a provision into the farm bill
that blocked votes on Yemen related War
Powers Resolution z' for the remainder
of the Congress why did he do this you
ask what does this have to do with the
farm bill the answer is he's a soulless
human being because it has nothing to do
with the farm bill he knew that the farm
bill is this big piece of business that
is all these subsidies for agricultural
individuals like food assistance like
SNAP benefits and it put Bennett members
in a tough political position where you
have to say are you choosing against you
know this Yemen vote or American farmers
like that was the messaging
infuriatingly seven Democrats were not
in town or abstain from the vote in five
Democrats voted with Paul Ryan to
curtail debate on the provision Jim
Acosta of California L Lawson a florida
Colin Peterson in Minnesota Dutch
Ruppersberger of Maryland and David
Scott of Georgia the most cynical vote
you could possibly imagine like tying a
a bill to try to save kids who are dying
at Rokon a congressman estimated one
Yemeni kid dies every ten minutes
because of this war to tie this to an
unrelated farm bill to create political
pressure on these people it it defies
all logic and reasons so what we need is
Nancy Pelosi in the House Democratic
leadership to say they will schedule a
vote on this bill again the first week
of January and then hopefully that the
Senate can repass what they did so we
can increase pressure on the
administration on this on this awful war
and it does seem like even if she if she
does it does seem like if she schedules
this vote that even some of the
Democratic opponents of this bill last
time will vote for it this time I think
I think robber's Berger said he would
yeah they did I mean I think a lot of
them were you know voting a lot of them
didn't know what they were voting on
which is not pathetic not an excuse no
not as Colin Petersen gave these quotes
like I don't know a damn thing about
Yemen was terrible embarrassing for him
awful quotes Dutch Ruppersberger is a
former ranking member on the
intelligence community committee
from Maryland I'm not sure what his big
interest in the farm bill is he should
know better and I deeply frustrated
there but you know that's the vote now
it's non-biting trump could veto it they
could override the veto and then it gets
challenged in court and creates this you
know constitutional crisis but what I
think stepping back like what's good
about this is you're seeing Congress
take back some of its you know
constitutionally mandated role in trying
to check the executive when it comes to
war in peace well so explain this a
little because I had trouble
understanding this - if these
resolutions had passed both the House
and the Senate and I know there were
separate resolutions what is the
practical effect of that I'm not
entirely sure and I've asked some of the
people who support these bills what they
think would happen the likely scenario
is if the House and Senate vote for it
Trump will veto it if it gets the veto
gets overridden it will get challenged
in a course so basically it sends a
message that the Congress doesn't
believe that we should be waging this
war in Yemen now on top of that Congress
can block future arms sales to Saudi
Arabia and do things with real teeth
that prevent them from getting hardware
what is the political pressure causing
people to not support this no idea I
mean it's very lobbyists in DC well if
you're Colin Peterson from Minnesota
like you've been working on a farm bill
for years and years and years you're not
gonna vote for anything that might mess
that up and so he got convinced to take
this vote III think that they probably
could have this wouldn't have scuttled
the farm bill Paul Ryan's interest I
have no idea
doing Trump's bidding it is it is
there's no good argument for continuing
to support this war it is creating a
humanitarian catastrophe of like
biblical magnitude 20 million people
need humanitarian aid and Yemen like
50,000 people may have died it means
like it babies it's children there's no
national security interest here is a
 nightmare so what is like the
fig leaf excuse that the Trump
administration would give if you asked
like Pompeo right now would it be this
is to check Iran or something like that
and be it and Mohammed bin Salman in the
Saudi is that they're our allies we need
to help them fight Millian Iranian
influence in the region like when you
view every problem on the planet through
the prism of Iran you go and sing and
that
I happen with these guys which seems to
be where conservatives have led our form
here as like a couple decades so what
can people do to is is this about
pressuring Pelosi and the House
Democrats to make sure that they vote on
this very soon yeah take office yeah I
mean look I think you'll be great if
people do a few things like there have
been some champions for this bill
congressman bro Khanna Bernie Sanders
Chris Murphy Mike Lee who's a Republican
tell them that they're great and give
him a shout out and then I think people
should call their member of Congress if
you care about this and say please ask
House leadership to schedule a vote the
first week of January like days minutes
hours actually matter here kids are
dying right now and so hopefully Pelosi
will say yeah this is a no-brainer we
should absolutely do this because I
don't know the argument against yeah and
if they don't the political consequences
for these five will be severe and if you
if you want to know just how devastating
this war is I think Nick Kristof has
been doing a great job writing about
this in the New York Times you can read
somebody's op eds and they publish
pictures of some of these children who
were you know dying of starvation it is
yeah
 off so Tyler Hicks is an amazing
photographer Declan Walsh some other New
York Times reporter they went into Yemen
they did speak piece a few weeks back
that is like it's it's devastating to
look at they deserve a lot of credit
also you know credit to Chris Hayes and
Nick Kristof for doing really great
reporting staying on top of this so
check out their reports if you want to
learn more but you know it's I've never
been that that vote was the angriest
I've been at Congress in a really long
time because it's so nonsensical and
outrageous but the stakes are so big you
know okay when we come back we will have
Lovett's interview with Julian Castro
you
