we are outside Fairfax high school
public high school in Los Angeles where
teachers parents and students are part
of a teacher strike for higher pay
smaller class sizes less standardized
testing and more resources for the
city's public schools as you can hear a
lot of people have come out this morning
even though it is a very rainy and by
Los Angeles standard it's cold winter
morning my name is Katie Andrews and I
teach ninth and twelfth grade English
here at Fairfax High School we're
striking today for a number of reasons
number one we're starting for lower
class sizes we don't want 36 students in
elementary class we don't want 46
students in secondary classes
we're also striking for a pay raise for
teachers that keeps up with with
cost-of-living increase we're striking
to keep education public and in the
community we're striking so that we
aren't taking over by charters and and
corporations and everything in New
Orleans at my home state is Louisiana
charters have taken over the entire of
the entire city there's no more public
schools left in New Orleans and what
happens is it's like educate I mean
education shouldn't be controlled by
corporations businesses and business
people like like Austin Beutner don't
have any business and have no experience
coming in here and setting educational
standards and rubrics and everything
leave that to the professionals leave it
to teachers to teach now did you plan on
having 30 years of policy culminate on
an incredibly rainy morning could you
have picked a better day think oh I
totally planned for that sure yeah no we
picked the day and we were supposed to
actually start last Thursday we didn't
know when it was actually gonna start it
was pushed back to today and everything
and you know what I think the rain just
actually strengthens our resolve because
if we if we didn't believe in this we
wouldn't be here you know I'm freezing
and and we're here and we're gonna stay
here until we get what we deserve and
what teachers deserve what kids deserve
what our community deserves so we've
seen teacher strikes across the country
we've seen them in places like Oklahoma
and West Virginia like these are very
different places like what
what do you think what do you think ties
these different movements together I
think actually what ties us all together
is the fact that this is culminated in a
big fight against freedom of
intellectual freedom versus money and
everything I think it culminates in the
fact that we need to be free to teach
and students need to be free to learn
without the the aggressive oversight and
coercion of money from big business so
you're an English teacher what are some
of the books your students are reading
right now we're reading The Odyssey oh
come on I'm so tough well it actually is
better because I actually bought with my
own money and I'm a teacher so what I do
I bought a graphic novel of the Odyssey
and it's beautiful it's full-color and
everything and kids just get right into
it and we also read Romeo and Juliet and
yeah I know you're gonna say oh that's
so tough yeah it's tough but I bought
also with my own money a side-by-side
version which means it has Elizabethan
English on one side and regular
contemporary English on the other side
and it's like we do this we spend our
money because we want to help kids and
everything and it's like when when the
textbook isn't enough we go above and
beyond and this is why when teachers
like buy stuff with their own money we
deserve a pay raise because we're here
to help it's what we do we are helpers
one one last question I you know there
is a difference between a state like
California and a state like West
Virginia or state like Oklahoma which is
the California is a high tax state this
is already a really expensive place to
live and you feel that as one of the one
of the big sources of tension right what
do you what do you think is driving the
fact that even in a place like
California where taxes are already so
high the teachers are still having to
take money out of their own pockets to
buy school supplies and parents are
already paying so much just to be in
these school districts how do you how do
you make that argument of parents that
that schools still need more resources
and what do you what do you think about
that challenge I think that throwing
money in education is always a good idea
because it's not just us it's not here
at Fairfax it's not just here in
California it's nationwide over all over
the past several years education has
been cut and cut and cut any any state
budget education is always the first to
be cut and everything when you put more
money in education it's like we all do
better we all do better so we know the
strikes
for a lot of different things the sense
for a lot of different things for the
teachers and for us as students the
teachers I want to put the students
first and of course we support that they
want to we want to see our class sizes
decrease because here at our school and
we know across many many LAUSD schools
that class size massive class sizes
beyond what is contracted to be the
limit is a is like it's a very pervasive
issue in this district and we want to
see that our education is improved by
smaller class sizes and also not just in
terms of our education in the classroom
but also for the support that is
available on campuses so nurses
counselors librarians we want to see
them more often on a campus and giving
more to the giving more to this school
and to our educational experience so if
you were in class today well if you're
in school today what would have been the
biggest class size like of your day we
had class sizes were on some students
had to sit on the floor while the
teacher was giving lessons um they would
alleviate that problem by like this to
bring the students to other classrooms
but it this class was still a big
problem so we're in Los Angeles this is
one of the richest cities one of the
richest countries in the world you're
saying that in some of your classroom
there wouldn't be enough desks and it
was so overcrowded that kids had to sit
on the ground when you're in a class
that big do you find that like only the
loud kids that always answer every
question talk like do like how many kids
are able to actually participate in a
class when it's like that big can't even
talk
that's horrible as a loud kid I find
that offensive
cute I guess students feel on that
well it's huge and they kind of get a
little embarrassed or like kind of
pressured and and kind of embarrassed
not to not to talk and especially for
teachers it's really hard to manage a
class that big and like materials like
paper would run short for their classes
so it's really important that class
sizes are decreased so you've been
teaching here for 20 years he said about
25 years how like just being honest do
you think the education at this school
has gotten worse because of a need for
more resources in the time that you've
been here I mean there's always give me
numerous factors on why things are more
difficult I would definitely see a
decline over these last 25 years whether
it has to do with parent involvement
whether it has to do with student
engagement whether it has to do with
lack of supplies I mean so there's a
bunch of different things so I would say
definitely we need the district to have
that support to say you know what we
need the best teachers it's a peach the
best students so they do well I mean I
have a kid right now who's actually
gonna be attending Harvard next next
fall you know and a lot of it his her
own work but a lot of it is you know the
work we've been doing with her as well
as just support staff people that you
know have been encouraging of her and
you know we need those type of kids who
are motivated but we need teachers who
are motivated and part of that is
feeling supported feeling that our our
work counts and our work matters to them
and I believe us as teachers we do
desire that you know we want to be out
here we don't want to be out here we
want to be in there but you know so
ultimately we willing to fight for what
we feel is important for the students
for the parents and for our own
livelihood why are you out here today um
essentially LAUSD is saying that they
don't have the money to help pay
teachers more because the living costs
have gone up as they keep increasing
student
student classes have gone up as well
like the size of the number of teeth the
size of the students in each and every
class has gone up and they're sitting on
one point six billion dollars saying
that they don't have the money to help
pay for more things that the schools
have been needing teachers have to pay
out of pocket for their own school
supplies you know our technology like
half of the iPads that we use are broken
half of the laptops don't work most time
you can't even connect to the Wi-Fi so
we have all this technology that we're
sitting on that doesn't work where we
have all these things that we're sitting
on that don't work everything in LAUSD
is not working right now on teachers and
students have both had enough of it so
we're out here striking today to show
Buettner that we've had enough and that
he needs to either make a change or get
out a lot of people are directing their
anger at Buettner why is that
well Buettner is in the pocket of
millionaires who he basically is uh in
favor kind of a privatizing education
and making it so that you know it's more
expensive to get an education basically
a lot of people have a problem with
Buettner because he shouldn't be leading
the schools because he's not for the
people he's for himself and he's in it
for the profit an education is not for
profit and you have a lock on a choker
on your neck you have a pin in your ear
you have a pretty sick belts you seem
very tough you seem like you really
bring it today this feels like a protest
outfit well you know the red shirt is
basically my protest outfit you know red
is the UCLA color and so you know red
for the teachers so it seems like you
would not have a problem making yourself
heard in a classroom with 40 kids in it
but you often find that in a classroom
that big that a lot of kids don't get
the attention they need exactly a lot of
kids
what ends up happening is that the kids
who have the most rambunctious
personalities kind of take over the
classroom and teachers aren't able to
get out what they need to say and kids
who are struggling need help and want to
be able to actually learn don't know
what's going on don't have an ability to
learn because teachers are more focused
on trying to calm down everybody who's
riling out so you know yeah it's it's a
huge problem because you may be like you
know the most outspoken person but if
three kids are screaming three kids are
screaming and you're not gonna be able
to scream over three kids so have there
any teachers you've clashed with that
are out here today that have seen you
and have been like that's cool I
actually saw an administrator who I kind
of clashed with one day when I was
having a bad morning we got into a
yelling match I saw today and we kind of
made a little bit of eye contact but
other than that was it nice it was like
look you know we're on the same side you
know it's it's like you know even people
that I've like had trouble with online
and stuff I've like you know been
commenting and like you know messaging
me about like what's going on because
it's like your personal situations don't
don't matter this doesn't matter you
need to put everything aside to you know
for the betterment of the future for
everybody you know yeah all right thank
you that was great thank you
you
