I'm John Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later
in the pod you'll hear Dan's
conversation with the Atlantic's Natasha
Bertrand who's been closely covering
william bars confirmation hearings and
the mauler investigation we're also
going to talk about the latest in the
shutdown and the latest presidential
candidates to jump in what is becoming a
very crowded 2020 pool
also check out pod save the world this
week Tommy and Ben covered quite a bit
of international news and on pod save
the people do rates with law professor
Laura Bazelon about restorative justice
for wrongly convicted people finally pod
save America love it or leave it and pod
save the people are all hitting the road
in the weeks ahead you can find more
about the cities where we're headed and
how you can get tickets at crooked comm
slash events and if you can't make it
you can always watch pod save America
online at youtube.com slash crooked
media smash that subscribe button
that's for Elijah okay you know we're
gonna start off talking about the
shutdown I was gonna provide an update
but instead of me just doing it you know
we have a we have a special guest who's
going to provide the latest on the
shutdown yeah I just want to remind you
I because it's been a little bit over
three weeks okay it's been a little bit
over three weeks Trump is now ordering
as if some insane butter or government
workers to go back to work without
getting paid now I don't want to hear
your talking about all but
Obama shut down the government for 17
days yeah for health care so your
grandma could check a blood pressure and
you go go check out in the
gynecologist with no
problems now I know a lot of y'all don't
care because you gotta work for the
government or your pirate or even have a
job but this is really
serious bro this is crazy like our
country is in a hellhole right now all
for you all I really need to take
this serious we I feel like we need to
take some action I don't know what type
of action because this is not what
I do but I'm scared this is crazy
and I really feel bad for these people
they got to go to work to not
get pay all right that was
cardi B
[Laughter]
saying very eloquently what we all
believe about the shutdown she was uh
she posted it on Instagram on Wednesday
night I believe and you know as you
would imagine it it went viral I have a
lot of thoughts about this one apologies
to everyone who is listening this while
they're bringing their kids to or from
school in the morning we apologize for
what just happened there second I have
spent the last seven minutes since
Michael told me that we were going to
play this audio trying to come up with
some sort of government Trump related
pun for boudic yellow and I have failed
[Laughter]
well I'm sure we'll get a lot of
suggestions as that one I'm also waiting
for the hot take that says that this
video was inspired by the social media
strategy of Alexandria Ocasio Cortez did
you see last night that Brian Schatz or
Chris Murphy one of them was going to
tweet this and then they decided against
it because shot said it wouldn't be
senatorial and then like Chuck Schumer
replied to both of them on Twitter and
was like hey you two are you gonna post
the cardi B video I thought that was
Chuck Schumer's best tweet in history it
was great ever what is going on here
okay so on Wednesday House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi wrote a letter to President Trump
saying that he has to postpone his State
of the Union address to Congress later
this month until he ends the longest
government shutdown in American history
as cardi B told us about in her letter
Pelosi said Trump could consider
delivering a little address sorry in her
letter Pelosi said Trump could consider
delivering the address to Congress in
writing which presidents used to do back
in the day Trump continues to refuse any
kind of compromise or real negotiation
from Democrats or Republicans that would
actually open the government even as
officials in his own administration are
admitting that it's starting to hurt the
economy dan let's start with Pelosi's
letter in the letter she writes that
because of the state sorry in the letter
she writes that because the State of the
Union is designated as a quote national
special security event
it requires quote weeks of detailed
planning with dozens of agencies working
together to prepare for the safety of
all participants sadly given the
security concerns and unless government
reopens this week I suggest that we work
together to
determine another suitable date first
does the Speaker of the House have the
power to disinvite the president from
delivering a State of the Union yes yes
she does it is called the Speaker of the
House because she runs the house and the
house is where the speech is given and
it requires both the House and the
Senate to pass some sort of resolution
concurrent resolution the president to
come and so she is well within her
rights to disinvite him even if it is
it's not unprecedented but it is unusual
to say the least these are unusual times
we have an unusual president and look
you know we've you know just saying this
but we it is not in the in the
Constitution it says that the president
should talk you know address Congress
from time to try and work sorry it's in
the Constitution it says that the
president should you know let Congress
know what the State of the Union is but
it does not specify that the president
has to go to Congress you know
presidents for a long long time wrote
the State of the Union and delivered it
to Congress that seems up like a pretty
boring letter but so yeah so it's she's
well within her rights it's obviously
you know it's unusual but what so the
question now is is it a good idea or and
are there any risks it is a good I think
it is a good idea
I was surprised and impressed by it
because it is the sort of strong power
play that Democrats usually talk
themselves out of for fear of upsetting
the etiquette judges in Washington yeah
and so it was I was not expecting it it
was bold and I think it is here's why I
think it is a good idea which is this
came even after and some of the
reporting that happened after speaker
Pelosi sent that letter but if you are
someone who was sitting in the White
House and you were trying to figure out
when to fold your cards or how to fold
your cards you could convince yourself
that the state of the union is your last
best chance to change the political
dynamic and so there's a chance that if
the State of the Union were to happen on
its scheduled date you're sort of
guaranteeing that
the shutdown will continue for at least
two more weeks and then whatever time it
would take after that for the Trump and
Republicans to see that once again it we
were still they were still in the same
shitty political position they're in now
and so yeah I think it was a good move
it sends a no this is another signal to
Trump which is Trump only respects power
politics and this is the ultimate form
of power politics I think it's a I think
it's a good idea for two reasons one
this is now a crisis for a lot of people
in this country and I think at least one
party should act that way in the idea of
having sort of the pomp and circumstance
of a State of the Union where everyone's
like smiling and sits down everyone's
all dressed up they go to Congress while
there's 800,000 people working without
paychecks in this country and a lot more
people hurting because they're not
getting government services
it seems extremely discordant and you
know I've sort of been worried over the
last week that even though you know
we've been talking about the shutdown a
lot the media is talking about the
shutdown a lot in this media environment
there's still too many other stories
competing with the shutdown and yet this
is something that is turning into an
emergency for a lot of people in this
country and the people who want to end
the shutdown which in this case seems to
be only the Democrats we need to act
like it's an emergency and doing
something unusual like postponing the
State of the Union sort of reflects that
concern I also think and you know CNN
reported this that Stephen Miller and
Trump and the White House are writing or
in the middle of writing a State of the
Union that basically lies and blames
Democrats for the shutdown so the idea
that Trump is gonna get up there the
State of the Union with Pelosi standing
right behind him and go on for 50 60
minutes just lying about how the
Democrats have caused the shutdown and
lying about immigration like he did on
in prime time the other night is crazy
like there's no need to let him do that
I mean there's this this is really
interesting on a several on so many
levels the
I mean if you like I've been fascinated
by the reaction of the residents of
conventional wisdom nation about this so
they've been sort of two strains of
thought one is that the Pelosi risks a
backlash because people in this country
the craves of that Union the president
to be respected right and that this is
disrespectful and I think there is some
truth that there is a backlash to being
disrespectful to a normal president yeah
but Trump but Nancy Pelosi has no
obligation and the public actually does
not expect Nancy Pelosi to respect the
presidency more than Trump respects the
presidency which is not at all and and
we cannot live in a world where Trump
spends the last two years stomping on
every norm of American democracy and
then the etiquette judges get to throw a
flag at Nancy Pelosi for violating some
norm like this just not how it works and
I think the public is too smart for that
the second strain of thought which is
coming from sort of right-leaning
political strategists and sort of the
quasi nevertrump world which is well
this is a sign of weakness from the
Democrats because if they really thought
that Trump had a losing message then
would want him to keep speaking what and
yeah it's so do that right I saw this
from the Federalist among others but
it's so dumb because we actually this is
not a theoretical exercise Trump
actually gave a speech to 40 million
people last week and he convinced no one
to move into his camp and I'm not
kidding I mean they're a poll to percent
2% 2% were convinced they change their
minds we don't know I mean yeah I mean
two people change their mind and the
polls have moved in the wrong directions
is that speech so there were got some
the reason to be afraid but they also
have no obligation to invite Trump to
lie in their house yeah also you know
what's disrespectful making a hundred
that sorry making eight hundred thousand
people come to work and not
paying them the disrespectful thing is
also completely crazy also the letter
couldn't have been more respectful about
it let's work together to find another
time like so what do you think about the
security concerns that
raised because it is a national security
special event you know we know from when
Obama you know delivered the State of
the Union 80 times it is this event
where look at the most important you
know the entire line of succession
except for one cabinet member is in one
place all members of Congress it takes
an enormous amount of coordination
between federal agencies to make sure
that everyone is protected and that the
State of the Union itself was secure so
they I imagine that's not just some
pretext to disinvite him like there are
security concerns right I mean I like I
was in an expert in this but I I was
texting with our friend Alyssa
Mastromonaco this morning who who is the
next when she was debby chief of staff
in the White House was in charge of this
right she was the person who oversaw you
know the White House is really super
Secret Service etc in these sorts of
events and says yes this is very very
real and people should be concerned
there is just this discordance between
the Trump administration saying that we
are all about to die because of
terrorists and ms-13 and everyone else
poring over the border and saying that
we can put the entire line of succession
into one room while people are while
agencies are partially staff and people
working without pay and we're totally
fine like you got a you either we are
all about to die or we're totally fine
you got to pick one of the two
narratives for your presidency so on
Monday we talked a little bit about how
badly the shutdown is pulling and a big
reason why is because you know this
thing is really starting to inflict pain
on a lot of people and disrupt a lot of
people's lives
the typical federal worker has missed
five thousand dollars in pay from the
shutdown so far the White House's own
Council of Economic Advisers had to
revise down their economic growth
estimates this week and they believe
that the economy has already lost half a
percentage point of growth from the four
week shutdown that is huge
dan is this something that might finally
get through to trump that it's not a
great reelection strategy to tank the US
economy over a hundred miles of steel
flats do you think that might I finally
get to him before we get to that I had a
question for you which is so we're going
on tour in line
three weeks right yeah and you are a
noted and famous nervous flier if the
government is still shutdown and
airplane inspections are not happening
at their usual rate are you coming on
tour with us I don't know I've been
thinking about this and I thought like
okay well it's February what fifth six
we leave and I'm like it has to be
things have to be back to normal by then
because look yeah it is scary
and I saw people on CNN saying it was
like a someone from the Union of the air
traffic controllers right oh yeah sorry
so it's watching CNN and someone who
runs like the air traffic controllers
Union you know the the CNN anchor said
so do you think it's less safe to fly
now that it was a month ago she said yes
yeah of course it's let's say and that
yeah that made me nervous I mean
that is it's ridiculous that air traffic
controllers and TSA agents and
everything like that that we're putting
all the strain on these people who were
supposed to protect millions of American
lives every single day over this
imaginary crisis at the border
yeah no it is it is scary this is absurd
I would bet that Sarawak and the very
very smart people who run your company
have been planning for this and they're
like investigating the cost of a John
Madden style bus to get you to
Charleston in time yeah Johnson sort of
uh that's sort of a long flight also we
have to take a long bus ride my
friend but what do you think on the
economic front like you know this has
been Trump's one thing that he likes to
point to you know the economy's never
been doing better and and now his own
Council of Economic Advisers are saying
that that they're gonna have to revise
down economic growth estimates I think
if I was a person who worked for Trump
which is that obviously is not something
I can possibly imagine but if if I were
to do that and you were trying to
convince him to do to get out of this
mess the only way in which I think you
would have any success was to say that
the economy is historically the biggest
determining factor in
re-election of incumbent presidents yeah
and you were taking your single greatest
asset and you are single-handedly
pretending it it's like they're like
Kevin Hassett who seemed he was the head
of the Council of Economic Advisers who
seems to be sort of a which is a
hard thing to say about an actual
economist but every time he goes on TV
he suggests that he's quite stupid said
that they failed to include a lot of the
impact in their initial analysis and now
think you could we can actually see a
contraction in the economy the economy
would shrink because of this really
stupid temper tantrum from the from
Trump and I so it should that should be
the thing more than anything else since
Trump is lives in a Fox News information
bubble so he's probably unaware of the
short-term political pain he's suffering
and he is constitutionally immune to the
emot-- to the actual human cost of this
shutdown the only way to I think
convince him would be to explain how
this affects him and this potentially
affects is real like re-election in a
real way also presidents tend to get
blame for when the economy does poorly
they get credit for when the economy
does well and a lot of economists will
tell you that you know linking
presidents to economic performance can
often be tenuous even though we all do
it anyway it's not often that you can
actually point to a direct link between
something that a President did and
economic performance and in this case if
the economy contracts if we tumble into
recession or you know growth even if
growth slows down you can point directly
to this shutdown which is caused
directly by Donald Trump's actions as
the cause of the economic slowdown
that's fairly unique it is and on top of
that the credit rating agencies have
suggested that if this is not fixed in
the next few weeks they could downgrade
the USS credit rating which could cause
the market to tank and cause all kinds
of other problems within the economy and
so this would be one of the greatest
self-inflicted economic and political
wounds in American history yes since the
Republicans brought on the the the debt
ceiling crisis in 2011
oh that is right so Republicans in
Congress as they should be are finally
getting nervous and there could be
cracks emerging inside of the White
House The Wall Street Journal reported
on Wednesday that some senior officials
have been aiming to make clear to the
president that this isn't just a
messaging war anymore and that he's
quote playing with live ammunition no
 huh meanwhile a bipartisan group of
senators led by Lindsey Graham and Chris
Coons of Delaware signed on to a letter
to Trump asking him to reopen the
government for three weeks while talks
continue over funding for border
security dan do we think Trump can be
persuaded here no I mean at least not
for I don't think the the addition of
Lindsey Graham on the letter are
significant since Lindsey Graham has
reinvented himself for the 800th time as
Trump's most loyal supplicant and so
that that suggests that this is not just
like a bunch of moderates trying to
solve the problem it's that Lindsey
Graham senses problems for Trump and as
someone who is up for re-election in
2020 he sees problems for Trump as
problems for him the problem we have
here is that even if Lindsey Graham were
to get to the president and make his
case or Trump read this letter or
whatever else is that every time there
is some movement towards some sort of
resolution and Coulter or Rush Limbaugh
tweet or say something that calls it
says that if Trump folds the base will
leave them and he not only just grows
back to his original position he moves
further to the right and we had this
problem where we have outsourced the
presidency I'm sorry we have this
primary term it's outsourced the
presidency to some of the dumbest
grifters in American life and so I don't
it is I really don't know how this ends
or frankly if it ends any time soon
well here's how some Republicans think
it ends the Washington Post's Robert
Costa tweeted this yesterday a couple
senior Republican lawmakers tell me the
only way this breaks open is if TSA
employees stay home and Americans get
furious about their flights that's the
only out they say and they're close to
the White House like are these
Republican lawmakers aware that their
title is lawmaker
but like they have they have the power
to make laws to hold votes I mean I
cannot believe I cannot imagine going on
background and hoping that TSA bails you
out TSA workers bail you out of this
crisis because you're too afraid
to tell Donald Trump to open up the
 government
I mean it's wild it is just what it it's
not even like this isn't some
complicated political calculation on the
path of these Republicans it is the
actual mentality of the Republican Party
over the last decade at least which is
party over country it is unfathomable to
them that their constitutional duty
would exceed their obligation to the
Republican Party itself and the
Republican president whether that has to
do with the with workers getting paid
the safety of our airplanes the safety
of our food supply the Russia
interfering in American elections
it's just they can't even comprehend the
idea that they have an actual obligation
to the country right these are not
Patriots they're partisan hacks and it
has been what has there been like it's
different decades now of this mentality
Republican Party in every generation of
Republicans is worse than the previous
one on this vector yeah and look and
this especially includes Mitch McConnell
here and and he keeps saying he won't
pass a bill that the president won't
sign even though he and his fellow
Republican senators have the power to
override the president if they choose
and this is just really frustrating to
me because you also see a lot of hill
reporters political reporters who you
know or you know they think they're very
savvy about this kind of stuff and
they'll say oh well anyone who thinks
that Mitch McConnell is gonna override
the president like of course not of
course it's like yeah I get that Mitch
McConnell doesn't want to do this but
that's not reason that the rest of us
shouldn't pressure him to do it because
he has the power if Mitch McConnell put
a bill on the floor to open up the
government today it would probably pass
in five minutes he's just refusing to do
this and it's not okay that he's
refusing to do this like when he says oh
of course I wouldn't pass a
the president won't sign everyone just
like stops there and takes him at his
word it's like yeah but the you in the
Constitution it says that two-thirds of
the Senate and the house can override
the President's veto so you can't lay it
all on Donald Trump I mean it is a this
is like a structural problem for
Democrats on Capitol Hill that's been
around a long time and it has to do with
the fact that McConnell has been so
cynical
so without principle so frankly terrible
for so long that that is the expectation
yeah there was no expectation among the
Capitol Hill press corps or the pundits
or anyone else that McConnell will do
the right thing and so there's no
pressure on him to do the right thing no
one says like but mr. McConnell the
people of your state are being hurt
that's not that question it's Nancy
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer in Democrats go
the question is yeah I understand that
you disagree with the shutdown and yeah
you're technically right on that you
know that there we should just reopen
the government but people are being hurt
why don't you don't you have an
obligation to solve the problem no one
asked Mitch McConnell that right he is
like his cynicism is so priced into the
baseline of his coverage and frankly
I'll be honest this is not true of every
reporter on Capitol Hill but reporters
on Capitol Hill are traditionally
frankly in both parties but particularly
the Republican Party over the years too
close to the leadership right like there
there's a lot of source greasing that
goes on and Mitch McConnell has been
getting away with murder Paul Ryan got
away with murder John Boehner got away
with murder these people who have been
cynical Liars for a long time get away
because it because they are not under
pressure from the reporters that they
pal around with in the halls of the
Capitol every day yeah especially yeah
McConnell staff McConnell advisors
they're all out there former advisors
current advisors was the same thing with
Paul Ryan they are very close to these
reporters and it's not like look it's
not like the reporters like want to be
biased for them but you're right they
just sort of greased the sources and the
reporters sort of by the spin are a lot
of them I should say not all of them but
a lot of them just sort of by the spin
and like you said I think the best
coming May there is the cynicism is
priced in there like well that's just
who McConnell is so what are we gonna do
what are we gonna do it's like well I
mean one thing one thing that people did
was Alexandria Ocasio Cortes and a bunch
of other
freshman temper Kratz win over walked
over from the house to the Senate and
you started looking for Mitch McConnell
yesterday and you know ALC was just
saying to the cameras where's Mitch but
I sort of like I like the where's Mitch
thing I think everyone should I think
everyone should get in on that I mean I
do think like look it does seem that
Donald it does seem that Donald Trump is
immune to pressure of course people
should continue to pressure Donald Trump
but it's McConnell may be immune to
political pressure but at some point
like you know Susan Collins Cory Gardner
Thom Tillis Joni Ernst Purdue and
Georgia right like there's an there's
gonna be enough people who are up in
2020 in the Senate who Republicans who
might feel vulnerable to this eventually
or Republicans who have plenty of
federal workers in their state who's who
at least starting to feel the pressure
here and maybe they can pressure
McConnell so what the depth political
dynamic here that is that I believe is
going on with McConnell is the following
he has sort of pulled between two
political tensions right one is that
there are while it's it's not a
guarantee that the Democrats can take
the Senate in 2020 they have a shot yeah
right and so he does have some number
he's got to defend a lot of seats it's a
bad map for him and he has members who
are in states that are gonna feel much
more blue in a presidential election
year than they did in the midterm when
these people were last elected in 2014
mm-hmm and so and he wants to he wants
to be the Senate Majority Leader he's
not gonna be the Senate Minority Leader
and so we need schemes people elected
but the other problem is is McConnell
himself is up for re-election in a very
conservative in a state that has had a
Democratic governor in recent time but
also has a very conservative Tea Party
esque Republican base and so he is
trying very hard to not be the person
who undermines Trump on the wall and
he's been very good about this he always
when it was Boehner and McConnell and
McConnell was either in the majority of
the minority and we were in some sort of
standoff with the Republicans he always
made sure that sort of Boehner had to be
the one who took the fall right he would
wait back
last minute let Boehner step on 700
rakes in a Sideshow Bob fashion and then
coming to the end and fix it and here
he's in this position where now that
Nancy Pelosi is in charge if he puts
something like there is a wall he could
easily solve this problem but in doing
so he would have to commit will be
considered treason for imagination and
he doesn't want that on his on his
resume heading into a reelection but in
do in taking that stance by putting
himself over the country people are
getting hurt and it does not it really
does not feel like there is any the
possible solutions for this are
McConnell does the right thing which is
not actually a possible solution because
that would require him to do something
he has not done before or Trump has to
fold which were required Trump to do
something he doesn't not naturally do
which is why we've been in this
stalemate for a very long time how do
you think this ends I don't know I mean
I don't either
I I thought the net I made everything
was gonna get us out of it at some point
but I mean I still think that that it
like the one thing as Trump is not
encumbered by his previous statement so
he can he can still do the national
emergency thing that is that is still as
authoritarian and dangerous as it is yes
it is still seems like the only the most
palatable solution for Trump which is he
can get out of it he can say he fought
for the wall he can still lie and claim
that he's trying to build the wall and
then liberal courts can stop him from
doing it and then he can complain about
liberal courts and then use the
judiciary's an argument for his
reelection to the people who may be mad
about the lack of a wall but I mean
there was I think there was a real world
where we could be in this for many more
months oh god I don't know how that
happens I mean that people are sort of
like hanging on by a thread right now
these federal workers who aren't getting
paid like I don't know what happens to
folks in another couple of weeks one day
I've missed two paychecks three
paychecks I mean I don't in the ripple
effect now you know businesses in
the DC area businesses in places where
there are a lot of workers in a lot of
other states around the country you know
are really starting to feel the effects
of this so I don't know Abby here's a
question for you where the the
business community yeah yeah we're why
the oldest the old walk anomic council
that trump convened you know we're all
those like well like like like I met so
imagine this like we are not inspecting
lettuce right now at the at the normal
levels right like our food inspections
are down if you own a restaurant chain
or a food company and then you are and
there is some sort of foodborne illness
that happens on your watch that is
devastating to your business if you sell
cars or homes or you're in the
manufacturing business in the economy
contracts that reduces your customer
base like like this is Delta negative
the airline's like what yeah what I
don't like I think there there is a
world where I don't know that the CEOs
of the airlines and the food companies
and the Wall Street banks were all
anyone else could have influence on
Trump per se but they could have
influence on other Republicans and they
seem to be like everything like this is
the problem of everyone who wants to
continue to curry some favor with Trump
for more tax cuts or less regulations
whatever else is that they are being
strategically stupid and cowards here
there be strategically stupid cowards
because like the the long-term impact on
them if this continues to go the wrong
way or if something really bad happens
dramatically outweighs the short-term
pain of stepping out of line but it like
we live in a world of corporate
cowardice and it's impacting the economy
I would really like to see some of these
companies who I mean sure they'll run by
Republicans but like they're they they
are more responsible for their
shareholders and their customers and
they are to Donald Trump and Jared
Kushner and so do something people you
have it you could actually improve your
business and improve the country at the
same time or protect your business
protect the country if you spoke up and
they've been the silence has been
deafening in my view yeah hopefully that
changes soon okay well I sent a tweet
about it so Oh any time it's probably
happening as we record this
the Artie's are coming in okay let's
talk 2020 the field of Democratic
presidential candidates grew this week
with New York senator Kirsten Gillibrand
announcing on Stephen Colbert's
late-night television show that she's
forming an exploratory committee for a
White House run meanwhile Gillibrand
Senate colleague senator sherrod Brown
of Ohio announced on MSNBC that he soon
began exploring a potential run of his
own let's start with Gillibrand who will
travel to Iowa this coming weekend
campaign aides told The Washington Post
that her platform will be built around
quote universal paid family leave
publicly funded federal elections and a
Medicare for all health care system as
well as a number of measures to combat
America's racial and gender disparities
in education health care and criminal
justice those would be policies like
ending cash bail postal banking the
really cool policy that we've talked
about before reducing sexual misconduct
in the workforce she came to the Senate
after serving in the house where her
legislative record was quite a bit more
conservative than it has been over the
past few years dan what did you think of
Gillibrand announcement on colbert
whatwhat's the strategy there well I
think what are the things I've been
thinking a lot about these announcements
whether there was wholly castro's or
Gillibrand Zoar warrens and I think one
of the things we have to resist is
getting overly worked up or wrapped
around the axle about the optics good or
bad of the announcement itself yeah
beacon is is sort of a pro-forma element
to the whole process and is pretty
disconnected from the end result right
it may tell you so it may tell you
something about how they're thinking
about their candidacy or what they view
their path to the White House's but like
whether they said the right thing or
delivered it in the right format is I
think it dramatically it's part of the
theater criticism aspect to put a whole
coverage that I'd like to try to avoid
at least on some days but there is a
great you asked a importa questions like
why do it on Colbert like that seems
crazy that may have seemed crazy like
ten years ago and the argument is you
want to put yourself in front of as many
eyeballs as possible yeah and being on
in a unusual format on a widely watch
show with a you know
a talented host who brings out the best
in his guests gives you a chance not
only of looking your best in the moment
but also creating some virality to your
announcements will be seen by more than
just the people it'll be seen on
Facebook and Instagram and Twitter and
not just the people who are watching
cable coverage or the morning shows and
so from that point it's like it's a good
strategy I suspect we're gonna see lots
of candidates trying to do something
very similar yeah I was gonna say it's
sort of I mean we did a lot of this I
think in 2012 even more than in 2008
it's sort of about getting in front of
an audience that's not just a political
audience right which are or people who
are who pay really close attention to
politics which are the people who watch
CNN MSNBC I mean I was saying like if
she did a typical announcement where you
know you go to your hometown you have a
big crowd you give a big speech you
probably get a good amount of coverage
on CNN and MSNBC
if you're a Democrat Fox talks about
Benghazi and then and then maybe you get
a couple seconds on the nightly news
maybe with an you know with 20
candidates possibly getting into the
race I don't even know if the nightly
news covers every single one so you know
it's tough to get that kind of coverage
that goes beyond just the activists who
watch the political activists who watch
cable but you know Colbert while he's
certainly the most political of the
late-night shows you could make an
argument for reaches millions and you
know millions of people who don't pay
really close attention to politics and
I'm sure Gillibrand is thinking
especially since her name identification
is relatively low she wants to introduce
herself to a much broader audience from
the get-go so in that sense you know
it's a good idea it is an interesting
way about how much the media has changed
you remember in 2009 when we first got
into the White House and we were headed
to Los Angeles to do some sort of
Recovery Act event or something
and we were going into a scheduling
meeting and the comms team had come up
with the idea I think led by then press
secretary Robert Gibbs that Obama
because we're gonna be in LA should be
on Leno and so in this big scheduling
meeting in the Roosevelt Room it was
like you know some campaign people like
myself and Gibbs and Elissa and David
Axelrod and a bunch of like new
people who we had hired who were you
know had not worked on the campaign but
we're you know sort of more traditional
Washington Democrats when Gibbs proposed
Obama going on Leno you would have
thought it gives proposed Obama
delivering a press cameras with his
pants down like it was like he can't do
that he can a president cannot go on a
late-night talk show that is that would
demean the office I mean now down
trump's president so it seems like that
well and it's earned I think there was
quite a bit of criticism from
Republicans and the denizens of
Washington about Obama doing too many
late-night shows when there were there's
a lot of hitting it was interesting the
other thing I thought was interesting
bout children's announcement is one of
the things I think is important in a
multi-candidate field is the short term
description of your candidacy Yeah right
like candidate X is so-and-so or cannon
X is running because of Y right in like
how likened that's probably like a 240
character element so I was really
interested when the clip of Gillibrand
making the announcement of the
exploratory committee went out and it's
all the press and I got all these
notifications on my phone from the post
the times etc CNN etc that were Kirsten
Gillibrand Gillibrand
a leader of the hashtag me to move
leader than me to movement or a strong
advocate for women's rights announces
she's running for president and which is
interesting that she has a very clear
focus like that bet her campaign team
thinks that was exactly what they wanted
cuz of a very clear identification of
who she is in what she's running for in
a way that will be a way much a
surprising number of Americans will
consume that information because it's
what as far as they will read will be
the notification they get on their phone
or they see in their social media field
and I think I think that something a lot
of Kansas want to think about which is
it's sort of the it's the short-term
answer of why I'm running it's not the
Roger Mudd Ted Kennedy like sort of
explanation of it but it is like who are
you right like why are you different
than the rest these people and I think
to her credit she has a real
she it is very specific identity that
came through in that announcement
well it's interesting right because it's
not just a you know a multi-candidate
field but it's a field that you know for
the first time we'll have multiple women
among the top tier of contenders for the
nomination and so it's interesting
because you know you're gonna have
warren probably Komal Harris Gillibrand
potentially Amy Klobuchar Tulsi Gabbard
and and Gillibrand seems to be the first
woman candidate running who is you know
intentionally focusing on women's issues
and you know issues of women's issues
and family issues and so she talks a lot
about an inch and throughout her career
in the Senate has worked hard on issues
of sexual assault she sort of took that
on in the military a couple years ago
she's been for paid family leave and
universal family leave for quite a long
time now
like you said as she sent out her
announcement materials she talked about
the me2 movement so she's very
explicitly identifying these issues in a
way that I think you know Elizabeth
Warren wasn't as explicit about that
when she announced and it'll be
interesting to see how Harris or
Klobuchar take these issues on as well
and then identity thing is gonna be very
good I mean I don't mean identity like
gender or ethnicity or religion or that
I mean identity in terms of how you
identify who your candidacy is gonna be
really important when there's a massive
amount of clustering around the same
policy issues right right where you know
everyone who has announced thus far and
I think everyone who will announce is
gonna be for a green new deal Medicare
for all etc etc etc and which i think is
all great but you're gonna your points
of distinction are gonna be about what
you have done and what your leadership
style would be if you were president
like how are you gonna go about bringing
to fruition these policy ideas that we
agree about the other interesting thing
she did is she talked about on Colbert
taking on institutional racism and
institutional discrimination
and then she sort of connected that with
corruption special interest influence in
Washington so you see her trying to sort
of fuse the economic argument and sort
of the corruption argument with issues
of race and sexual discrimination and
how you know she's positioning herself
as you know a woman and a mother and
someone who's faced some of these issues
herself as someone who can take on sort
of these big institutional issues of
discrimination corruption influence so I
thought that was an interesting thing to
watch as well yeah I think the challenge
for Gillibrand in every candidate is
gonna be like and she did like this is
not a critique of how she did because
this is an interview format he said why
are you running and she listed off like
seven bullet points right and that's how
you would answer an interview but over
the course of a campaign you have to
weave those bullet points into a story
right right like how are you gonna tie
all of those things together that tells
a story about who you are what you're
gonna do and where you see the country
going and that that is ultimately what
makes what is it in between a successful
candidacy and one that isn't yep and I
think that she will probably put more
meat on the bones of that story as she
goes on I mean her initial line is you
know I'm gonna fight for other people's
kids as hard as I fight for my own I
imagine that is a line that tested very
well in safety because people love kids
and families but I do think that as she
goes on the question is can you match up
that line and that sort of motivation
behind your candidacy with the moment
that we're in right now that Trump has
led us to that the Republican Party has
led us to that our politics have led us
to and I think she started talking about
sort of the institutional racism and
sort of the powerful forces she's
fighting against she's sort of getting
around to it but I'm interested to see
sort of where she goes from here on that
you reason really you raised a really
good point I know about it testing well
and if I was running a presidential
campaign right now the thing that I
would insist that our pollsters not do
which is focus focus groups specific
language yeah and I don't know
they did because people say oh they
didn't and it wasn't so I don't know
right yeah I've read just like the idea
that we're gonna ask people to react to
a certain set of words always lead you
but it happened us sometimes into some
Frankenstein version of a paragraph that
includes the seven things that tested
Bess even if they are only connected by
the word and it like it you like the
focus group should hope you understand
where they were the electorate is and
how they view your candidacy in general
but it should not they should not it
should not be speech writing my focus
group committee so just my own personal
rant Amen on that as the speechwriter
you come in here well this this group of
words tested well exactly how they were
together in the poll you like yeah okay
well that's fine
great well some version of that in a
language that doesn't sound like a
 robot would probably be okay to
John this speech only has the words
middle class in it 70mm I need you to
double that or we lose terrible terrible
okay let's talk about sherrod Brown who
went out this week that he'd be
embarking on a dignity of work tour in
primary states like Iowa New Hampshire
South Carolina as well as a kickoff
event in his home state of Ohio as per
the Associated Press Brown said his goal
is for the tour to elevate the dignity
of work message as an issue in 2020
regardless of whether he's a
presidential candidate in that race on
Wednesday he told NPR quote too many
Democrats the National Democratic Party
see this kind of false choice that
Democrats either speak to the
progressive base or speak to
working-class families regardless of
race I think you need to do both Dan
what did you think of Sherrod's
quasi announcement exploring and
exploring I am curious like how he's
actually doing that within the confines
of very rigorous campaign finance law
but the like you're normally there's
this two-step process right like the
press is required by their own norms to
cover you when you're not sure
exploratory committee and the reason
only reason people announce exploratory
committees moat in most cases is so that
they can then have an official
announcement later so you get a media
like Chris like Gillibrand can go on
Colbert this week and then a month from
now she has talked to the people of
America
and she has decided to run for president
and she's gonna hold it you know the
traditional event in her hometown or
you know in some sort of historic
location with a crowd and do a speech
but this is a new one turning into a
three-step processes it's kind of clever
I mean look I think sherry brown would
be a very interesting candidate in the
race he has one of the best economic
messages his performance in the key
state of Ohio in this most recent
election makes it is a strong talking
point for him and frankly no more talk
about a short piece of evidence about
his ability to win over the Midwestern
states that that we lost in 2016 and to
do so while still being liberal on most
social and cultural issues almost all of
them I mean I think the most fascinating
and that's oh I know Jared for a long
time I think he is he is the real deal
he is a genuinely decent good human
being he believes everything he says he
has worked on these issues for a long
time but what's fascinating about Jared
to me is you know he's won Ohio
statewide for quite a few cycles now and
he does so without moving to the center
on you know whether it's issues of
immigration whether it's gay rights
whether it's women's rights right look
whatever the issue maybe he does not
moderate himself it does not move to the
center in order to win over the very
culturally conservative voters of Ohio
he might emphasize economic issues more
but he doesn't whether it's race whether
it's anything else he has not done what
some of the more brain-dead pundits
suggest Democrats do in these states
which is be centrist when it comes to
social and cultural issues and then be
populist when it comes to economic
issues and he's one you know which is
that's that's saying a lot
yes I mean he'll be a very interesting
candidate whose presence in the race
will impact the potential winning
coalitions of a lot of different
candidates I also think it's interesting
that sherrod potentially cuts into the
coalition that Bernie Sanders Elizabeth
Warren and potentially
Biden might try to put together it does
seem like there's some overlap and the
voters they might be going after yeah
for sure
so while that brings us to better or
Roarke who has very publicly not made a
decision just yet and is currently on a
road trip figuring it out this is from
Jeff Zeleny of CNN and a story from
Wednesday night two weeks after leaving
Congress O'Rourke drove north this week
on Route 54 he researched his family's
history in northern New Mexico visited
college students there and in Oklahoma
men he described what he'd seen in a
travel diary style post on medium so
this is a trip that apparently surprised
even his close friends in El Paso who
say they have no idea what he will
decide Dan what do you think about this
is it okay for better to take some time
here or does he need to make a decision
soon I think the most important thing is
to be sure of your decision yeah like
you can't jump into a presidential
campaign is a massive commitment and it
is something that if you do it without
understanding why you're doing it and
being committed to the idea you will
fail and you won't barish yourself it is
like it is it is a big deal and so
whatever time it takes to make the
decision you have to take now there are
pressures you know David Plouffe always
used to say the only the only thing you
can't get back in a presidential
campaign is time right so every day that
he's driving around and not trying to
put together the complex organization
you need to win Iowa or to introduce
himself to voters in California or South
Carolina or New Hampshire is a day that
he'll never get that time back and so
there is some time pressure where you're
not I don't think we're at the do-or-die
moment but unlike some of these other
candidates he doesn't have a national
network born of previous presidential
races or two years of planning from
organizational trajectory he's a lot
like Obama in 2008 but he he'd run a
Senate race he wasn't expecting to run
for president so we hadn't spent the
last two years losing Iowa New Hampshire
and creating lists and building a large
you know donor network or anything else
he just he just so he's going to be
is starting from scratch in that that'll
put him at a disadvantage it's not too
late but I think he probably has to move
soon yeah and I think you know from what
I can tell he's trying to sort of figure
out can he run the type of campaign that
he ran in Texas which is very grassroots
very much you know sort of like live
streamed a lot of it right he was
driving around the states he went to
every county in Texas and he sort of
like told people what he thought he's
very authentic he's very like he tells
you what's on his mind
and he's he's trying to figure out like
can I run that campaign as as a
presidential campaign and you know he
does seem like someone who's very
allergic to political contrivance and
stunts and all that kind of stuff and I
think it's very interesting sort of
watching him try to figure out whether
he can run that sort of campaign and
like I don't you know it's clearly not a
stunt at all like he I think he is
genuinely trying to figure out as he's
talking to people on this road trip like
should he do this or not and I like you
said I think it's important to figure
that out because when you do and we've
been saying this with every single
candidate when you do decide to run for
president when you say I am going to run
for president I believe that I should
you know should be in this position this
extremely powerful position and I can do
the job better than anyone else on this
country when you decide that you need to
have a really good reason why you're the
person for the job at this moment in
history why me why now and Wow
taking some time to figure that out is
is a good idea why not is a terrible
reason to run for president yeah it's
too often a reason the reason that
people choose to run right what else am
I going to do I'm not up for election
the cycloid
I'm pretty good at politics why not well
cadet well you know let's see what
happens that those people don't win I
think you know there's been a lot of
reaction to the unique the unique way
that beto has been communicating his
feelings through this medium post and
you know he said that he had been in a
funk at times in this post and the
headline that
CNN piece is something that says in a
funk beto does this and a lot of
tradition a lot of political observers
it's not just like hacky pundits but
smart people have looked at and said
this seems problematic right this is
like this is very different is this
gonna turn off voters are you know the
sort of people you need in Iowa New
Hampshire to win are they gonna be
concerned about this and the answer is
maybe right absolutely and like Harry
Entin longtime friend of the pod
basically said like tweeted yesterday
like sincerely what is Beto doing here
like what is he actually trying to do
and I think the only answer to that
question is he's just being Beto and
like this is who he works for this is
how things work that's right yeah and
he's like if he try if Beto and it said
I am going to go on a you know let me
let me start again like when the report
came out that he might go on a road trip
right everyone who's been in politics
for a long time their head went exactly
to all the other fake listening tours
people gone on like oh he can go here
and he kids randomly stop by a hockey
practice in Iowa and and shockingly the
Des Moines Register photographer will
already be there how did that happen
well the ads of suburban moms who were
undecided
Wow really just happen to be around a
large table with good camera access at a
diner in New Hampshire it's like so
really man thank God Jose peach and pie
had some spotlights in the background so
we get this thing lit ahead what he
really meant was he was gonna go talk to
people and he was not gonna do it and
this is this is who he is this is how he
ran it was good enough to make himself a
national sensation in Texas and almost
unseat Ted Cruz will it be enough to win
the president I have no idea but if he
were to try to run like everyone else he
would definitely lose and so like I have
no idea if it's gonna work it could
completely backfire but the only path to
victory is something that sort of looks
like this I think yeah and what he
should know and his campaigns you know
if they do this is it will confound the
DC press corps and the pundits and I do
not think he will be the candidate
a score in the pundits because they are
very allergic to anything that seems
different and they are very cynical and
so you know when you're saying I'm just
gonna talk to people I'm gonna
livestream it and it's gonna be about
you know I'm gonna try to inspire a
movement all that kind of stuff when you
say that to people just to the people
who you know make a living writing and
talking about politics they are gonna be
more than skeptical they're gonna be
cynical about it and they are likely
going to mock it and we know this
because they did that to Obama for many
many months at the beginning of 2007
2008 I can remember when Barack Obama
went to the DNC winter meeting early in
2007 and said I think you know that our
greatest challenge is not even the other
party or anything that it's cynicism
it's the cynicism people have about
politics he was mocked mocked by so many
pundits for saying that and lo and
behold people in the country actually
said ya know that that is actually a
huge problem right now is our cynical
about ours our cynicism about this
political system and the question is can
we do something about it as citizens to
change it and so I do but I think I
think his campaign would have to be
ready for that and have to be prepared
with dealing with reporters because it
ain't gonna be easy
yeah for sure okay when we come back we
will have Dan's interview with Natasha
Bertrand
you
