well holy the election is here it
is nigh it is not it is nine five things
that we wanna remind you of before you
go cast that big beautiful ballot we
even have an acronym to help you
remember rips piss Tommy kick us off
step one of rips make sure you're
registered are okay are there's a lot of
Republicans out there who want to throw
you off the rolls you got a check you
might think you're registered but if you
registered recently or a long time ago
just check go to vote save America com
see if you're registered next its I for
I D listen here's the thing all right
some states they make you show up with
an ID because they actually are trying
to stop people from voting who don't
watch Fox News and got their drivers
license in 1997 pee pees from polling
location maybe you're like I know where
my polling location is I vote there all
the time well guess what it could have
changed they're changing them all the
time so go put in your zip code on vote
save America calm check to make sure you
know where your polling location is so
you can go vote at the right place
because they don't let you vote at the
wrong place s yeah stay in line if you
get there before the polls close they
have to let you vote so stay in line
bring a sandwich bring a friend now it's
time for another P because we're up to
Rip's provisional ballots if they try to
turn you away because you're not on the
thing
don't let them you are legally required
to get a provisional ballot so you've
checked your ID you know where your
polling place is you're there you waited
in line and they're telling you no you
say give me that provisional ballot I'm
gonna fill out a provisional ballot you
can't turn me away unless I filled out a
provisional ballot there are also
additional resources from 866 our vote
at vote save America they got lawyers on
the case some kind of a one of those one
of those war rooms where there's lawyers
being like we need a writ yeah get me
the governor just remember the only
thing you have to remember from this
whole video is reversible rips and votes
save America calm just vote please it's
not that hard root soup
