ready mmm sure am alright welcome to pod
save America I'm Jon Favreau I'm John
Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor today in the pod
you'll hear our interview with Anna
Maria archila one of the women who
confronted Jeff Flake on Friday in
Washington right before he called for a
one-week FBI investigation into
allegations against Brett Kavanaugh
we'll also be talking about the
investigation itself and what the debate
over Cavanaugh's nomination is going to
mean for the elections
did you know vember discuss with her at
all the fact that she's the first person
ever to hold an elevator door and have a
conversation in a way that wasn't
horrible no that's too bad did you call
her back but I didn't need to because
you made the joke anyway so there was a
space for the joke
no first we're gonna talk about love
adore leave oh we know we like to call
love we had an awesome lover leave it ii
in studio episode because we had to
cancel two shows because i was sick two
weeks ago we had a great time that's too
much information at this point let's
just do this again that was a while ago
well we had an awesome lover leave it in
studio we were joined by a guy Branum
lewis rotelle akilah hughes great guest
only problem is when you say guy brando
next to Lewis foretell someone is gonna
bring up Glenn Close and you're not
gonna be able to stop it from happening
but we got through that part and it was
all very funny uh-huh and great that's
good
also a reminder vote save America com
get on that website register to vote
check your registration for everyone on
the YouTube stream I'm wearing the merch
and holding up a box that says vote save
America commie is a human billboard for
votes in America right now get on it you
month we want people to pledge to vote
to register to vote we're calling it
pledge astir it's no because those
registration deadlines are fast
approaching very fast so you should if
you don't know what the registration
deadline is in your state go to vote
save America calm and check or just
register just do it today please that's
the best part about the website it's not
just for registering all kinds of
information registration deadlines
what's going on in your state important
elections go hang out unless you like
having a government of sex criminals
right right right if you like that then
forget what we just said just hang out
okay let's get to the news the Senate's
final floor vote on Brit Cavanaugh's
nomination to the Supreme Court has been
delayed a week to allow for an
investigate investment
has been delayed a week to allow for an
FBI investigation into credible
allegations that Cavanaugh sexually
assaulted women in the past initially
the White House gave the FBI a list of
just four people to question who they've
reportedly already conducted interviews
with Martha Rowe
yeah mark judge PJ Smith high school
friends of Cavanaugh's that dr.
Christine Boise Ford said were at the
gathering where she was assaulted
Leland Kizer a high school friend of
Ford's who she also placed at the
gathering and Deborah Ramirez a woman
who's accused Kavanaugh of assaulting
her in college on Monday the White House
said the FBI has been authorized to
interview whoever they see fit so long
as they complete the investigation by
Friday when Mitch McConnell has promised
a final vote on Kavanagh guys why would
the White House initially limit the
scope of the investigation if they're so
confident in Cavanaugh's innocence hmm
what was going on there and thought
about it that way hmm it's almost as if
they're less interested in finding out
what happened and more being able to
show something to Jeff Flake that Jeff
Flake can call something so that they
can get his vote this week for Capitol I
would like to note that it says a lot
about the state of our politics in 2018
that Jeff Flake asking the FBI to do the
absolute bare minimum to get to the
bottom of a very very credible by the
White House's own admission allegation
of sexual assault about a future Supreme
Court nominee is treated as a heroic act
that doesn't seem heroic in any way to
me that seems like the obvious thing you
would do the bare minimum the bare
minute well also the whole thing gets a
60 Minutes interview now once once they
all were forced to go along with Jeff
Lakes plan for a one-week delay the
previous day's events look all the more
ridiculous
yes making this about the performance of
two people on television to determine
whether or not somebody belongs on the
Supreme Court denying that the idea of
suggesting that the idea of a delay is
somehow giving in to a democratic dirty
trick all of it Lindsey Graham losing
his
then by the time the next day and they
lost a flake they were just for it and
the fact that they turned out to have
been for it tells you that all of that
should have happened before the hearing
right and it also
argues against the Republican theory of
the case here which is that this entire
thing is a Democratic smear job because
they're just want to hold the seat open
long enough to make sure we get past the
midterm elections and then take it
because Chris Coons who Democrat from
Delaware who worked with flake to call
for this extra week was basically like
all we want is a week or you know or we
we're not gonna do we're not trying to
do what you say we're trying to do we
just want an investigation and then we
will give you your vote to thoughts on
that one dr. Blasi Ford raised these
disconcerting allegations before not
Kevin I was nominated the Supreme Court
so we know this wasn't some democratic
dirty trick or two Axios floated a
recommendation by the White House today
to hold open the seat till 2020 if
Cavanaugh doesn't get confirmed because
they like the politics that we're gonna
talk about again they are just massive
massive hypocrites so that's the FBI
investigation like it was confusing
reading these reports over the weekends
it felt like the FBI didn't have clear
guidance and that they were letting the
press know that to send a message to the
White House and then Trump would then
tweet I want this to be you know as
credible an investigation as we can get
I thought actually Kellyanne Conway's
interview with with Jake Tapper on CNN
was like pretty reasonable if if they
can only interview these four
individuals that you named earlier like
that is a whitewashing if they can't
follow up on dr. Ford's claim that she
ran into Marc judge at a Safeway and she
can't figure out records from Safeway
about whether he worked there at the
time to corroborate it that's ridiculous
um but it does sound like it's pushing
in a direction where they're gonna do
more and more they did a guy's gonna let
the investigation take it where it takes
them but they're not gonna like open up
if they found some banking crime in his
past they wouldn't then dig into them
right and of course someone was lying
here because NB saber NBC reported that
the White House was limiting the scope
rush of White House deputy press
secretary responded by being no
absolutely not we're just letting the
Senate do what they do and then as you
know to tell me like Kelly and Conway
and others over the weekend we're
basically no no no we don't want to
limit the investigation at all we know
that it was at least limited initially
because over the basically on Sunday
there's a story from in The New Yorker
from Jane Mayer and Ronan Farrow
detailing all the different ways that
potential witnesses tried to reach out
to the FBI and basically couldn't get
through
Elizabeth razor high school friend of
mark judge reached out to the FBI but
got no response a classmate of Deborah
ramirez's who said he was a hundred
percent certain that he heard the story
about Cavanaugh assaulting her a few
days after it happened tried to reach
out he had to end up calling the tip
line as you said there were reports the
FBI couldn't even contact the safe way
that Mark judge worked at to and verify
that he was employed at the time that
dr. Ford said she contacted him so they
were quite they did try to limit the
investigation well first of all they
have limited the investigation
investigation is limited its limited
time limited and and like we should all
just this is ridiculous compromise this
is a lifetime appointment somebody that
could be there for 40 years they've
already decided that they can only he
can only be disqualified if he can find
it in six days like it's a game show
right like it's supermarket sweep for
crimes but the but even even by that
standard I think the truth is we just
don't know every person every person
refuting the idea that they have tried
to limit the scope is a world-famous
liar so I think it seems like it's
probably somewhere in the middle whether
they tried to limit it and then had to
walk it back or left some limits in
place that give them the ability to
claim there aren't limits I just don't
think we know what do we think they
finally relented
I mean clearly Jeff Flake had them in a
position where they had no choice yeah
Jeff flake flake not only changed his
mind
and won against his previous public
statement that he was gonna vote for
Cavanaugh but he called Colin's
Murkowski and he worked a bunch of
Democrats so they wouldn't have had the
votes on the floor if if McConnell had
tried to call it on Friday like they had
planned so they had to do this they'd no
other choice and what have we learned so
far since the investigation was expanded
and sort of held for another week here
about Bret Cavanaugh I mean we've
learned over the week I don't know that
we learned this but there's more and
more evidence corroborating the claims
that Brett Kavanaugh was a sloppy drunk
a frequent drunk maybe a violent or
belligerent drunk today we learned that
he was questioned by police after a bar
fight in 1985
i barf I'd that his classmates said he
started because Cavanaugh mistook some
random guy at a bar for the lead singer
of ub40 which is for you kids out there
a British reggae band probably don't
like and then threw a beer at the guy so
one who the is in a fight after
ub40 concert it's like reggae is not
really fighting music - we know that
Brett Kavanaugh was like drunk a lot and
kind of a kind of a belligerent guy and
also trumpet his press conference today
talked about Cavanaugh's drinking in
high school as if he had an alcohol
problem it was really pretty remarkably
different in tone so again we this
confirms what we knew at the time which
was a Kavanagh did everything he could
to cover up high to lie about his
drinking before the committee so the new
argument from conservatives is that you
know Democrats are moving the goal posts
by urging the FBI to investigate
Cavanaugh's drinking and lying what do
we think of that why is the drinking why
is why is him being having a drinking
problem relevant to the case it does in
college well it's it's certainly
relevant because it's part of the fact
pattern of the of at least two claims of
sexual assault but but separate even
from that you know there's this strain
of argument now among conservatives
which is can you listen yourselves
you're talking about throwing ice at a
bar T talk about how much a kid drank in
high school we don't care about that we
don't care about that at all it is the
fact that Brett Kavanaugh lied under
oath repeatedly as a means of diffusing
and refuting claims that he drunkenly
assaulted women on multiple occasions
and as part of his refuting of those
stories he made pretty incredible claims
about his behavior that he never blacked
out or had to piece together memories
that devil's triangle was a drinking
game that he couldn't drink during the
week because he had work the next day
you know those high school kids that
can't have a beer or two because they
have work in the morning even though on
his calendar on July 1st which is the
date that the FBI should look into it's
a Thursday night and he said you know
having skis with the boys at Timmy's or
whoever with PJ and squee and Mark judge
and the rest of the crew so he
he lied about that in his own calendar
refuted the refuted his ally you have
you have a bunch of what are ultimately
trivial lies lies about what he did when
he was drunk lies about what he did when
he was in high school lies about who he
hung out with but they all add up they
all they are part of what is to me seems
like a bigger lie which is the kind of
person he is yes the kind of person
who's respectful of women the kind of
person who wouldn't do that
so it's this mix of these trivial and
big lies which is why his his behavior
in college and high school matter so
much if you're gonna look me in the eye
and tell me that Beach we've Beach week
Ralph's Club means you threw up from a
spicy food I don't think you deserve to
be a judge in small claims court like we
all know those people that lie about
little things to our face and everyone
hates them because they're not
trustworthy they're not honest with you
they're not real and this guy's gonna
define do you know like set the course
legally for the country for four decades
well and this is why this is important
because you no longer have to ask
yourself what Brett Kavanaugh was like
or did thirty five years ago you just
have to ask yourself what Brett Kavanagh
has been like through this confirmation
process and the answer to that question
is a very openly partisan liar yes yeah
yes and there's this trick also that's
being played which is you start from
this question was Brett Kavanaugh honest
there's only one answer that question if
you're being intellectually serious no
he was not honest but then you take a
step away from that and you go did Brett
Kavanaugh commit perjury well that's a
little trickier I'm not a lawyer what's
technically perjury does it meet the
threshold of perjury but that's not even
enough then you take another step which
is do you have evidence to prove that
Brett Kavanaugh committed perjury now of
a sudden we're trying to produce
evidence to refute lies that he gave on
the stand the standard versa Preem court
justice shouldn't be did they lie so
thoroughly and repeatedly and leave
enough of a paper trail that we can
dispositively prove that he committed
perjury it's not supposed to be closed
he's supposed to be a judge this goes
back to the Republicans framing of this
they wanted to appear like a trial and
so they want you know the standard to be
beyond a reasonable doubt for both
sexual assault and perjury right and
Democrats in most of the country because
we have done this throughout history
when we've nominated people to Supreme
Court and had hearings it's a job
interview
it is a job interview for a lifetime
appointment to the most powerful court
in the land that's what this is yeah and
also I would say that Brett Kavanaugh
has some pretty strong opinions about
perjury and whether or not it's a
serious crime and if somebody should be
say removed or impeached over it he says
yes and he doesn't even care if the
perjury is over a private sexual matter
he's very much in favor of impeaching
people for their for lying about private
sexual matters and I would say that the
evidence that Bill Clinton committed
perjury is not a hell a lot stronger
than the evidence that Brett Kavanaugh
repeatedly committed perjury in various
confirmation hearings since he's been
nominated to be a lower court judge and
I was supreme court judge I do think
that the other argument against
Cavanaugh's nomination confirmation that
has sort of emerged since his testimony
on Thursday is not just that he has
proven himself to be dishonest over and
over again big things and little things
but the fact that he sort of revealed
himself to be this naked partisan yeah
extreme partisan so the Portland Press
Herald which is the biggest newspaper in
Maine Susan Collins hope you're paying
attention this is a quote from their
editorial over the weekend quote we have
never had a Supreme Court nominee who
ripped off the nonpartisan mask the way
Cavanaugh did Thursday and identified
himself as an enemy of a political party
that represents the policy preferences
of millions of Americans and you think
back to that Testament his opening
remarks which he wrote which he had time
to look over which is not something that
he just said on the spur of the moment
and he looked and he's talked about you
know floated a conspiracy theory about
people are attacking him because this is
revenge on behalf of the Clintons and
then he said you know what what goes
around comes around issues a threat like
that that what goes around comes around
like if I end up on this Court you're
all gonna be sorry I mean it was
crazy
the revenge on me have a look that what
goes around comes around like this is
clearly a very angry man
the revenge on behalf of the Clintons
that is silly nonsense
because nobody's doing this for the like
they may be angry that Donald Trump is
president a lot of those Democrats are
angry Donald Trump is president and they
don't want you on the Supreme Court they
don't like your policies they don't like
your your position as a judge that's all
true but nobody's doing this to get for
Hillary sake nobody's doing this real
clinseq nobody gives a that's not
about this you're like on the list of
reasons I oppose Brett Kavanaugh like
his role in the in the Ken Starr look I
do have some sympathy for the broader
point that the confirmation process can
be so bruising and awful for people in
all kinds of positions that why would
you ever take an administration job
remember our friend Tom cotton
Republican from Arkansas held an Obama
nominee until she died right died to
help you know to stick it to President
Obama but I mean that's not a new
phenomenon and I and I go back to
Lindsey Graham's red-faced screaming
tirade that didn't once mention the
feelings needs obligations to a woman
who sat before him just hours earlier
talking about a very credible accusation
of sexual assault he he did not care
about getting to the bottom of those
allegations he only cared about what it
meant for his rich powerful friend Brett
Kavanaugh and that's why like I'm
getting very frustrated with a lot of
the reporting on the broader process
over the weekend that's like Washington
once again is it's at a new low like
both sides are doing it I mean on the
one hand regardless of how do you think
Dianne Feinstein handled the knowledge
of dr. Ford's accusations at the end of
the day Democrats are trying to get to
the bottom of a highly credible sexual
assault allegation about a possible
Supreme Court justice and Republicans
are doing nothing to sincerely
investigate those claims and in fact
they brought someone in they outsource
their role to attack the victim so spare
me this both sides this is what
the Senate is supposed to do this this
is their job to look into these well
also and it's not just Democrats that
want to get to the bottom of this either
like you know Jeff Flake wanted to get
to the bottom of it Susan Collins Lisa
Murkowski wanted to get to the bottom of
it so don't say it's like oh
Washington's falling apart just because
one party
decided to go out of their minds
and try to ram this person through on
Thursday wanting a week to have the FBI
look into the matter was a bot was a
partisan trick by the craftiest person
in the world Dianne Feinstein the
mastermind the super criminal genius who
plotted this whole thing out she knew
when dr. Ford's testimony would come out
she interacts out there it's sort of a
whatever that was Thursday then Friday
when Jeff Flake can't look his friend
Chris Coons in the eye and say that he
believes it's a partisan conspiracy ends
up becoming it ends up in favor of the
exact same one-week delay it's no longer
I know you're a part of this trick is
that so verdict the most incredible
thing from that 60 minutes interview is
when they asked Jeff like do you think
you could have done this
if you were still running for office
again and he without even missing a beat
said oh absolutely not
of course not like really no knees like
no I couldn't have asked for a week
delay if I was running for office I mean
what does that say about the Republican
Party the Republican base and the
Republican media that if Jeff Flake was
running for another term in Arizona
he could not have done the simple most
common-sense thing that everyone knew
that should be done which is to ask for
an extra week for this investigation
I'll tell you what I was thinking when I
saw what Jeff Flake was doing I was like
oh god that is politically really savvy
because when the committee hearing was
started starting I had the sort of pit
in my stomach and the pit in my stomach
was Jeff Lee puts out the statement
saying is voting yes and of course he is
because on if he votes no he personally
sank this guy and he doesn't want to do
that if he votes yes in the committee
he's inputting it making it impossible
for him to kind of change his mind and
vote no the next day with Collins and
Murkowski if they may want to vote no so
he created this circuit he created this
third pathway where he could vote YES in
committee while still reserving the
right to vote with a group of the
moderates or whatever the so-called
moderates but I thought was like that
was pretty savvy and then all of a
sudden I'm looking this I'm like when's
the last time we had a moment like this
it was John McCain voting down the
health care bill no John McCain has gone
Jeff Flake
did something on the path to doing the
right thing which few and the committee
have done as Republicans he's gonna be
gone one by one the people willing to do
the hard thing on the Republican side
are disappearing right there's just
nothing that's it odd they on the way
out one of my big takeaways from that
committee hearing was like we should
really think hard about term limits some
of those people should be out of there
Orrin Hatch should have been gone a
decade ago Grassley oh my god just did
they're not great leadership if I think
about the Republican they would put in
place of Jeff Flake on a committee of
Jeff Flake Warren here not a guy that's
gonna not a not a no no not another
person who's gonna look into Chris Coons
his eyes but and feel a stirring of
conscience but I have to say I am NOT a
Mitt Romney fan but I would have much
preferred Mitt Romney to be on that
committee than Orrin Hatch I mean
someone with a yeah I can also pause and
say over the years I've made
light-hearted jokes about Chris Coons
and just as a kind of a boring guy a guy
you don't know anything about just a
stand-in for like Tom Carper the other
side exactly I would say something along
though maybe even right now am i doing
it I would say something like who can
compete with a rock star like Chris
Coons you know and the implication is
that he's not a rock star yeah you kind
of Harry's MVM tetum and I just want to
end that by saying this was a compliment
I guess Chris Coons good job this way to
you here's to you you and an elevator
door held open at the right moment by
our Navy very well changed at least for
a few days the course of this nomination
we shall see let's talk about the
politics around the Supreme Court fight
especially as it relates to the midterms
we have a few new polls from CBS Yuga of
Quinnipiac Politico and Reuters that all
show similar results one more Americans
believe Ford than they do Cavanaugh two
more Americans are opposed to his
confirmation than supportive of it
and the numbers have generally become
worse for Cavanaugh over the last week
with the exception of Republican voters
and especially Republican men who are
slightly more supportive but Democratic
men and women are heavily heavily
opposed and independent men and women
are slightly opposed also pulling
credibly well amongst men names squee we
don't know we don't know what's qui
thinks because he wasn't on the witness
list but maybe they're FBI is talking to
squeeze we speak squeak I think we all
had friends with dumb nicknames in the
high school yeah no of course
anything else surprise you guys in these
numbers in some of the some of the
polling I am surprised at the numbers
think pieces that are being written
about these numbers and so yeah I do I
honestly I feel like this fight will
feel like a lifetime ago when we get to
the polls I'm hopeful that it will
remind Democrats that we need a check on
the Trump administration writ large I
suspect that a lot of Republican voters
vote on judicial issues generally and it
might turn them out I think it's
impossible to know what that's gonna do
yeah one of the surprises to me to your
point Tommy is the the YouGov poll it
has 60% of Democrats saying the Supreme
Court will be very important to deciding
their vote in 2018 48% of independent
said that only 46% of Republicans say
that that I think that is true is
different than any poll that has ever
been taken about Supreme Court cuz it's
always been a Republican base issue and
our fear for a long time had been we
can't get Democrats motivated enough
about the Supreme Court as a big issue
to vote on ah and they finally figured
it out right we're about to lose the
court for 40 years it's frustrating
better late than never guys thanks for
voting on the Supreme Court after he
gets two judges
he is the now he is the most unpopular
nominee of all time on the Supreme Court
Brett Kavanaugh that is the easy has
that distinction in all seriousness I
think there's two things to take from
the polling one is how will it affect
whether or not Cavanaugh gets on the
court I don't know we don't know but
this is now not about sort of national
polling this is about what Susan Collins
will do Lisa Murkowski Oh Jeff Flake
will do Donald Trump will do and I feel
like that's not as that's not as
responsive to the moving of these polls
and the second thing is what happens to
those polling and to the importance of
this issue whether Cavanaugh is
confirmed confirmed or not and again we
have no idea what are the reasons I
bring up the polling is because there
was a New York Times piece that ran over
the weekend about how Republican leaders
feel that while the debate over
Cavanaugh might cost them control of the
house it might actually help them
maintain their majority and
Senate and here's their reasoning quote
by muscling forward with a floor vote
next week Republicans would also imperil
several Senate Democrats from strongly
conservative states who've opposed Judge
cabin are expressed ambivalence about
his nomination yet in doing so
Republicans would energize many
Democrats and a share of independents
and suburban congressional districts and
big state governor's races where female
voters were already enraged yeah do we
buy this I read that piece and I was one
of the reasons I scoffed I think piece
is generally her like I don't know maybe
they're right those are smart reporters
it's the kind of thing it's like why the
stock market go up today I don't know
people had people had a good birthday
party I will just say this in in the
pile of evidence against the contention
from this piece that we now have a bunch
Democrats are facing maybe the toughest
Senate map they've ever faced all these
red states Center is up in really tough
races and yet no and these are all
cautious people in fact we've criticized
a lot of them for being too cautious the
only person who's up who or two people
the only two people who are up in 18
that haven't announced their vote on
kavanah yet is joe Manchin in West
Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp and notably
Donnelly in Indiana came out strongly
against the nomination before flake
flaked and that's I think because he
understands that he needs the base to
turn out for him and that's how you're
gonna win in a midterm that is
incredibly important point that Joe
Donnelly and Indiana looked at this
adduct himself this is a conservative
state and yet I feel comfortable
opposing this nomination
partly because I know that the
volunteers I need the people are going
to help turn out the vote are not gonna
show up unless I unless I vote no on
this which shows you that activism work
and pressure on these senators works I'd
also say good for Joe Donnelly Joe
Manchin was looking this at as a tough
vote and a tough choice before the
allegations before all these stories
before Cavanaugh is terrible performance
before Cavanaugh perjured himself and so
if you're on the fence about something
and then you learn all this new how
wide of a fence are you sitting
on you know you're that humpty-dumpty
the right side Joe don't fall in the
wrong so Jeff all on the right side Joe
Manchin
uh just as an example of how Republicans
V this Tommy you mentioned this earlier
Axios quoted a trump advisor this
weekend who said that if Cavanaugh's
nomination tanks hail advise the
president to hold off on nominating
anyone else until 2020 because
polarization in the Supreme Court would
be an energizing issue for his
re-election campaign this advisor this
advisor told Jonathan Swan that if
Democrats when the Senate under no
circumstances should Trump nominate a
compromise candidate this sounds
batshit crazy to me but what do you guys
think I got a feel like this is first of
all I don't believe it
second of all this feels like it's my
believe what the person set it to school
reporting is that I believe that the
reporting is accurate I believe that the
position is made up in the moment and I
believe it's a lot more about pressuring
people around Kavanagh than it is around
Donald Trump's plan in 2019 as if Donald
Trump is like wait walk me through the
calendar I also yeah I also think that
like Donald Trump doesn't actually care
about judicial nominations in any way
shape or form
he probably barely knew what they did
for a living until he got the job but
like the Federalist Society does like
the Leonard leo big money donor
right-wing zealots that grow Brett
Cavanaugh's and their petri dishes they
care and they're gonna be like we're not
waiting til you lose reelection
potentially we're gonna do this right
now I'm like we're just gonna put
forward someone that wasn't a
belligerent drunk who potentially did
terrible things like put forward Amy
Barrett and and call it a day yeah it's
it struck me as like why are they giving
up this easily I wouldn't go McConnell's
not giving up this easily like but
that's why it's a it's a way of
signaling to people yeah the base and
just to the activists and the writers
and the National Review writers the
smart ones their best intellectuals and
bonuses and a lot of intellectual
Zamboni I'm saying crazy are but Trump
saying crazy but I will write a
thousand word piece about why it is the
right thing to do even though I have
criticized Trump in the past
let me think so hard my brain falls out
and lands on a pile of iron ran books
and then absorbs the text of those and
ran books and it jumps back in my head
twice is smart
know what I don't know what's going on
what happened I don't know I like it on
the Democratic side
Michael avenatti said over the weekend
that he thinks a full and complete FBI
investigation into Brett Kavanaugh with
impeachment on the line it should be a
litmus test for Democrats seeking the
party's 2020 President presidential
nomination and that the court should be
expanded to include 11 justices midea
son who I know you talked to in the
world that the intercept also wrote a
piece about this saying Democrats should
rebalance the court next time they're in
power is this a good idea I am not aware
I worked on national security policy I
spent exactly zero minutes working about
judicial nominations at the White House
so caveats aside but I think when you
start floating ideas like packing the
courts you're getting it to Banana
Republic territory you're getting to
Hugo Chavez Maduro Venezuela countries
where democracy goes fully off the rails
so I'd love I guess they stole a seat
yes I guess in some ways it's totally
irrelevant what other countries do but
like there are some things that in my
mind should be sacred but why don't we
why don't we have one election for eight
years well like what other laws I can
change right now I understand the
contours in the cake right I know people
on the court is not a sacred I know but
it's it's where we've been since what 18
something it's been changed a bunch we
had six justices it then went to ten
yeah we're talk about the time here it's
in the 1800s and then the Republican
legislature shrank the ten to seven to
stop Andrew Johnson for making
nominations Lincoln added a tenth
justice to try to end slavery and you
know basically Republicans did change
the makeup of the court in 2015 and 2016
when they held it to eight justices so
there's a I know I just think a
permanent change at whatever here's my
my view is it is a serious idea being
stuck with the rules of the number of
judges and what can cannot change which
is basically just handed down to us as
sort of an accepted rule it's no reason
to not explore whether or not that rule
should change I think if you look at the
Supreme Court right now not only do we
have the stolen Garland
and I conserves like only believe it's
stolen if you don't understand we know
it wasn't literally like a
beegley boy with a mask on but you know
was stolen Mitch McConnell Bret
Mitch McConnell at least brags about it
a vetting never did my proudest moment
is looking Barack Obama in the eye and
telling him you're not gonna fill that
seat we're not saying stole like a stole
like a like a crown jewel were saying
stole like a base in baseball they stole
it or whatever anyway go ahead continue
you lost us so there's that on top of
that we have george w bush's nominations
we now have Donald Trump's nominations a
Democratic majority a had a minority of
voters have been selecting the president
who has been selecting Supreme Court
justice for quite some time and I just
think we should be open to the idea I
don't know if it's a good idea
mostly honestly I don't know if it's a
good idea politically like I would love
for there to be possibility for
Democrats to add two judges to the
Supreme Court I don't know if it's a
good idea because I'm not a lawyer you
said but the bigger fear I have is that
politically it is danger oh yeah I like
I just it makes me very nervous I guess
is where I'd land I will say this I've
you know been back and forth on this
originally Tommy I think I was much more
where you are and the more I thought
everyone should read media sounds piece
because it is a very I mean Ivan and he
just just randomly said something but
many assign wrote a very thoughtful
piece about this one thing I didn't
realize is you know I'm like well maybe
it's just easier to impeach Brett
Kavanaugh if you know we find more
allegations after he's on the court
that's tougher than adding to the court
or taking away from the court
impeachment requires two-thirds of the
house in the Senate to add a seat to the
Supreme Court or to take one away would
only require a simple majority in the
house in the Senate two-thirds of the
Senate majority of the house right right
sorry sorry sorry yes so there's so
there's that so it's so it's an easier
thing to do of course that doesn't get
to the problem of is it sort of
with our democracy I guess my biggest
worry is not just to like the value of
the institutions itself and the the you
know the history of it it's Republican
retribution so if Democrats get into
power and we add a we add two justices
to sort of make up for
the stolen seat and Brett Kavanaugh liar
on the Supreme Court then when the
Republicans win well then they add two
more seats to get that and then then
does the court become a political tool
for whatever parties in power to carry
out that party's agenda now some people
will say it already is a lot of this is
sort of addressing a shift that we
struggle to talk about because it's not
quantifiable but the cord has changed it
has become much more divided on
ideological lines you can you know it
you don't know if you can go from before
Bush versus Gore but the fact is now we
do and Cavanaugh's behavior during this
hearing is only a reminder of that we
now have Republican judges and
Democratic judges when we appoint
someone like Elena Kagan we know where
they're gonna likely end up on key
issues same thing for someone like Neil
Gorsuch the mystery and Majesty of the
court where someone like Nixon might
accidentally appoint a liberal where the
ideological makeup of the court was more
opaque and less beholden to partisan
politics is gone and a lot of this is a
response to that part of it why we were
talking about this is it's not because
the card is pop court as partisan as the
court is partisan and we've lost the
court and it has and it has limited our
power dramatically it has already
affected Obama care it has affected a
bunch of different issues yeah I mean I
think in terms of the political what it
would mean politically I mean take this
with a almost decade-long grain of salt
but like I think people think it hurt
Roosevelt and the New Deal coalition
when he tried to pack the courts
politically I think there's also a
question of like what it would do to the
credibility of the court generally and
how it could damage that so that makes
for is we're thinking about it I mean
the the reality is if Democrats win in
2020 and it's not only its it's not just
about okay now Ruth Bader Ginsberg
Contra retire and we can replace
her with liberal justice it basically
means that even if we went in 2020
Clarence Thomas is 71 72 years old that
is the next possible retirement where we
can actually restore the balance of the
court to what it is right now that is a
long long time with a court that will
absolutely we know this because it is so
partisan now you already have Gorsuch
and Cavan on it rule against almost
every major progressive
initiative that comes from a Democratic
president that is a decade or more and
you gotta believe Thomas on that if
there was a Democratic president
Clarence Thomas will hold on to that
seat like that night in the Last Crusade
in that room he will be there for four
hundred years waiting for a for
people to come in and check out the cups
I'm telling you this idea of court
packing court rebalancing today court
buffing it's just sort of court
improvement the court Improvement Act
the court modernization renovation
embedment and and and pre-existing
conditions avenatti natural growth the
court word money out of politics
pre-existing admission court Recovery
and Reinvestment Act court surge the
courts coming out of nowhere Italy it's
actually a response to a deeper problem
which is these nominations have become
in part because of the partisan nature
of it now and because judges are living
so much longer these appointments have
become so important the scale
that we got that part of part of why you
know this is part of why Mitch McConnell
felt it necessary and politically
palatable to hold a Supreme Court seat
in an unprecedented way in the in the
off chance Donald Trump won the White
House the seats have become too
important because they're there for 40
years because the court is polarized and
nobody has a good answer that you can
adding to justice may solve the problem
for us as Democrats but it doesn't solve
the fundamental problem and you know I
don't know if anyone has an obsession
people throw term limits but term limits
is maybe the hardest thing to do because
term limits will require a
constitutional amendment I the one thing
that gives me a little bit of hope yours
no matter what happens with Kavanaugh if
we win the house back I think the
committees will start investigating him
oh yes oh we might get to a place where
his impeachment is far more possible if
he actually did the things he is accused
of but again that's that's not a long
ball we want to be throwing yeah yeah
okay let's move on to our favorite
segment candidate of the day and get the
endorsement drums ready Oh
for all right Antonio Delgado are down
an email
Antonio Delgado is the Democratic
candidate for New York's 19th
congressional district he sounds great
which could which covers parts of New
York's Hudson Valley and Catskills
region ah the Catskills Kutcher's his
opponent is John Fazio who was first
elected to Congress in 2016 5 a 1 by 8
percentage points and the district voted
in favor of Donald Trump however the
19th district voted to elect President
Barack Obama in both 2008 and 12 this is
one of the ya Bhama Trump districts the
cook Political Report as well as 538
have described the race as a toss-up
Tommy what do we know about Antonio
Delgado well John 1 he is a Rhodes
Scholar he's a graduate of Harvard Law
School he's an attorney he's friends
with a bunch of our friends some friends
of the pot yeah Danielle gray who say he
is an incredibly smart thoughtful
impressive individual we also know that
thanks to our sad-sack wannabe policy
wonk friend paul ryan he is facing some
of the most racist ads up this cycle he
one time like rapped on an album or
something and they're making that the
focal point of a whole bunch of race
baiting ads so I think for that alone we
should probably support him and tell
Paul Ryan that he is a despicable human
being yeah he had a successful rap
career briefly and and launched a
hip-hop record label and who hasn't yeah
yeah that's that's a hard thing to do
huh if you're gonna go after him on a
comforter to me for when I do that if
you guys can find Lovitz Rap Album then
you've really hit gold no yeah I mean
the ads are so disgusting
he can't be our voice yes what is his
voice his voice and then they play the
rap his voice is not our voice is what
the ads are saying by the NRCC
condoned by paul ryan and all the
republicans who who say oh we can't
can't make race an issue in our party we
have to drive out these racists that's
what paul ryan said drive them to the
polls jon favreau other hits from him
after promising a constituent with a
brain tumor that he would not vote for
the health care repeal bill
he voted for it he did he voted for it
votes with Trump 90% of the time a
rating from the NRA ran digital ads
promising to keep ms-13 out of New York
featuring an ominous looking for photo
of tattooed Latino man just feather
trying everything he possibly can in an
Obama Trump district to say this is not
about the economy this is not about
checking Donald Trump this is all about
you being scared of an african-american
winning the seat yen ms-13 again this ad
is a by CL f which is Paul Ryan's super
PAC it says he has Delgado has extreme
New York City values he's New York
City's voice not ours City what is that
it is it shows an image of two white
people who they say would pay higher
taxes so it is as blatant as it gets and
Antonio again is a Rhodes Scholar and a
graduate of Harvard Law that is his
qualification at least this time in this
ad when they refer to New York City
values they mean black and not Jewish
hmm that's right that's right anyway
it's a very tight race there's a couple
polls that have showed delgato up a
couple shows that have polls that have
showed them down so it's a toss-up it's
gonna come right down to the wire so you
know if you're foreign to and we I guess
we haven't voted yet should we vote on
even more information I'm leaning I'm
leaning heavily antonio's favor here oh
okay Wow
normally I'm torn love it it's up to you
I'm coming I'm coming out for Delgado as
well I'm going early I don't want to be
one of those fence sitters at the end
that everyone's focusing on you know you
better not put keeps see John Faso and
Congress disqualified all right the
endorsement goes to Antonio Delgado in
the New York 19q the fanfare good work
everyone if you agree you should support
Antonio Delgado help him out he can use
it could be a tough race and he's facing
millions and millions of dollars of
racist ads so I keep see you at the
polls Wow
I'll say this John
give me one second I'm gonna say I'll
say this John Oneonta what I'm working
on an Oneonta fun and they're not coming
normally become so fast leave that in
when we come back we'll have my
interview with Anna Maria archila
negative John 3 John 4 popular democracy
you're supporting John 5 so you might as
well be stony on tit go to vote save
America calm both these people out
you
