[Applause]
we have entered day 34 of the shutdown
eight huh
800,000 government employees have been
caught downwind of Trump 420 thousand of
them are being forced to work without
pay that includes TSA employees who are
relying on mobile food banks and working
without pay at airports the FAA has
called safety inspectors back to work
without pay to carry on safety
inspections
the FDA has stopped some inspections on
food including fruit meat seafood and
vegetables that one's cool because we're
all gonna hit our goal weights
listen alright sometimes the government
shutdown puts you on an all liquid diet
summers around the corner and this
shutdown came along just in time to give
you a case of the they didn't inspect
this properly you know what I'm talking
about
but don't worry Mike Pence and Jared
Kushner have been negotiating a
compromise with each other which is not
how it works
Jared Kushner and Mike Pence sitting at
a table together hammering it out
thinking through the details debating
having differences settling those
differences through the power of logic
and reason and argument not since Thomas
Jefferson and John Adams
debated at Monticello has there been a
more sparkling colloquy between a bigot
and a Harvard kid so here's where we're
at
Trump or as I call him Trump offered
Kushner offered that Kushner deal five
billion dollars for a wall in exchange
for a promise that he'd stopped 240
dreamers it went down in flames Thursday
six Republican senators defected to vote
with Democrats to reopen the government
without that wall funding Nancy Pelosi
or as I call her speaker speaker for
life told Trump he could off on the
State of the Union as long as the
government was closed
Trump then or as I call him what if the
car horn on a Porsche Cayenne became a
person no one good has ever driven a
Porsche Cayenne what kind of psycho I
want the douchiness of a Porsche and the
douchiness of a Range Rover all at once
I want Porsche prices and Range Rover
height if anyone ever goes on a date and
picks you up in a Porsche Cayenne you
you just say sorry you keep going find
another sucker I don't want to get
divorce from you in five years no one in
a Porsche Cayenne has ever had a
successful marriage Porsche Cayenne even
the name Porsche Cayenne
so anyway Trump Trump says he's gonna go
to the Capitol anyway then Nancy tells
him to off again Nancy or as I call
her what if a Prada bag with a gun in it
became a person
anyway Trump blinked which was cool all
right Nancy held her grounded at work
then with his poll numbers plummeting
Trump sent out his team of
septuagenarian billionaire Avengers to
explain to furloughed workers why it's
not so bad here's a clip there are some
federal workers who are going to
homeless shelters to get food well I
know they are and I don't really quite
understand why because as I mentioned
before they the obligations that they
would undertake say a borrowing from the
bank or a credit union are in effect
federally guaranteed so the 30 days of
pay that some people will be out there's
no real reason why they shouldn't be
able to get a loan against it
so obviously Wilbur Ross has no idea how
things work Wilbur trots he should not
be a cabinet secretary that guy does not
belong he should have pea soup in front
of him that is a man who should be very
focused on how hot or hot or not hot his
pea soup is
should be in charge of anything look at
that guy
and apparently all his money is from
stealing maybe Republicans are starting
to crack maybe not but it's so important
that Democrats hold the line because
either we prove that holding the
government hostage doesn't work or we
prove that it does you know when Nancy
Pelosi said that she wasn't gonna let
Trump have the State of the Union people
like Kevin McCarthy they had the
audacity to call it a new low ripping
children from their parents is a new low
workers federal workers paid by the
taxpayer having to go to food
pantries is the new low the delay of a
ceremony or performance doesn't matter
but for the past few weeks there have
been there's been all this pressure on
Democrats to cave all these pundits
saying that they should come to the
table and make a deal that all these
people are suffering but that's because
the people on television they don't care
about actual reasonableness they care
about the performance of reasonableness
they care about things that look serious
not things that are serious that's why
they care more about people acting civil
than the inhumane policies it's why it
matters more when a congress person says
we should impeach the
rather than the obvious fact that he's a
 who ought to be impeached
think that's it's an obvious fact that
every that any sensible person decrying
this on television obviously believes
when the cameras are off you know Trump
thrives in an empty culture that
celebrates this kind of performative
politics he helped invent it and what's
really exciting to me is I think
Democrats finally aren't playing that
game anymore I think we've seen that
through the shutdown I think we've seen
that in the conversation about pretty
progressive policies and putting that in
the early part of this presidential
debate and I think we're seeing it in
what activists have been doing over the
past two years not allowing Republicans
to define what's reasonable because
reasonable is not defined by what
Republicans can get through the Senate
when Fox News isn't looking that is not
reasonable and bipartisan is not you get
a wall to make brown people a
safe coat and we get disaster relief
what kind of a deal is that
and what kind of a deal is made when it
is just accepted and understood that the
president and Republicans can use
federal workers and federal benefits and
the FBI and all the things that our
federal federal government does as
leverage against Democrats as if it's
not all our country and it's not all our
government if we allow them to use the
federal government as leverage they'll
do it again and again and again and
again and it is up to us to not let the
TV pundits and the people who want to
preen about both sides being to blame
because they don't want to live in a
country where we listen to them they
want to live in a country where we hold
the line
[Applause]
[Music]
