okay a lightly redacted version I don't
know how much work that word lightly is
doing there a lightly redacted version
of Special Counsel Robert Muller's
report about his investigation into
Donald Trump and his campaign has
finally finally been made public after
weeks of waiting and one last press
conference from attorney General William
bar and here to walk us through all the
revelations and answer all our questions
is the brilliant natasha bertrand of
Politico who's been covering the story
from the beginning Natasha
welcome to the pod is this the full
exoneration we were promised thank you
for having me um you know it's
interesting because there's clearly and
I'm still reading through it and I don't
want to pretend to have fully digested
all of it but you know it's interesting
just how many contacts there were
between the campaign and the Russians
that we didn't actually even know about
that are outlined in this report in
volume 1 which is the collusion and
conspiracy aspect of the report but
which did not apparently according to
rice the level of a criminal conspiracy
because there wasn't that kind of you
know smoking gun agreement to coordinate
to win the election but you know that's
it's not the Russians from trying and
there's a bunch of new stuff in here
about how you know glad amir putin kind
of enlisted his oligarchs to you know
reach out to the campaign and the
transition team after the election and
how he was very very eager to establish
this kind of direct line of contact with
them as soon as possible and then know
with regard to the obstruction aspect of
this i also haven't gotten a chance to
read through it fully but it looks like
you know in the Muellers the collision
was based at least in part on you know a
decision by the office of legal counsel
at the Department of Justice you know
there but the policy that says they can
indict a sitting president and there's a
line in there that says that you know it
wouldn't have been fair for them to make
a decision when you can't bring a charge
anyway you know just going to point out
that seems to be in direct contrast and
with what bar said during his press
conference today which is that the OLC
policy did not factor in to Muller's
decision to kind of punt on that
question it appears as though it
actually did and also a lot of really
interesting stuff in here about you know
what da McGann told the special counsel
and how angry Trump was when Muller was
actually appointed yeah so I want to dig
into all of the obstruction part of the
report in a bit but just back to the
conspiracy and collusion part what were
the biggest takeaways for you in terms
of the 108 pages in the report that
described contacts between the Trump
campaign and Russia what what sort of
stuck out at you as as new that you
hadn't really known about before you
know this portion of the report was kind
of frustrating because in many instances
Muller would kind of lay out what
witnesses had told him and what the
President had said in his written
answers but would not himself draw a
conclusion as to whether or not those
testimonies were reliable or verifiable
so for example you know there he went
through the Trump Tower meeting stuff
and he said that you know Muller that
Trump and his had not necessarily had
told the office that he did not know
that his kids and his campaign chairman
were going to meet with Gaia and the
Russians to get this dirt on Hillary
Clinton but that the the office really
wasn't able to determine either way
whether or not rhomboids was aware of it
they were just kind of going off of his
his word there but but yeah I mean you
know there's there's a lot of other
stuff in here like the fact that alpha
banks co-founder was enlisted by Putin
to reach out to the Trump transition
directly in order to halt the u.s. from
putting more sanctions on Russia and to
kind of establish this better
relationship with the campaign and with
the incoming administration which is
interesting because of course ours we
all know there's this weird connection
between the Alpha bank server and the
Trump Organization for
that's never actually been fully
explained and that is also not really
molar doesn't go into the Alpha bank
server stuff in this report for what I
can tell so you know that's kind of an
interesting role for alpha there and
then of course there's also a whole lot
of stuff about the head of Russia and
sovereign wealth fund who you know
reached out to the campaign via various
contacts and tried especially hard to
get in touch with Jared Kushner and
Donald Trump jr. to facilitate this kind
of backdoor channels
Muller you know reaffirmed that Kushner
wanted to set up a back-channel using
Russian embassy facilities talk about
Syria and then you know another
interesting saying about Muller
apparently discovered was about the
infamous PJs which is that apparently
Michael Coleman was told that the tape
and any other kind of tapes were that
might exist of compromising information
of Trump were fake and that he had you
know an associate over there had
effectively stopped those tapes from
being disseminated to the media and you
know more more wisely so a couple of
interesting interesting things in there
but overall this is a lot of what we
already knew and again it's a little bit
frustrating because Muller doesn't
actually draw a lot of independent
conclusions including about the U and
the Ukraine platform change at the RNC
convention which he says look you know
JD Gordon told us this this other person
told us this we didn't find any evidence
that it was directed by Russia or
directed by Trump directly but you know
we still don't really know why this
action was taken possession there was
another element of the Trump teams
efforts to collude I guess or to
participate in the conspiracy that they
failed have just been in where it talks
about trunk directing Michael Flynn to
try to get Hillary's emails and talks
about Trump directing or Flynn reaching
out to two people Peter Smith which we
sort of knew about from public reporting
and this Grassley staffer named Barbara
Blandine and ultimately I was I mean
that seems like a pretty big bombshell
to me what was your reaction to that
revelation to the report yeah you're
totally right
totally left that out by accident that's
a huge fun that's that's absolutely
massive you know I guess the context
early a surprise but the president
wanted to find Clinton's emails he had
made that pretty clear but the fact that
he actually directed Michael for him to
do it kind of connects a lot of dots
that we hadn't known about before we
were trying to kind of figure out Peter
Smith's relationship with Michael Flynn
and we could never determine what kind
of communication they had with regard to
the Clinton email search but now we know
that it was actually direct request from
Flynn computer Smith to keep doing this
project because you know it's not that
Peter Smith initiated the search on
Michael friend's request because he had
apparently been looking for the emails
from December of 2015 and that oneself
is notable because you know that is
around the time that Russia started to
you know hack into the TMC it's when you
know the Russians were kind of preparing
to release the stolen emails and
figuring out how they were going to
disseminate them so all this is kind of
happening simultaneously and they're
saying to know when you when you think
about whether or not a crime was
committed here the only saving grace it
seems like was that Peter Smith was a
little bit in confident he really wanted
to you know connects with the Russian
hackers he told a cybersecurity
researcher named that Tate that you know
that he really didn't have any you know
objection to connecting with dark web
hackers even if they were Russian
because he just wanted to find the email
so that had happened and it's you know
if Peter Smith at the direction of
someone on the campaign was was
effectively helping and encouraging the
Russian for hack the Democrats and that
would have been a very serious crime but
because Muller was never able to even
Muller was able to establish that he
never actually made that contact it
appears as though they were kind of let
off the hook on this one yeah it does
seem like in quite a few places the
behavior of Trump and his campaign sort
of walked right up to the edge of
criminality and might have gone over
that edge were it not for either people
deleting communications via you know
secure communications channels like you
know what's a poor signal or their own
sort of bumbling and competence like you
just said I mean I
was very interesting about the famous
Trump Tower meeting and they talked
about like you know a big question has
been why hasn't why wasn't done Junior
indicted basically Muller says the
government would unlikely to be able to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
June 9th meeting participants had
general knowledge that their contact the
conduct was unlawful the investigation
has not developed evidence that the
participants in the meeting were
familiar with the foreign contribution
ban or the application of federal law to
the relevant factual context so I guess
that means that if Don jr. and company
didn't know that what they were doing
was possibly committing a crime then
they didn't commit the crime right and
this is one of these weird areas I think
and Ryan Goodman of my you for saying
this also which is the campaign finance
law is one of those weird areas of the
law were ignorant since the law actually
is kind of an excuse yeah and it's you
know again the fact that they were so
unfamiliar with the imaginations of how
to run a campaign and you know the ins
and outs of campaign finance regulations
really I guess does seem to save them
here because it's very clear that they
were prepared to accept you know foreign
a foreign contribution to the campaign
that would have been very valuable to
them I mean if they had been given
anything of youth by the Russians with
regard to Hillary Clinton then this
whole scenario would have turned out
very differently I think yeah Natasha
I'm I wanted to you know the last time
you were on the podcast which was right
around the time of bars confirmation and
now you know he's been confirmed he had
this press conference today I wanted to
get your reaction to his performance
what was surprising to you was the stuff
that was troubling it was unique to say
the least yeah yeah that's that's a
generous way to put it Dargis I'll just
say what I've heard from you know former
DOJ officials and legal experts and
people on both sides of the aisle who
watch this which is that it it was
striking to them in the first instance
how often are you
the president language lycra Batum
language to describe what can considered
to be the top-line findings of Muller's
report which is no collusion you know he
said that many many times and he
completely neglected to mention any of
the many many Americans who were
indicted as a result of this
investigation I mean if you've been just
listening to his press conference and
had not been following anything that had
happened in the last two years you
wouldn't even know that the president
you know campaign chairman deputy
campaign chairman National Security
Advisor personal lawyer were all
indicted as a result in this
investigation and his you know his
categorical statement that there was no
collusion for example by the campaign
completely leaves out the myriad you
know inappropriate contact that members
of his campaign did have with Russians
maybe not Russian government officials
but certainly with Russia link nationals
that's something that you would you
would never know if you just gotten bars
version of this and not been able to
read the report yourself you would have
never known you know that Putin was
enlisting his oligarchs to reach out to
the transition team and try to establish
these back-channel lines of
communication to an administration that
was very naive and very susceptible to
any kind of influence let alone foreign
influence from our country that the
president was already very sympathetic
to so you know it was it was clear very
clear to the experts I'll say that we're
listening to this that the main purpose
of it was to set the narrative I think
it's very obvious and to create this
kind of PR span and create an
environment where the report might land
on a softer cushion I don't think it had
the intended effect on people who have
been able to and who have wanted to read
the full report but you know it
certainly created headlines for a couple
hours and I think that's what ultimately
they were trying to do but but again you
know this is new terrain in general the
United States is not the president's
personal attorney and you know one
former FBI official who left the who
left the FBI in 2017 told me any in
you know reason to give him the benefit
of the doubt has now completely
evaporated yeah I mean look before bars
letter ever came out it seemed like
legal experts the majority of legal
experts said here's the deal
you know Department of Justice
guidelines say that you can't indict
ascending president
so if Muller really finds all this
evidence of obstruction what it what
he's going to say or what he's going to
try to communicate is this is up to
Congress this is why you have
impeachment proceedings because it's
Congress's job to hold the president
accountable while in office because a
sitting president can't be indicted
isn't that essentially almost exactly
what Muller says in this report yeah
yeah no exactly and you know I also
think that the idea that bar would just
go ahead and clear the president of
obstruction on this one was was
obviously a very deliberate deliberate
move there is no reason why he should
have been involved in that decision but
then again you have to no legitimate
reason why he should have been involved
knowing the kind of public pressure that
that you know this report and the
investigation was under and the scrutiny
it was under but that being said the
regulations are kind of what they're
confined to at this point so the special
counsel regulations were a complete over
correction from the star era right right
and and so what you have now is is the
Special Counsel is directly accountable
to the Attorney General and the Attorney
General if he wanted you didn't even
have to release the report at all now
that would have been politically you
know completely unacceptable
and there would have been you know a lot
of hell to pay if if he hadn't released
it to Congress at least but they are
kind of victim to the regulations which
do not provide a mechanism by which
Muller could go directly to Congress if
that is indeed what his recommendation
is it was clear in the report that he
did intend for Congress to make the
final determination but but the
regulations stipulate that he has to go
through the Attorney General and if
attorney general you know considered
himself to be an arbiter in this which
dole bar obviously does perhaps to a you
know an excessive extent then it's
really up to him to make these decisions
so I think maybe what we'll see after
this whole thing is over is maybe a
tweaking and the special counsel
regulations to deal with this problem
because we went from one extreme in the
star to another yeah as you go on and do
your reporting what are the big
questions you still have that you're
going to be tracking down answers to um
so you know I'm still really interested
in you know why exactly
Moeller decided not to answer this
question I think that we still don't
really know why he he because we're
getting two different answers right so
Barr said that he did not lend out the
opinion militias that he wanted to you
know Congress maybe to look at it but we
still don't really know what poteete
what the deliberations like were like
internally about the obstruction
question you know another question I
would like answered is how the multi
team has been viewing all of this and
whether or not they were even told about
this press conference this morning
beforehand how they have need the
rollout of reports or worked on for two
years and then you know just just going
back to the collusion aspect of the
report why you know why none of this
rose to the level of a criminal
conspiracy I don't think that that is
particularly well laid out especially
because you know we still haven't gotten
to the Roger stone trial which is going
to reveal perhaps a lot about the
potential you know coordination that
went on between the campaign and twiki
leaks and potentially even Russia and so
why why what is the rationale behind
that why did he end the investigation
but he did I don't think we've got no
good answer to that either especially
because of so many outstanding things
including Rick gages cooperation so it's
a lot of a lot of things that need to be
farmed out a bit but those are the
biggest ones for me it's just the
rationale underlying some of these
decisions in greater detail and also you
know what the Muller team's reaction has
been watching bar kind of in this way
Natacha one last question for you it's
indicated in the report that Muller's
came in a number of referrals for two
other elements of the Justice Department
for criminal prosecution we know only a
handful of those do you have any
indication resources what else we should
be looking for for future criminal for
future indictments or charges to come
out at this report no I mean all I only
know right now it's what's been publicly
reported but that's that's a really good
question I think that we have yet to see
just how much he has you know farmed out
from this investigation especially
because there could very well be you
know additional sealed indictments not
from Muller apparently but you know out
of the new Southern District of New York
or in Washington DC stemming from things
that Muller did hand off I think the
Trump inaugural committee investigation
is going to be a really big one
obviously the Roger stone trial is going
to reveal a lot but you know maybe some
of these unanswered questions that we
all have are going to be resolved by the
US Attorneys offices in various parts of
the country and we also have to remember
that there might still be an ongoing
counterintelligence investigation and
that could be the reason why some of
these people haven't been charged
because to do so could disrupt that
ongoing investigation so I think there's
a lot more to come on this I think this
is you know definitely a good you know
start to understanding what happened but
there are still so many threats that
need to be pulled Natasha thank you so
much for joining us and we very much
look forward to all your continued
reporting on this issue
thanks so much having me all right take
care
you
so keep going okay cool
all right we're back Dan I want to get
your take on your your multiple takes on
everything that's happened this morning
I do want to start with Trump's quote
upon learning of Muller's appointment
which is exists in this report which is
my favorite court of the day oh my god
this is terrible this is the end of my
presidency I'm that that sound
like the musings of an innocent man yes
yes I had to I saw that quote I think
you might even have texted that a tweet
with that coordinating I was sure it was
 I thought it was like onion
joke so I had to quickly start scanning
to see that it yes in fact it was real
and I think it is a funny being in
imputation of guilt but also is sort of
a rosetta stone to understand everything
that unfolded afterwards which is even
if in Trump's and we talked about a
little bit for me even in Trump's mind
he believed he was innocent of cool
uncle collusion or conspiracy to defraud
the electorate or whatever you want to
think about what was encapsulated in
volume one of them all the report Trump
knew then he had been living crime
adjacent his entire life and if you had
a super cop like Bob baller on your case
he was gonna uncover all kinds of things
which is why he was willing to engage
multiple times in what was obstruction
of justice and that sort of helps us
understand what Trump get explains how
he's been acting from the beginning and
says that there's a lot more there a lot
more threads to pull here as we as
Congress in the American public digest
the specifics of the obstruction case
against the president yes that's exactly
right I mean let's start with the the
collusion conspiracy chapter right and
so basically Muller lays out in the
report and this is this is a quote from
the report in some the investigation
established multiple links between Trump
campaign officials and individuals tied
to the Russian government those links
included
Russian offers of assistance to the
campaign in some instances the campaign
was receptive to the offer while in
other instances the campaign officials
shied away so basically what Mahler lays
out in a hundred and eight pages as
we've said of contacts between the Trump
campaign and Russia is that multiple
times the Russian knew that they were
interfering with the election to try to
elect Donald Trump and they thought they
would reach out to the Trump campaign to
see if they wanted more assistance to
win and the Trump campaign multiple
times said yes give us the assistance we
want to win but because there was no
criminal because there wasn't a explicit
conspiracy between the Trump campaign
and the Russians that said hey let's
work together on this and let's see that
to fruition that you know Muller didn't
charge anyone with an actual criminal
conspiracy and also we should say by the
way that Muller
lays out in the report that what we've
been talking about forever which is this
word collusion a sort of like
he basically says you hear this on TV
you hear the president's people talking
about it it's not really a term what I'm
talking about here is conspiracy as it
is defined legally and sort of
cooperation which is a tacit agreement
between multiple parties sort of commit
a crime together and because there
weren't those tacit agreements are
because Muller didn't find sufficient
evidence to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that conspiracy that's why you
know Don jr. and some of these other
goobers weren't actually charged is that
was that sort of your take on the whole
conspiracy part yeah I mean ultimately
if one day in time there is a Trump
library somewhere engraved on the Senate
will be saved by his own stupidity
because these people tried to commit
multiple crimes they knew Russia was in
a current election the new Russia was
doing so to help Trump they wanted to
take advantage of that help they were
just too stupid to commit the actual
crimes that Muller felt he could charge
yeah and that's incredibly important
because
we talk to this for so long collusion as
a fake board it doesn't mean anything
the president really sort of shifted the
Overton Window on this and the press
fell for it hook line and sinker
this idea that we that the only crimes
the only way in which he founded any
wrongdoing would be if you founded the
ultimate wrongdoing which was in an
always improbable case where there was
some you know explicit agreement between
Trump and Russia to steal the election
which was never going to happen because
the big Trump doesn't have the capacity
to engage in such a complicated
conspiracy but what they were engaged in
wrongdoing throughout the process and
this report is very bad for Trump
whether that will lead to political
accountability of the conversation we'll
have later in the pod yes it lays out a
lot of wrongdoing
a lot of lying on Trump and his
associates and we should not this is not
they're not innocent in anything they
colluded all over the place they just
were incapable of maximizing their
collusion to the point of crime yeah I
mean the president tried to cheat to win
the election he tried on multiple
occasions to access stolen documents
from his opponent he wanted those emails
he tried multiple ways to get them the
report lays out the president knighted
States ordered Michael Flynn to find the
deleted Clinton emails at Trump's
request I'm sorry the president has
ordered Michael Flynn to find the
deleted Clinton emails Michael Flynn
then contacted Peter Smith who has ended
up dead since then and then Peter Smith
put together a whole plan about how they
were gonna try to contact foreign
intelligence services not just Russia
but China Iran uh uh other foreign
powers to try to find these deleted
emails but you know it never went
anywhere because Peter Smith was kind of
a bumbling idiot and didn't know how to
do it but Trump wanted those emails
Trump as we all know said Russia if
you're listening find the find Hillary
Clinton's emails and then Muller says in
this report five hours after Trump did
that said that to the public was the
first time that Russian military
intelligence hackers hacked into or
tried to hack into Hillary Clinton's
emails so we know from this report that
Donald Trump wanted stolen documents
from his opponent so he could win the
election and he knew that getting those
stolen documents involved working with a
foreign power that he also knew was
trying to interfere with our election we
know this it's all laid out and Robert
Malloy's report here it's unbelievable I
mean it's true I mean Brian Fallon
former Hillary Clinton spokesperson
Commissioner Cain campaign made this
point was think it's important which is
if there had not been really good
reporting from the Washington coast near
time CNN others over the last two and a
half years here as well as congressional
oversight that if we learned everything
in this report for the first time today
oh yeah as opposed to a slow drip and we
just if there have been no information
and all of a sudden this report comes
out to hundreds on pages just detailing
a massive amount of wrongdoing whether
it reaches criminal stand there not is
another question but wrongdoing lying
about wrongdoing it would be a political
earthquake like we've never seen before
what happened in this report goes well
beyond why was a let what came out of
working well being yeah I mean well in
addition to trying to find the emails on
the front end
Moeller also found that the President
himself and his campaign knew that the
stolen DNC emails were going to be
released before they were actually
released they put together a press plan
to capitalize off of it
Trump was in contact with members of his
campaign and Roger stone of course all
the Roger stone stuff is redacted
because that trial is still to come but
it's it's pretty clear that Trump was
involved at Trump knew that WikiLeaks
was going to disseminate these emails
and the campaign was basically putting a
plan to help coordinate and disseminate
those emails now the reason so you might
say like why weren't any of them charged
with this well the problem is is
WikiLeaks as the intermediary here right
so Russian hackers stole the emails they
committed the crime that's the hack
right then they gave those emails to
WikiLeaks to publish WikiLeaks published
those emails is not itself a crime this
is partly under press protections this
has to do with the whole Assange thing
that we just saw happened last week -
right like if you you know WikiLeaks is
an organization publishing documents
that just happened to be stolen not
necessarily a crime and then the Trump
campaign working with WikiLeaks
to then disseminate those stolen
documents and to have a press plan
around how they could capitalize off of
it and win the campaign not necessarily
a crime but still pretty bad
yeah right like does it need to be a
crime not great and this is I think
there are a couple important points
about this which one is that this is the
president of the United States yeah and
he we have to hold him to a higher
standard than just the average criminal
defendant there there should be
accountability political I'm sorry there
should be political accountability for
activity that that is obviously
wrongdoing but it simply does not meet
the threshold for being charged because
of technicalities that's what this is
it's not that this report did not find
the Trump in his campaign did not do bad
things it found out that the bad things
they did were not done in the exact way
in which you would charge a crime
there's a difference between not being
charged and being innocent and this is
not a declaration of innocence of Trump
or anyone around them it's an
exploitation in great detail of how they
argue T of trying to cheat in to win the
election as you put it that's exactly
what they did now Bob Muller made a
conclusion that the way in which they
did it did not meet the technical
definition of a crime but it doesn't
change how both the public Congress in
history should render judgment on what
happened and by the way this wasn't just
cheating and garden-variety corruption
with you know people within the United
States like shady characters who want to
help Trump win the election it's not
just that kind of cheating it is if
there was a foreign power that attacked
our election
this is this is like disloyalty to the
United States and to think back now to
the Helsinki press conference
when Donald Trump is standing next to
Vladimir Putin and denies what what's in
this report stated as a fact over and
over again with a ton of evidence that
the Russians hacked into our election
denies the fact that Russia ever
interfered with our election denies the
conclusions of American intelligence of
the American law enforcement and sides
with Vladimir Putin in front of the
whole world like and all these
Republicans now are like all these
Democrats who call Donald Trump or
traitor or disloyal or all those guys I
think they owe him an apology no it's
 disloyal to the United States
how Donald Trump and his campaign acted
throughout this throughout the 2016
election didn't you mentioned this I
thought was really notable was the Trump
campaign created a communications plan
around maximizing the disclosure of the
hack to Clinton Indians emails right and
that is notable because this collection
of JV Republican staffers and Fox
greenroom rejects have not written a
plan in their entire life
like the in fact they actually brought a
plan for this is notable for how serious
they took in what an opportunity they
saw it was it wasn't like it on a
whiteboard with like infrastructure week
and are playing a role on our child care
policy the only this is the only thing
they had a plan on the entire campaign
the rest of it was a bunch of
ass-backwards freelancing yeah so now to
move on to the obstruction part of the
report I do think and you mention this
the the paragraph that sort of sums it
up here is you know they talk about the
firing of Comey and the report says the
evidence does not establish the
termination of Comey was designed to
cover up a conspiracy between the Trump
campaign and Russia right and we know
that to be true because Muller did not
find a consensus tablished the
conspiracy he did not indict anyone
based on that conspiracy but then the
report goes on to say but the evidence
does indicate that a thorough FBI
investigation would uncover facts about
the campaign and the president
personally that the
and could have understood to be crimes
or that would give rise to personal and
political concerns so right there Bob
Muller is saying that is the motive to
obstruct justice the Trump had so this
whole idea that William bar when
he wrote the four-page letter say said
you know Trump couldn't possibly have
obstructed justice because there was no
underlying crime related to collusion
well yeah that's not the point
Trump obstructed justice because Trump
was worried as you said that Muller was
going to uncover his other crimes and
guess what Muller did uncover his other
crimes and so did Sdn why because when
he referred the Cohen case to Sdn why he
found that that Michael Cohen committed
a crime regard in relation to the hush
money payments and that Donald Trump was
implicated in that crime is an
unindicted co-conspirator so it's like
there was of course a corrupt intent to
obstruct the investigation Donald Trump
was worried that Muller would find all
these other crimes and guess what they
did yes
nothing long before he was president
States Donald Trump was mayor in crime
town he's been whether it is the tax
product over there times the hush money
payments been covered by FDNY what Trump
University rampant fraud corruption
payoffs things that happen Atlantic City
all across the board
he had a massive amount of criminal
exposure and he acted just like that it
has continued to act just like that in
his head bill borrows his willing
enabler for the last couple months here
yeah and so you know Muller goes on to
list ten different instances of
obstruction everything from you know
firing Comey you know the president
directed White House Counsel Don Magan
to fire Muller and then told him to deny
that he directed him to fire Muller and
it says McGinn then quote called his
lawyer drove to the White House packed
up his office and prepared to submit his
resignation letter and told then chief
of staff Reince Priebus that the
president was asking him to do crazy
 I mean I think the McGann thing is
really interesting on a couple of
because one that's a crime - for
a the President to instruct a
subordinate to lie which Magan did not
do but the mere instruction the mere
instruction - why is obstruction and
that is something that is one of the
reasons I believe that it was pretty
clear that mother was unwilling to
quote/unquote exonerate Trump from this
but there's also something that began is
just like a metaphor for the
Republican Party right now which is the
President adays instructs him to commit
a crime and to do something that McGann
believes in being a teachable sense for
the president he drives to the White
House packs up his stuff stations can
resign does he resign no he was
instructed to commit a crime on a
Saturday and he went to work on a Monday
and stated the job for another
near because he thought it was a great
way to put judges on the bench who would
rule in favor of corporation to overturn
roe v-- wade so he like they're willing
to hang out with criminals willing to
cover up crimes as long as you get to do
your conservative and that is the
Republican Party in the Trump era and
why we have a problem that goes long
beyond after the individual one lisa
stage so basically you know robert
muller gives us a motive and a corrupt
intent for trump to obstruct justice
because he's worried that this
investigation will produce more evidence
of other crimes that he may have
committed or things will be personally
embarrassing to him so he's got the
motive and men Muller goes on in great
detail to list ten different instances
where the president United States
ordered his aides to obstruct justice
tried to obstruct justice himself and
because the aides refused to carry out
his orders
Moeller basically says that's why
Trump's aides weren't indicted on
obstruction of justice because they
refused but he doesn't say that that's
why Trump is scot-free because this is
Evan telling someone to obstruct justice
is still a crime so he he has all this
evidence of crime and of obstruction of
justice and then now we get to the point
where we think about this
letter from attorney general bar saying
you know I don't know that I'm gonna
exonerate I'm sorry we get this letter
from bill bar a couple weeks ago that
exonerates the president of obstruction
of justice because he says you know Oh
Bob Muller just couldn't really make a
determination on this either way so I
decided to step in and say that he's
exonerated well it turns out that's not
that's not what Bob Muller did at all
and you know I remember in a couple of
tweets put this pretty succinctly he
said Barr was wrong
Mulla report states DOJ rules don't
allow indicted president so his policy
the Muller probe avoided any approach
that would quote result in a judgement
the president committed crimes Muller
explicitly says as a matter of DOJ rules
quote no charges can be brought against
POTUS
so bars letter was incorrect in its
depiction of Muller and then Muller goes
on to say many different times in the
report basically this is up to Congress
so what the was Bill Barr doing
well I think it's pretty clear what he
was doing which was I mean what did he
think he was putting how did he think he
was gonna get away with this how did he
think he's gonna grate away with this is
the real question because we know what
he was doing but like did he think he
was gonna be able to get away
with this forever I mean he still might
I guess I mean it depends on what you
mean by get away with right what is the
accountability that will come to bill
bar he got what he wanted which was he
is gonna forever be in terms of debt he
wanted this job for this reason we know
this cuz the audition court by running a
19 page memo raising questions about the
legitimacy of the Moller investigation
he has played his role exactly through I
think that three Democrats Joe Manchin
Doug Jones and Kyrsten Sinema who voted
for Bill Maher have a lot to answer for
well these Kyrsten Sinema and Doug Jones
to mention says being chairman chey they
were sort of talk with that I
think there there there's gonna be a lot
of discussion about what Democrats do
next and how they take this and there's
a lot of threads to pull for Adam shifts
and Jerry Nadler in the over in the
committees in the house with oversight
authority over elements of this report
there's the question of when Bob Muller
will testify and when will we hear from
Bob Muller
you know obviously be
interesting content if you will but I
think there's a question about what
Democrats do with bill bar because what
he did here was deeply inappropriate it
was deeply dishonest it was an abusive
ponder mind the traditional independence
and an attorney general should have from
the president it will raise questions
about any and every decision he makes
about corruption and criminality related
to Trump in his administration for the
next two years here and you know god
forbid the four years going forward and
so I think that like we like a lot of
Democrats have called for the bar to
resign today which is not going to do
but what do you think about bringing up
bill bar on either impeachment or
censure in the house I mean yes because
he didn't just I mean you put it
politely he undermined the independence
between the Attorney General and the the
president he obliterated it I
mean he sounded the letter was bad
enough the press conference this morning
he basically sound like a slightly more
well-spoken fox pundit talking about you
know no collusion and and the president
was frustrated he basically said that
the president obstructed justice because
he was frustrated about the
investigation I guess that's I guess if
you if you get charged with obstruction
of justice that's a new defense now that
you can make well I was pretty
frustrated that's why I tried to break
the law
yes it's true if any of our listeners
get pulled over for speeding
bill Barr has instructed you to tell the
cop that you were frustrated by the
speed limit I mean it looks don't don't
actually do that I know it's a bad idea
don't speak there's a few other
questions I mean before we get to
borrowing with the Democrats to do -
there's a few other questions you know
from for Muller when they finally get
Muller before Congress which is Muller
basically says that he in the report he
saw Trump's written answers to his
questions as inadequate and yet he did
not subpoena Trump he didn't ever he
never actually had a sit-down interview
with Trump and basically the report says
he didn't because it was he was
basically like I have enough evidence
that he obscure
- justice but then basically you know
leaves it to Congress partly because of
these DOJ guidelines but I guess my my
question to mother is like why didn't he
proceed with the subpoena why didn't he
try to sit down for Trump with an
interview I think I've wondered this
question for a long time and I thought
three fahara had a very good answer when
he spoke to you guys in the Monday pod
right after the BART letter came out
which is there this would have wound its
way through the court for years and
probably extended beyond Trump's
reelection and therefore HAMP so if you
go down the road of subpoenaing the
subpoena and the president having that
go all the way Supreme Court you can't
really conclude the report and send the
evidence to Congress until after the
election so I think this is maybe the
most favorable interpretation I think is
that he was caught between is it
important votes for the propriety of his
investigation and for the American
public suits included with enough time
for the American public to digest it
without dropping it as some sort of bomb
you know the month before the election
sort of point
Komi if you will and pushing this all
the way to the end which would mean that
the Americans would very very
potentially go to the polls in 2020
without knowing Bob Morris conclusions
which by mole are given what a straight
arias probably think that it's both
unfair to the public in Ontario Trump
yeah right depending on what he thought
he would find as that's the only
explanation I can give but in but in
taking that path I think he sort of bit
dude his investigation because if you
have to show corrupted intent for his
Trump's actions to invoke construction
of justice then you are it's pretty
impossible to do that without asking the
person to their face what their intent
was and not just getting some letter
written by Rudy Giuliani and Jay Sekulow
yeah so let's talk about what the
Democrats should do because you know as
we said special counsel regulations
don't allow for Muller to have
an official impeachment referral like
they might have in the past when it was
a you know independent in the
independent previous independent council
law was in effect but Muller basically
this is basically an impeachment
referral from from Robert Mahler he
basically says in no uncertain terms you
know this is up to Congress Congress has
the ability to make sure that the
president doesn't obstruct justice like
he he sort of drops a few more than
hints in the report that Congress should
should take this up so now what a
Democrats do they've they've basically
received evidence of the president
obstructing justice from the special
counsel the special counsel has
basically said in no uncertain terms
that he leaves the determination to them
now what are the Democrats do well
that's the $10,000 question John
I think the first step well I think we
should do this in sequence right you
don't have to figure out where you're
going to go from day one so I think step
one subpoena the report which I believe
so if you know all of the I'm sorry I
mean all the underlining materials which
I believe in that is in process right
now yep Jerry I think that is also in
process presuming Muller requires a
subpoena but get Muller in front of
Congress and get its answer to these
questions about what drove some of the
decisions were there I think it is take
the as much of the oversight resources
and Congress and focused on pulling all
the threads here digging deeper having
public hearings with key witnesses to
hear what they have to say about they
think that is everyone from Jared
Kushner to Don jr. to Barbour Lundeen
the Grasmick staffer who was working
with Peter Smith on getting the stolen
emails let's hear from anyone and
everyone and let's do it right now let's
do it strategically let's do it smartly
and let's do it in a way that exposes it
to the public because there's a lot of
work that has to be undone to wipe away
the impression that bill bar left with
his willfully dishonest letter of a few
weeks ago so that's where I would go now
which leads to the question of what do
you do about it teach men
I think you've got to start at you got
to ask the questions that are less
remaining a little old before you know
the answer to that yeah I think I think
that's right I mean look I think back to
you know the conversation that you and I
have had multiple times where you have
you basically cancelled Democrats
against impeachment because this we know
where this goes right if the House
impeaches the house holds impeachment
hearings and the House Democrats impeach
Donald Trump which would obviously be on
a party-line vote because it doesn't
look like any Republicans are coming
along
then it goes to the Senate there's a
hearing in the Senate Chief Justice John
Roberts presides there's no way
we're getting what 13 14 Senate
Republicans on board to impeach who
knows if we even get Joe Manchin
on board to impeach right and so then
you know they fail to convict the the
president and the president says total
exoneration Mitch McConnell says total
exoneration and he goes free and now
we're you know close to the election so
that's all the downsides to impeachment
but I will say this sort of a middle
ground here and that like the focus
doesn't necessarily have to be on the
Senate and whether the Senate convicts
the president right like we have said
for some time that this is going to be
decided at the ballot box in 2020 that
this is going to be decided at the that
the American people are going to decide
whether the president is fit for office
or not in November of 2020 so that's
true let's keep that in mind but let's I
don't know provide the American people
with all the evidence all the testimony
all the underlying documents all the
witnesses and all the tests with
everything they need to make a
determination about whether the
president is fit for office or not and
obviously they'll make that
determination also based on the fact
that he wants to take away their health
care the fact that their wages haven't
gone up the fact these are crazy lunatic
so there's gonna be a number of factors
in there but why not say part of why
we're conducting this impeachment
hearing is so the American people have
all the information they need to make a
determination about this president when
they go to the ballot box in 2020
I think the challenge with you did a
great job in my argument so thank you
see I think the challenge with that is
that there are two you can uncover that
information in two ways one is through
oversight hearings and through the
normal course of business right
intelligence committee Judiciary
Committee Oversight Committee you know
just like the Komen hearing of a few
months ago or whatever that was because
classified circle but so that's what we
do the other way is to open and Teachman
hearings through the judiciary committee
to call witnesses for the purpose of
having a vote on impeachment at the end
of that process and if you start that
process you're going to end that process
with info yeah that is exactly what
happened with the Republicans and 90s
around Bill Clinton and you just have to
decide if you want to do that but if you
start the process you will end the
process you will have a vote and if that
vote were to fail that's even worse than
my alternative scenario which is
possible so a lot of Democrats are
uncomfortable with that and so I think
you just have to decide whether you do
that I the point the last one I make a
list is that you don't get any like
Trump doesn't lose electoral votes if
you have a scarlet I on his chest right
so this is this is going to play itself
out the same way no matter what and I am
if it was up to me I would impeach trunk
I said this boy didn't teach Trump I get
him out the choice of the amendment I
didn't die down there's like any course
of legal means to get this man away from
our country I would take but I just I
think we have to be strategic about what
our goal is and our goal is to expose
all of the evidence of American people
about all the things Trumpets done wrong
in the Russia it measure but then in
everything else whether it's a tax cut
it's the self dealing around the Trump
Hotel massive amounts of corruption left
and right the Gulf states investments in
Jared Krishna is feeling real state
entities all the above the job of the
House Democrats to make that information
available American people so they can
make a fully informed decision
I am very torn on this issue and
very worried about how it plays itself
out look I am too and I and I very much
understand the politics I very much
understand that most voters out there
have not been following this as closely
as we have it may never follow it as
close as we have and even those who are
maybe Trump's criminality has baked into
their opinion of him so they either
believe he's a criminal and we're gonna
vote against him anyway
or they're you know ride-or-die with him
to the end or they're unsure about Trump
but it's not because of potential crimes
he committed it's because they don't
know if he's serious about taking away
their health care right so like I get
the politics and I get the potential
backlash to the politics I just I have a
real problem with this report coming out
with so much evidence that the president
itíd States broke the law that he abused
his office that he abused power that he
committed obstruction of justice in all
these different ways and that because we
are worried about the political impact
of what happens if we go down the road
of impeachment proceedings we're just
gonna let it go and you know they didn't
let it go with Richard Nixon and he
resigned and you know you can argue
about the Bill Clinton won but like it's
just it's so incredible to me and I
worry so deeply about the precedent it
sets to say that we had knowledge that
the president committed a series of
crimes and but because we Democrats
weren't in the majority or didn't have
enough votes in both houses and we were
worried about the potential backlash on
what it would mean for the 2020 election
we just sort of let it go yeah so I
don't know I just it's concerning to me
it really is and I get and like I said I
get the arguments on both sides of this
but and look I mean the other thing is
here we didn't even mention this part of
the report special counsel found
evidence of crimes outside its scope and
made 14 criminal referrals to other
jurisdictions only two of which we know
about one is the Cohen thing so like
there's all I mean and we've already
talked about the inauguration is getting
investigated his businesses are getting
investigated so who knows what other
crimes might come to light and perhaps
that makes the decision for us that if
one of these other investigations are
multi
blood their investigations turn up more
crimes by Trump than the political
calculus changes on impeachment who
knows yeah I'd like I am certainly not
going to take it off the table I think
that would be a mistake to do that
because we we may only be looking at the
tip of the iceberg and it's it's very
possible that Trump is committed in
petrie offenses completely outside it
that mother doesn't know about they're
outside the scope of this investigation
that should be looked at you know my any
normal definition the the hush hush
money payments to stormy Daniels part of
the election that Trump said and wide
about word at least would at least like
being this in the conversation of an
impeachable offense so there there's a
lot more to find here I just look we
just have to be realistic with people
because you see this on Twitter all the
time which is like impeach him and teach
him and Peacham and I worry sometimes
people think that me that people think
that Democrats in Congress and it's
closing particular are not taking a step
to remove Trump from office right and
that's not it is a question of whether
you're gonna do something to send a
signal to the country to the history
books or to ever about what Trump did
but it is not a decision of whether he
comes or goes the only people who make a
decision about whether Trump stays or
goes are the American people in November
of 2020 and that's what we have to keep
in mind that is that is correct and that
is a good a good transition to our next
topic which is 2020 on Monday night
Democratic presidential candidate Bernie
Sanders participated in a town hall
hosted by Fox News it was the
highest-rated candidate Town Hall of the
primary season thus far besting seen in
its Town Hall with Kamala Harris from a
few weeks ago other Democrats may be
appearing on Fox News soon Amy Klobuchar
has already signed up for her own Fox
News townhall Pete Budaj edge is
reported to have been in negotiations to
do the same thing better or Roarke said
on Wednesday that he'd be willing to go
on Fox and Kamala Harris told me she
would quote think about it her tone
didn't suggest she was very excited
about it but she said she would think
about it the network's number one fan
our current president took notice of the
Bernie townhall tweeting so weird to
watch crazy Bernie on Fox News not
surprisingly bret baier and the quote
audience was so smiley and nice very
strange and
now we have Donna Brazile there's so
many great parts of that tweet like we
like you know he's part of the team on
Fox News and how did we get Donna
Brazile and also I love this I also
loved the shot at Brett Baier who as we
know only has a 6 out of 10 on the Trump
loyalty scale probably went down to the
floor after that so first old in did you
watch and how do you think Bernie did
before we get to the the big question of
whether he should have been there in the
first place I did watch it he did great
he did was he made strong points he
pushed back really hard against some
questions from Brett and parts of
McCallum that exposed their bias if you
will that sort of you know like it
really was interesting conversation
because they are residents of Planet Fox
and they own they live within that
bubble even though they're on the
quote-unquote news side there are
questions happen from this Fox bubble
right where like even in the middle of
New Town Hall Fox had to do a huge piece
with which what I assume is Steve Doocy
son Peter Doocy
about how amazing that Trump economy has
been for Bethlem but Bethlehem
Pennsylvania it has to try to undermine
Bernie's comments about the how the
economy is rigged and it's just a it was
just a wild thing I thought he did great
he was very had an audience that was
very enthusiastic about him I never
found out the exact answer to who that
audience was when I presume that was an
audience of Democratic primary voters as
the CNN town halls have been as well I
believe but he's a great it was in from
a performance standard he it was a home
run for him no question it appears that
the audience was Democrats and
independents I read that somewhere
well III agree I think he did he did
very very well
for a couple reasons one was he needled
the hosts a couple times right like he
was sort of he well he wasn't exactly
friendly to Bret Baier and Martha
McCallum all the time he at one point he
said that the Fox net news network
doesn't have respect in our world one
point he sort of joked with them and he
said oh the president told
he watches your Network a little bit
right so he was funny towards them and
then you know he really emphasized
economic issues he tried to say that a
lot of these economic issues and his
economic issues we're not shouldn't be
partisan that everyone should want
infrastructure spending that everyone
should be afraid of Trump's plan to cut
Medicare and Medicaid doesn't matter
what party you are so I thought that was
very strong and then of course there was
that great moment that went viral where
at Bret Baier asked the audience if they
liked Bernie's medicare-for-all plan
better than their own private insurance
and they all cheered which is certainly
not something that Fox News expected so
I thought it was great I thought now the
question is you know what impact will it
have on the campaign if any what do you
think I I think it is a huge net
positive for Bernie's campaign I think
the challenge for Bernie Sanders is he
has to demonstrate electability I think
he is winning he is leading in the polls
among the declared candidates by very
large margins he has a massive money
advantage everyone else he has a bigger
campaign he has more staff he has
serious political support around the
country both from you know important
Democrats and but also elect officials
as well like he is the hands-down most
likely nominee of the people in the
field
right now and so if there was a
lingering concern it's is a
self-declared Democratic Socialist from
Vermont who is Trump same age the most
quote-unquote electable candidate now
would be senator - a more first term but
people will only support Bernie if they
think he can won't burn of himself again
it is very important for Bernie to
demonstrate that he can beat Trump and
go be into Fox News and walking out with
the heads of bret baier and martha
maccallum is a huge win for him yeah and
also by the way we know from Trump's
tweets in The New York Times has
reported this as well that Trump and his
advisers were nervous about not only
Bernie getting a town hall there but
potentially other Democratic candidates
infiltrating Fox at getting Town Hall so
this did make them a little nervous
so I know Dan from reading
tweets and also texting you all day long
and also knowing you for the last 10
years that you do not think this was
ultimately a good idea
not for Bernie to do within the confines
of his own campaign but sort of for
Democrats to do in general
tell us why yeah so I understand why
Bernie Sanders did this and if I was
advising his campaign if I worked on
this campaign I would probably tell him
to do the same thing I understand why
Pete Budaj
is reportedly negotiates and do this and
understand what a makeover char is wants
to do this it is an opportunity to get
attention and it is not about courting
Fox viewers like no want to throw that
if they say that to you they are being
willfully define what it is it's a
chance to quote unquote go into the
Lions dead come out looking strong and
get all the other press to write a to
write about and talk about and tweet
about your appearance on Fox and then
we'll get Bernie Sanders on Fox got a
hundred times one who discovers than
Bernie Sanders on CNN well let me guess
he was on fire let me just go back from
an are you how confident are you that
there are no gettable voters for
democrats who watch fox news whether
it's their fox news obsessed or just
occasional fox news watchers like is
there so there is their evidence is it
wait there's two ways of thinking about
this right one is are there gettable
Democratic primary voters mm-hmm who
watch Fox News a year and a half before
before the election right unlikely
unlike there's very little evidence of
that there certainly there will be
people who tuned in to that Town Hall
who are Democratic primary voters but
they are not Fox News viewers right
these are not people were just like
trying to see what came on after the
five and stumbled on Bernie Sanders like
huh I like it health care plan that's
not how that played it something right
right okay in the context of a general
election Democrats are obsessed about
talking about Fox News viewers or like
we got to get Fox News viewers we got to
get you know we lost oh we lost Michigan
because we didn't have Fox News viewers
that is a really rudimentary in
one-dimensional way of looking at this
with
in 2012 we did a lot of data analysis
and where were the best media outlets to
reach undecided voters Fox was not high
on that list it was not from an
efficiency standpoint and not include
use of President Obama's time and I have
to imagine although have a look through
this data since 2012 in the world of
Donald Trump when the Clark news put
away the dog whistle and took out the
racist bull horn I have to imagine that
there were fewer quote-unquote up for
grabs voters for Democrats but let me
say my bigger yeah point here which is
the Fox a lot of very important
grassroots work has been done by
sleeping giants Media Matters
a lot of incredibly important reporting
some people like Jane Mayer and Gabriel
Sherman to expose Fox News for what it
is which is not some conservative
version of MSNBC it is a corporate
funded racial grievance machine for the
sole purpose of electing republicans it
exists to protect Trump it exists to
destroy Democrats news is the coffee
grinds in which they smuggle in the
cocaine and propaganda right and that we
have a great amount of work has been
done to make that case to advertisers to
make that case of the public to make
that case to other reporters to take
what they say as a grain of salt we have
come a million miles since Obama was
dealing with Fox when we were in the
White House in terms of public
understanding of the danger of Fox and
if all the sudden 19 Democrats all go on
Fox it undermines that work right it
allows Fox's advertising department to
go back to the advertisers who have
pulled out because they think that Sean
Hannity has tentacle Carlson who said
Mark Ingram has said and say look Bernie
Sanders comes on here Amy Klobuchar
comes on here Peter Budaj a Buddhist
judge comes on here and we see we are
illegitimate and to get those those
advertising dollars back you think that
worked you know the head of you really
think that the advertisers would be like
I'm I'm gonna second-guess my decision
to to pull the ads because Bernie's on
the on the channel that's the view of
media matters which is you know leading
the effort to do this I mean base
during the turkic carlson fox has been
showing basically dead air because they
can't get an advertiser's to fill the
inventory for that show and see money is
fungible so that comes out of pocket
bottom line so I do think we have to
think about the fact that if you do
things that help fox sell more edge what
you were doing is making it easier for
them to keep tucker carlson on there you
know we're supporting their white
supremacist programming which is
incredibly dangerous to America right
and I think that that is my concern is
that in if the Democratic Party all the
sudden embraces fox again and i think
we're doing it for sort of dumb
political reasons outside of the content
of your own campaign strategy right in
it the we are doing a lot of work to
rehabilitate fox in the minds of
corporate america and the public writ
large and I think that is potentially
damaging a long term progressives cause
of undoing trumpism America which
requires limiting the influence of the
dangerous propagated networks notably
Fox yeah I guess I I look at that is a
very compelling argument I agree with
all that I've been you know one of the
people highlighting all the great work
that Media Matters in Jane Mayer and
everyone else has been doing to expose
how awful that network is I
think it's a cancer on our democracy and
probably the worst thing that we have
going for us in this country even worse
than Donald Trump in some ways because
it's a propaganda machine I guess my
question is what is the best way to
dismantle that propaganda machine and
there's something appealing to me about
every once in a while during a campaign
season like this a couple prominent
Democrats going on there and calling the
network out for the that it is
once the run they're like my fear you
know I was heading earlier that it was
funny that Bernie like needled the hosts
like great I would have like I would
like to see some Democrat go on there
and actually take it right to Fox
when they have the whole audience there
and they have everyone viewing knowing
that they're probably not going to
convince a lot of Fox News viewers but
at that moment would go viral and
actually talk about what
disgusting racist Network propaganda
machine it is and sort of bring receipts
that to me would be really cool great
viewing I would love to say I'll it
I mean because my problem the reason I
always say like don't ever go on
Fox when you watch these people go on
Tucker Carlson or go on you know Sean
Hannity or any of these programs
the whole game is rigged you don't get
to actually communicate to their viewers
you don't get to it's not a fair fight
they rigged the game they yell over you
they cut the commercial break it is a
waste of time to do that for
sure there's something about the the you
know sorry again there is something
about the Town Hall format where the
hosts are minimally involved and you get
to speak directly to the audience not
just in the Town Hall but to the viewers
at home that is appealing about finally
piercing the bubble of at least some of
the people watching that network and
showing them that maybe Democrats aren't
the caricature that Fox News always
makes them out to be and I just do me
there's something appealing about that
yeah I intentionally affected State this
is a close call yeah but I'd like to
make two other points one is I woke up
yesterday morning to find out that a lot
of people who really want Bernie Sanders
decided that I was some sort of massive
hypocrite because Barack Obama went on
Fox News when I worked in the White
House including doing a recent bill
o'reilly and that somehow this meant
that I was being unfair to Bernie
Sanders and that was not my intent and
if people had read my book which I don't
expect everyone has but I talked a lot
about this because it was in the tech in
the years I worked for Obama I was a big
advocate for a long time of doing
exactly what Bernie Sanders did which is
going to the Lions Den I did not get to
Fox about Fox viewers that was not who
my audience was yes we did this in the
2008 campaign Obama went on Bill
O'Reilly the night of the Republican
convention and the man became special
public convention and we did it because
we knew we got a ton of coverage and it
would be on all the morning shows the
next day if there had been active social
media would have been a viral milker
like you were doing it not for it is a
setting for a press conference
not an actual authentic New Zealand
source I was I push that strategy and my
experience from doing that was twofold
one that it had much less impact on both
let me put this way my experience the
lessons I learned from doing that which
I talked about in the book a lot are
that I was wrong initially and that
Obama's appearances on Fox did more to
legitimize Fox and they need to help
Obama spread his message to Fox News
viewers yeah and that was like that it
is based on that experience that I
believe that it is a mistake for these
Democrats to do this not for themselves
understand what makes us from ourselves
well I think it's a mistake in the long
run and a very important effort to show
Fox what is second this is also not me
advocating that you should ignore Fox
News viewers and just to set the table
stakes here Fox shows get on average two
million viewers yeah that is a fraction
of the Fox News problem in this country
the actual Fox News problem is not what
people tune into on Tucker crawl sit at
night other than that is gross
and shouldn't be on the air it is how
Facebook is weaponized Fox's content and
spread it throughout the Internet two
groups much much much larger than people
actually watch boxes so my strategy for
reaching talk viewers is to go oh
quote-unquote Fox viewers is to go
around Fox not through Fox so it should
be by campaigning in the communities
where in rural communities it should be
doing local media in community in rural
and more conservative communities it
should be to use digital advertisers to
target people who we know are receiving
Fox propaganda with countervailing
narratives about why Democrats are good
and why Trump is a problematic president
who is brokenness problems that is my
thought it's not an idea to ignore five
years it is to find a way to get to
those years without padding Rupert
Murdoch's
pockets we continue to fund take global
effort to just stay belies the liberal
democracies with racist propaganda yeah
and I look looking back on Obama's
interview with O'Reilly and some of the
other things he did I agreed that that
was a mistake and actually helped
legitimize Fox because he was the
president it states at the time
and Bill Riley Bill O'Reilly was an
 to him and interrupted him and
did I mean it was it was it was totally
not worth it and I think that one is
also just for the context of that is
that was actually for Fox not fox news
but for Fox it's airing at the Super
Bowl right we had done Fox in a very
long time at that point and we had a big
internal debate about whether we should
do it or shouldn't do it and ultimately
we decided to do it because it was on
Fox although some of it aired on Fox
News and because we had done every other
Super Bowl interview regardless in the
interviewer for six years or seven years
that part whatever it was I think that
we probably made the wrong call but it
was not an easy call we were not
salivating an opportunity to talk to
Bill O'Reilly we just thought it'd be
easier to do than not do and that was
probably a mistake and I take
responsibility for that cause I was
there then but we were excited I'll tell
you that yeah and I will say like well I
think it's okay and possibly affected
for candidate Bernie Sanders candidate
Pete Budaj edge candidate Amy Klobuchar
to go on Fox News during this campaign I
do not think it's okay for president
Sanders or president Budaj edger
president Klobuchar to sit down with
interviews with them once they're in the
White House and I would banned
Fox reporters from the briefing from the
White House like and I wouldn't I
wouldn't think twice about doing that
like my my only consideration is like
how do we communicate and pierce the
bubble of some of these voters in an
unimpeded direct way just with pure
messaging and pure communication where
you can get right to them and the second
that you have to go through these
pundits and these lackeys that work for
Fox it's not worth it it's just
not you know the things attract on the
Bernie townhall is not what happened in
that one hour right right but it's been
how has Fox weaponized parts of that
content both on social and the other
programs to use it as an opportunity to
distort his message not to push it yeah
that is a that is a lesson I learned
from Obama interviews and even from my
own appearances on Fox which I was on
Fox News Sunday which is on talks
Network and Fox News
times when I was white hot in from White
House senior advisor and I would think I
did fine on it right but then whatever
like they could take that would be least
helpful to Obama or most hurtful to
Obama and make that the clip they ran
all day and that's what they would do
and so to judge the true impact of how
Fox did it it's not just what happened
in that hour it's what how did they use
that content particularly on Facebook to
to distort the message and push their
push their larger pump again effort so I
think that's an important thing to look
at okay I have a live TV I have to make
I do it's done well you know you wrote a
lot about it in your book which everyone
should go buy okay when we when we come
back we will have our interview that we
recorded last week with Chelsea Handler
you
