welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the
episode you'll hear my interview with
Doris Kearns Goodwin author of the new
book leadership in turbulent times
I spoke to Doris just before the
election and we've saved this interview
just for you for Thanksgiving exciting
stuff but do you think Doris Kearns
Goodwin it disappointed that Ron Cherno
got the nod over her to speak at the
white house correspondent her this year
I was just telling Lovett that he should
write a comedy speech for Ron chernow
just to foil the best laid plans of the
White House Correspondents Association
right Ron chernow is a great writer and
a great historian but he doesn't scream
fun Saturday night to me right which is
what they wanted but I think we should
just upend the whole thing and just tell
a bunch of jokes um but first we're
gonna do our annual Thanksgiving mailbag
this is now our tradition dan the you
and I do everything I feel like we might
have done it in the Kuban at 1600 days
maybe I think that's right but I can't
quite remember I've blocked out most of
those days right like I'm aware we had a
podcast yeah not sure we said anything
we didn't make any predictions just wipe
it from your mind people okay so let's
let's dig into the mailbag here thank
you all by the way for submitting so
many questions on Facebook on Twitter on
Instagram all over the place we will
start with Theresa Molina who asks how
does John view 2018 through the lens of
the wilderness what mistakes did dem as
a repeat what did they get right did
they show evidence of learning lessons
and taking a new direction you've all
heard this because we talked about a
million times but the wilderness was the
as the series that I did on the history
and future of the Democratic Party yeah
I thought that Democrats learned a lot
of lessons since 2016 and you know a lot
of that lesson learning happened in the
days and weeks after 2016 I think that
we recruited some outstanding candidates
in 2018 especially younger candidates
women people of color it was a more
diverse field they didn't come from
typical backgrounds of your normal
candidates that we were crude off and
that was one of the messages out of the
wilderness I think the party had very
good message discipline focusing on
health care and pre-existing conditions
I think we learned how to be a big tent
party there were folks from you know
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez to Joe Manchin
that we ran and you know there were some
debates and fights that played out over
the course of 2018 but nothing so bad is
to really hurt the party in the fall I
think we learned to focus more on down
ballot races investing in state parties
sort of returning the center of power
and the democratic party back to the
grassroots and I think some candidates
like Beto or Roarke relied more on
digital organizing unless on traditional
media so they thought that was good too
in the mistakes category I don't know if
we made any big mistakes but I still
think we probably need to be less afraid
and more confident in our immigration
messaging I think we still need to be
talking about a bolder economic agenda
in 2020 and I'm sure you agree on this
one but I'd like to hear more from you
on this I still think we probably need a
sharper media strategy a way to figure
out how to break through the clutter of
the current media environment and get
our message out directly to voters what
do you think dan I mean let's stipulate
that the Democrats did a phenomenal job
we won races up and down the ballot we
picked up more than 350 legislative
seats we picked up cover ships we did a
great job so the things I'm about to say
are not this is not raining on the
parade that we should still be having
from the election it's more to point out
the things we have to improve upon to
win in 2020 because 2020 is going to be
a much harder because you will be
actually running against Trump and the
problem it is Democrats as you point out
did a great job with message just a plan
by focusing on health care and the
Republican tax cut plan and ignoring
Trump it's just a lot harder to
nor Trump when you are running against
Trump and when he is on the ballot in
presidential races drive everything in a
presidential year right how our
Democratic nominee handles Trump is
going to impact as perhaps as much as
anything else the things that drive
gubernatorial races and Senate races in
House races so we really have to figure
that piece out and improve upon it and
do it creatively I think the other it's
a we should also just recognize that we
had every we had a lot of things going
in our direction here right we had the
momentum we had this was the first
midterm of a pregnant presidential which
often goes well for us and and the
question for the party is a and knowing
that the party did a very very good job
we do time recruiting candidates we did
a great job organizing we did a great
job
funding candidates we expanded the
playing field and the habit sometimes
the Democratic Party is when we were at
when we're at bottom we do a lot of
things right and then once we get to a
better position we sort of relax we stop
investing in down ballot races we return
to some of our old habits yeah I think
that's kind of what happened in 2016 and
the hope is we're gonna make sure that
doesn't happen in 2020 we have to focus
on coming up with new tools and new
strategies that reflect the modern age
of politics too many of we won despite
this fact in 2018 but too many of our
campaigns look just like the campaigns
of 2016 you know huge emphasis on
television advertising Direct Mail and
not enough ever Nana focus on digital
advertising digital organizing and the
candidates that you highlight beto
obviously it's been talked about most
but there were others who did a really
good job around digital communications
in organizing and we are gonna have to
build on that in 2020 if we want to have
a chance to beat Trump because Trump
look he got an assist from Jim Comey he
got assist from the Russians he barely
won but he did aria Matt he didn't do
all the same things to Democratic that
he didn't do all the same things that
presidential candidates typically do he
spent less money on TV he spent a lot of
money on digital he thought he did very
clever experimentation on digital or
they were
sting dozens if not hundreds of messages
at a time and then doubling downs on the
ones that were showing the most response
to pretty clever things and we're gonna
have to up our game if we're gonna
defeat that in part because Trump did
that at a financial disadvantage last
time and in 2020 he's gonna have a
massive financial advantage because all
of those billionaires who set out 2016
because they thought Trump was gonna
lose now have their giant massive tax
cut on the line they're gonna be pouring
money into helping Trump so he's gonna
have he will be able to have the ability
to massively outspent the Democratic
nominee so we're gonna have to be
smarter and more efficient than we have
ever been in the past yes yes we will
second question comes from Emerson
Boettcher who says Wisconsin let's talk
about the tammy baldwin and scott walker
voters what's up with that
it's him he won by a reasonable margin
and scott lost such a tiny margin who
are those people in the middle do they
just like incumbents how do they view
Tammy's job differently than Scott's
what do you think then that is a great
question that we're gonna be forced
basically to speculate on because unless
you go back and I you know and do sort
of a regression poll and see it get
talked to people who actually were those
voters hmm you don't really know but I
will make some guesses one is it's a
dwindling group but there still are a
group of people who go back and forth
between parties in between elections and
our split ticket voters right there is a
reason that there is a that there are
states with Democratic senators and
Republican governors and Republican
governors and Democratic senators right
yeah so like that does happen it's it's
fewer and fewer I think what helped
Tammy Baldwin is one she is very
progressive but she she ran everywhere
and she gave in the state of Wisconsin
campaigned hard in red areas rural area
sex urban areas but she also had the
other reason that I think some of these
voters might have been willing to
support Walker which I can't even fathom
that cuz I think Scott Walker is
terrible so terrible you can even beat
Jeb Bush or Ben Carson in the 2016
Republican presidential primary but
the argument that Deborah that you
needed to check on Trump is I think why
you would want is why someone might
consider voting for the Republican
governor but having a Democratic senator
that's interesting I also think you know
incumbency matters less and is mattering
less with each cycle but you know Tammy
Baldwin was a more known quantity than
Toni beavers who won the governorship so
you could see some people because they
recognized Tammy Baldwin again these are
like you know sort of voters who are
moderate independent maybe they don't
vote very often but they recognize Tammy
Baldwin and they've seen her around and
maybe they don't know Tony eavers as
much so I do I can come and see probably
matters a little bit too and look I mean
in situations like this things other
than partisanship and ideology matter to
people sometimes candidate quality
matters you know positions on various
issues matter or in terms of like what
those candidates are talking about on
the campaign trail so like you said we
can't know for sure but there are a few
possible factors at play there and it's
it's worth spending time trying to
understand these voters right so you
also have in a similar situation of
higher where you have sherrod Brent
people who voted for sherrod Brown for
Senate and Mike DeWine for governor
right and like understanding same thing
in in some of these other states right
and I mean there are people who were
just Santis nelson voters in Florida
into in Texas there were there were
400,000 people in Texas who voted for
better or Roarke for Senate and Greg
Abbott for governor and there the reason
we need to understand these these voters
is put in States particularly in
Wisconsin Pennsylvania Michigan these
are the voters that we need them to be
in the Democratic column in 2020 if we
want to win those states so the fact
that we lost some of those voters in
2016 was one of the major factors
contributing to democratic struggle
struggles in traditionally blue
Midwestern states you know how will the
passage of amendment 4 in Florida change
the electorate are the now eligible
voters likely Democrats or Republicans
also how likely are they to
vote just for some context here in 2016
more than four hundred and eighteen
thousand african-americans out of a
voting age population of more than 2.3
million or seventeen point nine percent
of the potential potential black voters
in Florida had finished sentences but
couldn't vote due to a felony record
according to the Sentencing Project and
Mark Meredith of the University of
Pennsylvania and Michael Morse at Yale
and Harvard they did some work on this
and they wrote for Vaux had all ex
felons been eligible to vote in Florida
in 2016 we estimate that this would have
generated about a hundred and two
thousand additional votes for Democrats
and about fifty-four thousand additional
votes for Republicans with about an
additional forty thousand votes that
could be cast on behalf of either party
so that adds up to about forty eight
thousand votes on net for Democrats what
do you think about this damn huge you
know obviously it's first of all it's
one of the best thing that's the best
things that happened on election night
just because it's the right thing to
have happened
you know whether whether these people
who have been formally incarcerated vote
democrat or republican
fact that they have the right to vote
now is just a good thing and it is the
right thing to do but beyond that
obviously there are political
implications yeah it's I think that it
there are a lot of people running around
saying if this if you know now that this
amendments passed Florida's a blue state
and that is dangerously naive in my view
certainly there was a lure there is a
slightly larger pool of potential
Democratic voters than newly potential
Republican voters who are available and
Florida is a state that is deciding
elections right now by less than you
know 1/2 of 1% so everything can be
decisive right and so if Democrats are
successful in turning out this new
population potential Democratic voters
at a rate that somewhat nears how well
they're turning on other voters then if
that were the case now that Andrew
Gilliland be governor and build also and
still be in the Senate and so I think it
matters we need every little bit of help
we can it's gonna take a lot of work to
get these people registered and turned
out and the but this idea that it
somehow is going to fundamentally change
the direction of politics in Florida I
think overstates the case yeah although
as we saw you know with the margins that
we were the margins that we saw on
Tuesday it won't change the overall
direction of politics but it certainly
matters in close races you know yeah
like if someone had well so everything
matters like if someone in Broward
County could design a ballot
that made sense bill Nelson would still
be in the Senate there's not as if
ballot design issues have never had have
never happened in Florida before since
ballot design issues are why George W
Bush became president there's just no
excuse for that look so I know that each
state runs their own you know election
system but isn't there a way that like
someone could introduce or propose sort
of like a universal ballot design for
the whole country that's easy and simple
that maybe states that like it can all
adopt like isn't that something we can
do
I don't know there are there are federal
recommendations on how you do this yeah
I am told
unfortunately Broward County chose to do
it in a very weird way and Michael
sadly the far democratic party signed
off on the ballot as is I believe so
cool cool down it's not great okay MB
home o to asks how do we prevent the
Democratic presidential field in 2020
from being like the Republicans in 2016
or is there not an equivalent of Trump
on the left to worry about what do you
think Dan Trump on the left to worry
about I take a different view maybe I
think you and I Pro take the same view
but different view than a lot of people
in democratic politics right now who are
sort of panicking about the set the size
of the field and it part of that is
based on looking at the Republican
process in 2016 that led it had a
thousand candidates and led to Trump and
the democratic process in 2016 which was
a long and at times brutal primary that
had bad feelings that lingered for a
long time I do not I worry about
everything that's the new model for
Democrats worried about everything is I
don't tell people not to wet the bed
anymore I say worry about everything
panic about nothing yeah
and I don't worry about this too much
because I think a big field will
engender the best debate that we as a
party to have on policy message and
strategy I do too I also don't think
there is an equivalent of Trump on the
left that we have to worry about I mean
Trump is also one of the ways that Trump
was unique is that even though he was
sort of laughed off at the beginning by
us by many people in the early months of
that campaign he is also someone with
you know almost universal name ID
everyone knew who he was he is a
billionaire so he started with a set of
event in addition to being a complete
 which he has turned out to be he
has he has kept that promise you know he
was also in a billionaire or you know
who knows how rich is with who was
famous and so far knock on wood we
haven't had any truly famous
billionaires on the left like Trump
who've decided to throw their have the
ring maybe that changes maybe that
changes but for now when you look at the
field you don't see any Trump like
figures with that kind of recognition
the way the completely ass-backwards way
in which most people in politics view
the 2016 Republican presidential
primaries it's this giant field of many
many candidates all qualified the
leading lights Republic where this giant
field allowed this up-and-comer who come
out of nowhere and win the election that
is horseshit as you point out Trump had
100 cent name ID he was leading in the
polls when he got in the race and in
public and private polling back in 2011
when he was on his birth or crusade he
was leading in the Republican primary
then for the race he eventually decided
not to get into so he has been a someone
the Republican Party base has been
interested in being their
standard-bearer for a very long time
and so the problem wasn't that there
were a lot of Republicans running that
allowed Trump to win the promise the
Republicans running were terrible at
running campaigns and therefore Trump
was able to win
amber Larson asks why is Iowa so
important you've said it many times in
the pod and I would love more
information
happy Thanksgiving friends Happy
Thanksgiving to you amber Iowa is
important because it is the first state
that holds a primary contest is a caucus
in Iowa and traditionally because it
gets so much attention because every
candidate goes there and you know many
of them visit all 99 counties and they
get to meet voters up close and the
voters get to sort of as Obama's used to
say kick the tires a little bit on all
the candidates there's all this drama
around the Iowa caucuses so that when
whoever wins and often the people who
come in second candidates to come in
second as well get this huge boost of
momentum headed into the New Hampshire
primary which is usually the next
contest and also incredibly important so
because there's so much media attention
on Iowa and then New Hampshire the
winners of those contests especially in
a crowded field get enough attention
momentum you know fundraising all this
kind of stuff that as they go on as we
start going on to all the other contests
primary contests it starts to usually
winnow down the field of candidates
although you know this could be changing
do you think do you think that's
changing it all dan no the Democrat the
person the Democrat who was won the Iowa
caucuses has become the nominee in every
recent election other than 1992 when
Iowa was not competitive because then
Iowa Senator Tom Harkin was running for
president so all the candidates decided
to take a pass on it but Al Gore won
Barack Obama won Hillary Clinton won
John Kerry won all of those candidates
went on to be the nominee and there's an
i think that i think that will remain
true although it's a little more
complicated now because California has
moved up in the presidential primary
large chunky delegates to any candidate
who can win that by a decent margin but
the other thing about Iowa is it's a
caucus not a primary and so you're not
asking you're not organizing get someone
to vote for you you're organizing
someone to go to a gym or a church or a
community center on a weeknight where it
is freezing cold and usually
snowing and to stay in it stay in that
gym for two to three hours and engage it
not just to vote for you but to engage
in a public debate about who they're
supporting until the delegates for that
caucus site are allocated it's a very
complicated process and because of that
it is therefore a gigantic test of a
candidate campaigns ability to organize
and run a real campaign and so it does
separate the wheat from the chaff when
it comes to who's running a real
campaign and who's running sort of a
 publicity bride yeah and it
also sort of like we knew in 2007 when
we were like 15 20 points behind Hillary
in the national polls that we still had
a chance to win the nomination because
if Obama could just focus on Iowa and
win Iowa then all these national polls
showing him 10 points behind Hillary
wouldn't matter as much because he would
get so much for momentum from winning
Iowa that it would take care of the rest
which is exactly what happened so I also
like gives candidates a chance who might
not have the organization the money the
endorsements of the front-runner to
really make a stand okay john fogerty
asks if beto doesn't run in 2020 does he
risk falling into the chris Christie
trap of losing momentum
chris Christie yes better if you do not
run for president you will find yourself
in just a few years fetching McDonald's
for some person who does not like you
and is really publicly mean to you so
think it so as you ponder the various
paths your life could take in the coming
months
consider the example of Chris Christie
time for some traffic and I'll pass for
the example of Marco Rubio who chose not
to run for president 2012 and then he
became such a national laughingstock
that he lost his own home state to
Donald Trump and Marco Rubio could be
last seen tweeting 68 times about how
democratic lawyers were trying to steal
an election in Florida look look what
he's been reduced to now but yeah I mean
to be serious about this I don't think I
don't think he runs ever runs better or
or ever runs the risk of becoming chris
Christie but I do think in all
seriousness there is a moment there is a
window for each candidate to run for
president and like I know that at least
I believe that in 2008 Barack Obama
really at least when I got to the Senate
in 2005 he genuinely didn't think he
would run for president and in a Heath
in 2008 at least and as he was trying to
make that decision and figure out
whether he did want to run 2008 as
2006-2007 rolled around you know I think
one of the pieces of advice he got was
you know you are people are looking to
you right now you have a lot of
popularity right now
and there is a moment there's a window
for you to run this election and if you
miss that window it may not happen again
what do you think about that i 100%
agree with that and presidential
campaigns are about a match between a
person in the moment yeah and there are
a lot of reasons to believe that this
could be better movement you know
and the political landscape is filled
with the carcasses of politicians who
passed up a race because they didn't
know when their moment was and you know
I think back a lot about something that
Michelle Obama would tell undecided
voters in Iowa we would set when at the
very end of the caucuses they would at
the end of every event they would gather
undecided caucus goers to meet with
the soon-to-be firstly the United States
and a lot of these vote these Iowans
like they really liked Obama they were
so if they were fired up but by him they
were inspired by him but they didn't
know if now was Obama's time you know
and they also really liked Hillary
Clinton or Joe Biden or other people
running and they would say they'd say to
mrs. Obama you know I you know I I want
to vote for Obama for Brock for
president one day right
but you know maybe maybe I can vote for
I can support Hillary now and then
support Barack four or eight years from
now
and Michelle would say to them that this
this is Brock's moment it will not be
the same four or eight years from now
will be four or eight years removed from
further removed from our lives as very
normal people we will be for eight years
more part of some sort of political
establishment that this this is the
moment for Brock and yeah the enthusiasm
that you see for better or work that
fueled this campaign you see in the
anticipation among a lot of people in
the grassroots about him running for
president there's no reason to believe
that it will be there in four or eight
years and there's a lot of reason to
believe it almost certainly won't be
there for four or eight years yeah now I
remember I remember those speeches she
would give that she'd say we're normal
now we're still normal because we
haven't lived in Washington for that huh
and the longer you're in Washington the
less normal you become and you know beto
even though he's been at three-term
congressman now he still has that sort
of normalcy that comes with not having
spent a ton of time in Washington Stacey
Abrams has the same thing Andrew Gilliam
has the same thing a lot of the other
candidates so I think that is something
to consider
Tom Chang Whelan asks what can be done
to take Mitch McConnell's seat in 2020
our friend Mitch is up in 2020 what do
we do well a couple things here one
let's stipulate it's Kentucky so this
will be hard Zuber but-but-but Kentucky
never in a presidential election year is
different than Kentucky in a midterm
year when McConnell one last and in the
time and since
coño last face the ballot he has become
the face of everything that is wrong in
American politics and the you know this
would be you know if my imaginary but
very well-funded super PAC were to
become real one of the things you would
start doing is you would start
advertising shortly in a two year spread
to try to inform the people of Kentucky
about all the things in Mitch McConnell
has done that hurt the people of
Kentucky whether it is the things he's
done to sabotage the Affordable Care Act
where witches worked very very well in
Kentucky at least until Republicans got
in charge of that state the the dramatic
implications of the tax bill for
working-class and middle-class Americans
the various scandals and corruptions
that he has helped cover up because he
he suffered he has this advantage that
he is the leader of a conservative state
that is existing within Atkins within
both a local media bubble and a
conservative media bubble that doesn't
allow a lot of information to get to him
so you'd want to start trying to soften
them up now and start organizing now
there are pockets of unregistered voters
in Kentucky that we could get there are
you kid there's no the state isn't that
has never been organized in the modern
political era by Democrats in any real
aggressive way and so it's something
worth doing and even if we were to try
and fail making Mitch McConnell sweat
and having to focus on his own
reelection
instead of just his daily tasks of
destroying America would be a benefit to
the Republic looking at you Aimee
McGrath go for it okay so jomama one to
one why should I be this so I could just
say these names
give me the elijah's burner account
given the difficulty that the Democrats
have had in winning rural state Senate
seats is it feasible to win a majority
in the Senate in 2020 without some
drastic measures like turning the
Dakotas into one novel nothing novel
suggestion or statehood for Puerto Rico
what do you think what do you think Dan
it is it is possible to win the majority
in 2020 we're gonna have to have a lot
of things go our way and unfortunately
for us you know it would have been
easier had we been able to hang on to a
couple more of those Democratic Senate
seats you know particularly Florida and
neither Missouri or Indiana that would
have been that would just made the math
easier but it is it is yes a sort of
drama inside straight 2020 to do it but
you don't know so we have we probably
end up with Republicans will have 53
seats unless you know of course there's
a chance we were in Mississippi and then
it's 52 seats but let's say for
argument's sake it's 53 seats that they
have if Democrats win the presidency in
2020 we need to flip three seats because
then if it's tied Vice President breaks
the tie if we don't win the presidency
we need to split four seats if we don't
win the presidency we have bigger
problems in flipping four seats the
targets in 2020 Colorado that's probably
the best target since it was a it's a
trending democratic state Iowa North
Carolina Maine outside shots Arizona
Georgia Texas again but we also have to
hold on to doug jones as heat in alabama
which would be really tricky so that's
sort of an overview of the map the 2022
map is good because we left we left some
critical senate seats on the table in
2016 shockingly enough in states like
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania where we had
other problems but it there is a larger
point here which is demographic trends
and population movement trends in this
country make life hard for the Democrats
in the long run in the Senate as more
young people move to urban areas in
larger states
it just becomes hard to ever even sniff
the 60 seats we briefly had the
beginning of the Obama presidency and so
there we do we have a very the Senate is
a huge problem for the Democrats over
the long term any situation in which
Wyoming has as much power as California
or Idaho as much power as New York we're
gonna be in big trouble which is why I
have been an advocate for
while of making DC estate because I can
 promise you that if DC voted
like Utah Mitch McConnell would have
made it a state the second Donald Trump
won the presidency and yeah you got
Michael Martinez here just cheering
again he was he actually he texted me
while we were talking he said last
minute question for Dan from Michael in
Los Angeles who lived in DC for a really
long time and then if the people of
Puerto Rico were to choose statehood as
in as path for Puerto Rico then we
should do that immediately as well but
in my mind they they should choose
whether it is independent statehood or
whatever path they want to sell
something that DC should figure out for
Puerto Rico Puerto Rico should figure it
out DC should execute it yeah yeah I
named of course of the people of DC
should figure this out by themselves
less than we talked about this by the
way we talked about this in the
political context some people said to us
you know it's not just to get Democratic
votes like there's people who live in
both DC and Puerto Rico who just do not
have the type of representation that
other American citizens have and that in
its own right is critically important to
address aside from the political context
and mindset of that is yes of course and
that's why like you said it's it's up to
the people of the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico to decide this for
themselves you know but if they want to
become States then they should become
States yeah I'm trying to light a fire
under the Democratic Party to do this
because the moral K in substantive case
for making a DC estate has been around
for a long time and we haven't
done anything so I'm I'm trying a
different tack but that is the exact
right reason I say that is a off-and-on
20-year resident of Washington DC tear
downs asks I live in Australia and here
voting is mandatory and we also have a
preferential system and I'm interested
on people's thoughts for that type of
system I was talking to someone who was
going to work for recently elected
Democrat they're asking me for what the
like what would be your boldest idea to
improve democracy and my answer was
mandatory vetting I mean it's I I guess
I haven't really thought too much about
mandatory voting like I love the idea
that everyone's automatically registered
and everyone gets a ballot in the mail
so that it is the easiest thing possible
I can't tell how I feel about going the
extra step of forcing people to sort of
exercise what is a right and a freedom
where there's some responsibility
attached you know like I just I don't
know I don't know how I feel about that
but I mean I'm certainly for every
single step to make voting as easily as
easy as humanly possible national
holiday automatic voter registration for
everyone eighteen or older you know
ballots to come in the mail so it's
easier to to vote all that kind of stuff
I'm not sure about mandatory about it
well let me ask you let me ask you this
question do you is is it mandatory that
you pay taxes it is it is is that sure
is that you're in exchange for the
benefits that you get for being a
citizen United States you're required to
give a portion of your income to the
federal and state and city governments
the United States correct yes yes I am
so it doesn't seem that crazy that we
should ask you to once every two years
or so to I would to fill out a piece of
paper that we mail to your house telling
us your preferences for elected
officials and policies in this country
now I think if you do this you have to
and the only way to do it is to ensure
that there's a none of the above option
because you shouldn't be forced to
choose between three candidates if you'd
like three candidates or four units or
two whatever it is right yeah so you
should be able to say none of the above
or right someone in but I think that
there is a I think there would be
something very healthy for democracy if
people believed that if if they had to
engage in it right it was not a choice
to engage in it you had actually had to
do it it wouldn't take very much time
and I haven't fully explored this issue
I'd like to hear the counter-argument
other then yeah I can't even a matter
like I'd like to hear what the counter
arguments are other than like just
people screaming false flags and big
government like
it's the actual right reason against it
and I think I think it is interesting it
is work you know it has worked in
Australia as I understand it not
perfectly but it has worked and I'd love
to see a state experimented with it in
the to do it you have to allow there to
be none of the above
and two you have to make it as easily as
easy as humanly possible you can't force
someone to take a day off work to do it
no to find childcare for their children
or whatever the reason that made that we
make photic so hard in this
country but if everyone could do it you
know it with a mail-in ballot or this
sounds crazy I'd actually suggest that
we get our heads around voting on the
internet from your phone should carry
with you every day and put all kinds of
terribly personal and compromising
information into but like making it
super easy for people and it would to
see see what it would do for people not
just turnout obviously which would go up
but just sort of have people's
engagement in them in their government
writ large yeah okay well tell us your
thoughts on this I'd like to hear more
you make you make good point Stan
Hugh Scully asks what policies can
Democrats pursue to help tame the
growing plutocracy and deal with the
diminution of middle class careers
available to American workers what does
a 21st century New Deal really look like
$15 minimum wage job guarantee green new
deal will you put people to work
building energy efficient infrastructure
medicare-for-all universal skills and
education program debt-free college
breaking up monopolies the monopolies of
this day and age what else you got dan
you answered that question better than
every single that is a version of the
question we have asked almost every
single Democratic politician who has
been on the podcast the forces of
automation and globalization that are
undermining the middle-class bargain
America then they just gotta go my
priority is the middle class yeah okay
yes give us some tangible policies I
want some ideas all those things are
right I think this is what has to be a
major centerpiece of
the Democratic the conversation around
the Democratic presidential primary
let's have a debate let's let's have
people put forward really creative ideas
and frankly the in the run-up to the
heretic presidential primary Elizabeth
Warren Cory Booker and Kamala Harris and
Kirsten Gillibrand have all put forward
some really interesting policy proposals
on the economy and government reform
that I think are have moved the ball
forward and hope we keep that process up
until we have we have a standard-bearer
yeah no for sure they've done a great
job though the people you mentioned and
been putting forward new policies and
there's an episode of the wilderness all
about this about a big economic policies
and like you know the ones I just
mentioned it's they're all on sort of
the the boulder the bigger bolder side
of the spectrum and I realized that as I
just said that but I do think and like
you said you know people can debate that
and they can debate can we afford this
can we afford that does this really work
but I think that we should start from a
place where we are thinking as big and
bold as possible and then work from
there as opposed to starting from a
place where we're talking about
piecemeal incremental stuff and worrying
about whether we can get it passed let's
think big first and then figure out how
to get it done once we get power Jeremy
Levine asks John Lovett talks all the
time about Fox News is a propaganda
apparatus what options do we have to
actually combat Fox News is there a way
to dismantle it limit it somehow or do
we just have to continue to saturate the
media market with our message I have
been curious about policy proposals to
deal not with Fox News specifically but
to deal with corporate monopolies in
media and I don't know the answer to
that but I'm sort of trying to explore
those because I'm very curious about the
things that have changed like the the
regulatory changes had been made in the
last two decades and then how what how
that has contributed to the things like
Sinclair being able to own large
portions of American television markets
and and pump propaganda into them so I'm
very curious about that there is not a
world in which
phox just there's not a world in which
fox just disappears or there something
we do to stop it I the I probably put
three things that we can be doing first
is I think we should continue to do what
the folks at sleeping giants have been
doing and put pressure on the
corporations that advertise on Fox News
right so well you know these quote many
discretions have made they have
statements promoting diversity and
fighting racism and all of these things
and yet they are taking their dollars
and they are spending them on what you
know what we refer to as the white
nationalist variety hour in the evening
and I think that there's some
opportunity to get some of these
corporations feel pressure at least for
doing that so that's one - Democrats
have to come up with communication
strategies - you know is this person
send the question saturate those markets
like what we can't I don't think there's
a role in which Democrats can use Fox to
reach Fox viewers yeah but we have to
find ways to reach Fox viewers that go
around Fox and I think that is primarily
be done through both digital advertising
and using in a form of digital
organizing where you empower people new
tools to empower people to share content
and messaging with people in their
social networks you know either in their
contact list or on their Facebook feed
or ever else so that like we know that
you're not gonna pierce the Fox News
bubble by you know an ad from a Democrat
necessarily or you know video of Barack
Obama speaking or even something from
the New York Times or CNN you're gonna
do that by taking a piece of content
having shared by a trusted member of
their existing information bubble and so
there's a lot of really important work
that I think is starting but needs to
advance quickly about how we do that
because you know as I've said before Fox
is one of the is the most insidious
force in American politics in the last
20 years and it's responsible for most
of what is wrong with in American
politics because it is created the this
alternative propaganda apparatus that is
try to divide Americans around racial
lines yeah and look we and we
have to build up a progressive media
ecosystem of our own it's pretty you
know I love it would probably yell at me
for saying this but more more crooked
media's out there like right now it's us
and you know the Young Turks have been
around for a long time and you've got
some hosts on MSNBC that's all I'll say
because it's certainly not the whole
network but you've got you know chris
hayes good our version of fox news gave
a show to hugh hewitt right yeah right
exactly
we have yeah we basically we have like
Chris Hayes and Rachel Maddow and and
and I guess sometimes chris matthews and
lawrence hotel and you know they all do
great works but again even the purpose
of their shows is not explicitly
activist or partisan right so I would
love I would love more folks out there
in the progressive media ecosystem okay
D Gerald asked now that the midterms are
over how can people get stay involved
and work towards change in 2020
obviously everyone's gonna be focused on
the presidential campaign and you know
you can you should get excited about
that too and figure out which candidate
you support and go work for that
candidate or volunteer for that
candidate but I just want people to
remember like let's not make the mistake
that we made all through the Obama years
and focus only on the top of the ticket
or focus too much on the top of the
ticket and not remember that we have you
know an entire House of Representatives
up for re-election again in two years
and we have the Senate races we just
mentioned and again we have down ballot
races state legislatures state houses to
flip Secretary of State races in these
states which are hugely important so
there are so many campaigns and places
to get involved and there's also going
to be issues to get involved around
ballot referendum so there are no
shortage of places to get involved
what do you think yeah that is exactly
right like we won an election and that
is awesome and we probably saved
American democracy from imploding on
itself because if Republicans had been
able to keep power he knows what the
 what happened but let's not forget
Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell are
still gonna spend
every waking moment they have trying to
 up America and we're gonna have
they're gonna be big fights just like
there were in the first years the trump
presidency to you know push back on the
Muslim ban or to try to save daca or to
save the Affordable Care Act I I would
be I would play some real money that
we're gonna have to do some real
activism work to save them all our
investigation in the coming months Trump
is gonna try to undo protections for
transgendered Americans they are going
to try to you know they just like for
example Betsy DeVos just put in place
new rules that make it harder for
victims of sexual assault to come
forward and on college campuses and so
they're like there are horrible things
happening we're gonna have to marshal
the energy that we put behind the
midterms to fight back on and it it is
gonna keep coming and I know it's tiring
and everyone gets this week off and then
we gotta okay we had to get back to it
next week with mike espy's election the
runoff in georgia for the Secretary of
State's race where if John Barrow wins
that race the Democrats think about that
it'll be you instead of having someone
like Brian Kemp running elections
putting in place Jim Crow era voter
suppression policies you would have a
Democrat who was trying to do have a
Democrat who is trying to expand the
vote to make it so that everyone has the
right to vote what a difference that
would make him that say that's me was
doing winning and losing that might have
been potential to move Georgia very
quickly into where he put into the
purple column and give us a chance to
win that or win that Senate seat and so
there's all there gonna be a hundred
battles that matter and we had a very
important win on Tuesday last Tuesday
but we have a lot more work to do
they're gonna be all kinds of places to
get involved both in elections in 2019
presidential campaigns in 2019 and
activism to push back on Trump's policy
atrocities in 2019 absolutely
Alex Greenberg had Hillary won in 2016
would there be a crooked media what the
hell would you all be doing these days
and secondly would any of you ever work
on another campaign or White House great
question I don't know if there would be
a crooked media I hope there would be I
do know that I was getting tired of not
being in politics
and so even before Trump won I was
thinking that I missed politics I was
spending all my time and my other job on
Twitter as I do today and so I figured
if I'm gonna be on Twitter all day and
paying attention to politics all
politics all day might as well make it a
job and for a long time as you've heard
on this podcast all of us have had
critiques of the way political media
operates today so we've always had that
critique and always hoped that there
would be some alternative progressive
alternative to the way the media the
political media operates so maybe we
would have but I don't know and would
any of you ever work on either campaign
or the White House boy I don't think so
I mean it is just I don't I don't know
what it would take but I think right now
I'm I'm I'm very happy here at a a
crooked media and I think that we could
play a helpful role to the next the next
Democratic presidential candidate and
all other Democratic candidates so I
think we play a good role a helpful role
from here but I don't know what do you
think dan I this is a really hard
question because like this is this sort
of the ball game everything we care
about is this 2020 election and I
generally think that campaigns are best
served by hiring people who are
up-and-coming and new and unburdened by
yeah the experiences of being in
politics for a long time I think we've
benefitted greatly in 2008 that most of
us were at the early stages of our
career and we were we were the upstarts
not the establishment and so I suspect
that the best presidential came the
campaign the best presidential campaigns
in 2020 are the people who are gonna
have the next David Plouffe the next
Alyssa Mastromonaco the next Jon Favreau
working for them and not the current Jon
Favreau either you or the Ironman guy
that has been John and and so but you
know if there was ever a way in which we
you know more likely in the White House
in a campaign could be helpful
yeah you know they'd certainly have to
feel so you know if you found the right
person that you believed in who you
could make a true difference and fix
this mess that we are currently
in I think you gotta at least think
about it yeah yeah I I hear that and
it's tough because you you know you
never know now until it actually the
opportunity presents itself um Mary I
see one other thing about the crooked
media question sure yeah you point out
that we have a critique of the media
that we've had yes my new thing for 2019
is going to be my critique if the
critique of the media Wow meta it's very
it's very meta but I've come around I
have a whole new view on this that we
can discuss in a in a different pod but
okay I'll take you up on that I think I
think I figured out that the best
strategy for Democrats to win the White
House is not to send as many tweets and
near attacks reporters as possible I
completely agree with that I do and look
we this is like you know self policing
here but I do it as a subscriber
subscribers well god is a democratic
operative if a Democratic candidate for
president sat down with me and it's like
what advice on media would you give me
I'd be like ignore all the like
stay off Twitter get your staff to stay
off Twitter like don't worry about these
 daily crises that disappear
after a couple hours and the fighting
that's going on in Washington and this
like just I mean we talked about this
last episode we talked about sort of
like a candidate who can command a media
ecosystem that is separate from Donald
Trump's but it's not just ever from
Donald Trump's it's sort of separate
from the sort of political media
landscape that we have or ecosystem that
we have right now like you've somehow
got to get outside of that and get your
message directly to voters by meeting
them by talking to them through
different social media platforms like
there has to be a way to not get in the
scrum right now um okay Mary Jane
Pfeiffer any relationship
how do you spell it it's yeah yeah oh
here it is it's pH IFE R so no it's a
much simpler way of doing it yeah that
is that is a much mute pumpkin or pecan
pie stuffing or dressing best table game
to play after the meal go stuffing
pumpkin pie and what's a table game I
guess just a game that you play off for
Thanksgiving what's your favorite game
to play up to Thanksgiving we watched
football okay yeah is that a thing
people do like it's my family just to me
I've been deprived for my whole life
yeah oh yeah we always play games what
do you play
so the best game to play now that I am
married to Emily is salad bowl which
Emily taught us everyone can go look it
up but you you write words on little
pieces of paper you put them in a bowl
there's three rounds the first round you
get people to guess by giving all kinds
of verbal clues that aren't the word the
second round of charades and the third
round is password so you only can say
one word to get people to guess the word
it's it's a lot of fun and I would even
know that was a thing stuffing for me
for sure stuffing is like my favorite
side dish and pecan pie big fan of that
all right last one
Carl minor please just run through like
ten really positive things that we can
be thankful for this year so much yuck
yes Carl there has been a lot of yuck
but things to be thankful for we saved
Obamacare many states expanded Medicaid
the Democrats won the house we won seven
governorships turnout among young people
was up and the margin among young people
and people all the way up to 40 swung
hugely democratic amendment for passed
in Florida's a 1.5 million people who
were formerly incarcerated have the
right to vote what else a lot of a lot
of the candidates who won friends of the
pod especially people who were all the
First's Charice david's lucy macbeth
Rasheeda Talib
Ilhan Omar a be thinkin how're chrissy
Houlihan Katey Porter minimum wage
passed in Missouri the beto Abrams and
Gilliam campaigns and just to end on
this like I I'm also incredibly grateful
to all of you
you know in the most in the daysius
moments of this election when my anxiety
was high which it often is because I
worry about everything though I do panic
about nothing and whenever I'd be
annoyed by something on Twitter or some
poll or worried about this or that or
Trump every time people who listen to
this podcast tweeted at us sent us
pictures of themselves knocking on doors
organizing telling us that they were
going out to you know knock on doors for
the first time make phone calls you know
it lifted my spirits and I know that for
a lot of friends of the pod they've made
friends with other friends at the pod
and so I'm very grateful for this
community of people who you know tell us
when we're wrong push us to do better
and have decided to participate in
politics you've all made an incredible
difference this year and you should be
very proud of that and very thankful so
that's how Island you you saved America
at least for the time being and that
would not have happened without all
people who listen to our podcast who got
involved for the first time who knocked
doors who ran for office you know it's
really it is we're we're very lucky and
you know people sometimes say to us you
helped keep it Potsie of America helps
keeps us sane and I always point but
that it that's actually the it's a
two-way street because being able to
talk about politics with all of you
keeps us sane too
that is absolutely correct all right Dan
when we come back you will hear my
interview with Doris Kearns Goodwin
you
