just kidding later on in the show I have
an interview with Enrique morones
who is the founder of border angels
who've been working for decades to try
to you know help migrants who are coming
across the border help them from
literally starving or dying of thirst
but before that we're gonna take through
some of the major issues going on in the
world then let's start with brexit I
joked about at the top because British
lawmakers just rejected Prime Minister
Theresa May his most recent brexit deal
by a load of 391 to 242 so again yes not
very close call so I guess this means
they now start to debate whether to
leave the EU without a deal also called
hard brexit yeah this is I mean again
it's a total mess so what do you think
happens now well she is promised two
votes so after this deal going down the
next vote in the British Parliament will
be about whether or not to pursue a No
Deal brexit a hard brexit that would
just involve the UK leaving the European
Union by the deadline March 29th and
essentially you know potentially having
a catastrophic situation where there's a
lot of ambiguity about you know what
their relationship is with EU their
economy could really tank there's a lot
of uncertainty about how they could even
get things like food and medicine that
are regulated by the you crazy it's it's
a it's the scenario that nobody wants
sounds like you're describing Venezuela
yeah exactly a self self owned by the
Brits you're I think the general view is
that's unlikely to pass and so then if
there's not a vote to have a no deal
brexit then she's promised another vote
for the Parliament to decide to try to
delay this brexit deadline presumably if
they do that then they will have to go
to the EU and the EU will have to agree
I think most analysts and observers
believe that most likely scenario is
they get a several month delay and this
and they keep negotiating however what's
so bizarre about this is negotiate what
you know the
the EU is given as much as they
indicated they want to give in terms of
terms for the Brits related to brexit
those terms are not at all acceptable to
the Brits because the people who led the
brexit came being lied to them about
what was gonna happen they lied to them
about what they could have in terms of
leaving the EU and what they would lose
and so at some point there's going have
to be a reckoning inside of the UK about
whether or not they're willing to take
the pain that comes along with brexit or
whether or not they will have another
referendum on whether or not to actually
leave the UK or not and I think with
this delay it becomes more possible if
still unlikely that there might be some
additional referendum on this like who's
gonna step up here and lead yeah how can
they align their interests with the EU's
I'll if I'm the EU I'm just fed up and I
don't care anymore
well in the EU has an interest in
demonstrating that it is hard for
countries to leave the EU because they
don't want other countries to write so
you know it's it's incumbent on the EU
essentially to show that countries that
leave have to pay a steep price because
again they don't want any any country
that has some drift towards right-wing
politics to just say oh look it's so
easy to leave the you will do the same
so you know the EU is not going to throw
them this life raft then the leadership
question is entirely right because
you've got Theresa May who clearly
cannot bring along her party she's
losing these votes overwhelmingly
they're hardline brexit people in her
party think she's too soft the people
who want to remain things she's too hard
and she's kind of caught in the middle
and Chloe she can't bring people
together Jeremy Corbyn the leader of the
Labour Party is not really led on this
issue either because everybody presumes
that because he's this kind of
unreconstructed British Socialist you
know he's a euro skeptic too he wasn't a
big fan of you he sees it as a bastion
of kind of corporate interest so he's
not exactly sticking his neck out on
this thing and so there's you're looking
at a country without any leaders you
know the knot on the conservative part
not in the labor party at the top now
there are excellent people like our
friend David Lammy who are leading from
within there the the Labour caucus and
there are other good leaders but the
people who are making the decisions
right now you know they're there they're
either lying to people so the brexit
people who've said you can get all these
benefits while leaving they're being
tentative like Corbin because he frankly
would probably like to see Theresa May
fail at this and you have an election
that he can win or there's may who's
actually tried to do something but you
know can't can't deliver
it's a year of cellphones by.ya
important governments and I should add
that just so people know what the main
issue is that held this up you may read
in these stories about a backstop yeah
Irish backstop so the bottom line is
that Ireland is in that you and Northern
Ireland is a party night Kingdom and
because of the EU there's no real border
between Ireland and Northern Ireland in
other words goods flow across that
border people flow across that border
that is in part how you got peace in
Northern Ireland right because you had
greater connectivity with the Republic
of Ireland and what a lot of people are
worried about is if you turn that into a
hard border again you you could
potentially devastate the economy of
Northern Ireland you could potentially
even reinitiate some of the conflict in
Northern Ireland but if you keep the
open border then you don't have a real
brexit because there's still a part of
the you that is kind of open to Northern
Ireland and so it points up the
impossibility either you're going to
leave the EU or you're not and the
brexit people want to leave so they want
a border there and people in Northern
Ireland and a lot of people in the UK
and in Ireland don't want to have a
border again because they're worried
about what that would bring about and
and there's no solution it's at the end
of the day it's a binary choice you're
in or you're out and and Mays been
trying to define this kind of in-between
and you know it at a certain point like
that they just have to choose here yes
well everyone stay tuned on this one
because it ain't done yet and if it's
like this could go on for a while yeah
unfortunately okay this next subject is
a difficult one
disgust I warn listeners in advance
Camila trigger warning about some
disturbing content released a disturbing
question is Dick Cheney good now Oh God
so here's the contact The Washington
Post reported that Cheney repeatedly
pushed Mike Pence on Trump's foreign
policy at some grouse big donor retreat
on like a private island hosted by the
American enterprising so I like I
imagine like the monopoly man debating
an oil well about derivatives or
something but so here's what Cheney said
he criticized Trump for pulling out of
Syria in the middle of a phone call with
Prime Minister air21 of Turkey he said
he's worried that Trump doesn't read
intelligence or attend the PDB he said
Trump shouldn't have canceled joint
military exercises with South Korea and
he criticized a report that said Trump
wants to get Germans the Japanese in the
South Koreans to pay for the US troop
presence is in their countries wait for
it with a 50% profit margin on top so
Cheney's not wrong been he's not wrong
here here's the thing this guy
is seeking to like launder his own war
criminal destructive reputation you know
there was yet another point he said well
Trump's foreign policies like Obama
let's just take a step back here and
make a point right so Trump is
criticized wars in the Middle East yes
right yes yes right Obama criticized
wars in the least right
Trump is called for more burden sharing
among allies in NATO defense spending
Obama called for those things so oh my
god
they have the same foreign policy right
no this is this is the stupidest
argument that is out there that I keep
hearing they have both diagnosed that a
patient has a disease right they both
said okay there's a patient with a
disease this patient over here has
cancer what should be the treatment
Obama's treatment for that problem of
the wars and the overextension was an
apology to a more ignorance there's more
engagement more diplomacy an Iran deal a
Paris climate Accord I'll State
Department a real State Department that
we have to get out there with the
non-military aspects of a u.s. foreign
policy Donald Trump's
solution is to pull back and to be an
isolationist belligerent dick who turns
his back on all of our values right
so again Obama wanted to treat the
patient Trump wants to whack the
patient on the head and take his toys
and go home this is exactly the opposite
distinction but oh and you know we're
all going to suck on our thumbs here and
say well isn't this interesting that
these commonalities between you know
Trump and Obama no let's be very clear
okay
Dick Cheney broke this world that we
live in there was no Donald Trump with
that Dick Cheney Dick Cheney brought us
into a massive financial crisis
he's a five trillion dollar war in Iraq
but is it good now just try to trigger
Janey's doors you know I gained this on
the past episode I've been reading Tom
Rix's fiasco which is about the Iraq war
and but so well what's so injuring about
the book and I didn't totally realize is
we often criticize the decision to go to
war based on false intelligence what we
don't talk about enough is the fact that
they literally had no plan once our
troops got to Baghdad like the so called
phase four of the campaign where you're
supposed to hold and build capacity and
restore governments and provide services
like we sent our servicemembers to the
middle of Iraq with it like no plan for
how to execute on it and of course it
turned into disaster so these were
supposed to be like like Cheney's the
Green Berets competent guy yeah Rumsfeld
like what's Pearl what we doing there in
the first place
it's really like like how are we gonna
go back and explain to why it is that we
invaded a country Iraq that had nothing
to do with 9/11 I mean the the lies
about the intelligence well I didn't the
bigger question of like why were we
invading Iraq in the first place and
like why is anybody listening to Dick
Cheney about anything right yeah
yeah I'm more interested in what like
Christian Bale has to say about American
foreign policy than Dick Cheney well
meets like and so this is interesting
this so like obviously you know the
things Cheney is saying aren't the
criticisms that Trump aren't wrong cuz
they're easy they're very easy but this
is interesting Mitch McConnell and
Pelosi invited the NATO
secretary-general to address a joint
session of Congress next month in an
effort to I assume underscore our
commitment in NATO
again like they're there echoing the
liberal and the dick cheney rebuke of
Trump for abandoning allies in like
is this the only thing that Pelosi and
McConnell had ever agreed on and it's a
huge rebuke of the Trump foreign policy
I I am bored and have been word for some
time that you get these people like
Cheney and and these never Trump or neo
cons who see this opportunity for
themselves to essentially repair their
own reputations by making these common
cause with Democrats again I think
Democrats to be very wary about that
just because we share similar criticisms
of certain things Trump is doing it
doesn't mean we share similar views
about what the actual solutions are or
what the direction of American foreign
policy should be right so yes you're
right I mean this was the absurdity of
like all the things that the McConnell
has allowed the Senate to vote on the
the one where he's allowed to buy parts
from a view of Trump was on like ending
our true presidents right which is like
on my list of things that I've worried
about Donald Trump not at the top of the
list I think you know look the Democrats
have passed some resolutions through
Congress that or you know embarrassing
to Trump you know demanding that you
know we reaffirm our commitment to NATO
I you know I think though like this so
it's good I'm glad that like we're gonna
reaffirm that NATO is important and the
Secretary General is kind of a symbol of
that but I don't think it's you know the
end of the conversation but wouldn't
happen you're right my group and even
the Secretary General NATO
I mean Democrats should be worried like
Hill he's been praising Trump for this
effort to bolster defense spending and I
actually kind of disagree with because I
think the reason that the Europeans are
spending more in defense isn't cuz Trump
is hectoring them they're spending more
in defense as a hedge against the United
States
you know so you know in good to back up
NATO but let's you know I know politics
makes strange bedfellows like I don't
want to get into bed with Dick Cheney no
I'm never I mean I think that's great in
everybody and every in every way you
could possibly think yeah yeah okay
different subject so the New York Times
reported that Trump is revoked he ruled
Obama put in place requiring the
government to make public its estimates
of civilian bystanders killed in
airstrikes outside of conventional war
zones so the idea was to try to increase
transparency around military
actions taken in places where we aren't
officially at a war like Iraq or
Afghanistan but you were there when this
was put into place in 2016
can you talk about why Obama wanted to
do this and why it was important and
what it means for Trump to walk it back
yeah I mean I know this doesn't solve
this problem entirely and we got some
criticism from the left about you know
the numbers and the numbers match up
with what human rights organizations
have however there are two very
important points here one is just
forcing the government to do this does
force greater care and and what you're
doing that there is a level of attention
to number one try and prevent civilian
casualties in the first place and you'll
remember that Obama set the the
near-certainty standard that you don't
take a shot with a drone strike for
instance unless you have a and your
certainty of no civilian casualties we
know though that in war tragic things
happen in their arts of in casualties
and and you you have to what he's trying
to do is embed in the US government the
habits of not only trying to prevent
those casualties on the front end but
doing after-action reports in the back
end having to account for those civilian
casualties in some cases having to
provide compensation to people who lost
loved ones and also I think was a
healthy process when we released these
numbers you know human rights
organizations said well here's the
difference and we had a dialogue with
them about it right so if you if you
remove the responsibility on government
to account for this you remove any
transparency or accountability and you
also just kind of remove the the habits
that Obama was trying to embed in the
government to say it's our moral ethical
and strategic imperative to try to avoid
this in to account for it when it
happens yeah and again like we shouldn't
be surprised that Trump did this right
because he went on the campaign he said
I'm gonna bomb the out of him I'm
gonna take the shackles off our generals
to kill everybody
but that ridiculous
you know chest-thumping assertion
actually makes Wars worse like that was
another lesson from Iraq when we when
our soldiers were plied with weapons
that were maybe too lethal or too big
like artillery fire in urban populations
or when people were indiscriminately
rounded up and held the detention
operations that fed the insurgency
didn't help us win the war actually
helped us
lose it for a very long period of time
and Trump just fundamentally doesn't get
that because he doesn't care and because
it's good politics to say we're gonna
bomb the out of Phil in the ex
country that he doesn't like yeah ya
know and and like just seeing the
message it sends to the world like we're
not even account this anymore I mean it
says it it just just D values the loss
of innocent life yeah you know in that
we dude we talk a lot about the number
of US service members lost in wars as we
should but we almost also talk about the
number of people that we killed in these
wars I mean the estimates in Iraq are in
the hundreds of thousands you know in
Yemen with the famine there's a danger
to millions of people and look at the US
has made you know sometimes you don't
see the progress cuz it takes place over
decades but you know you look at Vietnam
we killed millions of people because we
were really just indiscriminately car
bombing because of some of the
insistence on on a higher standard we're
not anywhere near where we need to be
we're not perfect but we're I think
anybody would say better than we were in
the 70s right and so the goal is to move
this in the right direction ideally
you'd want to not have to be award at
all but you know what Trump has done is
he's moved us back in the wrong
direction him to updates on the
situation in Venezuela first the State
Department announced that they're gonna
pull all remaining personnel out of
Venezuela this week citing the
deteriorating situation and their
conclusion that the presence of US
diplomat sorry that the presence of US
diplomatic staff has become a constraint
on US policy that last parts a little
ominous how did you read that part of
the statement and how big a deal do you
think it is to take all these guys out I
think it's a big deal you know first to
kind of as we talked about they've been
moving and operating without a plan B in
Venezuela so they recognize Guido the
military doesn't go to him that didn't
work they try to get this aid in to
embarrass Maduro that didn't work right
and and here you will call that when
Maduro said that US had months had to
leave guido invited them to stay well
this is showing that go out is uncharged
in Venezuela see so in Colombia
yeah he's been travelling around Latin
America visiting these other countries
to bolster support for his efforts and
the the the second thing it tells me is
Caracas must be very dangerous and you
know Maduro has been arming these
paramilitary groups since January so the
combination of Maduro arming people and
then the US move into the oil sanctions
on top of Maduro is corruption of
mismanagement has turned this into kind
of a failed state you know and and we
are accelerating that process of the
majority are initiated and that's the
second thing this tells me and then the
third thing as you say if there was a
security concern for the diplomats
because of the deteriorating situation
that language about there an impediment
mm-hmm suggest what we've talked about
as the greatest fear in Venezuela that
this kind of US accelerated collapse of
the state will ultimately become the
pretext for a US military intervention
yeah and I want to talk about that in
great detail um but just a quick note on
this I mean apparently there's been no
power in Venezuela for like five days I
think yeah the Attorney General
Venezuela says that the opposition
leader Juan Guido who you just mentioned
is is under investigation for allegedly
sabotaging it yeah I was probably
trumped-up nonsense but this is also a
good moment to just make sure people
understand that US diplomats serve in
really dangerous places for a long time
like our ambassador to Syria Robert Ford
was still in that country deep into the
the place descending into a civil war I
mean these guys are like putting their
lives Yemen we got people in Yemen we've
got people and parts of Pakistan you
know people in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo when there was violence I
mean we receive it ambassador well
tragically killed in Benghazi I mean
it's a tragic example and and and so it
it's very rare new you remember Tommy
when you were in government in Juba and
South Sudan we had to yeah literally as
that places is a failed state right and
and it's very dramatic to pull everybody
out usually you go down to what we call
a central personnel which is like a
handful of people just so we can have
still an operating footprint in the
country now we're losing all that we
lose
all the eyes and ears that comes with an
embassy and by the way all the capacity
for negotiation
yeah and this just shows that you know
there's there's no there's no even
pretense that we're trying to negotiate
something here yeah I'm just trying to
force Maduro out um so you alluded to
this earlier so a few weeks back there
were these dramatic images over the
weekend of trucks trying to bring aid
into Venezuela from Colombia from Brazil
and they were lit on fire and one
instance and so the media the Trop White
House team John Bolton
general Marco Rubio all left to blame
medoras forces for burning the trucks
well it turns out that they were all
wrong and it was actually an errant
Molotov cocktail thrown by a protester
that lit these trucks on fire and led to
these dramatic images so basically
everyone except for some skeptical
journalists got this wrong and the New
York Times did a big piece recently
about what actually happened so again
like this is a big deal and none of this
means that Maduro is in a horrible
person
none unning the country but wars have
started because of news like this yeah
and I I think it does demand that the
more people pause but when we're not
when our media kind of gets gets you
know brought on board essentially with
the regime change policy and I'm not
saying about all reporters but there is
a danger that you kind of get you get
swept along in this momentum and there
you are on the US military plane
bringing the aide down and there you are
in Colombia with you the outpouring of
rallies on behalf of quite oh and
concerts and the drama of trying to get
this humanitarian assistance in and you
know you have to recognize that like
this is a part of a u.s. strategy right
and it doesn't mean it's right or wrong
what do your strategies it just means
that you know you have to be careful I
mean look before the Iraq war Saddam
Hussein is a terrible guy right when the
the full weight of the US government and
other countries are and opposition
figures are behind building a case
to oust somebody that can kind of sweep
along the way the media reports on
things oh yeah and that's the first
point second point is Guido I look I
don't know this guy at all he's a young
guy I'm sure he's probably you know none
no he is a better person than Maduro and
Venezuela would be better off I think if
he was the president but look when these
things become so black and white that
doesn't mean every single person in the
opposition is good in every single
person who's not what the opposition is
bad and and you know particularly when
people's emotions are being stirred up
like this and there's deep polarization
and division in the country like you've
got some opposition people throwing
Molotov cocktails - right and and we
have to keep in mind that there are
these shades of grey here and this
should be a blinking reminder you know
that that that there has to be a place
for understanding that there's nuance
here
yeah and that there's reasons that some
people backed Chavez in fact the
majority the country back Chavez when he
was elected it's not just a black and
white story no III can't resist turning
to general Rubio's all the participation
as well people should google rubio and
german damn because essentially they're
one of the causes of the blackout was a
disruption at some major power source
for Venezuela and Rubio tweeted and in
his hysterical tweeting about Venezuela
that the German dam had broken you know
him providing is usual thoughtful
commentary when in fact German dam was
like the name of the reporter who this
is the story of the report just shows
not a damn name German you know this can
spill over into cynicism right
amateur hours you know just because
again just because it's a Venezuelans be
better off of the Maduro doesn't mean
that all the people who are trying to
pursue that outcome have the best
intentions at heart like john bolton who
is one of the people who was tweeting
about these trucks being set on fire
like it does not have any humanitarian
impulses here you know he has an
ideological agenda against you know
socialist
as he sees it in cuba
and in Venezuela so I think you know
people need to be skeptical and
scrutinize these things instead of just
swallowing at face value what we're
being you know fed here by the likes of
John Bolton yeah I want to do a little
quick down depressing memory lane of
wars that have started her false
pretences you mentioned Iraq so like the
New York Times some of the stories they
reported that they were fed by the Bush
administration were enormous ly
influential in leading us to war and
they were in fact complicit but you know
in 1964 yeah the u.s. claimed that our
Navy ships in the Gulf of Tonkin came
under attack twice from North Vietnamese
forces we later found out that the
second attack just didn't happen but
regardless that that incident led to the
Gulf of Tonkin Resolution which served
as Johnson's justification for going to
war from Congress go back even further
to 1889 then I was just googling that
yeah remember the main the battleship
the main was anchored in Havana Harbor
and it suddenly exploded killing 260
servicemembers everyone jumped to blame
the Spanish but it is far more likely
including a study that was done in the
70s that the ship blew up because of a
fire in its cold burner but regardless
like the media ran with it all the
politicians demagogued it and we soon
were at war so it's just it's just a
reminder that the lesson of Iraq and the
lesson of remember the main and a lesson
of Vietnam is we need to be deeply
skeptical of all of these claims in
question authorities when these
incidents happen because we're really
lucky there's video of this venezuela
incident otherwise we may never have
gotten the actual facts yeah and I I
think you know regime change efforts you
know seem to bring out the worst in
American foreign policy and government
at times and America full stop yeah yeah
and actually you could you know there's
a remember the main theory of everything
right because that triggered the
spanish-american war which triggered the
de facto American and colonization of
Cuba which triggered the Cuban
Revolution which triggered the
ideological conflict for the United
States and Cuba which ultimately
triggered the emergence of leftist like
Hugo Chavez in Venezuela oh god here we
are all goes back to this
potentially made-up thing with the main
removal but but I know I think people do
need to be you know
you have to put it this way whenever
were in these situations the scrutiny is
usually on the the bad regime and not on
the US yeah because that's the common in
human in American impulse Saddam Hussein
is bad we are well intentioned well
actually Saddam Hussein was bad but it
was the u.s. it was lying about the
weapons of mass destruction right and
Saddam was completely contained yeah and
you know Maduro is bad and so therefore
the people trying to get the trucks in
or all good well no maybe some of them
were throwing Molotov cocktails you know
I there just has to be you know because
of the history that you're so right to
point out we have to scrutinize
ourselves like you know as much as we
scrutinize the bad guys yes cases agreed
Ben you have some really cool events
coming up what do you got oh my god
Tommy so we can cut to it if you need a
minute no no well first of all to those
of you who are in the Los Angeles area I
live in all right yes that would include
you if I come you can definitely come
I'm on the board of an organization
called the Ploughshares fund they're a
very good organization is a very good
organization they kind of promote
non-proliferation and efforts to deal
with nuclear weapons they hate nukes
they they do not want people to have
nuclear weapons and I think in life that
is a good policy yeah and so on Tuesday
March or started Monday March 18th I'll
just yeah so on Monday March 18th at the
silver screen theater at the Pacific
Design Center cool which is on Melrose
Avenue I will be on a panel and let me
wear this wait for this his Ben Rhodes
uh-huh Michael Douglas
I did not see Michael Douglas like that
coming do you say I mean I could have
backed into it by saying that I'll be on
there with ted Lieu member of congress
and and and Yasmine silver who's a
wonderful organizer on the organization
called be on the bomb but Academy Award
winner Michael Douglas Wow
he has had a long passion for combating
the spread of nuclear weapons known for
such and I mean if someone should go on
you should go on Michael Douglas's and I
encourage all the world owes that world
owes out there
to look at the IMDB of Michael Douglas I
will don't sleep on Michael Douglas guys
I won't I mean if they run that this man
had you know
Romancing the Stone the game the war the
Roses like Basic Instinct who didn't go
to sea basing of them we were kids you
know so I would check this out you're
welcome to come can I make a pitch for
you yeah you should consider including
Lori Loughlin or Felicity or anyone
caught it yes yeah in this school
bribing scandal just for the press yeah
we think about it you answer mean I'd
help the no nukes movement if we could
we could get the Instagram influencer
that is one of the daughters I can work
yeah yeah I'm sure and and though then I
am flying across the country and on
March 19th
I will be speaking at Colgate Court City
the College Democrats aside to me we
support College Democrats absolutely I'm
sure there's some friends of the pod at
Colgate so turnout on the 19th they're
fantastic events well I think that's it
for our portion of this but when we come
back we'll have my interview with
Enrique morones
you
