but like our opening guest here I'm just
gonna do a quick intro on everything
that's happened and then I will turn it
over to you and ask a question okay okay
great okay let's get to the big news
two days after Robert Muller submitted
the final report on his investigation
into the Russian attack on our elections
Attorney General William Barr released a
four-page letter to lawmakers about the
special counsels report bars letter
quotes the following direct line from
Muller's report quote the investigation
did not establish that members of the
Trump campaign conspired or coordinated
with the Russian government in its
election interference activities Barr
says that this was quote despite
multiple offers from Russian affiliated
individuals to assist the Trump campaign
and he defines those election
interference activities as the social
media campaign and the theft and
dissemination of democratic emails bars
letter also quotes another direct line
from Muller's report with regards to
whether Donald Trump obstructed justice
quote while this report does not
conclude that the president committed a
crime it also does not exonerate him but
while Barr says Muller did not draw a
conclusion on whether the president
obstructed justice Barr and Deputy
Attorney General rod Rosen Stein quote
have concluded that the evidence is not
sufficient to establish that the
president committed an obstruction of
justice defense okay here to help us
understand what all of this means former
US attorney current host of the stay
tuned podcast and the author of the new
book doing justice a prosecutor's
thoughts on crime punishment and the
rule of law Preet Bharara Preet thanks
for joining us absolutely my pleasure
good time for your book tour huh yeah I
was gonna call my book the mullah report
unredacted so I want to start with the
Russian election interference part of
the letter before we move on to the
obstruction part did any of that wording
raise any additional questions or red
flags for you you know not as much as
what we'll talk about next obstruction I
mean people have been talking about the
difference between the quote from the
mullah report and the language used by
Bill Barr and there's no they're
slightly different
you know the mullah report says the
investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired
etc
and the special accountant and in it
separate from that and distinct from
that Billa bars letter said the special
counsel of investigation did not find
that the Trump campaign or anyone
associated so you know you could have an
argument about whether or not there was
some quantum of evidence that suggested
there was a conspiracy but it just
wasn't to the level that you might want
to bring a criminal case or to say
something more negative about you know
that conduct that related to the
coordination potentially with Russia so
I don't I don't see it I mean obviously
all of this and people should think of
all this whole letter as it sanitized
and streamlined and shortened highly
abridged version of what is actually in
the Muller report and take everything a
little bit with a grain of salt yeah
right because it seems to me a little
bit of a gambit unless in any of its
necessarily in bad faith but it looks a
little bit like a gambit to put in the
in the minds of people an imprint of an
assessment of the Muller report that's
only four pages that's very favorable to
the president and some of it certainly
is but I don't know that it's as
favorable as this letter makes out and
maybe people are hoping that there's
going to be enough of a gap between this
letter coming out and the full report
being known to the public if it is that
this imprint will be left in people's
minds yeah I mean how likely do you
think it is that Muller's report
contains evidence of other interactions
between Trump campaign officials and
Russians that may not have just met the
bar of a conspiracy charge like I keep
thinking you know what about Don jr.
saying I love it when offered Russian
dirt on Hillary Clinton right like do
you think that the Muller report
probably talks about these issues and
then just says and here's why we
couldn't prosecute on them or what's
your expectation there yeah I would
expect it would but you know there's
just great difference between what it
appears the Muller report says about
collusion and what it says about
obstruction on the obstruction we're
gonna get to that in a second just enjoy
the contrast it appears that the Special
Counsel sort of set forth all the basis
on which you might find obstructions and
all the basis on which you might find
mitigating factors so we know from that
you know with respect to that summary
that on the obstruction part they were
like a laying out of facts and no no
decision but it was all sort of set
forth and unspooled I don't know that
that's happened
on the on the Russian interference ID
but I would expect it would be because I
think Muller knows that history's going
to judge how thorough he was and whether
there are gaps in emissions in his
analysis and an investigation whether
we'll see all that is obviously a
separate question that I'm sure we'll
talk about but but I would expect him to
be thorough and it would be in the
report let's talk about obstruction for
a second uh so I want to divide it
because I feel like there's been a lot
of conversation about what bar meant
what what Muller actually has so I want
to talk about it on in terms of
substance and then process in terms of
substance bar basically says it does not
mean a that what what Muller lays out
even though Muller doesn't reach a
conclusion doesn't rise to the level of
an offense of obstruction of justice
what is your interpretation of the
substance of what Barr said based on
what we know publicly about the lengths
Trump went to obstruct justice across
various investigations yeah it sounds
like look at the problem with Barr and
his weighing in on this when it's
supposed to be the determination of the
Special Counsel that's point one problem
one you have a direct appointee of the
president who was weighing in on this
one who's supposed to be someone else's
responsibility then point two if that
build bar already seems to have had an
opinion of this in that famous memo that
he apparently sent unsolicited to the
Justice Department about whether or not
certain certain actions if they were
within the authority of the president
could constitute obstruction like the
firing of Jim Comey and it seems like
that is his legal view and it didn't
much matter although I can't tell that
it didn't much matter what the facts
would show and so in the absence of Bob
Muller making a determination about
whether or not a crime was committed
bill bar right on cue sort of swoops in
to say no crime here
even though Muller and his team spent 22
months investigating it couldn't come up
with a conclusion Barra was able to do
so in 48 hours do you believe that
Muller was leaving the conclusion up to
bar or do you believe that Muller was
intending the conclusion to be left up
to Congress do you believe Robert Moton
surprised on Sunday I don't know how
much he was surprised I think this is
really the most important question
one of the most important questions
about the whole document my view has
been that he was he the way I put it is
you know Bob Miller was punting to
Congress because he didn't want to make
this ultimate decision and Bill Barr
came off the off the sidelines caught
the ball and ran it into the endzone for
a touchdown for Trump which was not what
Muller was expecting now you know you
could say I guess once Muller decided
that he wasn't going to make a
determination and just lay out the facts
on one side and the other and and not
decide himself that he might event he's
a smart guy and his people are smart
people
he might have anticipated that bill Barr
would put his own you know sort of spin
and conclusion on it but I'm not sure
that's what was intended it would be
nice to see what was in the document
that Muller wrote so in other words
Muller could have very easily said you
know we leave it to others within the
department and as possible Muller said
you know we leave it to others including
the department or Congress you know
maybe it's the case that he's totally
silent on who he was punting to but
until we see the doctor we don't know um
I guess like wanted to help people just
step back and understand the broader
context of what a declination is my
understanding is that it is not evidence
of innocence per se it means that they
did not have adequate admissible
evidence to prove guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt is that an accurate way
to understand this document and can you
sort of walk listeners through what this
thing was the process here kind of the
criteria you need to meet to prosecute
somebody yeah and and by the way might
might I indulge in a brief reference to
my book because I about sort of how the
system works I'm against how prosecutors
think about these things there's an
entire chapter called walking away in
the considerations that you take into
account before you decide to either
prosecutor case or walk away from a case
and it seems to me that what the Muller
team did like all good prosecutors do is
you see where they're smoked and you see
if there's reasons to investigate
something and remember this whole
investigation with respect to Mulder's
appointment happened in connection with
a concern about obstruction you know
obviously his first goal was to look at
this collusion issue conspiracy issue
but the only reason there is a special
counsel is because all of us
Donald Trump fired Jim Comey and there
was this crisis and it looked like it
was done for reasons having to do with
obstructing the Russia investigation and
he was a point so his whole reason for
being is because of the second element
you know the second component of the
report obstruction so what happens is
you go through all the evidence and you
decide you know what favours prosecution
and remember although it's true that to
bring a case against someone with a
criminal complaint or through a grand
jury indictment the standard of proof is
just reasonable I mean probable cause if
you have probable cause which means it's
sort of more likely than not that a
particular person committed the
particular crime being alleged you're
it's okay to go and get an indictment
against that person obviously that's not
enough for most prosecutors because
eventually you have to be able to prove
it beyond a reasonable doubt so
sometimes you have enough evidence and
it's just enough to sort of get your
indictment but you have severe worries
that you won't be able to prove it at
trial because you don't have it be under
reason but that that could be a reason
why in fact you know the friends of mine
have said that they think that's
probably what it was it was in the
twilight zone that the some in quantum
of evidence was in that Twilight Zone
between you know probable cause and
really really surefire beyond a
reasonable doubt it could be that you
need aside 'add that unlike normal
prosecutors in my in my office for
example if I had sort of equal evidence
on both sides and it was a really close
question and maybe other prosecutors
would disagree with that given how
serious it is to charge someone with a
crime and how you have the presumption
of innocence in court you sort of have a
benefit of the doubt idea about people
who are going to be charged and so if
it's really close question probably a
lot of people would think don't charge
and maybe if this was not the president
United States for whom accountability
can be had through other means like
accountability through Congress my guess
is that the Bob Muller would have just
said you know it was a close question we
decided not to bring charges he didn't
do that here because there's this other
option so it's not it's not like every
other case because as we've seen before
we saw on Watergate sometimes the
special prosecutor wants to you know lay
out the facts for other people to make
the decision it seems to me you know as
we talk about this even more on day two
that
Mulla was really trying to lay out
evidence in fact and punt you know to
use the pejorative but but give it to
someone else the Congress that's what it
really looks like to me yeah so just one
follow up on that and on the process
here so we had this weekend where at the
end of roughly 48 hours of work there's
a four-page summary of a 22 month
investigation that was dashed off by a
guy who applied for the job of Attorney
General with a memo saying the president
can't obstruct justice that seems weird
to me and then you also have him the
Attorney General deciding that he and
rod Rose ensign were the arbiters in
regarding obstruction of justice when
that's not what happened in Watergate
it's not what happened with whitewater
it's not what the Constitution says so
how how bothered or not are you by that
process I'm kind of bothered by it you
know because because there's also
gratuitous it seems to be a favor to to
the president because as you mentioned
in those other cases so the special
prosecutor like Allah sets forth facts
doesn't make a determination about
whether a crime has been committed or
not and sorting that up not necessarily
up to to build bar especially since the
whole purpose of having the special
counsel is to show an arm's length
you know distance from the regular
decision making obviously the
Independent Counsel statute expired and
the special counsel has to for
constitutional reasons be under the you
know the purview in some general way of
the Attorney General but but this I
think causes a cloud to be over the
whole sort of final handling of it so
I'm pretty bothered about it and the way
to get around concerned about it is to
have as quickly as possible
at a minimum the obstruction portion of
the Muller report made public and given
to Congress so Barr says that their
obstruction decision is based in part on
the fact that the president wasn't
involved in an underlying crime related
to Russian election interference what
does he mean by that and did that make
sense to you look so there's this
there's this um this interesting point
that people keep making and on one level
I guess it has some you know come some
common sense grounding if you're not
familiar with the law you're not
thinking you know too deeply and that is
if you're investigating a crime and
during the investigation of the crime
someone you know lies or obstructs in
some way but there's no crime
it seems wrong according to this theory
right the bar seems to be promoting a
little bit it seems wrong to charge
someone with obstructing you know the
investigation of a crime that did not
happen and that has a very surface
appeal but that's not how the law works
many many people have been charged with
obstruction when there has not been also
an underlying crime charge now sometimes
that's the case because the fact of the
obstruction prevented the umpire you
know to use the analogy from finding out
whether crime has been committed
so you're investigating someone for
narcotics and you you know and you go
you know search warrant you go into the
home and the person's flushes things
down the toilet and you can never prove
that it was actually the cocaine but you
know maybe there's a cause of action
maybe there's a kernel prosecution for
obstruction that might not be the best
example but that's an example where you
you see that the obstruction itself
prevented the investigator from learning
the truth now there are other
circumstances when it's not quite so
clear not so compelling is that but but
think about what what it would mean is
Rudy Giuliani keeps saying but you can't
have a circumstance where you charge
someone for obstruction but you can't do
that if you don't have the underlying
crime charged also first of all I'm
pretty confident haven't done the
research yet when Rudy Giuliani had my
job as US Attorney
I'm sure the office brought many such
cases of obstruction without the
underlying count and later under another
US Attorney Martha Stewart was charged
in the same circumstances but now
imagine if the rule were to go forth
what the deterrence issue would be if
everybody knew well now the cops are
investigating me but I can obstruct and
so long as they don't end up charging me
with the thing they're investigating I'm
gonna get away with the obstruction -
you got to be really good at obstructing
what you're saying if you're gonna be
struck justice you gotta you got it if
you want if you come at the King you
can't miss you know anymore you gotta
get all that cocaine down the
drain I mean isn't isn't this what
happened to scooter libby right he went
down for obstruction even though they
never actually charged the underlying
crime of anyone outing valerie plame
yeah because because it is a separate
crime in and of itself you can't have
the rule be as you were just saying is
that going to go and it was a great way
to make the point that you know the the
prosecution has to be able to prove the
underlying crime it's a SEP it's a
separate crime to obstruct and you can't
have it and sometimes it's the case
that you can't really look there have
also been the different charges brought
by by Bob Muller that are sort of
obstruction type crimes like lying about
something
lying about a proceeding or an
investigation you know Michael Flynn was
charged with lying and not charged with
wasn't the underlying you know crime
that was being investigated it happens
all the time it makes sense that it
happens all the time
and the argument that's being made here
in the letter I think holds no water
I mean if it's we don't even have to get
we can we can step out of abstraction
you know by the bar standard if Trump
was committed to obstructing justice
just to prevent a quid pro quo with
Russia which may not have constituted a
crime or just to prevent embarrassing
information about the conduct of his
campaign or his conduct in business from
coming out by bar standard that isn't
necessarily a crime even though it could
involve lying to the FBI trying to
tamper with witnesses trying to suborn
suborn perjury right I mean is that it
would would bar under questioning be
able to defend that arguments well you
know just in fairness to Barr he has not
said like Giuliani has said on
television that in no circumstances
could you charge someone with
obstruction unless the underlying crime
is also charged he does say in the
letter that they have it that one has a
bearing on the other and he says as I'm
looking at it page three I think that on
the issue of the underlying crime he
says while not determinative the absence
of such evidence meaning absence of such
evidence of the underlying crime bears
upon the president's intent with respect
to obstruction so you know I don't know
if these circumstances hold here because
we haven't seen the report and maybe
there's lots of instances of bad things
happening with respect to conspiracy it
just wasn't enough Raqqah luke you know
collusion relating to the election but
you can imagine a hypothetical in which
you know the person being investigated
you know that really had nothing to do
with the thing being investigate it was
a totally innocent bystander and then
and then later it appears to have lied
about his whereabouts you know I suppose
there's some connection between the
person's non involvement in the crime
and proven non involvement in the crime
and whether or not the later what looks
like it's misleading was actually
misleading or was an innocent mistake
you know what I mean that that's a
limited circumstance I don't think we
have that here but but he does you know
allow for that exception it's also the
the logics
so flawed to me visit presumes that
trump would have to know through the
duration of his efforts to obstruct
justice that his whole team was in fact
innocent of the underlying crime and I
find that hard to believe when we know
that his idiot son was meeting with
Russians and sending stupid
emails about their attempted collusion
in the process and editing statements on
Air Force One about said meeting right
so it's like it feels like they're
absolving him in a way that logically is
fundamentally flawed to me look by the
way you can also yeah I agree you can
also have a circumstance in which you
know it turns out that the law doesn't
make something illegal but you think man
you think your intent is to obstruct
because you think that that they're
gonna find evidence of a crime you
committed or maybe or maybe you did
commit the crime and and you lie about
it because because you don't want to you
want other people to be implicated in it
there's all sorts of reasons why in the
absence of a charge of the underlying
conduct you can absolutely be found
guilty of obstruction and I think the
most important point here is that we
need as I said over and over again and I
think people need to clamor for it the
obstruction portion of the Muller indict
the Muller report needs to become public
and another reason why I think that
seems possible is that my guess is that
all these reasons why you don't want to
make things public including grand jury
secrecy information as secrecy rules
relating to information and classified
information it seems to me that the
first part of the Mullen report relating
to collusion would be more likely to
contain you know a hefty amount of that
kind of material my sense of things from
the reporting and using common sense
that in the obstruction side that a lot
of that information a lot of that
investigation about voluntary interviews
doesn't implicate the grand jury and
wouldn't seem at first blush to involve
classified information is but there's a
more of a straightforward sort of
shoe-leather investigation you talked a
lot of people he looked at the public
statements you looked at some documents
that maybe you got from search warrants
and emails and other sorts of things you
put together your narrative and you see
and so I don't see why there's any
reason not without knowing more that
that information can't be made public
quickly so what possible reasons would
Muller have for not pursuing an
interview with Trump potentially with a
subpoena particularly since he comes to
this conclusion that he can't make a
determination either way well it sounds
like he did pursue on a voluntary basis
and I don't know that's been a that's
been a subject that former federal
prosecutors have been debating
informally the last number of days and
weeks you know maybe he thought my time
is limited I gotta get this done quickly
there he's not going to come without
being compelled to compel a sitting
president he's going to be a long nasty
fight that will end up going to the
Supreme Court I'm not going to get
anywhere and it seems you know once you
go down that America I'm speculating and
he might have thought once you go down
that path now we're not talking about 22
months now we're talking about 36 months
or 48 months and because you can't
abandon it once you go down that path
that may have been the reason it may
have been he thought he had enough
information otherwise you know I don't
know I think you know sometimes it's the
case if you already have a provable case
which it looks like he didn't
unobstructed list he just thought it was
a closed question you don't have to
bother talking to somebody and sometimes
you want to talk to somebody so you can
get their point of view and have them
explain things which would be good for
for you know doing a complete
investigation but I think there were
other considerations here and that might
be why he didn't pursue it on a
compulsory basis so one other piece of
this is the fact that Muller's not
issuing any more indictments and
barmaids clear that there's no more
sealed indictment so the special
counsels investigation is wrapping up
but from the special counsels
investigation it's thrown off a number
of other investigations and particularly
the Southern District a lot of
conservatives and a lot of people in the
media who want to claim that this is a
unalloyed victory for Trump are saying
the fact that there's no new indictments
means that were at the end of this
process we've learned all we need to
know but is it clear to you right now
that there might not be more charges
emerge from some of the ancillary
investigations that have sprung from the
Muller investigation yeah look that that
could certainly be the case and it's not
just cases relating to Michael Cohen in
the Southern District you know one of
the reasons that I incorrectly predicted
that the Mullah report was not imminent
was you've got rick gates you know
former campaign official and right hand
person to paul metaphor just as recently
as last week a letter put in by the
special counsel of the court saying he's
continuing to co-op
in multiple investigations so I thought
well unless they reassign that you know
somewhere else like they ended up doing
Muller's work is not done and so a final
report is not called for so you have
that you have other things that
reportedly have been assigned to the
Eastern District of Virginia and the
National Security Division of course the
things that are going on in my old
office that I just you know read about
in the in the paper yeah so there's a
lot of potential future and also the
Manhattan DA's office may have other
things that come from their
investigation and prosecution of Paul
Manafort you have the New York Attorney
General so yeah there are a lot of other
things going on and it's hard to predict
in the same way that some people you
know really thought that you would have
more indictments relating to conspiracy
and collusion coming out of the Muller
investigation and they were wrong you
could the opposite could also be true
you just don't know it's speculative so
are you are you on board with the idea
that Sunday was the best day of Donald
Trump's presidency or not and that
combined with the the prosecution of
Michael avenatti maybe you could call it
a 36 hours also ironically by my old
office he almost doesn't matter Donald
Trump
I guess did a decent job of PR in saying
over and over and over again making the
threshold question was their collusion
or not collusion and even though in
different circumstances had there been
no investigation of collusion and you
had a special counsel say literally in
writing on the question of whether or
not the present United States obstructed
justice and to say in writing you know
anticipating presumably which I like
presumably anticipating the hot rhetoric
that always comes out of Donald Trump's
mouth saying you know this court
proceeding exonerate you know totally
exonerated me total exoneration
there's no collusion even though the
question of collusion was not presented
I say there was also no doughnuts
there's no there's no collusion also no
doughnuts that's not what was addressed
and so special counsel Muller puts in
the report while this report does not
conclude that the president committed a
crime it also does not exonerate him
almost as if he's anticipating the
retort from the president the idea that
you have someone like Bob mother
saying yeah that I did a thorough
investigation and it is it seems to be
the case that there's a you know by
definition if you say you couldn't
resolve it and it was a closed question
you're saying there's an arguable case
that the president is States obstructed
justice that should have been a low
point in the presidency I mean you you
you know Muller better than we do like
that does seem out of character for Bob
Muller to just use the term this does
not exonerate him if he didn't feel like
it right I mean it was that just does or
is that like a fact no I that caught my
eye also and what's interesting in you
know to build bars credit he put that
sentence in ya letter I mean I was he I
think he had to cuz he's you know I'm
not sure what occurred would've been
smart enough to do that because
obviously that sentence will come out
later yeah now what are you busy doing
deadlifts in the corner cuz like is this
not a failure it's just not a failure by
Muller at least in the near term to
understand the political impact cuz
obviously his assignment was was
criminal and in this investigation but I
can't help but compare his silence and
whether you know that's his fault or
bill bars fault is up to others to
decide versus commis statement where he
exonerated clinton but crapped all over
heard a press conference and then
released a letter right before the
election II it's hard not for me to
compare the way they rolled out these
decisions in the political impact of his
relative silence Muller versus commis
explosive statements well if you take
them one at a time I think the call me
the explosive statement has been roundly
criticized yes by most people
he had the peculiar experiences of being
exploited by both by both sides and the
and rod Rosenstein actually using that I
think as a pretextual Friesen for firing
Jim Comey the way he you know he he
utter disparaging information about
Hillary Clinton who ended up not being
charged with anything so that's probably
not the right way to go there's some
argument that that Muller you know could
have said something
no typically there's there's some kind
of announcement and maybe he could have
decided you know to to make clear that
he'd be prepared to testify before
Congress you know I don't I don't know I
think Muller
probably given the megaphone of the
president and knowing the lunacy of
trying to get into a fight in the mud
with the president just decided to keep
quiet I mean it's the most silent
special prosecutor / independent counsel
we've ever had in history yeah I've
never seen anything like it but doesn't
that suck I mean you got a president
lunatic willing to lie and say anything
he's shutting down I mean look we're
speculating but that's that's a very
unfortunate outcome of this behavior
isn't drunk no I totally agree but
that's why we need to definitely need to
see the report yeah I said you know he
Muller has spoken no not at a microphone
and a podium but he spoken through his
indictments and the complaints and the
court filings and there was a lot said
and I think this report probably says a
lot I mean I do think that Muller will
care about how history judges the
investigation how thorough he was he's
also not going to worry that he's
disappointed some people who thought
that you know he would be the savior and
deliver America from from Donald Trump
but you know if he found stuff that's
that's bad
I bet it's laid out in the report and
you know I had initially thought that if
the report is overall you know good for
the president that bilborough's would be
rushing to send it to Congress I was
wrong about that because I hadn't fully
appreciated that they would have this
you know sort of shrewd strategic move
up saying the report is great for the
president writing a nice four-page
letter you know giving the highlights
and why it's good for the president with
you know one nod to a negative thing and
then delaying for a long time while this
as I said at the beginning while this
version of the of the Muller memo and
report is imprinted on the brains of
lots and lots of people so when later it
comes out it was a little bit more of a
mixed bag to the president everyone's
moved on and it's kind of old news and I
worry about that that's why I think this
stuff needs to come out right away
Preet are there any other burning
questions that you have about either the
report or the process that we haven't
asked you that you're you're looking
forward to having you guys are very
sorry there's some there's some odd
things I keep thinking about Michael
Flynn yeah when I came in the plea he
got I'm not being critical and I'm sure
everything was done correctly and in
good faith and aboveboard and sometimes
it happens that you give a cooperator a
good deal and you think they're
providing substantial assist
but for whatever reason you can't make
some further case but you know there's a
lot of stuff with Michael Flynn and is
working for Turkey and the weirdness of
the potential rendering of this Muslim
cleric Fethullah Gulen and I have some
interest in this because I had some
interactions with President Erdogan who
before Trump became president trying to
get me fired all of which by the way is
outlined in the book but on going over
all of that I don't know what happened I
don't that'll be in the report it seems
like it it might not be because it
doesn't really address it is really fall
into the category of Russian collusion
or obstruction but they're little things
like that that I think are curious that
over time we'll have to figure out what
happened okay
pree thank you so much for the book is
doing justice a prosecutor's thoughts on
crime punishment in the rule of law go
by it
we're always grateful to have you on
this podcast thank you so much pre you
buy enough copies Don jr. is convicted
yes please share bye see ya thank you
thank you thanks breed
you
whoa yeah and
you want to give everyone a shot on his
paying atten shot across the bow thanks
Eliza sound like a threat ooh look I'm
Michael Amin Adi style threat stormy
tweets that she had fired him a month
ago over a month ago and we're back all
right guys I want to get into the
politics of all this but I want to start
with the last question I asked pre which
is what other questions do you guys have
after reading bars letter about the
investigation where some of the burning
questions you're like hey what about
that before before we get into the
politics of it all yeah so all of them
my my biggest question after reading the
bar letter I have two questions my one
big question about the substance is why
did so many people lie about all this
yeah that's why there's so many lies
around obstruct around Russia around
Russia interference from collusion on
the Trump Tower meeting or what happened
on the plane what would happen with
Roger stone there's been a lot of
allegations from Michael Cohen about all
of this Michael in life to Congress
about this Jeff Lynn's gonna go to jail
for lying about this mana fort so that's
my that's my big question on sort of how
did all these lies why did so many
people care so much about concealing
this it may not have risen to a crime
but I'm interested of what is in that
report it's short of a crime to explain
this behavior that's one my second
question is bar you know the coverage of
bar has been very much that he is a
serious old guard Republican whose views
on executive power happen to align with
what Donald Trump wants to happen which
is that he can't be charged with
obstruction or a crime and that all
power flows from him as the executive
and therefore he can do it every wants a
Justice Department but that bars
motivations may be part
but he's not a Trump funky he's not some
loser Trump pulled from the bottom of a
Republican barrel he's a serious adult
he's not Rudy so he's certainly not Rudy
who's lost a step so my assumption in
reigning I don't know Rudy Giuliani the
smartest legal mind in the game right
now yeah that's that's true he's a
 really is the is the Bill
Mitchell of this episode
he's a Rubik's Cube made flesh the
request meets Mitchell yeah but but so
my assumption in reading this bar letter
is he is not going to write something
that is dishonest to the point where he
will be summarily embarrassed and
revealed to be a fraud when we actually
see the report so my assumption is that
this is defensible but I want to
understand just how much he's doing work
for Donald Trump in this memo
specifically around collusion obviously
doing a ton of work for Trump around
obstruction but basically saying you
know what Muller didn't reach the
conclusion but guess what I can write I
find that strange but you kind of it's
all out there but my question is how
much work is he doing to protect Donald
Trump on the other matters where where
we don't know what evidence Muller
gathered those are my two big questions
I mean I really would like to know how
you prove or disprove corrupt intent if
you never interviewed the president
about the underlying facts what his
intent I I don't and I do not think I
understand preach you know analysis that
it would be a really long owner a
subpoena process but I mean that is the
precedent and it seems like written
questions are completely insufficient
and I think there's a lot of caveats
like that like some of the things love
it got into that make this report
clearly a mixed bag why which is why it
is deeply frustrating although I guess
not that surprising that the media is
willing to treat this as an exoneration
and parrot that language from Trump I
mean we should be clear this thing could
have said Donald Trump did a daily
conference call with Russian
intelligence agents and he would be
tweeting no collusion total exoneration
right likes his spin is nonsense but as
soon as a constant I really yeah it's
been discussed it I really struggle how
we are asked to take seriously a
four-page summary of this massive
investigation we should I a hand-picked
member of his cabinet
applied for the job exonerating so I
have a couple questions there are
smaller ones what was with Paul manna
for handing sensitive polling
information over to Constantine columbic
who the FBI has decided is linked to
Russian intelligence what is the
significance of that we heard about it
it only came up in court because manna
fort lied and broke his plea deal
otherwise we wouldn't have heard about
it and there's a redaction error there
was a redaction error right but that's
in there why did the Trump campaign when
it was being run by Paul Manafort seek
to change the Republican party platform
at the convention in Cleveland so it was
friendlier to Russia what was that all
about
why did Jared Kushner try to set up a
secure back-channel communication to
Russia during the transition what was
going on there who directed Roger stone
to reach out to WikiLeaks we know that
it said in the indictment for stone has
been directed by a senior member of the
campaign and where's the jerome corsi in
indictment that we've been reading about
and the jerome corsi thing and i thought
was especially strange by the way
because because of a leak we know that
there was actually an agreement drafted
right there word was he leaked it right
so like it's it seems strange to me that
there was a that they got to the point
where they were literally writing up the
charges we don't hear anything about
foresee by the way is a fringe creepy
journalist who lies and creates
conspiracy theories about Democrats for
decades including saying Barack Obama is
a quiet Muslim he's a terrible person
he is loved it - your first question why
all the lies you know to offer the most
generous interpretation toward - all of
these flunkies who were going to jail
perhaps they lied because they knew that
if they told the truth the media would
make a big deal about more Trump Russia
connections and they thought that they
could just that the more Russia stuff
that comes out the more contacts with
Russia the more they talk about work you
know working talking with - Russians
working with Russians whatever it may be
that it would hurt Donald Trump and it
would hurt his political reputation and
so they thought they could get away with
those lies and they were stupid enough
to lie even though lying to federal
officials to the FBI to the special
counsels office could land you in jail
I guess that's that's the most generous
interpretation yeah and that raises
another question - because in the
Emily talks about tacit or explicit
agreement and I think we are owed an
understanding based on the evidence what
exactly that means right it is so
there's collusion which I think we've
all seen plenty of evidence of you know
Donald Trump gave a speech calling on
there to be a hacked if it you know they
hacked John jr. saying I love it so
there's evidence of coordination there's
evidence of Donald Trump wanting the
benefit of Russia's involvement in the
election what that technically means to
Muller what that technically means
legally I don't think we know yet
because we haven't seen the underlying
description of what they gather I've
also just never understood what clusion
means in a legal framework it doesn't
nothing right and I think that but
that's always been a challenge in that
we are it's something that's deeply
unethical and unamerican and screwed up
to coordinate with a Russian anybody
intelligence agents the IRA there's
social media farm but it's not
necessarily legal unless you can prove
this broader conspiracy which is been
challenging because it all happened in
plain sight and from a legal sense there
were just a couple possibilities with
that conspiracy it was either a
conspiracy directly related to the
hacking and dumping of emails so you
know communication coordination with the
Russians had to be conspiracy related to
that crime or it had to be related to
the social media campaign had to go to
that crime the other theory that some
legal scholars put out there was that it
was conspiracy to defraud the United
States which went to the you know
because it is illegal to seek assistance
from a foreign government to help you in
an election and that maybe that would be
proved so clearly those it like you said
Tommy it's hard to actually prove
conspiracy related to the two election
related crimes and it was clearly hard
to prove one related to you know
defrauding the United States and and
committing an election crime which
apparently you know what we know what we
know now is that the president has only
been implicated in a couple of campaign
related felonies and those have to do
with Michael Kahn I mean the the
goalposts shift so often that we don't I
don't think are we playing football I'm
not sure I don't I don't remember but we
know that Trump stood next to Putin in
Helsinki yeah said that he had gotten
extremely strong and powerful denial
about election interference
so if we're exonerating Trump in the
sense that we are saying everything he
said is actually accurate the report
completely contradicts him Muller said
they absolutely did the Russians try to
interfere with the election and he
indicted a bunch of Russians for doing
so so like we know that there was
interference in our election period we
do and we know the trunk light about and
we draw the Trump light about it we know
the Trump was told that there was
Russian interference in our election as
far back as his first intelligence
briefing in August of 2016 and yet he
continued for months to deny that Russia
had any involvement whatsoever so you
can say that's not a crime but and in
David corn has a great piece about this
today and Mother Jones like it is a
trump has multiple times Trump has
betrayed the country for his own
personal gain he has he has put the
Russians view of things ahead of what
his own intelligence community has said
over and over again include about like
North Korean rockets that is a fact that
has been substantiated by everyone yeah
you know it's I think they're like
stepping back I think the biggest
question for me right now is you know we
haven't seen them on the report we've
read the bar report of the Moller report
right and we've watched a lot of a
Cliff's Notes version right and now
we're doing the pod save America report
on the bar report on the Moller report
there's and a lot of what we'll discuss
next is the pod save America report on
the media report on the Bob report on
the motor report there's a lot of which
is which by the way spoiler alert' not a
good grade no no no great doesn't you
know doesn't not a crime not exonerated
but the cell yelling no no look or we
could say it's clearing a low bar you
know there's a lot of options but the
but again what we're talking about then
is the interpretation of the
interpretation of the interpretation of
Donald Trump's conduct which again will
be written up which is why we need the
underlying report but the big question I
have is look conservatives cheering over
playing their hand right now the media I
think fell into the trap of it and said
oh look no collusion was the big
headline right there's a chance that
this feels a little bit like how we felt
on election night in 2018 which is it
took weeks to discover that what we were
actually looking at was in the actual
sub
of what took place a much better event a
much worse event for Republicans than we
realize that the Los Angeles County
Registrar is the people digging through
the Muller report right now
absolutely and I think there is a chance
that we'll eventually get huge pieces in
the Mullen report and it bears out bars
reading faithfully right that that what
bard describes is a fair rendering of
what Robert Muller lays out however it
is I think a good possibility that we
end up with is a document that says
here's a ton of evidence that Donald
Trump obstructed justice and here's a
ton of and evidence of a huge number of
incredibly despicable acts and co an and
behaviors that maybe not work that maybe
did not rise to level of a crime but
nonetheless
roat's a level of a betrayal of the
country and oh by the way here's a list
of all the other people we have indicted
and will indict based on this
investigation the culmination of which
is a massive successful investigation
into a criminal presidency that may be
the upshot and this weekend will in
hindsight look at that that a lot of
people were way too rich so we're into
the politics but let me just set it up
here despite Muller specific intention
that the report does not exonerate Trump
Trump tweeted no collusion no
obstruction complete and total
exoneration Keep America great mm-hmm
later he said to reporters quote this
was an illegal takedown that failed and
hopefully someone's going to look at the
other side this threat to investigate
Democrats and the Obama administration
was repeated by Trump's family
Republican members of Congress and just
about every right-wing pundit in the Fox
Universe meanwhile the New York Times
ran an analysis piece with the headline
a cloud over Trump's presidency is
lifted that says quote the end of the
investigation without findings of
collusion with Russia fortified the
president for the battles to come
including his campaign for re-election
guys how is the political dynamic change
today and how many clouds have really
lifted I mean look
certainly the fact that there were no
further indictments in the report is
good news for Trump
Yeah right like the fact but again we
don't need to put aside our skepticism
we don't need to put aside our feeling
that it is weird that all these people
lied about their connections with Russia
we don't have to put aside the fact that
we now know thanks to a lot of what was
learned in this investigation that there
was a major campaign
violation commanded by the president
United States we don't have to feel
weird about the fact that we had Mike
Flynn's sitting in the national security
advisors office getting briefed on
literally the most sensitive
intelligence that exists on the planet
while he had done a bunch of things that
have led him to be talk to you by the
FBI for a very long time so like I don't
fundamentally think the politics have
changed because the politics out in the
country have not been about the mullah
report and I think that's pretty well
reported well-trodden territory in DC
the mullah report is likely to be the
beginning of a conversation about the
substance of the report that we haven't
seen yet so again I just it would be
really great if I know we don't live in
this world where people wait and read
documents before commenting on them but
if people would just take a beat and see
what the thing says and then let's
decide the political impact what a
stupid idea Tommy I know I know as I ran
eclis talk about it but how how should
House Democrats handle this Jerry Nadler
head the Judiciary Committee has joined
every other Democrat on the planet and
demanding the full report be released
and he also said this on Fox quote the
job of Congress is much broader than the
job of a special counsel right we have
to look for abuses of power we have to
look for obstruction of justice we have
to look for corruption how hard and
publicly should House Democrats be
looking for these things some people are
you saying oh this can take the wind out
of the sails of the House Democrats
investigations I am I think it's really
important that they go very hard and I
and I say that because I I think I think
I was when I was watching the reaction
from conservatives today and when I saw
the bar letter I was like oh wow I was
not I was not imaginative enough to
understand just how exactly this would
play once the Muller report happened
because it is a it is a good cop at that
cop Kane is it it's a good cop bad cop
thing the good cop is bar whose
ostensibly laying out a legal rationale
who mixes in his own opinions with
Robert Muller's conclusion right mixes
in his views on obstruction mixes in his
views on the interpretation of what he
says about collusion to provide this
gloss on the report what I was and and
from that it gets into the hands of
Lindsey Graham and people like trey
Gowdy and people like britt hume and
people on the right who then go on
television basically say robert muller
finally did it
he
prove that the real criminal he
proved he proved that the real criminals
are Hillary Clinton Adam Schiff Loretta
Lynch and James Comey that though they
are the real villains and so what what
is amazing is how quick a transition
happened between robert muller being a
witch
i'm sorry robert muller being on a
witch-hunt to robert muller now being
brought onto the side doing the hunting
right it's like you you either you
either you're either a witch or you're
gonna be in you get it I'm done well I
mean I know I thought that today too
like you know what Trump was asked today
do you you know respect Robert mole or
do you think he did a good job and and
Trump basically gives him the thumbs up
today you know and was like yeah it's
like I might wait until I would read the
report oh no I mean that's if Trump was
being prudent Trump doesn't care he'll
read the report if the reports bad he'll
just be like no it's a witch-hunt he's
the worst right throw him in jail it's
literally the job of Congress to provide
oversight of the executive branch yeah
literally it's in the Constitution and
then yet there is this DC conventional
wisdom that voters are somehow aware of
or concerned about the number of
hearings that are happening on a various
like that would be news to the people at
c-span who actually air these things and
get like six people watching them so
like I think everything short of
impeachment will never be noticed by
anyone no one cared that there were ten
Benghazi investigations and you know
what because there were we found out
about Hillary Clinton's for an email
server and that was the thing that you
know changed the course the elections so
there is a precedent set by House
Republicans who you know Devin Nunez and
all these goobers demanded every single
document about the Hillary investigation
Peter strux texts like all these things
that's the precedent so we need to get
our hold of all these documents all the
underlying investigative work there will
be things that are not released for
sources and methods reasons that are
classified but we should push to get
literally everything out and to look
into any leads that were not followed up
on by Muller because he was looking at
criminal actions not ethical moral legal
questions I would say one thing I do
think it makes impeachment tougher not
because of the underlying facts that may
still come out because of how the
Democrats handle this over the last
several months I remember when the
president was in was implicated by
federal prosecutors in multiple campaign
felonies after Kohn went down thinking
like this
is the moment that if House Democrat we
don't know what mullah is gonna come up
with right like at that point we had no
idea what Muller was gonna come up with
they could have said yes that is an
impeachable offensive if he wasn't
president right now it is very likely
the Donald Trump would be indicted for
what happened with those hush money
payments very likely because they are it
is a crime that Michael Cohen already
played pled guilty to and we just they
didn't make the case and then you know
you had Nancy Pelosi a couple weeks ago
who said it's got to be bipartisan if we
do it clearly after the reaction of
Republicans over the weekend there is
not going to be anybody but it was
probably clear before that in fairness
but clearly now there's not going to be
any kind of bipartisan you know rush to
have any kind of impeachment hearings so
I do think you know it may make some
Pietschmann trickier I think it's also
worth saying like you know you may turn
out by the way that this report is
incredibly disappointing right it may
turn out that that totally that the that
the lack of evidence to prove even you
know non criminal collusion may turn out
to be what Muller found and if so that
means this report is not as advantageous
to Democrats as many Democrats would
have hoped that said I've seen a lot of
people saying oh look at how flat-footed
the Democrats have they've been waiting
for Muller that Muller was gonna be
their rescue and I it just doesn't
accurately describe reality I actually
think that in the that you know on the
other side don't close it now so insane
the other side of the coin to what
Johnson which is absolutely true that
that this idea of waiting for the Muller
report for the basis being bipartisan
for holding out it so we have the molar
evidence I think has made at least in
the short term this impeachment question
harder to answer at the same time don't
knock cable news not Twitter elected
Democrats particularly elected Democrats
in position of power and in a position
of access to information related to
these investigations have been very
responsible in their discussions of
Muller they have not said it's going to
be the end of the trump presidency
they've said wait and see
they've been very responsible about
their role versus Mullah role and
democratic candidates on the campaign
trail have a not been talking about it
and B not been counting on it that has
been the case and there been some people
who said oh it's because they were
waiting to see the to see The Smoking
Gun no we just at 28 2018 we just won a
midterm election and it was
her about mulher that tells you
something about how Democrats at a
campaigning and about how the next
campaign will unfold how many times have
we said that here how many times have
you yelled into the microphone Bob
Mahler's not gonna save us we've said it
for like two years and we did it
because we wanted to be able to say this
right we were ready there's nothing
better than blue checkmark Twitter going
back into their archives to find the one
time they cast out on this thing and
then retweeted myself who are you doing
this for people here's the other thing a
hostile regime attacked our election on
Donald Trump's behalf the president knew
about it he encouraged it he welcomed it
he lied about it and then he tried to
cover it up with more lies
all of that is fact that is we've seen
that in the indictments Muller has
described that that has been in reports
that have gone unchallenged he also lied
to the American people about having a
massive financial interest in pushing a
foreign policy that was favorable
towards that same hostile regime he this
whole time he was being nice to Russia
during the campaign saying oh my policy
is gonna be to be nice to Putin blah
blah blah he didn't tell us that if that
he had a 50 million dollar Trump Tower
at stake like that could have made him
three hundred million dollars more money
than any of his former projects lied
about it the entire time lied about the
entire time like it doesn't in some ways
whether this rate rises to the level of
a criminal conspiracy or not it doesn't
matter
it was presidential misconduct and
wrongdoing that is out there for all to
see exactly and which is why I've never
really been concerned about the question
of whether we should start impeachment
proceedings or not I don't really care
about the moral obligations I just care
about the politics and I think the house
oversight committees or the various
committees in the house should
investigate everything they can to get
more facts to find more information and
all of it will be part of a conversation
around Trump's reelection and that will
be the important part not what's in this
thing and look and obviously people are
gonna talk about health care they're
gonna tell jobs I got about all the
issues but in weighing the consideration
of whether Trump should have a second
term as voters weigh that part of what
should be in their minds is what has
come out of this investigation the
president last time he ran for election
told you that he liked Russia and he
told you just trust him he liked Russia
for all these real ideological foreign
policy reasons in reality he was hoping
to build a tower there that made him a
lot of money he lied to you last
election
do you think what kind of financial
interest do you think he's lying to
about this time president lied to us all
the time he's stood as you said Tommy
he's stood stage in Helsinki next to
Vladimir Putin and except fladam here
Putin the guy who attacked our election
his findings over the intelligence
community yeah all of this stuff is true
I don't know well yeah it's certainly
not again you know you've seen a lot of
people say the the conservative line
today and I do think they're way way
ahead of the information even more than
usual is to say you know this is
McCarthy called on shift to resign from
the Intelligence Committee Hume so you
know all these conservatives on
television talking about how this is a
black mark on the on the on news
organizations that I'm investigating
whether or not the president committed a
crime something the Special Counsel was
looking at something I think is quite a
reasonable source of journalistic
inquiry several newspapers have won
Pulitzer Prizes based on their reporting
none of which has been conflicted to me
the sin of this weekend is the sin of
the past two and a half years which is
recency over importance this is Special
Counsel investigation has produced
dozens of charges against a ton of
people it has produced an incredible
mountain of misconduct and other
evidence of wrongdoing the evidence of
Donald Trump's obstruction has been
available to us since he sat across from
Lester Holt and said yeah I obstructed I
was trying to stop Comey from doing his
job right so we are in this situation
where the bar letter is the most recent
thing it looks helpful to Donald Trump I
think we will look back on this period
of time as a low-water mark for the
investigations but not the end of things
like impeachment you know time moves
very quickly in this in this sort of
endless Twitter present and I will say
to all the journalists out there you
have a choice right now you can either
go on record defending the dogged
reporting of your colleagues that has
turned up so much information about this
investigation all of it that's been
accurate except for the stuff that's
already been corrected I think the only
thing that has gone without a correction
is the fact that you know Michael
Cohen was supposedly in Prague which
wasn't right you know like you can count
on one hand the things that the media's
gotten very wrong about this right
so you
either defend your colleagues and defend
their reporting which within some of the
best reporting we've seen in this
country in years or you can give in to
the bad faith attacks by Fox
News and the Republicans who were just
based on nothing and are trying to just
fight this media bias war that
they've been fighting for the last 20
years you but yeah but you have to go on
record this you can't you got to take a
side here I like that I mean look you
can also if you're Jeff Zucker you can
rethink the emphasis put on repeating
news panels about the same stories over
and over and over again on evening cable
news programs I think that's a
worthwhile debate but I also think back
to during the campaign when people who
are at the DNC or on the Clinton
campaign said that they believed that
the Russian intelligence had hacked
their emails and were releasing these
documents via WikiLeaks and they were
trait treated like they had tinfoil hats
on yes they were crazy people like they
were left-wing Infowars and that was all
proven to be true in the bar summary of
this document so we've come a long way
on the facts
there's no way reason to be
self-flagellating here there's a lot
more to learn since none of us have you
know read the report that's right and
regardless we just have to go win an
election in 2020 and that's gonna happen
by organizing and talking about issues I
never trusted this Republican robert
muller
honestly that square jaw I don't trust
it that jaw is to square all right those
Breitbart is gonna take this clip out of
context that's that's what we do here we
love Bobby all right let's do a quick
rundown of the latest 20/20 news on
Sunday senator Kirsten Gillibrand
formally kicked off her presidential
campaign with a speech in front of one
of Donald Trump's Manhattan hotels
Gillibrand called the president a coward
and touted her legislative record on the
hill and the frequency she's pushed back
on Trump's agenda using the theme of
bravery she said quote the people of
this country deserve a president who was
worthy of your bravery a president who
not only sets an example but follows
yours guys what did you think of the
message of the speech and the strategy
of giving it in front of a Trump Hotel I
think she was trying to get a reaction
from Trump poor Kirsten Gillibrand it
was a tough day but they tight like a
lot of time ago stopped the timing is
another faultless so unfortunate it's so
brutal I think I think I think there
reality is the only thing that mattered
was the timing I you know kirsten
gillibrand I think has I actually look
as I've said before every single
announcement video works on me every I
am I am for every candidate for five
minutes after I've seen their
announcement video I'm a huge supporter
of them and I must be the nominee for
five minutes that said you know I think
kirsten gillibrand shares a problem with
a number of other candidates which is
they need to find a a can't a case for
themselves that makes it clear why it
should be them over others why it should
be them now against Trump and why and
Anik a strong enough to break through
and it giving this speech on this Sunday
means that nobody nobody heard it it's
also I don't know what the answer to
that is even before the the Muller news
broke and I think sort of swamped the
whole coverage of literally everything
in the world you know I think that they
were probably not totally enthused by
the crowd sighs I mean you're gonna have
a lot of people comparing that crowd
size to Kamala Harris in Oakland getting
tens of thousands of people versus
several hundred in New York City which
is a bigger place where you should
believe the crowd so look it's gonna we
got a long ways to go
all these little inflection points are
about getting your name ID up or getting
donors to believe in your campaign so
they'll give you more money or whatever
need to do and you know it it sucks to
have made an announcement on a day when
there was news people been waiting for
for 22 months yeah and I also think look
there's there's a risk in playing off
Trump too much right like how you
handled Trump sort of a big question for
all these Democrats and you know we've
seen everything from Elizabeth Warren
gave her announcement speech and I don't
think she mentioned Trump once right it
was just a speech that was devoid of
Trump altogether I think you know
Kirsten Gillibrand's announcement speech
was mostly about Trump it was about
Trump and you know in fairness she had a
lot about some of the activists who have
pushed back on Trump it was basically a
speech about the resistance to Trump
over the last couple years that's sort
of what her message is and I understand
that but it was a lot about Trump and I
think then someone like Bernie Sanders
were sort of in the middle of those two
Warren and Gillibrand where Bernie was
mostly about issues but he did use this
portion of the speech to talk about why
heat him versus Trump would be quite a
contrast right so you see these
candidates doing all kinds of varied
ways
trying to like figure out how to deal
with Trump but look you know kill
Gillibrand talked about paid family
leave that's her big issue I heard her
talk about that in her MSNBC Town Hall a
couple weeks ago and that to me is a
very fruitful area for conversation even
more so than Trump right she's got it's
great paid family leave plan provide all
workers the ability to take three months
of paid leave whether they're a new
parent caregiver for another family
member or ill themselves it's like great
plan go talk about it yeah and she's
also energy I think one of the appeals
of the message of of bravery is I think
there are a number of issues where she
really did stick her neck out right and
I think that's true around sexual
assault in the military right that is a
that was a difficult issue a thorny
issue to take on right you are going
into an organization that is one of the
last organizations respected by by the
American people at a time in which we
have such lingering such diminishing
support for institutions and saying
there's a huge problem here I'm gonna
take on the brass on a very difficult
issue I think that is part of a worthy
case and I also don't want to be saying
oh you know because she caught a bad
weekend to announce it it means her
candidate like that isn't it that is
punditry so I would say like you know to
anyone who didn't catch it everyone
should go check out her speech because
the truth is a lot of people may have
missed it because of what happened over
the weekend but I think she still
deserves right there's the there's the
punditry that says oh people didn't see
it that will hurt her campaign but
here's what each of us should do and
each of us should go seek out what she
had to say and make a decision on our
own
that's the best way to do it watch these
candidates talk watch their speeches
watch their events you're gonna find
more from that than any kind of analysis
including ours meanwhile Jerry I know I
know
meanwhile Bernie Sanders spent the
weekend campaigning in California
staging rallies in San Diego Los Angeles
and San Francisco that were quite large
an estimated 12,000 in Los Angeles
16,000 in San Francisco the Jewish
senator also made news by visiting an
Islamic Center here in Koreatown in LA
calling on Americans to quote stand up
to hatred of all kinds and saying your
background is different than mine what a
joy it is to share that guys what do you
think of Bernie's big-city strategy here
not only did he do these rallies in
California you know after he announced
in Brooklyn his next big event was a big
rally in Chicago that's not an early
state it won't really say what do you
think about his big-city strategy with
all these rallies and also then his
visit
to the Islamic center I'm very impressed
that he went to the Islamic center took
not that that and I hate that I said
that because it shouldn't be an
impressive thing to do like everybody
should be willing to go to a mosque on
Islamic Center and speak with Muslims at
a time when they're being targeted by
right-wing white supremacist but it's
impressive that he did it and you did it
first and you deserves credit for that I
find the strategy of going to these big
cities and doing big rallies very
interesting I still think this is going
to be an Iowa first race and the early
States will be will create momentum for
candidates that's it's impossible to
match but it does seem like if you can
go to San Francisco and collect a ton of
data about a lot of people you might
volunteer for you when the California
primary comes around or give you five
bucks to get your donor base even
broader and and reduce the average
contribution that's a that's a strategy
that could be pay a lot of dividends
down the road so you know it also gives
you a sense of momentum and excitement
and makes people want to be a part of a
campaign and and that's a critical thing
too so it seems smart yeah I'm a thank
you you rob a bank cuz that's where the
money is you know he's going to these
places where he has a huge base of
support it also speaks to the fact that
accusing Bernie Sanders of theft yes
that's what I'm doing come at me excerpt
errs of the left excerpt ders to the far
left Bernie's a bank robber what I was
gonna say is it speaks to I think the
the possibility of a long drawn-out
process when we end up going across the
country and it speaks to the fact that
at a time when there are so many
candidates when when some of the
candidates who are say below 10% are
trying to break through it is a show of
strength among say Bernie and Biden who
are two people that are at the very top
trying to maintain that edge and
something that common well I think has
been proving she has a kind of
compelling argument that she will rise
up there by showing that she can bring
out this same number of people so I do
think it's a show of force and a way of
maintaining a kind of leadership I think
it also shows that none of these
candidates especially some of these top
tier candidates are gonna concede any of
these states to the purse of the
candidate whose home state it is right
natella Philly yeah like California
is a very big delicate prize and 39
million people are so right here yeah
and Californians will start voting by
mail on the day of the Iowa caucuses
right and so and it's also as we know it
is going to be very expensive to compete
in the California primary it is there is
a lot of media markets it's gonna
require a lot of money and I think
Bernie is saying I am NOT can just as
complet did by the way by going to Texas
this weekend she's saying I'm not
conceding this Tibet or roark or Julian
Castro and Bernie is saying I'm not
conceding California to Kamala Harris
like these these candidates are gonna
compete everywhere and that is why this
could be a very good turnout rates also
it's just where the memory to another
sign of the at least the thinking that
this could be drawn out is one of the
reasons you compete even if you don't
know that you even if you expect a home
state advantage is California is a huge
state with a ton of delegates if you
compete well even if you lose you can
get more delegates out of California
than you can by winning several other
states well we should let people know
what that is I don't know if everyone
knows this it is not the Democratic
primary does not one or take all and the
Republican primary there were at least
in the last election there were still
some states that did winner-take-all you
win the state you get all the delegates
here it's proportional and so in the
Democratic primary is proportional so in
some of these states like I remember you
know Hillary beat Obama by maybe ten
points in California but I think she
only netted a couple more delegates than
us we beat her in a caucus in Idaho and
probably netted like ten delegates
compared to what the California Hall was
so in the process we did better fry out
of Idaho than she did at halluf or Nia I
don't want to talk about it I know but
it's um it's something forever that
every campaign is hopefully planning for
if they are a good campaign with with
smart delegate people yeah you damn well
better be planning past the first four
states or else you're gonna get your
script destroyed
finally Carmel Harris made headlines
this weekend by holding rallies in
Houston and Atlanta where she announced
her first new campaign policy proposal
an unprecedented federal investment to
improve teacher salaries across the
country her campaign will reportedly be
unveiling the details of the proposal
and how she plans to pay for it this
week at her 2,300 person event in
Houston Harris said quote right now
teachers are making over 10 percent less
than other college-educated
educated graduates and that gap is about
thirteen thousand dollars a year I'm
pledging to you that through the federal
resources that are available
we will close that gap guys what do we
think of Kamala choosing this particular
policy as her first big proposal her
other big proposal is the lift Act which
is a middle and lower class tax cut that
was one that she proposed while she was
a senator so this is sort of the first
policy proposal of her campaign the
first major one I'll tell you I want to
reserve judgment until we see the
proposal right we haven't seen the
actual details of the proposal and
teachers should be making more money
there be protests across the country and
strikes across the country about how we
are under paying teachers at local level
that runs all the way from liberal Los
Angeles to conservative states in the
middle of the country and in the south
so this is a big and roiling issue I
think the question I have is you have
candidates like Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders who are basically making
the centerpiece of their argument a
policy debate around structural
inequality and larger structural forces
that have been developing over 30 years
or longer holding back the middle class
and concentrating power in the hands of
a privilege for you that is the
organizational principle of both their
campaigns they have they have different
approaches beyond that right Warren says
she's a capitalist but here's what she
would do to regulate Bernie is a
Democratic Socialist but that is a huge
argument about the nature of the
American capital the that is a huge
argument about the nature of the
American free enterprise system I
understand that paying teachers is a
really really important issue and this
may very well be a really really good
policy but to me it is something that
speaks to less of a it speaks to
something that like is very very popular
and may very well be an important and
good thing to do but I I step back and I
wonder like what is the ideological
reason for doing this what is the larger
case you're making about the state of
the of our economy the state of work in
this country the state of power in this
country and that to me is my reservation
about a very politically popular policy
like this being first out of the game I
will say something it made me think of
this when you talked about Sanders and
Warren obviously that you know the the
surface difference there is she says
she's a capitalist but here are some
rules that I want to put in place he
says he's a socialist but for example
you know Bernie talks about Amazon and
he said Amazon needs to pay their
workers $15 an hour they need to
increase the minimum wage Elizabeth
Warren talks about him
and she wants to go to the source of the
problem which is we need to break up
Amazon right and so she has been more
willing to talk about sort of regulatory
changes that get to the heart of why big
corporations are in banks and everyone
else are screwing people over and how we
can change the rules so that they're
there it's a level playing field Bernie
has been much more willing and probably
because he's a socialist to talk about
ways to spend a lot of money to
alleviate inequality in this country so
she actually has a different theory
that's not just capitalism versus
socialism but it's sort of a different
theory of the case on how people are
getting screwed there which is
interesting and I think it's a defense
of a version of capitalism saying we
want a capitalist system to work there
needs to be a very a stronger social
safety net at the bottom and a much
stronger regulatory regime at the top
and I think most of these other
candidates as they have either put
forward policy proposals of their own or
endorsed other proposals that exist have
been much more sort of traditional
Democratic liberal mainstream mainstream
proposals
I think calmly fits in that category I
think Beto fits in that category I think
Booker fits in that category right like
all of their stuff is is is proposals
you could have seen from in 2016 from
Hillary Clinton in 2008 from Barack
Obama right like they're very means
little if tact feels very much in the
mainstream of democratic thinking over
the past 15 years and it may be very
popular sure I also think that teachers
are a well-organized and potent base of
support in election that's all the Iowa
State Education Association is like
35,000 strong I believe in the state
based on my googling while you two were
talking and I remember we we coordinated
teachers hard during the 2008 primary
they show up they volunteer they
organize so it's a smart political move
yeah I think that's right and look I've
been on strike for the last two years
yeah all kinds of different states and I
don't want to diminish the proposal
before we've you know fully seen house
actually lays it out how she pays for it
because paying teachers more is a really
good thing and if the federal government
can help teachers across the country uh
make more money and attract more people
to profession that's a really really
good thing that said I mean I don't want
to argue against it but I do want to
offer some of the arguments that that to
me that occurred to me when I saw it so
one of the reasons we've had to have
teachers strike across the country one
of the Ruiz
teachers are so underpaid across the
country is that first of all that
there's been a concerted nationwide
conservative effort to promote austerity
at the local government and disconnect
cause and effect in terms of taxes and
what taxes pay for we've seen that
across the country with with draconian
cuts follow with with with with massive
tax cuts followed by draconian cuts to
services that even in conservative
states even very red conservative states
have started to rebel against but even
broader than that we have seen a a lack
of confidence in local government a lack
of confidence in what we get for our
taxes in part because we do get such a
low we get such bad value for our tax
dollars as Americans whether you think
Americans taxes should be higher or
lower we get a terrible deal for it we
pay for a massive blow to defense budget
we pay for interest we pay for an
incredibly expensive health care system
that cost more than any other country
that gets as terrible results the end
result which is a lot of people feel
like they're not getting good money for
their taxes and so my question is how
can we do a better job at the local
level of showing people just how
important it is that that people come
together as a community and pay their
teachers pay for their roads pay for the
good work that their government does to
help their community and my worry is
this is an effort to put a bandaid on
that deeper problem it may be a really
really good band-aid it may be really
really important but that's why I come
back to these structural questions that
some of the other candidates of risk and
I would say in defense of the proposal
that some of these a lot of these
teacher strikes have been in very deep
red states where there is no hope
because of the politics in those states
that they are going to you know have any
kind of significant state spending to
improve the quality even though a lot of
these teachers unions have done
fantastic job negotiating and getting
themselves a better deal like at some
point you have to look at the inequities
in this country in education and say
even though that they're mostly
education is mostly the province of
state government at some point when
there is a teacher shortage when their
teachers going on strikes the federal
government it's but that's what the
federal government's therefore it needs
to step in to alleviate these inequities
well I guess I would say the one thing
one caveat a dad is a lot of the
inequities in schooling have less to do
from state to state and more rich
communities and the property taxes going
to schools and those neighborhoods and
in poor communities where states where
where localities aren't doing enough to
help those people so all of this is just
a way to say we should see what the
proposal has you want to privatize
schools I want I want
I stopped it cutting this out in 30
seconds the thing today now just having
fun with it ya privatize the schools all
right I think we're done we and we
already had our guest call right now did
you want to have what you have one more
thing now I have no more jokes okay well
thanks to Preet Bharara for joining us
today
pretty and walking us through this you
buy that ruffle all right listen all
right he did a good job selling his book
on the show but we can do a better job
all right we got a buy prepar his book
right every copy a Preet Bharara book
you buy is money people didn't spend on
one of those killing Lincoln books one
of those people were Bill O'Reilly has a
ghostwriter talking much more people
those kind of books are flying off the
shelf today that's all we have we'll see
you later this week thank
I'd save America I'm John Favreau
