on the plot today we have his official
title is u.s. senator from Hawaii but
he's known for his good tweets brian
schatz is with us in studio and you know
we're gonna take some questions priyanka
is here we got some questions from the
from the online crowd and then we're
gonna do a little chatting to Senator
how do you feel about being played
having your position as one of 100 US
senators in the in the Congress
side-by-side with the fact that you're a
good tweeter I mixed feelings okay okay
we'll dig into it later let's start with
our latest constitutional crisis are you
and are you in favor of impeachment
hearings how do you think oh we're
getting right to it okay listen I
actually listen to the debate that
you're having in a way amongst
yourselves but probably across the
country among progressives what do we do
about all this here's the thing that
that that I think defines the how we
ought to move forward people want to
take impeachment off the table I think
that's super unwise but I also think
it's unwise to move forward with
impeachment if we don't have the votes
I'm talking about on the house side yeah
I think it'd be not a good look for us
to sort of move to impeach and then we
lose 30 or 40 Democrats and so I I need
all of them I don't know the answer to
that but I think that there is no harm
in building the case and I think there
is no harm in doing what Jerry Nadler is
doing what doing what Adam Schiff is
doing and sort of pursuing what your
colleague is calling Watergate style
hearings which may end up arriving at a
point where we decide that articles of
impeachment need to be brought to the
floor or it may be that the timing is
such that we've essentially
made the case of the American public and
the election is upon us so I'm sort of
undecided on where this all lands but I
don't think there's much differentiation
on where we should start which is you
know Robert Muller has to testify these
subpoenas have to be honored and we have
to do aggressive oversight do you think
where do you think what you've seen so
far and the Muller report is in peach'
ball-like do you think that he's
committed impeachable offenses or are
you still waiting for listen I think
there's a couple of ways to look at this
first the
there are impeded obstruction of justice
is an impeachable offense but it's
important to remember that when Nixon
was impeached it was the abuse of power
that was the first article of
impeachment right it was it was Nixon
trying to interfere with the Washington
Post through his Federal Communications
Commission which sounds kind of quaint
right looking back on it and so one
thing we need to remember is that it's
not just a matter and and I think we
screwed up a little bit and allowed the
whole question to be defined as whether
or not there was collusion which of
course there's no statute against
illusion but the the the use of
presidential power even if it is
consistent with constitutional law or
statutory law if it is the abuse of that
power that's what the Congress is for
that's what impeachment is for and so I
look at whether or not this president is
abusing his power not whether or not
specifically he's violating a statute
and one that I think rises to the level
that everybody should be concerned with
is the emoluments clause I mean he's
very clearly taking money from foreign
governments through his enterprise and
the constitutional framers were very
very worried about this and they
explicitly banned it and we've actually
been successful in clearing the first
hurdle of summary judgment in the DC
Circuit we were the plaintiffs and we
were basically saying we're the
legislative branch any emolument any
gift to the President of the United
States from a foreign government has to
be specifically and individually
approved by the Congress and they're not
presenting any of these emoluments to us
so we do have standing and they we we
got over summary judgment and now we're
into discovery and things will get very
interesting so okay so if we're
obviously this impasse right now where
Trump is is saying giving the Heisman to
all oversight efforts he's exerting
privilege over things that make no sense
form exert privilege over if we move to
impeachment do you think it would make
it easier somehow to make to compel
those individuals to come to bring
forward documents to testify and to
otherwise give testimony yeah I don't
know the answer to that question because
I think
that's a that's a question of both the
law and the complexion of the courts and
I'm not a lawyer there is an argument
that if you're if you're doing things
pursuant to an impeachment inquiry then
it has more legal weight but I just
don't know how that would play out
through the court system I will say that
the that the White House strategy and I
don't think they started this way but
they are stumbling into daring us to do
it right and I just wouldn't
underestimate House members and how much
they jealously guard their prerogatives
so they're just starting to get
increasingly pissed off at this so
people who sort of said let's move
cautiously if if they're just not going
to cooperate then I think you're going
to get more and more momentum in the
direction of aggressive oversight and
one other thing that I'll say and this
is the I think it was the minuchin
refusal to to turn over the tax returns
he basically said this is not pursuant
to a legitimate legislative purpose
there is no more legitimate legislative
purpose than the legislative branch
trying to determine whether the head of
the executive branch is corrupted and so
and that's one point that's the
substance of point the other thing is
that's our call we get to determine what
a legitimate legislative purpose is
right well so so it's very it's not this
is not a situation where there's no
clear law and there's just an argument
as to whether or not it's Congress
responsibility there is a law and it
doesn't say if there's a legitimate
legislative purpose is determined by the
executive there's just a sentence that
says give it to us shelter in a shall
shall furnish shall Franny listen when I
first got to the Hawaii legislature in
1998 one of the first things you learn
is shall or may right you have a bill
that you think is a great idea but you
don't have enough juice to get it
through then they turn shall to May and
there you can claim credit shall means
shall that's a good shall main shower
look I'm not a lawyer but I do have a
really good LSAT score so I sort of
approach it at least to release a
long-form record you can it's 2019 you
can say whatever you want about what you
did in your past but uh so you made this
point about that that some of this is
just about people getting angry do you
think that explains what's happening in
the Senate Intelligence Committee where
now we have a bipartisan effort to
subpoena Donald Trump Junior
I'm not exactly sure what what chairman
burrows up to I'm pleased that he seems
to be continuing to work on a bipartisan
basis the most alarming part of this is
not that you have a couple of United
States senators on the Republican side
who were saying you know unlawful and
and cowardly things that's sort of par
for the course the the alarming thing
from my standpoint is that there's like
deep reporting from a caucus lunch right
where's you know twice a week Democrats
and Republicans go to separate lunches
and sort of strategize their their their
politics for the week or the month or
whatever it is and they had this
conversation about the operation of the
Intelligence Committee in caucus lunch
and I just feel like that any place for
that that is not the place for that what
are the Democrats do during there is
they just talk about Game of Thrones you
talk about Game of Thrones you know
there's actually the one complaint I
will make about caucus lunch is
everyone's just constantly applauding
everybody else literally how's the food
it's actually pretty good cool Chuck
great charge who sort of income levels
by whether or not people like the lunch
right so you know like if it's or two
square meals a week then you're you know
just got to the Senate and if you're
sort of complaining that this lunch is
gross and they got to provide variety
maybe you've been around a long long
mark Mark Warner brings his own the I'm
not gonna force you to respond to that
what do you want to hear from great and
he likes to lunch what do you want to
hear from Muller what would you ask
Mahler when if when he finally testifies
I actually think it's important to just
let him speak mm-hmm because I think we
just have to have some you know
uninterrupted time to hear from Robert
Muller yeah and there's a pretty obvious
questions right like sort of the spin on
the ball that that bill Barr put in in
the first instance and in the second
instance and then sort of on an ongoing
basis but my view is that this person
we've like a lot of people have not even
heard his voice and I think that you
want to avoid the kind of like
Zuckerberg here on the hill everyone's
going to try to have their viral moment
and put on
social media we just want to basically
give him a half hour an hour however
long it takes for him to explain himself
and to explain how he came to the
conclusions that he came to there are
some obvious questions like the the
decision that he made not to charge it
seems to me was based on the OLC opinion
and not that there was insufficient
evidence right and that I would like to
confirm what is what is written which is
that he clearly intended to kick it to
Congress and and Barr clearly sort of
intercepted that play yeah
but my view is that if he goes to
testify he wants to say certain things
and we should probably do less talking
and more listening can I ask a question
by the process there that started
interrupted when you guys have a big
blockbuster hearing like that it
sometimes can feel like there's a series
of four minute speeches followed by one
minute of maybe a question is there a
effort to coordinate and slice up
important things we want to get to so
that we hear from fit witness obviously
not maybe that's maybe the caucus lunch
maybe between rounds of applause for not
being in the majority you could maybe
say hey everybody skip the preamble well
there's sort of two things first of all
don't chew up your five minutes with
four minutes worth of of pontificating
yes fair enough but also the sort of
coordination of sort of how you follow
each other's line of questioning first
you can do some kind of pre-planning but
sometimes what you have to do is be in
the hearing and listening to your
colleagues
I think sherrod Brown is the rancor on
on banking does an excellent job I mean
different members do more of an
aggressive job of coordinating but when
it's a blockbuster then members just say
I don't care what the play is I'm gonna
have my moment and that's when we you
know that's when everybody starts to
tweet Oh everybody should give all the
questions to Kamala or whoever is doing
or or or or whomever and it's not so
much that any individual is better or
worse at sort of the interrogating
process although they're not as well but
of course they are some are veteran work
but the but the point being we just need
some uninterrupted time to kind of
follow a string yeah
and people are as you know kind of
blowing and blowing out so they don't
even know what was talked about right
and then once they're done they leave
right sail system how are you feeling
about the Senate recruitment efforts and
our efforts to flip this thing in 2020
yeah I think there's a lot of anxiety
out there and I like anxiety I think
people should be totally like on edge
about everything including winning the
Senate because we're sort of imagining a
universe in which we you know win the
Senate and win the presidency and hold
the house and none of those are for sure
so I like that people have anxiety but I
think we're doing very well in North
Carolina I think we're doing well in
some states that you you know you may be
surprised by a Colorado a couple of
candidates are looking at running in
Maine but it is a little bit early and
I've just sort of gone through the
coverage of the sort of Politico or Hill
or roll call here's how everyone's doing
on recruitment and it literally has if
any correlation it's an inverse
correlation with how successful you are
in the coming cycles I just don't know
one other thought I'll offer is that
there is a tendency to think that the
person who is polling the best you know
in in May of the odd-numbered year is
the strongest candidate so that has
caused us to get a lot of former
statewide elected officials in their 60s
and 70s and I just don't think that that
is necessarily who we want I mean there
may be instances where that's the best
candidate but I think we need a
candidate who represents this is growing
movement and I don't think we
necessarily need a actually young person
but like a Senate young person like me
like 46:58 62 but I don't think just
because somebody was governor and
popular you know in the 80s or 90s means
that there are like star recruit you're
basically a Senate tween recruiting
process work I mean we were taught we
talked about the other day and John was
trying to be less anxious and I was just
emoticon a live stream like is it is it
humor in the DSCC recruiting people are
others helping out that process as it
works it depends state-by-state so you
know there are certain states that you
sort of go through
whoever is at the top of the food chain
right and and so there's a fair amount
of that and then I think maybe because I
come from Hawaii and we have primaries
and that's you know that's the way we
roll that I think you know probably the
best way to figure out who's the best
recruit is to just let him run against
each other and whoever wins is by
definition the best vote getter so I
think we should do a little more of that
but you're certainly Chuck does a fair
amount of personal recruiting and is
very persuasive I just had this
conversation with Kyrsten Sinema and and
a bunch of others Katherine's doing an
extraordinary job I think we're gonna
have a bunch of female candidates that
are going to be inspirational
but but I also think that we shouldn't
try to select who's our best nominee any
more than we should do that on the
presidential side if we do take the
Senate back what are your feelings on
the filibuster yeah so you know I knew
you were gonna listen I I think that I
think we ought to look at all of the
Senate procedures and all the ways in
which Mitch McConnell has sort of rigged
the game yeah and and that's one of them
I think the way you do reconciliation is
another one of them I also think we
ought to look at Puerto Rico statehood
and so all of these kind of structural
reforms are important and and serious
and have to be part of the conversation
my own judgment is this this just causes
me anxiety because I just remember in in
October of 16 like sitting down with my
staff trying to figure out what good
people we knew that would be interested
in populating the Clinton cabinet and so
this just reminds me of the way we put
the cart before the horse your point is
a reasonable one which is we are talking
about a sort of vast array of
progressive priorities and we're gonna
have to make some structural changes to
the way the country works if we want to
actually implement them well I guess
like follow up to that when the senator
not is this a point like do you see
Republican senators you work with
Republican senators where you're like
you know what on a big issue maybe it's
not a progressive priority maybe it's
not a really ambitious proposal but I
might be able to get we
I'll be able to get 51 52 votes or even
60 votes for this sort of medium-range
proposal that's not quite so am doubling
money for the Centers for Disease
Control yeah sure okay like do you think
you could find Republicans to work
within the Senate or how broken is the
Senate and how partisan is it at this
point I guess it's it's not the old
Senate and I think part of what we're
dealing with is that there it's such a
strong institution over time that
everybody's trying to recreate the
Senate of the 70s and 80s and 90s first
of all it wasn't that great for people
who were not in power right so this idea
of comity and civility it's important
and it is does characterize the
institution but it's also that it was
comity and civility among people who
were in power who were primarily older
white men and so people were getting
screwed during those periods of civility
pretty deeply so that's one part of this
the other part is that underneath the
battles we've been able to do pretty
well on appropriations where you know
there's an old saying there's there's
three parties in the Senate Democrats
Republicans and appropriators and so
we've been able to reject most of the
most draconian things that Trump and
Mulvaney have proposed as it relates to
EPA the National Park Service I mean
they wanted to eliminate or not
eliminate but drastically cut CDC and
NIH funding and we just went ahead and
not and not just rejected those
proposals but but massively increased
medical research funding so there are
glimmers of hope and I still want to
cultivate all of that but the ability to
be an effective senator in my view is
contingent on your ability to
compartmentalize and be super
disappointed with someone and then
collaborate with them the following
morning like parenting yeah okay there's
a lot of loose talk among some of your
colleagues
private Rubio speaks openly about he
acts like he commands the Armed Forces
and that if Maduro moves to take
military action against the Opposition
in Venezuela he will lead the charge
like the Rough Riders into the country
do you think there's any appetite for
Trump to actually take military action
in someplace like Venezuela where
there's clearly no legal authority and
you guys would have to I don't know pass
a bill
we'd have to do an authorization of the
use of military force that's number one
number two is medoras a bad guy and and
and we hope there's a transition and
leadership but what you have to do is
use all the tools in the toolkit and and
I think you really ought to take
military action off the table that's
what I think as bad as this as this
leader is we do not need another war and
certainly not in this hemisphere but
john bolton is behind all of this stuff
and he's cooking intelligence on iran
and he's banging the war drums and i
think trump sort of likes it to the
extent that he thinks it's got electoral
punch and maybe in florida and he
doesn't want to look like a wimp but now
he seems to be like well you know I
wanted to rattle a few cages but I uh
yeah and I and I think he thought that
you know there was talking there was
talking about he was on a target Maduro
was on a tarmac and it was good you know
gonna be a coup it was done and now that
it's not done he's thinking well what's
our next play mr. Bolton and so but I
think we should understand that John
Bolton is driving the bus on foreign
policy and for you know I would say half
of your listeners who don't remember
John Bolton he's the guy that his whole
thing is cooking intelligence and
getting us into
Thunder Road yeah he's been doing that
for a very very long time and he's he's
very effective at it I mean he's not a
clown in that way and he's now doing it
in multiple countries Frank we got some
questions yeah we got lots okay so
everyone here loves you on Twitter
something you tweet a lot sweet about a
lot climate so people want to know what
your top three specific policy proposals
that you want to see in any green New
Deal style legislation oh it's really
good question first I believe we need a
carbon fee or carbon tax and the reason
for that is that it's just been proven
to transform the economy quicker places
that have done that have been able to
make quicker progress on clean energy
than anything else second I think one of
the most brilliant parts about the green
new deal is that it recognizes that you
can't just do a carbon fee or a
cap-and-trade
or some kind of renewable portfolio
standard as much as all those are
affected policies because what you end
up doing is creating the sense that this
is an elite project and this is another
thing that can be sort of traded as a
derivative on Wall Street and that was
you know my Crohn's problem in France
and I believe that's why the ballot
initiative in Washington state failed
there's there's a saying a good friend
of mine uses in Hawaii paint a picture
and paint me in it so if we're gonna
build a climate movement it has to not
just be coastal liberals who are sort of
configuring some technocratic solution
and and and and that's essential so we
do need investments in communities and
the last thing I'll say is we really
have to be very serious about bringing
in organized labor because coalition
politics matters because the Republicans
do it sometimes better than us but also
because that should matter to us if
people who who represent the workers
that we purport to represent and fight
for are uncomfortable with aspects of
what we're talking about then that isn't
about hey you're afraid of this and
you're not truly progressive that is the
truly progressive thought process and
next step is okay let's sit down and
let's figure this out together and let's
charge up the mountain together so or
it's so so involving organized labor I
think is essential to implementing a
green new deal does the original line in
Titanic right in a picture and pay me in
it super embarrassing cos question
because you know you get all this praise
for being great on Twitter but your
colleague Chris Murphy tweeted those of
us who follow the brian schatz what if
he'd know that he is consistently both
grim and humorless haha and so you know
that was at shots fired from mr. Murphy
so I I took a little examination of his
Twitter to see how you know lid it is
and here's a couple examples turn on
c-span - I'm heading to the Senate floor
now excited to have us do al secretary
with us in Connecticut today to showcase
the success of our Eastern Connecticut
manufacturing pipeline initiative happy
Easter everybody Ralph Wiggum gift
do you think that he's winning the
battle everybody unfollow Chris Murphy
take from this life so Chris and I have
a lot of fun on Twitter and I think and
I I think we're a book or two but there
were very few of us who actually operate
our own accounts that you're at the
controls yeah we're at the controls and
and that means periodically I say a
jackassy thing but I think that's fine
you were you about to say more than
periodically no that's money but I
wasn't I think I was actually gonna say
why are so many of your colleagues
afraid to operate the machinery
I don't know how afraid they are but
some of them are getting sheldon
whitehouse is tweeting his own stuff
nice and it's getting and by the way
Sheldon has his own voice was excited
and converts and is um so more and more
people are getting interested but also
everyone's communications team is
against it Oh interesting including mine
on an ongoing basis mixed feelings
that's a is that true I mean we're
getting mixed messages all right we have
more questions that people want to know
what issue do you think isn't is not
being covered enough right now and then
are there issues or news stories that
you think are getting too much coverage
let me just take the first the first
part of the question housing we have an
affordable housing crisis across the
country and you know I thought it was in
sort of just high-cost high-density
places like Hawaii and and and big
cities but it's actually all the way
across the country and and it's a huge
middle class issue and I think the
extent to which this trade war is
harming manufacturing in the Midwest and
causing the bankruptcy of farmers sort
of gets only talked about in the context
of whether the Dow went up or down and I
think if your if your firm went bankrupt
but the Dow's of 26,000 none of that
matter so we need to talk a little bit
more about that I'm not going to get
into what gets too much coverage because
I think that's just a little bit obvious
to follow-ups one as a patriotic
American who respects the institutions
and the you know the the the pride we
take as
as citizens of a country that ended the
age of royalty do you think it's
embarrassing if not shameful that
Americans care that a royal couple in a
place in it's someplace in Europe had a
baby I feel like I'm gonna get in deep
trouble for this one no I think it's
cool I mean listen if I like basketball
I love it if I fall I mean I follow
basketball I follow Game of Thrones if
there's a if there's a royal baby like
you get to be excited about whatever you
want to be excited about okay senator
schatz I'm gonna afford you so a couple
Federalist Papers I have actually
serious question about housing so
there's been there is a lot of talk
about the fact that we have a housing
crisis people can't afford to buy homes
where we see that all across California
it's a huge problem how much of the
housing crisis is actually a sort of
symptom of an economic inequality crisis
like how do you worry at all that
efforts to target housing is an effort
to avoid the larger structural forces
that are preventing middle class incomes
from rising well I think it's an income
problem but it also is a supply of
housing problem and one of the things
that we liberals I think have to get
straight in our minds is that planning
and zoning has its place right yeah but
planning and zoning was the original
redlining
right it was the continuation of
discrimination especially against
african-americans so all of these laws
about minimum lot size and what you
could build where was was to preserve
the segregation of communities and now
it's not so much it's not totally racial
segregation now it's economic
segregation and lots of liberals still
sort of haven't wrap their mind around
the idea that if we really want
everybody to be housed that you're gonna
have to see it I mean we had this
conversation in Hawaii when we were
moving towards a higher and higher
percentage of our energy being generated
from clean sources that people said well
I'm for clean energy but I don't want
that windmill is too big and it's near
my house if we're gonna generate a
hundred percent clean energy we're gonna
see a lot of windmills and if we're
gonna house nurses and firefighters and
young people and the elderly you know
we're gonna have a house
in places that we're that might make us
initially uncomfortable so I feel very
strongly about this I take your point
that we need to deal with income
inequality sort of as a more general
proposition but housing is an urgent
matter now all right
Kyle from YouTube wants to know what
some advice for those of us in red
states that are trying to flip them blue
or at the very least purple Oh
first of all run for office campaign I
mean look California used to be purple
California used to be purple Texas is
turning purple Georgia is turning purple
and so one of the reasons that we have
failed in places is that we just haven't
literally haven't even tried right and I
mean this is a funny thing but at one
point the State House of Hawaii was
within four seats of being flipped to
Republican rule in 98 I think was the
year 2000 and there were some districts
that we thought were solidly Republican
and over basically 20 years we've
systematically taken those seats back
and now the balance of power and the
legislature is 46 to 5 in the house and
and I think 25 to 0 in the state Senate
well I almost say that sheepishly but
you know so be it the point is you have
to compete everywhere and don't give up
because it may not be this election
cycle that you're successful but
eventually it'll succeed and one other
thought I had is I just remember what a
star Jason Kander is and was yeah but
one of the reasons that he was such a
big deal is that there wasn't there were
no other Jason candor's right and that's
because we hadn't done any work on
building our bench and having members of
the legislature and school boards and
and small town mayors and now you have a
whole generation of House members Stacey
Abrams and others who are younger who
have served in legislatures or as small
town mayor's or lieutenant governor's or
city prosecutors who are next who are
next up when there's an opportunity for
them has a question about that you know
we've seen this we've seen incredible
candidates like Jason Kander come close
we've seen some defeats in states like
Missouri you know we've we've had
trouble in in the Midwest and yet when
ballot initiatives around Democratic
priorities whether it's Medicaid or the
right to work or while preventing the
right-to-work laws from passing or
minimum wage they pass in places like
Idaho and Utah and Missouri and Arkansas
what is in what do you see as the
difference between a democratic policy
and a Democratic candidate right yeah so
I this is this is a tough one because I
know what I want to say and I probably
shouldn't say it but I'll just go for it
nobody's watching it so I know people
like Democratic policies but they don't
always like Democrats like they just
don't like us they feel that we are
being condescending that we do feel like
we have answers so they love these
policies right and you know in Florida
when when Andrew Gilliam loses and my
good friend Bill Nelson loses there's
this ballot initiative that that
decisively wins that that gives back the
franchise to vote to people who were
incarcerated and so you're right to
point out this phenomena I don't have
like a I don't have like a magic
solution for it but Idaho Medicaid won
right right
and I'll also just say that if if we
know that there's that kernel of truth
then we have to find those progressive
priorities and they are progressive but
they also happen to be compelling to
independence and a lot of Republicans
and run on those next year there is no
shame in saying I care about these 10
things right but these six things are
the best vote getters right and I don't
mean on Twitter it's like if you talk
like that you're some big sellout but
winning is very important and winning is
is maybe the most important thing it's
not that you sacrifice your it's
important for a majority of people to
like your proposal yes it's okay if one
of your ideas is unpopular you can still
be for it right but you don't have to
put it in a TV ad and and if you and if
you find out that Medicaid expansion and
bread-and-butter issues are the ones
that will cause you to be successful in
the election that's good not bad yeah I
call Jason this morning you send me to
voicemail is that one of those very
millennial voicemails it's like don't
leave me a voicemail
text me isn't the most millennial
voicemail the voicemail is full oh yeah
boys mail is just someone saying I
wanted to talk to you on the phone you
didn't want to talk to me but I just had
my half of the conversation anyway it's
incredibly rude
how is that different from a text well a
text is I guess it's not I've been
defeated again by the from the greatest
deliberative body we have more questions
from Twitter Christina wants to know if
you are lonely in the Senate now that
half your colleagues are in Iowa haha
you know half my colleagues are in Iowa
and it's kind of exciting like I you
know sent text to them and try to be as
just like personally supportive as I can
and and it creates an opportunity for
those of us who are not running to kind
of dig into the policy piece because
listen when you're running for even if
you're running for the State House it's
like not the time to be doing policy
development if you're out there trying
to get votes and certainly if you're
running for the United States Senate or
the presidency there's like no time
anymore to sit down with your like ledge
team and try to solve a problem you're
already off to the races and so some of
us have to and I don't mean this
facetiously some of us have to do the
legislative work so that if and when we
take power we're ready to roll when the
Republicans took power sort of I think
to their surprise legitimately they were
not ready to roll on health care and
that's one of the reasons that they
failed if you were a campaign manager on
a Democratic presidential campaign right
now what would your big piece of
messaging advice be what would you want
your candidate to be talking about in
general for the for the to much between
the primary good so I think I think the
the first of all that start with the
general I think it's health care health
care health care and I think we have to
make we have to prosecute the economic
argument mm-hmm and I think I don't
think we should be so afraid of the
stock market
yeah then we can't make the case that
people are struggling because people
really are struggling and then in the
background there's going to be a
drumbeat of hey
is the most corrupt administration
certainly in generations and maybe ever
right and I don't think you necessarily
have to be the candidate articulating
all that maybe in a debate you kind of
have an exchange but that's not gonna go
into ads but I think we would be unwise
not to mention oh by the way right this
is terribly corrupt and awful and Ryan's
Enki and Scott Pruett and all the rest
of these guys are literally enriching
themselves and they're not just
enriching themselves in the abstract
they are enriching themselves at our
expense on the primary side I don't know
the answer to that I mean listen I've
been to Iowa once and it was like and I
had to like disabuse every I'm not
running I'm just trying to be helpful
whatever but but you weren't thinking
about it no I was not I've got a problem
somebody asks you the question are you
think that's two in a row yesterday
potential candidates coming through here
not running never will thank you wait
come on never Hey
why say never yeah yeah because what we
really need is it anyway so on the
primary side I actually do think that
we're gonna those debates are gonna be
more important than your average baby
cuz I think you know probably eighty
percent whatever they're telling you
my guess is eighty percent of the voters
are totally undecided right you may have
locked into your specific preference but
someone has a good moment you'll be like
yeah I like her right and so part of
what we're gonna measure it sure is
whether or not someone lines up you know
on your issues on your core issues are
they're good for climate are they good
for civil rights and they have a good
background do you agree with them on X Y
& Z but a lot of it is an audition for
the general and I think it's okay for us
to look at someone and say how does that
person match up against Donald Trump so
this electability question can very
easily turn into a proxy for basically
whether or not you're a white dude right
that's terrible but I think lots of
voters really are trying to figure out
who's our best
who's our most talented communicator
who's our best leader to to to marshal
the resources of what we hope will be
the biggest grassroots movement in
American history and I think
okay for a voter to evaluate that but we
should just remember that the
traditional analysis of electability is
mostly always wrong right when senators
texts are there emojis are there gifts
like what's the vibe with your
colleagues no it's like full punctuation
signs you're writing an email like love
Chuck yeah my mom Texas there's no
texting with Chuck really well I don't I
mean not with me he has a flip phone I
mean I guess he could text from it I
think he can receive text what is the
latest or earliest time Chuck Schumer
has called you oh well I mean there's a
six hour time difference mm-hmm so yeah
is there a 3 a.m. you know time and I
just go hey Chuck you know it's a
blocked caller hello I know it's Chuck
who else is calling me at 3 a.m. in
Hawaii but I you know hello mr. leader
okay so what there's so many good ideas
out there from all these 20/20
candidates what legislation proposed by
candidate would you be most interested
in seeing getting passed oh gosh I mean
let me list a few because you know this
is one of those things where it's like I
all my siblings exactly the same
let's look Elizabeth has she has plans
for everything and I sit on the Banking
Committee with her and I think that she
has an extraordinary ability to
understand the not just the problem as a
general proposition but what pathway
could be taken to fix it Bernie I think
has diagnosed part of our problem as a
society which is that we really do need
to do movement building not just like
the sort of technical aspects of
legislation
I love Corey's a baby bonds idea I love
what Corey has done on environmental
justice I think that's quite overrated I
mean it seems not over rate excuse me
Corey
underrated because he's done these
environmental justice tours and nobody
has really paid I think enough attention
to it a Kamala's lift act what Camilla
wants to do for for teachers jay inslee
just sign probably the second-best
climate bill in the country after hawaii
and i'm sure i'm leaving someone out and
that's gonna do them all we're gonna be
here a while
yeah my children equally
really hearing that you despise John
Hickenlooper and I'll also say that on
I'm excited about climate plans coming
out and I'm gonna personally make an
effort to just see to it I'm not gonna
get into the technical aspects of it
because you guys know probably better
than I do that once you get into an
administration it becomes okay we're
gonna do climate now what's possible
right but Beddoes plan is serious Jay's
plan is serious and I anticipate all of
the major candidates will have a major
climate plan my litmus test is do you
have a sufficiently ambitious climate
plan not does it look like mine okay
this is a little bit different from the
2020 question asking about your
Republican colleagues so who is the most
unlikely collaborator you've ever had in
the Senate and can you tell us about a
time where someone surprised you with
wanting to team up with you on an issue
or to work on a bill yeah Jim Inhofe so
Jim in off for those who don't know
wrote a book called the great hoax about
climate change and you know and I you
know I I got to the Senate and ran for
the Senate because climate is my you
know lifetime passion but Jim and I did
a bill together to honor and Native
American veterans and frankly on this
bill he was a prince and a very skilled
legislator so this is the problem of the
Senate which is that you if you're not
able to compartmentalize then you will
be totally ineffective because I mean I
could have very easily said listen you
think climate change is a hoax not just
that but you wrote a whole book about it
I can't deal with you but if you if you
operate that way especially in this
environment by process of elimination
you will find no partners how do you
like when you say the name Jim Inhofe
I'm filled with a kind of rage the good
deep and like permanent rage that I
don't think I could contain if I met him
like I'd really have to get into it so
where do you put that I put that into
productive places right I try to figure
out how we can win the Senate back right
social discipline yeah what now people
keep saying that to me and I have no
idea what they're talking about really
do you not yelling it Lachlan Murdoch
[Laughter]
I'm the guest but can I hear more about
that look someone said one of Katherine
Murdoch said do you want to meet Lachlan
Murdoch I said no no good will come of
it and then the next thing I know I was
being introduced to Lachlan Murdoch and
before I knew it I was shouting are you
proud of yourself are you proud of
yourself
are you proud of what's happening from 8
to 11 and then he said something like
you want everyone to be Rachel Maddow
and then it was over
oh so wasn't that eventful that was the
only bad response Throwdown I was an
exchange I looked great I wanted to stay
looking great but I know it was a very
it was a heated moment everybody was
uncomfortable that's what I said the
time like it wasn't like a fun amazing
confrontation it was just an angry
awkward exchange at a party and I'm glad
I did it I'd do it again
appreciate it you never worked on
legislation together after thank you for
your sir yeah we know we are where we
are yes nothing for veterans out of me
and Lachlan yet but this is something
you're gonna have to work on if you're
gonna run for the Senate you know what
we got to find the right State for me
all right it may not exist yet I don't
know I don't know all right so people in
the live stream want to know about the
heartbeat bill that was signed this week
in Georgia do you think this will
survive and then what do you think about
ideas like stacking the Supreme Court
things like that well on the heartbeat
bill I think it's it's just important to
say reproductive choice abortion
services are health care so when we say
they're coming after your health care
it's not just they're coming after
eviscerating the ACA through the courts
and through legislation and through
administrative actions but they're
coming after women's health care in a
very straightforward way and I think the
most sort of apocalyptic claims about
what the Republicans want to do over
time are turning out to be true so
that's number one I have no idea if
it'll survive the court process but
certainly they think it will and they
think it will for the very soon
reason that Mitch McConnell has declared
the United States Senate to be a
legislative graveyard and basically
every week we go in and we process
nominations to the circuit courts and
the and the district courts and they
believe that they will succeed not just
on this but on other sort of anti
progressive legislation all the way
through got it
not great all right well we'll switch to
some fun questions because we have a lot
for you as well first off this I think
was asked at least 20 times how do you
kill time on your flight deal with jet
lag flying from Hawaii to Washington all
the time what are your tips for us oh
well tweeting obviously is how I kill my
time on on the on the airplane I I don't
really have any good advice about
airplanes other than it's super
dehydrating and people don't really
think that way so get an aisle seat and
then drink lots of water I mean you know
Mondays are bad and you know Fridays are
I'm a little jet-lagged but at least I'm
home so that takes the sting off Google
Wi-Fi can you do something about this
but I cannot any accommodation made for
people from Hawaii or Alaska who clearly
have a more challenging time getting
devotes on Mondays and Thursdays than
Delaware nope as well as sherrod says no
whining on the yacht it's fine
got it okay the guy has never been on a
yacht alright what's the best time of
the year for people to visit Hawaii oh
gosh there-there are no bad months I
think a lot of people especially on the
East Coast think it's like super muggy
and terrible certain times a year and
all the rest of it it's pretty great all
the time
Springs fine January December there's
not a bad month get whale season in the
in the winter yeah whale season in the
winter with all the humpbacks but so
cool beautiful it's pretty much always
great it's paradise
no one is disappointed when they go to
Hawaii that makes sense when you're in
DC so not at home what is your favorite
thing to go eat where do you go with one
of your spots
oh my eating habits are very depressing
sometimes district taco but that's like
just B+ and and then I moved
the side of the hill where I'm like
across the street from a grocery store
so like my my meals are sad sort of like
Wheat Thins cheese salami certs sardines
on rice are you a prisoner like a like a
railcar
did you get off the rail car and put
your take your bindle and go to the
Senate the rotisserie chickens are good
because it lasts for a couple days very
well okay got it some things we've also
we've also been discussing a lot in this
office Game of Thrones oh yeah um do you
watch and do you have thoughts on how
this should end I did well I don't have
any thoughts about how it should and
well I want Tyrion to be to be to be on
the iron cancer what's that it's a
correct answer to want Tyrion I like
short cerebral guys no it's the same but
I it's such a bad so I'm on the red-eye
at 8 p.m. and so I could watch it live
at like 3:00 in Hawaii but I'd of a
waste of a good Sunday afternoon with my
family so I ended up watching last
week's episode like tonight or tomorrow
during the day yeah so so sorry
everybody how do you deal with that
you're on Twitter so much I get off
Twitter for about 24 hours
smart Wow now your tweets are the
messaging of the Democratic Party is the
fact that you're not keeping up with
Game of Thrones like hurting our chances
to win in 2020 yeah I think it's called
any honest question on campus another
thing that's very important to crooked
media fans do you have a dog uh yeah we
have two we have two dogs that's you
know I have like a tiny little lapdog of
Bichon Shih Tzu named shumai and then we
have a great day called Jupiter Wow oh
my god variety yeah are you going for
the sort of a comedic walk we have a
Christmas picture where that like yeah
it looks it's a funny picture but what
we wanted was a big guard dog that
wasn't actually dangerous but terrifies
people yeah who may be up to no good
really like a buck 80 no she's not I
mean she's small for Great Dane she's
like 130 but she's you know on her hind
leg she's good alright the last one from
our pals at crooked HQ do you have
thoughts on the song shots by LMFAO we
were always wondering if like it was
ever considered for one of your
campaigns I don't know we had the
conversation but you know I've got good
staff and they decided that it was
unwise not for you but someone did like
one of my supporters turned it into a
video and we liked it oh one of our
staffers tried to remix it by shouting
your name over a somewhat similar beat
to avoid copyright restrictions and it
was well we thought we spare you that
yeah just you know it was a great try
what about like we didn't want to do it
here a little leaguer um senator schatz
thank you for joining us and please
always you know feel free to use cricket
media as your layover yeah whenever you
want
wait to run out the shots o'clock with
you home no that's well done
