welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor I'm Dan
Pfeiffer got all four of us here in Los
Angeles to talk about this week's
democratic debate spectacular joining us
and floating into the office will be
Marianne Williamson she was gonna call
in from space we have a lot to talk
about housekeeping items first make sure
to check out our various funds the
Jerry fun gerrymandering very
important after the Supreme Court
yesterday decided that courts can do
nothing about partisan gerrymandering
and maps that have been drawn by
Republicans to ensure their elections so
you can donate to that fun we can flip
state legislatures all over the country
so that Democrats have the power to draw
these maps since the Supreme Court has
told us to go ourselves also our
unify or Die fund which make sure that
whoever the nominee is whoever comes out
of this clown car next year has
enough money to run against Donald Trump
who was just amassing piles and piles of
cash all of these Democrats fight each
other give before you hit your opponent
too much that's you know the hate is
simmering now for the other guy it's
gonna go up the Jerry fund is vote
save America calm slash gerrymandering
and unifier die is vote save America
calm slash unify there's also some merch
if you like that kind of thing at store
crooked comm you can buy some t-shirts
also lager to leave it will be live at
the improv on July 2nd love it will be
joined by Emily Heller and a special
love it in Heller fourth of July
spectacular shout you guys are calling
it apparently it's gonna be great we're
doing some words it's a new format oh
wow exciting so some of it'll be great
some of it will cut so if you want to
hear the cut parts go to the
improv it's crooked comm slash events
yes make sure you're all caught up on
with friends like these this month has
been conspiracy month from cue and on to
which Azana has had a lot of guests on
to discuss conspiracy theories and their
effects and origins check that out also
June's entire crooked miniseries pride
on screen is out now hosted by travel
and erson director of culture and
it out magazine the series looks back at
moments in TV and film that changed the
course of LGBTQ history let's check that
out
that's gotta be that's got to be the end
of housekeeping right it's got to be the
end there was actually a couple more
optional things I'm skipping over
skipping over because we got to get to
this all right let's start with the
first job can I get in I get in here can
I get in here for a second
you'll get your 90 seconds you'll get
your 90 seconds John delay so I can I
just get in here for a second
I just need to get in here for a second
to say that I was born on a farm I was
born on a farm excuse me I'm
pulling it 1% but I practiced a hit on
someone who's pulling it 15 or higher
you're just gonna let me have to do that
hit now I don't care how awkward it
sounds I'm just going to lunatak the
person at the other end of the stage I
dropped a beta
I dropped a beta-blocker into a venti
before I got out here I am
pumped alright let's start with the
first debate I want to dive into the
substance just a bit before we get into
individual performances which is the
whole purpose of analyzing a debate we
know and I thought that the first topic
where there was an actual debate between
the candidates was health care which
started when they were asked by the
moderators to raise their hands if they
were in favor of abolishing private
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan the question was a little confusing
because Lester Holt said there's people
in the audience and people at home who
loved their government who loved their
insurance plan their private insurance
plan would you replace who on stage
would replace their private plan with a
government-run plan the first night
people seem to get it the second night
people have a hard time understanding it
but only Elizabeth Warren and Bill
DeBlasio raised their hand for the for
abolishing private insurance um it's
interesting because previously Warren
has talked about and talked about -
Tommy your odds of America about how
even though she's on Birdy's
medicare-for-all bill she's all about
whatever path there is to get to
universal health care she'll be four
she's leaving options open but this but
she raised her hand on this so what what
did you what did you think about that
Dan I think she has been for Bernie
Sanders's medicare-for-all plan from the
beginning and she had a choice which is
stand by her original position or look
as it look as if she was shifting and I
think she politically did the best
option
the best option there because her for as
much as we talk about Elizabeth Warren
has plans
what has fueled her success in recent
months is that she has had bold plans
and she has been unafraid and I think
the moment where her campaign really
kicked into gear was her student debt
elimination land which was what point
where she said she would go Boulder on
issue than even Bernie Sanders so if she
were to walk that back and seem more
like a traditional politician here I
think that would be tended potentially
being very damaging so she decided to
own her original position and instead of
trying to shift and while there may be
general election consequences for that
this was the right move to make right
here were you guys surprised like I
didn't think that the argument between
the public option folks and the
medicare-for-all folks was all that
strident during either of these nights I
just think that most people were
confused yeah you know like I could kind
of follow it most of the time because
we've paid a lot of attention to this
issue I don't think most people at home
unless you're an ardent birdie supporter
and you've been conditioned to believe
that his position in m√°ximos
medicare-for-all is the only way to
achieve universal care and get people
the care they need I don't know that you
came away understanding the contrast
yeah it's interesting
Bennett I think did the most give the
most full-throated argument about the
political problems and practical
problems of going to Medicare for all
Chlo Bashar got at it a bit but then
really I think what what what we have
here is a public option being defended
defensively by Pete by Chlo Bashar by
others
because it's become I mean even though
even the New York Times described it as
incrementalist and fine you can call it
incrementalist but it was only a few
short years ago that when it was too
radical to pass a Democratic Senate so
you know there's this problem in these
debates which is I think those who would
the the maximal position is easier to
fend politically it's more fun to defend
because it's bolder and there aren't
people on that stage with the confidence
in their views and the feeling that they
have the trust of Democrats enough to
tell them some
thing hard or complex yeah yeah I was
gonna say I think and this was
especially true the second night the
first night I'll sort of just jumble the
night it was very confusing I think on
the second night the people advocating
for public option or medicare for
America or whatever it may be I thought
made a more compelling case than Bernie
did on why you need Medicare for all
specifically Bernie made a great case on
health care in general and why the
system is why I need to change
it but I think it's incumbent upon
Bernie I guess because probably some of
the other ones who signed onto his bill
don't really care if people know that
they're on his bill therefore a public
option to be totally honest no they
won't they want him to think both they
want them to think both and they're
totally general right and Bernie has had
a hard time I think so far arguing why
it is that you need everyone to
transition within four years to a single
government-run plan versus what Pete
said what some of these other code said
which is look everyone in the country
would have the option to enroll in
Medicare if you want it and if you don't
want it you can say in your private
insurance and if you're watching at home
you kind of think like yeah that sort of
makes sense now there's a really good
argument I think on the single-payer
side why that's not sufficient why you
have a more efficient system if you just
ever have make everyone take the leap
into single-payer but I don't know that
I heard anyone make it over the two
nights no yeah I mean I heard I heard a
lot of arguments that were like look we
all share the same goal and I'm sort of
agnostic on how we get there the only
person I heard make better work made an
argument that was specific against
getting rid of private insurance by
saying some unions had bargained for
better health care in lieu of wages and
you want to take that away from them I'm
not saying that that was compelling but
was the most specific thing I'd heard
maybe against the Union yeah a couple of
those folks maybe not during the debate
but other times they brought up Union
negotiating point which is huge and john
delaney who is very annoying the first
night overall but he brought up an
argument that you'll probably hear again
from people which is he's like you talk
to hospital administrators and you say
under Bernie's bill you're gonna get the
same reimbursement rate from the
government for Medicare than you do now
for Medicare except instead of some of
your patients it's going to be all your
patients and what would that do
he's like in hospital administrators
every we'll tell you what we'd have to
close to yeah I think now that
point would be that highlights the
problem which is yep the poor the
for-profit health care system I think
here other other than Bernie and
Elizabeth Warren most of these people
are full of on this issue let's
just be totally honest all the senators
who are running for president meet as
soon as they thought they might run for
president in sign on to Bernie's bill
they didn't care what it said they
didn't care about the transition period
they just wanted to be able to tell
voters they were for Medicare for all
then as soon as they started running and
they had to answer a question about the
elimination of private insurance then
they also then opened up a series of
other less aggressive options less
aggressive relative to Bernie's plan but
incredibly progressive and aggressive
compared to where we have been and they
want to have their cake he needed to
they want to be able to say yeah I'm for
Medicare for all Gillibrand in the
second night who has been I think very
slippery on this issue since your
interview with her well you said you're
for Medicare fraud she's like yes I am
definitely Medicare fraud I think people
should be able to buy in the Medicare I
know it's like yeah no and and and if
you push her on this and and if you push
her on the transition she then goes to
her talking point which is I wrote the
bill about the transition and then you
say but wait what happens during that
transition and she says well people have
a choice to leave their insurance for
Medicare and I believe they will choose
Medicare ultimately over that Amanda's
not Bernie's bill well it's it's not
only is it not marie bill it again it
elides the actual political reality of
at some point if you switch everyone to
Medicare you're switching everyone to
Medicare yeah so I think that was a jet
that I think that's the not the last
we've heard of that and as the field
slims down and bernie is still in that
slimmed down field he's going to start
picking that fight a little more clearly
with people and putting them on the
record yeah as he should
so next big exchange the first night was
over immigration and it was between
hooli and Castro and better O'Rourke
Beto began laying out his immigration
plan
Castro interrupted to point out the bed
I was against the repeal of section 1325
I think we have a clip of this we should
just play so I don't have to do the
whole thing here a lot of folks that are
coming are not seeking asylum and a lot
of them are undocumented immigrants
right and you said recently that the
reason you didn't want to repeal section
1325 was because
you were concerned about human
trafficking and and drug trafficking but
let me tell you what section 18 so I got
title 18 of the u.s. code title 21 and
title 22 already covered so that was a
lively exchange doesn't make one small
point about just debates in general
something I have never understood there
is no moment more likely to get a
candidate far off in the wings to jump
in then when two people are already
talking what is it about two human
beings already having an exchange that
gets John Delaney so worked up
just rating things like that like
already twice as many people are talking
at once as we need already so for those
of people for those of you at home who
don't understand what 1325 is they're
unfamiliar with section eighty eight
eight fifty two thirty forty fifty who
aren't the physical manifestation of
congress.gov 1325 is the part of the law
that says if there is an unlawful or an
unauthorized entry into this country if
you cross the border it is treated as a
misdemeanor crime not a felony but a
misdemeanor crime and that's been on the
books since 1920s the reason it's being
brought up is the Trump administration
used this old law to say well we can
prosecute anyone who comes over the
border and if you come over the border
and you're an adult we can hold you and
then we can separate your child from you
so it was it was how they did the child
separation policy
so what Castro is saying is we should
repeal that law which criminalizes
immigration and we should basically say
that if you come over the border cross
the border and it's unauthorized we are
not treating it as a crime at all or
treating it as a civil infraction
we can still deport you if we want but
we're going to treat it as a civil
infraction and that way no president
ever can do this family separation
policy so that's it and and by the way
now most candidates in the race have
joined Castro's position
Beto has not though I think we would all
agree his explanation was fairly
nonsensical yeah I mean out of that I
would say look the the pundits and the
judges all scored this as a big win for
Castro and I think they're right it was
in part because the you need to do your
homework line landed strongly and Beto
just sort of seemed to not have a
response and it was the second time in
the night where someone went after him
and he didn't respond which in this
context makes you look like a weak
debater yeah and when we're all judging
who can stand up to Donald Trump that's
probably more important than any of the
substance of what they're actually
talking about that said when Castro
started in on this answer I was like you
were making a really important point in
a incomprehensible way if you're
citing the the number or code of a lot
and saying 1325 it doesn't lend itself
to people at home really understanding
what you're getting at now clearly he
won the exchange this was a big moment
for him but just as an observer in the
moment I wonder how many people knew
what he was talking about I think it's
to his advantage that they didn't I was
not being dead serious I was talking
with a family member of mine who watched
the debate didn't really know a lot
about Castro thought he did really well
and thought he definitely definitely won
that exchange with Beto and then I
explained what Castro was arguing for
and my family member was like oh that
seems like it might be a problem and not
they think that I think they think that
it's a good or bad policy but I don't my
phone number is an expert in immigration
policy but it was like that seems like a
political problem and well and let's be
clear about why because Julian Castro is
trying to make it seem like if you don't
want to repeal 1325 then you're not
gonna repeal this family separation
policy that is not true it's not I care
it is true that 1325 is what gives
Donald Trump the ability to have the
family separation policy the next
president on literally her his first day
in office can just end any family
separation policy and basically has a
ton of power to decide who to deport and
who not to deport all on their own
through executive action we remember
when Jeff Sessions created family
separation we can uncreate it exactly so
this I so so
casters trying to conflate it with
family separation to make it seem more
popular in in truth and Juliet Khayyam
who had been in the department of
homeland security during the Obama
administration sort of laid this out on
Twitter that that night she said making
unauthorized border crossings a criminal
penalty just a misdemeanor not even a
felony is is the basis for all of our
enforcement in making sure that inin
disincentivizing immigration into this
country to just say that anyone can come
here
so if Beto had a good answer you know
what he could have defended his policy
by saying like look of course I'm gonna
end family separation mass detention
mass deportation but at some point you
don't want to have an incentive through
our laws to tell people anyone can come
here without applying for citizenship or
asylum or whatever you may do you just
come across the border and you're fine
it's only a civil infraction yeah I mean
also just it's weirdest tipping back
there was a few moments in both nights
where the policy debate and the policy
debate in a Democratic primary and the
policy debate a Democratic president
would ultimately have were so far apart
yeah as to render it basically pointless
if if not it would be pointless but for
the fact that it could be politically
damaging in a general you know there was
that moment on gun confiscation gun
confiscation there was a conversation
about climate mitigation policies which
is basically a discussion about like
flood reef Ludd insurance backstops if
there's flooding in Miami we got a
president denying the existence of
climate change and we're like would you
would you insure people who bought
houses in flood plains like what planet
are we on and and in a few moments like
that on on health care as well but on
immigration we've been having a debate
about comprehensive immigration reform
for a very very long time
the axis of that debate is not should we
decrease its can we get enough people to
the table to just help dreamers who came
here as children I mean we have been and
if we get past that let alone let alone
making sure that the 11 million who are
already here get citizenship which
everyone also agrees on yeah I mean
Kamala in night 2 made this point about
you know she wants people who are you
know who have been at
tact to be able to call the police
that's all that's correct like there are
incredibly important things we need to
do around immigration and as part of
getting to the point where we can help
the millions of people who are here
actually makes make sensible policy the
debate will not turn on decriminalizing
the border it will be turning on some
other very very hard compromises to get
not just Republicans but Democrats to go
along with any kind of comprehensive
immigration proposal guarantee the next
Democratic president will not be talking
about repealing 13:25 or get it done in
legislation the next Democratic
president will say I have decriminalized
immigration by making sure that we only
deport the most dangerous criminals and
we push for citizenship for everyone
else that's what they're gonna say and
we've banned the family separation
policy there's also a nose and mass
detention and by the way you can do all
that and be better than Obama was on
immigration Yeah right like you can you
can still improve on what he did
especially in the first term which you
know I think Obama did better by the end
of his presidency but you can still be
better than that and not completely
decriminalize immigration in the law and
have no law that says it's a crime to
come here if a president can or as
Attorney General can unilaterally
implement or not implement family
separation policy you can also put it in
law yep you can say that as part whether
it's part of a dreamer package or or if
we ever get to comfurts immigration
that's true too
you can I believe keep section whatever
whatever on the books in it ensure that
it is still a criminal felony and to
come in the country but you can prevent
the administration from ever
implementing this immigration or anyone
future for implementing a cruel inhumane
policy like family separation I mean
stepping back which is the answer that
Beto can and should have given yeah
Stephanie anyone on this stage anyone on
the party who has gotten that question
since then the it's like we're in this
rush to avoid to get to a position where
we're not gonna get attacked by people
in our own party I know when you can
have a more nuanced approach it's not a
yes it is not I am for what kasher was
for or I'm for or I'm Trump there is
something in the middle and someone
should have made that argument
Castro certainly succeeded in finally
getting attention for having the
immigration policy that was the furthest
to the left of anyone by far and doing
it early and to his great credit he
can't prepare
with an answer to depress that point
what's particularly hard about this for
better Roark and his campaign is that he
also has a comprehensive immigration
plan it's an issue that he has real
fluency and understanding of having come
from El Paso and to seem like you were
unprepared on a very predictable attack
sucks yeah maybe it is it's like from a
pure debate performance perspective it
did not go well for him from an actual
being a leader with a thoughtful
position he did the right thing he could
have just done what everyone else did
which was just go immediately to the
position that will get me the most
applause in this moment and it is I
think to the it is from the fact that he
actually lives on the border of the
United States that he takes this more
seriously now then a lot of the up that
Castro who takes it incredibly seriously
but some of the other people who were
just like yeah sure I'll before that
that seems like that'll get me retweets
yeah that's right but look if you're if
you're you know if you're an expert in
this and you know your positions being
misrepresented and you the the moment we
were sure if for sure do your homework
you have to say the moderator I'm
jumping for sure above and and more
important for Beto to do that in this
moment than any other candidate on that
stage given the the places campaign is
it all right so the next big moment was
about Iran moderator asked who his
president would sign on to the 2015 Iran
deal as originally negotiated everyone
said yes except cory booker who said
that if he has an opportunity to
leverage a better deal he'll do it Tommy
what did you think about that okay let's
just stipulate that I'm incredibly
biased but I thought Cory Booker's
answer biased against war with Iran no
but I I'm biased towards an Obama
policies fine stipulated right but my
problem with Booker's answer and frankly
the whole exchange with him and
Klobuchar was how defensive they were
about the Iran deal like the Iran deal
had one goal we were preventing Iran
from getting a nuclear weapon and it was
working and you do not have to adopt all
these Republican talking points
about how the deal wasn't perfect
because it didn't deal with ICBMs and
ballistic missiles and it didn't deal
with you know their malign activities
and Yemen right the Iran deal was about
nuclear weapons so cory booker should
stand up for diplomacy that was working
it
he wants to get a better deal get back
in the deal deal with the problem that
we're medially facing which is the
Iranians enriching nuclear material
beyond the thresholds allowed for in the
deal and then negotiate a follow-on
agreement about that about other issues
whatever but this notion that we now
have some added leverage with the
Iranians is a fantasy we are
more divided than ever with all the
other parties to the deal all the
Europeans the international community
and the Iranians don't trust us because
we pulled out of the thing we empowered
all the hardliners in Tehran who
were opposed to the deal to begin with
now the IRGC in the Kurds force and
Qasem Soleimani and these thugs are
running wild so it's a stupid answer
it's a stupid why do you why do you
think of him of all people just had to
do he was hesitant to get in the deal in
the first place
okay there were a whole lot of people in
voices in Washington that were casting
doubt on the thing but you know what
it's also good politics not just in a
Democratic primary but general people
don't want a war with Iran yeah I wanted
to go she ate a solution to the problem
it's an inexcusable answer for me I I I
cannot support someone that isn't full
throated in defense of diplomacy and I
think Cory Booker was has been like an
undervalued candidate and stock in this
whole process and I just can't even
stress how disappointed I wasn't that
mom it is thinking about it it's one of
those things that makes you realize how
different judging these debates and
performances is compared to judging them
on the policy substance merits because
most people coming at that first debate
said Cory Booker had a great night
tonight Cory Booker in a few good
moments I and we should say by the way
none of us watch the debate on Twitter
we watched it during our group third
which is a blessing and I'm
never watching them on Twitter today in
our echo chamber if you had told if you
would ask me immediately after that
debate like who had an amazing night I
would've said Warren did really great
you know Castro had that moment I don't
know that I would have said Booker but I
would say certainly sharp before but as
I've gone back like he had a really
powerful answer on guns I do think that
from Cory Booker I think he did a great
job there but might where I noticed
Booker most was on that Iranian swen I
was like what is he doing there it was
very weird because substantively it
wasn't good
yeah I don't yeah we can get into the
style points in a bit I don't I I was
surprised people thought Cory Booker had
such a great night I thought he once
again failed to match the rhetoric like
the main message of his campaign with
any specificity and any answer
whatsoever that's my that's my view okay
well I will get to later because we
should talk more about that but what
everyone think of the answers to the
what will you do if Mitch McConnell is
Senate Majority Leader when you're
president question I mean nobody has a
good answer to this question because I
don't know that there is one that's I
mean I guess it's a good question it's
important I guess I sort of like it is
it is in the vein of all these
moderators seeing how far they can push
everyone to the left and how they can
get the you know because what they what
they always wanted someone to say is
what you're never supposed to say is
really yeah I guess if I'm stuck with
him as a majority leader and I didn't
win the Senate I'll sit down with them
and try to hash something out and then
you'd be then the door opens up under
your Marion Williams and puts you in her
her witch's cauldron today you just wake
up and you're living in a crystal in her
pocket I do think what Warren's answer
which is you know some people were like
now I don't know is the best answer
which is you've got to go out there in
campaign basically go to Republican
districts of senators who aren't with
you on your legislative agenda and try
to pressure them politically and like
Barack Obama did that it didn't
necessarily work on a wince and it's you
know one sentence right I mean that's
the thing in that moment it's like yeah
we can you talk with a hypothetical of
what happens if we lose the Senate but
you just make the argument of why we
need to win the Senate yeah and it's the
other reason why each of these
candidates we've been asking them this
when they're here should have a robust
agenda around executive actions knowing
who you're going to a point in your
foreign policy which are all things that
you can control because if Mitch
McConnell is the majority leader you're
not getting much through in your
legislative agenda so you better have
other plans and it never occurred to you
that if Elizabeth Warren becomes
president she gives Mitch McConnell a
Senate seat for like nine months yes I
don't like it she gives him a Senate
seat because Charlie Baker would appoint
publican senator to sit in her seat for
what we have a special I feel like
there's a long wall in 2004
in the expectation that we're probably
right after the exit polls came in they
Kerry was gonna win so you're saying
this is rigged you would get a special
election but it's like nine months later
I mean yeah Martha Coakley runs and
we're fine
[Laughter]
the last big exchange of the night was
between Tim Ryan and Tulsi Gabbard okay
expect back out over Afghanistan do we
have that clip let's know that that was
something but the reality of it is that
the United States isn't engaged the
Taliban will grow and they won't have
bigger bolder terrorist acts we have got
to have some present there is there long
before we came in thinking that we're
going to somehow squash this Taliban
when we weren't in there they started
flying planes into our buildings so I'm
just saying right now I could have gone
better for Tim yeah you do a longshot
presidential bid you managed to scrape
the 1% you need to get on that
stage and then you just eat
and Tulsi Gabbard kicks the out of
you on that stage what are you doing
there I mean you can make an argument
for saying we need several thousand US
troops to remain in Afghanistan to Train
continue to train Afghan security forces
to ensure that we don't have a repeat of
Iraq where we left completely and Isis
over anthem whatever okay like it's not
an argument I agree with but one could
make it but to make it in such a
unsophisticated way and then confuse the
Taliban and al-qaeda is a huge problem
but also just a real quick thing about
Tulsi like she was really strong in the
moment she's credentialed and she can
make this case but just also all the
Tulsi stands out there she'd look into
the things she's talking about in terms
of coordinating with the Russian
and let abrir Putin on counterterrorism
like she doesn't have the best record
when it comes to us counter to their
anyway you red flags the Tim rank so he
said the next day he was like I'm not
gonna be lectured by someone who dines
with a dictator who gasses kids great
job George Costanza yeah I was gonna say
referring to her her friendship French
and I don't know how to pronounce that
do it try s three the cool Escalade
I mean spirit of a staircase because you
thought of it while you were leaving
I like the jerk store called thing you
pronounce this I think it's ass breed
Escalade but I don't have to do French
store called Tim Ryan I don't know I
remember Zetas don't like the rest of
these candidates that wasn't his
strongest moment so which candidates
were most impressive first night who
helped themselves the most Castro helped
himself the most mmm heat Castro has
been has not got a lot of attention in
this race he barely made the first
debate he is someone who is was been
seen in a rise as a rising star in this
party for eight years now since he gave
the keynote at Obama's convention to the
long rise I don't think I would have
gotten even close
thank you for that this is an absurd
thing to say and I know but Bill
DeBlasio did himself some favors on
night one right like I so I had this I
had this problem watching Bill DeBlasio
because I thought he was delivering a
very strong progressive message but
everything he says so annoys me he says
in an annoying way but he also landed
some punches and you know was mixing it
up and then you came in with no
preconceptions about Bill DeBlasio you
didn't know where he went to the gym and
when yeah that total probably think this
guy you know the that's that's a very
prize like what he's saying oh and he
did these things like a people universal
pre-k he did minimum wage that's
impressive no these other people have
done any of those things yeah there was
a moment where I think Beto O'Rourke you
could see it as I was like how the
am I on this stage arguing with Bill
DeBlasio how is that how is that where
this ended up
over the War Powers Act Bill DeBlasio it
took us suka so that was very out of
nowhere um I thought Klobuchar was
pretty good I thought jay inslee was
good I think it might be the only one it
was a Inslee standing yeah he was fine
in their campaign yeah Warren came in oh
yeah we haven't talked about was before
yeah were won the debate I think we
great debate yeah winners losers ha John
it was interesting that no one
challenged her grid not once not even no
one even dared to come after scared so
she came in the leader she left the
leader and she stayed out of every fight
yeah I mean it could not have gone
better for she did not take it she did
not challenge anyone she basically
pretended they mostly weren't there yeah
and just talked about her plans and her
message
it was odd though that she was so front
and center in the debate in the first
half or three-quarters and the moderator
sort of forgot about her and she didn't
really make an effort to jump in because
she was probably thinking let these guys
go at it I agree there was one moment
where they went to Delaney and it was
clearly like I couldn't believe they
were going to John Delaney again yeah
there was you know we've talked a lot
about you know dan has talked about
debates as being not the best way to
pick a president and have nothing to do
with the job and you made some sort of
sports metaphor that I don't remember or
understand but the the that it's like
dribbling versus young kings or about
huge cars yeah but there is something
you learn from the debate which is one
of these people is gonna have one of
these people over to Knights is gonna
debate Donald Trump and I was watching
for that that they who can captivate the
state hold the stage who can who can who
does well on television which is a
different skill than than being in a
campaign and and and doing a rally and
when Elizabeth Warren spoke people went
quiet they paid attention she was a
leader on that stage she could hold the
room she was big and cuz you know we're
all we all can't stand Donald Trump we
all hate Donald Trump which makes it
hard sometimes to see what his skills
are but one of his skills are is he is
big he is a larger-than-life figure and
he has captivated our country for years
he is he has taken our attention for
years he is a big figure and big
presence in our lives and in our minds
and so whoever has to stand up against
him he's going to have to be able to
fill a stage and so I think she really
did pass that's passed that test really
well last night there's a second test I
think that we did not get to see from
was with Warren
I think she probably will pass too but
because she was not no one attacked her
she didn't attack anyone else you don't
we don't yet know what we don't have a
we don't have evidence of house people
do when she actually has to battle
totally agree like I have great
confidence you'll be able to do it and
she's gonna have to fight people in
other debates it's just this debate she
came in the leader it's telling that no
one had the courage to go after her she
left the leader and I I just wanna go
back to Castro for one second I think he
is I don't wanna say like win or lose or
stupid but he was in danger of not
making the third debate of sort of not
being paid attention he's done a lot of
work identifying himself as the true
progressive on civil rights and social
issues in this campaign have come out
with the immigration plan a policing
pant and yet he had to take this moment
and he succeeded and now he's in the
game right there's a chance he would be
a he'd be there with the soir wells and
the Delaney's and the Hickenlooper z--
and now he's he's on people's minds so
he's giving himself a shot to be in the
mix going forward and that's a big deal
do we think what do we think happens
with Booker from here because you know
the his campaign did say had they had
like the best single day of fundraising
ever after the debate Lovett said you
weren't as impressed I I thought he had
a couple really strong moments I think
look Cory Booker has a message about you
know what is it it's serious yeah it's
sort of about like healing the divides
in our country right and it's not just a
very simple I'm gonna sit down with
Mitch McConnell bring people together
but that like you know we can't be as
hateful as Donald Trump before gonna
lead this country forward
right and he also has a story to tell
about what he's done as mayor in Newark
what he's done a senator you know he
just had this big bipartisan
accomplishment with the first-step act
and this with this White House that he
can talk about that happens to be about
criminal justice reform which he talked
about so he has something I I was I was
a little surprised love it to that so
many people thought he had the greatest
night cuz I thought he had a few strong
moments but I don't know I also think
maybe I'm holding him to a very high
standard because I really like his
message I really like like he's closing
that was when I got very I actually
didn't get frustrated with Cory Booker
and fairness to hit to him until the end
when I saw his closing statement because
I whenever he delivers that larger
message which I think ultimately is a
smarter more stuff
to get an interesting message about love
versus marianne williamson honestly and
i a better than williamson no but but i
do think it's important but he never to
me i keep waiting for it to manifest in
his actual discussion of policy and and
then you know in his health care answers
in his in his in his rhetoric it's it's
very it's very laden with words and and
phrases
but I never feel like I'm hearing
something interesting or different in
terms of what his message around healing
actually would mean in terms of his
presidency that distinguishes him from
some of the other Democrats and so I'm
constantly looking for that and I
constantly feel dissipated because I
have such high hopes for him uh who do
you think hurt themselves
I mean Beto Rock definitely did yeah
yeah I think to be honest the like its
opportunity for you there are two groups
of people there are people who have a
line of sight on qualifying for the
third debate just to explain that to get
to the third debate they raise the
polling threshold and they raise the
online donor threshold to 130 thousand
donors most of the candidates on state
both stage both nights barely got into
the first two debates barely it is
really hard to get to the third debate
the candidate betta was on the list of
candidates who most likely is going to
get to the third debate so the
candidates who were gonna get to the
third debate they hurt themselves
probably short term in fundraising maybe
a little bit in support but it's mostly
an opportunity cost they had a chance in
front of the entire nation to define
themselves they didn't do it the
candidates who have no line of sight to
the third debate who did not do anything
to move themselves there then they hurt
themselves because now they only got one
more shot to do it cuz if you don't make
the third debate your campaign is for
all intents and purposes over yeah and I
think better O'Rourke has to do an
incredible amount of work to fix that
first amazing performance before the
second debate performance and I don't
think it's like like I actually don't
think his biggest problem was Castro got
the better of him on that one exchange
because to me when Savannah kicked it
off with are you in favor of a 70% tax
rate on people making 10 million dollars
or more and he couldn't answer the
question he dodged it in two languages
it's just like dude you can't do that
and look at this like we all we all love
Beto you know we got to know him during
the documentary and stuff like that but
like
and and I do think you know that the
Twitter explanation that like Oh was all
about Ted Cruz and no one really liked
him is like we've seen it up
close people love that guy in Texas they
show up for him and but that Beto that
was in the Texas Senate race who was
authentic who talks about progressive
issues in a red state who does like
stuff like we haven't seen him on this
campaign right that's the thing we just
haven't seen it yet think about the the
bet O'Rourke kneeling answer right it
was a direct question and I think the
first word out of his butt like dude are
you offended by people kneeling and the
first word out of his mouth was no yeah
let me explain you I what we were
missing last night from him was direct
answers that sound like conversational
English do not start your response about
a painting that is hung on a wall
somewhere that's a hand it's a shitty
anecdote to begin with it's not it's not
reaching anybody what people liked about
him he's a smart thoughtful guy that
speaks to them like a human being that
seems closer to our age than most of the
other people on stage which is why I
could use social media better and
communicate with young people like ya
bring back that individual gotta get
there to say it yeah and especially
at this point talk about the artifice
anymore man let it rip for the next one
the only the worst thing he could do is
continue doing what he's doing yeah all
right second debate the big night last
night
this was just in case anyone forgets
Marianne Williamson John Hickenlooper
Andrew yang Pete Buddha judge Joe Biden
Bernie Sanders Kamala Harris Kirsten
Gillibrand Michael Bennett and Eric SWA
well first before get into anything else
would we think overall about night two
compared tonight one before we get into
any of the specifics just overall
thoughts I mean I thought that was this
is the real night you know yeah it would
be just you know there was debate an
argument and and surprising moments I
mean this was fascinating there were
many moments where I was just I was
sitting at the improv eating spinach and
artichoke dip with just my just agog I
will say that I've gone back and forth
on this since the debate lineups were
announced about whether Elizabeth Warren
got lucky to be on her own aight i got a
raw deal because she wasn't in the
second night now looking back at both
i'ts she got screwed by not being in a
second I would agree I think Camila took
out Biden for her and she's still
sitting in a great place I think she
probably but now the story is Kamala
Harris and Joe Biden and Elizabeth
Warren is not in yeah but that she might
have been if she was I mean the thing is
I think that yes that is true
like I think I think it Elizabeth Warren
if you were at her headquarters is
probably not happy with last night
because I don't I don't know I don't
know I this we have a gazillion debates
to go that's true right Elizabeth Warren
had a good debate I'm sure she raised
money coming out of it she got
supportive editor she delivered her
message she's had to fight with anyone
she's got to do her thing and she's
commit and she's she's doing fine she
feels good about where she is she's
coming in at least as she's leaving just
at least a stronger she came in and
that's fine and so I don't think was bad
I just think if you had to pick and you
were her you'd probably pick the star
one night then be second go in a second
I agree with that I don't think it's
clear what would have okay it's an
alternative universe III don't think
anyone should feel I don't know why
anybody would be unhappy to have not
been on that stage with common law
because there was a clear moment for one
candidate now we don't know what it
would have looked like if if Warren had
also been there but watching that second
debate
you know Gillibrand I had some good
answers but everybody looked like they
were in black and white compared to what
Kamala was doing up there let me make
the argument for the status quo for a
Warren which is that you want Biden to
be attacked and you want his support to
wane away but you don't want to be the
one attacking because in Iowa in
particular you want those Biden voters
to like you and as much as Kamala looked
like a president and was commanding and
you could see her going toe-to-toe with
Donald Trump if you're a Biden stand
that probably pissed you off that's a
good point that's good that's a
meaningful thing over time the other
thing that I think would probably if
Elizabeth Warren is disappointed about
anything what would be most helpful for
her would be for Biden or Kamala or P to
have taken down Bernie Bernie also left
that debate unscathed
yeah and they they are each other's
greatest obstacle to the nomination and
eventually they're gonna have to battle
for those voters but the ideal situation
for either one of them as someone else
to take down the other one yeah and then
happen so they went through another
health care debate at the top which we
just talked about the other big health
care question they were all asked the
second night was raise your hands if
your health care plan would cover
undocumented immigrants every candidate
raised their hand well though Biden was
sort of like half up didn't no one
figure Henry it was very much uh I don't
know if it was a plan I don't know what
was going on but it seemed to me his way
to avoid raising his hands was to act as
if I need to ask something about the
thing you're asking so that I could say
it was it was I think they couldn't help
it was smart or stupid I think it's
smart I bet a bunch of really smart
people who advise them on debates for
living like Ron Klain we're like when
you raise your hand you look like a
child and if you looked around that
stage there were times where there are
some like dorky hand play teacher
teacher call on me looks that you
probably weren't well you wanted a
little more subtle hand raised Dan's
like what the are you talking about
but was Biden raising his hand or was he
trying to interject this is raising your
hand okay there like a rule book yet if
you don't get it six inches off the
podium that's not a hint I thought it
might be wait wait wait wait wait wait
wait wait wait wait wait wait and then
never answer yet love it is right that
his hand raising and his I'd like to
interject here is the same hand motion
thank you was anyone okay let's get to
the actual subject more hand raising so
they all just said sure health care for
undocumented immigrants was anyone
surprised at this a little bit I was
very surprised that every said that
there wasn't one on that stage including
the people who are like screaming about
socialism like five minutes earlier I
think a good argument we made which is
that people are gonna go to the
emergency room oh yes really sick so
we're gonna pay for this no matter what
I didn't no one defended it at all they
all just wanted to avoid the attack from
the left without defending the position
it was funny watching Pete Pete looks
like he was gonna go there he was like
you don't want people anyone running
around uninsured it's inhuman and then
he goes it's inhumane which of course
it's inhumane we're all we are those of
us at this table or an agreement on this
for sure but I haven't seen any polling
on this lately but I'm I know that when
we passed the Affordable Care Act one of
the things that Barack Obama had to say
specifically during his joint address to
Congress in order to get Democrats on
board was that this is not a plan that
gives free health care
to undocumented immigrants you lie a
member of Congress yelling at the
president during the State of the Union
or the joint address again may be a
harbinger of the collapse of our society
problems were like we like that now
yelling at a black man is good was about
this question yeah it was about it was
accusing Barack Obama of lying on this
very issue and now yeah and look and
like a tommy is exactly right there is a
good argument to be made to people in
this country and say like we can ensure
everyone in this country now whether
they are documented or not documented if
they go to the hospital they go to the
emergency room you're gonna end up
paying more in taxes because we're gonna
care for people in this country who get
hurt who get sick one way or the other
we might as well insure them so there's
preventive care and when we're not
paying for on the back end there's a way
to make that argument do you think
there's any political challenges with in
the same night decriminalizing the
border and then offering free health
care to the people across the now legal
border I do I mean yeah I hate liberal
shield yeah no I know a liberal shill
neoliberal shill tommy's well like I I
know he's got all the love it's
love it has the same positions everyone
was at a little museum called the Louvre
and there was a painting there of a
woman and as the only gay man on this
stage who cares for a goldendoodle let
me just say great job Delaney got other
answering work there are two parts about
this one is both on the question of
health care for undocumented people know
what you you're right no one made the
case for why it's good for everyone to
do that mm-hm and that has become
largely true of immigration in this
campaign yeah is that we have stopped
making the case for why immigration is
good for everyone in the country why
it's good for the economy why it is good
for security everything else why
conference immigration form is right the
second thing is even if it is good
policy you have to be fully eyes wide
open about the political challenges of
adopting that good policy and Trump
tweeted about this like six seconds
after it happened who's amazing cuz he's
in Japan yeah
and he was ready and we have to know
that right now
the Trump campaign the coke funded super
PACs are gearing up and they are now
gonna spend every day from now until we
have a nominee drilling the idea that
Democrats want to spend your taxpayer
dollars on health care for undocumented
people which they will do in the most
racist disgusting ways would they're
gonna do that which which emerge which
honestly politically may be our only
saving grace because they will overdo it
well I mean lying about something's
important to remember that what Trump
says about this will probably be
counterproductive because he will do it
in a stupid confusing racist way yeah
but the way that Trump campaign will do
it and the way the Republican super PACs
will do it will be very smart and will
be targeted and it's gonna be
relentless in the media racks here and
the media refs in this instance will say
actually these super PACs are right
actually the Trump campaign is right we
will not have the fact checkers on our
side right and when you yell at the New
York Times for doing that on Twitter it
won't change anything so we have to do
something between now and then right
like the candidates have to make the
case on the stump for why why they took
this position and why it is the right
thing and to the extent that some sort
of larger progressive apparatus is out
there it's going to have to be fighting
back up until the moment we have a
nominee which could be on the third
 night of the convention the way
things are going to so they before
because you drop that in there shudders
anybody none of a stomachache happy
Friday hope you enjoyed the fourth of
July maybe the last one enjoy the Trump
speech no I agree we dealt with this in
2008 the famous debate where Hillary
Clinton first you know stumbled was over
New York State providing driver's
licenses or our ID cards to undocumented
immigrants driver's licenses and you
know the political belief there was like
they're undocumented and you're gonna
give people driver's license now like
what's going on yes I am no I'm not yeah
she's she she went back and forth Barack
Obama came down on yes it does make
sense to give them driver's licenses and
it's a public safety issue and here's
why and he explained he didn't do it
like every stump speech but he explained
in interviews and
humph over and over why it was a public
safety issue why it's important to do
that even though it may not be
politically popular and it was okay he
was okay I will say though that is a
different moment in Republican politics
in which the consensus view of
Republican yes was for comprehensive
immigration reform which allowed demet
like this issue has evolved much very
quickly the Republicans have moved to a
nativist right while Democrats have
moved to the left which is just a
different it's a different debate than
the debate we're having during that time
yeah all right so another moment mayor
Pete was asked about the controversy
over the killing of a black South Bend
resident by a white police officer I
think we have that clip the police force
in South Bend is now six percent black
in a city that is 26 percent black why
has that not improved over your two
terms as man because I couldn't get it
done
my community is in anguish right now
because of an officer-involved shooting
a black man Eric Logan killed by a white
officer and I'm not allowed to take
sides until the investigation comes back
the officer said he was attacked with a
knife but he didn't have his body camera
it's a mess and we're hurting and I
could walk you through all the things
that we have done as a community all of
the steps that we took from bias
training to de-escalation but it didn't
save the life of Eric Logan and when I
look into his mother's eyes I have to
face the fact and nothing that I say
will bring him back this is an issue
that is facing our community and so many
communities around the country
and until we move policing out from the
shadow of systemic racism whatever this
particular incident teaches us we will
be left with the bigger problem of the
fact that there's a wall of mistrust put
up one racist act at a time not just
from what's happened in the past but
from what's happening around the country
in the present it threatens the
well-being of every community and I am
determined to bring about a day when a
white person driving a vehicle and a
black person driving a vehicle when they
see a police officer approaching feels
the exact same thing but feeling not of
fear but of safety I am determined to
bring that day about okay
how did you guys think Pete handle that
situation I think he he did it very well
political consultants would say never
admit a mistake right never try
political talks will say don't admit a
mistake don't explain what you did wrong
right don't repeat the attack
essentially Pete did both of those
things and that was the exact right
thing to do it was honest I felt it felt
like a very raw moment yeah I think he
handled that very well I think that it
would came off as earnest and sincere
and I love politicians who admit
mistakes or say sorry especially because
Dan described the conventional wisdom is
that you never do those things because
it shows weakness in Yatta Yatta Yatta
but I also sort of suspect that there
will be many people who heard that
answer and felt it was insufficient and
it just showed that maybe you're out of
your depth on this problem well because
it's it's a problem that's been around
for a very long time and you're
conceding you haven't solved it in there
maybe hasn't been the sense of urgency
that folks in South Bend wanted five
years ago and so I don't know that he's
out of the woods yet with the with the
community of people who care deeply
about policing in social injustice and
etc well to two people who were in
satisfied with the answer were John
Hickenlooper
and Eric's whoa well so didn't exceed
this coming but no I didn't Johnny what
we didn't hear was John Hickenlooper
after this says well in Denver many
years ago we put all these procedures in
place and I'm wondering and they've
worked in Denver and I'm wondering why
they haven't been replicated all across
the country and then Eric's wall well
said why didn't you fire the police
chief and you know Pete directly can't
fire the police chief but he can appoint
members and fire members of the Public
Safety Board who then can fire police
chiefs and police officers as well and
so I agree that like I think I think he
nailed that answer in the moment and it
is absolutely refreshing to hear a
politician just say like I screwed up I
couldn't do it like and that that gets
him a lot of points but I think coming
attractions like there's a there's a lot
of other candidates were ready to to
pounce on this one if I was Pete this
campaign I would be praying to God that
when they do the draw
for the next debate who lien Castro was
not on stage with me in Castro was put
out the most progressive most aggressive
plan on policing reform of anyone in
this field and this is a this is a
glaring vulnerability for Pete I think
he handled the question exactly right I
think he is earnest about his desire to
do better and honest about the emotion
in his community but when you were the
mayor of South Bend Indiana and you want
to be the president States your record
as the mayor of a smaller city that's
everything it's got to be a plus
and if you have a glaring problem on an
issue that is incredibly important to
the Democratic Party in the most
important constituency of the Democratic
Party that is a tremendous challenge
that he is going to have to navigate
throughout this camp on top of a glaring
problem with reaching african-american
voters to begin with yes yeah so at the
end of that exchange I believe sois
Wells yelling at him Pete looks like
he's gonna just lunge at swallow well
and I just wanna I would I would just
want to point out that that when when
mayor Pete looked at Eretz wah wah with
that expression it was actually a moment
where I thought I can see that person in
command of a country because I have that
was the most intense expression I've
ever seen in a face mayor Pete wanted to
look like he wanted to rip Eric's walls
head from his body and then uh I don't
know okay it's induced and uh and they
just sort of be done because he killed
him just just to choreograph this crazy
exactly as swells yelling in him Marion
Williams and pops up out of nowhere it's
how it raised and then that's yeah well
that's just because she had stopped she
had stopped your unicorn was thirsty on
their way so that the unicorn and said
stop David stopped at the river Styx for
a drink and finally reached a debate
stage Kamala Harris stands up and says
as the only black person on this stage I
would like to speak about race and then
we have the moment of both nights which
we can play here
do you agree today do you agree today
that you were wrong to oppose busing in
America though do you agree I did not
oppose busing in America what I opposed
is busing ordered by the Department of
Education that's what I opposed of
states to schools in America I was part
of the second class to integrate
Berkeley California Public Schools
almost two decades after brown v board
of education because your City Council
made that decision history was States
failed to preserve the civil rights of
arms reported 30 seconds cuz I want to
bring other people in supporting a ra
from the very beginning
I'm the guy that extended the Voting
Rights Act for 25 years we got to the
place where we got 98 out of the 98
votes in the United States Senate doing
it I've also argued very strongly that
we in fact deal with the notion of
denying people access to the ballot box
I agreed that everybody once day in
favish my times up on so it was hard to
listen to tough way to end that so we
you know we didn't have to play the
first part of the clip but basically she
starts by saying you know
Vice President Biden I'm directing this
to you I do not believe you are a racist
I praise the fact that you want to find
common ground with people and yet it
really hurt when you talked about the
reputation of the segregationist
senators and not only that but opposed
busing because Iowa and then she has
this thing which says there was a little
girl in California who was part of the
second class to integrate her public
schools and she was bus to school every
day and that little girl was me and then
that moment you're just like oh wow what
was your what were your reactions to
that in real time dan what do you think
it's the Biden part is hard it really is
because we've said this before but
we all care about Joe Biden personally
as a person as Barack Obama's loyal vice
president but it was painful to watch
you know and it was painful to watch him
get beat up in a debate exchange but was
even more painful was his answer on
busing
which is a completely unacceptable
answer so unacceptable answer in the 70s
let alone in 2019 because we he is
essentially he's making a states rights
argument on civil rights in 2019 saying
that yes of course Kamala Harris we
could integrate your schools guess what
Berkeley chose but what about Birmingham
Alabama or he's specifically referring
to my hometown of Wilmington Delaware
which had such a problem with school
integration that there was federally
mandated busing until my senior year in
high school and Biden tried in barely
and almost succeeded to pass a law that
would prevent the court from forcing
school integration in my hometown yeah
and there was such an answer to say I
was wrong I have changed I have changed
she gave him an out that's what that was
that's the crazy thing is she was fair
in saying do you still agree today with
the position you took back then and I
don't think you're a racist yeah and if
he had just said answered that question
no I don't I've changed over the years
Kamala and I'm proud of my civil rights
record I did a lot of wonderful things
on civil rights you can list the Voting
Rights Act all the things that he really
did do in civil rights but on that issue
I was wrong I've changed we all change
you've changed on things too I mean like
there was an answer available to him
where it would have still been a very
powerful moment from from Kamala but at
least Biden would have parried it he did
not take that because he like as we have
been saying he is stubborn and and it is
and could not admit that his position on
busing was wrong no one can credibly
argue that the federal government didn't
play a critical role in integration in
this country absolutely critical and
then for him to sort of pivot to the
civil rights act made the whole thing
make even less sense yeah it was a
brutal moment it was a brutal moment
because every fear and concern about Joe
Biden as a standard bearer of the
Democratic Party in 2009
teen was laid bare you know it was a
moment in which his policy position
seemed antiquated it was a moment where
he did not seem live and able to succeed
on the debate stage it was a moment
where he was upstaged by the charisma
and intensity and passion of someone
facing him and it was a moment where he
seemed old so it was a devastating
moment for Joe Biden and every that's it
now in right now we should stably we
think right Nate Silver tweeted this and
pointed out that there have been a whole
bunch of scandals that I think all of us
all the judges all the pundits in the
moment thought were devastating for
Biden and he came through them
relatively unscathed in in polling so in
in at the crooked media change poll
Biden was performing at I believe
sixty-two percent among african-american
voters the next closest was eleven
percent from home layers so we should
sing we should watch and see if those
numbers move but you know look on a
moral level like indisputable it's just
the politics of this it's hard to get
and I would say yeah I don't know what
will play out in the polls I don't know
what other people watching it I felt it
was devastating to me to see it because
I want Democrats to win and right now
Joe Biden is the front-runner of this in
this in this race and I am you know and
there is they are making a case that he
is the most electable he is leading in
the polls when you compare him against
Donald Trump well this was a moment to
test that to see what he was like on a
debate stage and I and I think this this
was a signal
to anyone who could support Joe Biden to
have a doubt myself among them I think
it's a play like we're talking about
Biden here but we should also talk about
coming yeah yeah which is in not just
this moment but throughout the entire
debate I'm not sure I have ever seen a
candidate have a more dominating debate
performance than calm alone the Harahan
comel Harris had last night he okay I
can't remember she crushed that debate
she was charismatic on message she
showed electability showed how she could
take Trump down like she seemed like she
was the leader on that stage of all the
other Kay was not even close
it was head and shoulders above everyone
else and frankly anyone else I've seen
it a debate and the Biden moment was
part of that but
we thought she had one she was
dominating the debate and before the
long before the debate I'm gonna break
up the Connell Harris love fest for one
second to read a clunker hey guys you
know what America does not want a
witness a food fight she said they want
to know how we're gonna put food on
their table now every debate every
candidate has that line in their back
pocket and there's always a moment to
bust it out it was still a little corny
it was very corny and yet because she
was so commanding it worked and now is
it is a shame that she did steal that
line from the evil 1990s clown that
wrote the rest of Eric's wall wells life
she's like but what he still took
that moment and ran with it yeah hard
all the other kids like I was gonna say
that part of the reason that Komal
Harris is so impressive is that she does
have this cadre of consultants who give
her lines like that she can deliver them
better than most and make you believe it
I mean a lot of her moments last night
the Biden moment other moments you could
tell were set pieces she had practiced
those moments right I mean they said I
guess the Politico said that the Shh
stop leo nice try
yep Politico said that her campaign was
actually ready with t-shirts with I was
that little girl on the t-shirt so that
is not great today it really did
immediately retweet was good yeah I just
don't like okay I debates are an effort
to demonstrate authenticity to create
moments that seem like they're
off-the-cuff that's fine
do not hang too much of a lantern on
that yeah I just said because it is
indicative like I having interviewed
Komal Harris knowing her like I think
she has maybe more potential than anyone
running for president I think she is
charismatic she is strong she is she
 nails it in those debates but
every once in a while I saw the notice
in her closing statement - there's like
cheesy consultant language that pops up
there and I just want like she needs to
be her because she's great yeah
just you know the the other thing that
so it was so incredible about it is this
is somebody that's not polling at 10% or
15% you point five percent right she's
she needed to win you know
she's been saying this across the
country she said it in her closing she
said it at the Iowa dinner
you know I'm the one to prosecute the
case and then she had a bunch of cheesy
and I think not good rhetoric about
fraud fraud fraud fraud fraud which was
a lot of language without actually a
case fine but what she had done was set
for herself an impossible expectation
for success in this debate and then she
met it well and what this what that
exchange with Biden was about was Trump
yes because what did a lot when she says
I can prosecute the case against Trump
she did it against Biden on stage and
she let Democrats see okay if Donald
Trump is standing where Joe Biden is can
you imagine these two going at it and
her winning and you could and on Biden
side even whatever you think of the
substance of the disagreement with the
two of them you look at that and say oh
he's supposed to be the most electable
guy we want to put him on stage next to
Donald Trump and then you imagine Trump
tearing into Biden and if he does and if
he responds to Trump the way he
responded to calm well you think oh
he's not the most electable yeah jokes
aside I was so I think um the other the
other thing that she has and Dan was
making this point about Biden last night
which is Eric's wha well made the first
of four hundred torch related attacks on
Biden and the split screen was just soir
well and then Biden grinning and that
grin said all you needed to know about
the silliness of that attack and it
brushed it right off Kamala Harris has
this ability to laugh her way through a
tricky moment or a tough question or an
attack that is incredibly disarming yeah
and and it surfer well against a
 like Trump the other thing I
just say about calm all that if we were
trying to analyze this in the in the
context of what kind of nominee she
would be able kind of president she
would be is that she is a clutch
player every time she has had to deliver
under the brightest light she has done
so whether it was Kavanagh bill Barr
everyone was watching that yeah and she
nailed it this debate she nailed it
she's at her kickoff speech you know
right like she she she nails the set
piece you think the clutch gene is
reeled in yes yeah you know we were we
we had talked about it before the debate
that this was an opportunity for common
law Harris to go after someone we did we
said it and and joking before I said oh
maybe she's gonna start with Budaj edge
because he's like you know the the
before you get to the big boss Biden but
she didn't she went right for Biden but
actually tucked into some of her
language was a was a little hit I didn't
know she was just like just as she gets
to the end of the hit on Biden and she's
like oh yeah and by the way when I was a
G we kept all those cameras the police
cameras on and you're just like oh yeah
she was like oh and I'm not done with
you like a mayor Pete sleep with one eye
open and pray during that debate you're
next time this is like a swallow nice
tie orange or if you did glad you didn't
wear another Joe Biden also took some
hits from small well I think we might
have a clip of Eric's while trying to
make something happen here I was 6 years
old when a presidential candidate came
to the California Democratic convention
and said it's time to pass the porch to
a new generation of Americans that
candidate was then-senator Joe Biden
young Joe Biden was white but when he
said it was time to pass the torch to a
new generation of Americans 32 years ago
[Applause]
someone wrote over you it was what
I could not make me so crazy the
other thing about that that was so
 awful is he was so ready to jump
into attack Biden he did that after
mayor Pete spoke the Millenial on the
stage to because he was so pumped to go
after Joe Biden with that garbage can
 speech if he had stopped yeah at
the first pass the torch
that would have been passable decent
Diana basketball it would have been
enough though you would have been in
like a medium okay moment making a case
for generally would have been smaller in
the campaign you're totally right that
like doing it right after mayor Pete who
looks even younger was was not the
moment to do it but do don't lean into
it so hard it was and then he brought it
up a couple more times he just he was
he's he said it again like he was so
proud of himself the first time he's
like I'm bringing back the torch joke
you know what I also just I want to he
had some lines yeah oh the remember the
rush the breaking up I'm gonna break up
with Russia
get back together with NATO you know
what the problem with anything I want
make out what they know here's
what's gonna happen here all right I'm
gonna break up with Russia with a text
and then we go right to NATO's house and
we're gonna here's the thing about
Eric's well that really pisses me off
which is oh you're gonna pass the torch
to you every word out of your mouth
sounds old you sound like you're a
hundred years old you sound like a
politician that's been in politics since
before you were born
if you want to sound like someone who
said we should pass the torch to say
something interesting
it is funny he does sound old he's he's
our age and just use now after that
broadside when we interviewed him here
I'd review such a perfectly nice guy
yeah friendly offstage like normal talks
like the younger person has interesting
life experience yeah it's bring that guy
to the stage don't bring the the
memorized answer guy to the stage well
you know what though like you're at 1%
you're a longshot candidate there are
people out there who might think you got
into this race to build your brand sell
a book get on television I don't know
what if your answer to all of that is a
bunch of cheesy lines and no
actual argument get off the
stage I'm sorry get off the stage it's
too important to have you
interrupting to try to make a moment for
yourself in the most important primary
of our lives yeah who else which carrots
were most impressive other than camel on
that debate did anyone anyone else
impressive anyone helped themselves do
you think Pete was good he was very good
to me Pete like he came in with a lot of
expectations
absolutely met those expectations no
more no less but just was like
solid good and it's and it's just worth
giving him credit for his expectations
he's a 37 year old mayor of South Bend
Indiana yeah who's on the debate stage
the lot bidding him experience one
sitting standing next to Joe Biden yeah
and he did he did deliver in that moment
I think he's got challenges going
forward he's gonna have to navigate but
just being up there not being nervous
delivering your lines with comments and
being the subject of a very difficult
set of questions around your own conduct
is different than most candidates with a
lot more experience have to deal with
yeah and he more than any other
candidate has named
vacations challenges to deal with
because if we feel like we all hear
about pee all the time but a lot of
people still don't know him and so I
think 15 16 however many million people
tuned in if you saw Pete on that stage
for the first time I think you'd
probably be impressed Bernie was also
fine you don't need it Bernie did he
Bernie he did he was delivered his
message he delivered a message we know
was very appealing with some set of
voters and was I mean he did good
like I don't think he only improves his
situation he didn't hurt himself he was
sort of a nonentity after the beginning
of the debate I liked mayor Pete's
answer on China I thought it was a yes
smart and sophisticated and actually got
at the core of a big challenge in a way
that I think other people on that stage
were not as adept at addressing yeah I
agree with that I thought I thought
Gillibrand started slowly because she
kept trying to work this corruption
message into into the first two moments
where she spoke even though it didn't
fit what was being discussed but when
she got the reproductive rights in
choice she was passionate and made a
case that I think made her stand out
similar with Michael Bennett
I think 99.99% of people went into this
debate having no idea who he was and you
probably learned something about him
last night which is as dan has mentioned
sort of half the battle one thing about
the debates us thinking about it after
it's a lot of people don't know who
Michael Bennett is and I think probably
a lot of people were lost in that
exchange between Joe Biden and Michael
Bennett over whether or not the
negotiations with Mitch McConnell over
taxes were a success or too much of a
compromise but in an in a good reminder
of how debates don't really reflect real
life like that that argument inside of
that is one of the core challenges for
Democrats and will define what Democrats
do next right where we compromise and
where we don't and and and and the
lessons learned from the Obama
administration on Gillibrand Tommy I
think you're exactly right there's a
reason we actually didn't talk about her
very much this conversation because she
I like Senator Gillibrand I like her and
and and she has good things to say but
she just felt you know I felt like she
didn't know she wasn't part of the
actual debate that was happening that
every time she they went to her she had
some like every planned thing that she
was like taken out because here that's a
microcosm for her campaign has not
decided what the campaign is really
about
and there are times when she said like I
am going to be the candidate that talks
about women's issues women's rights and
she leans into that and it's and it
sounds great there's other times she
decides she's gonna be the candidate
talks about corruption there's another
time she talks that she decides she's
gonna be the candidate who was
originally elected in rural upstate New
York and so can reach across the divide
and but you know like she has like a
three or four different central messages
that she just sort of goes back and
forth between right it always felt like
she was like at a 90-degree angle to the
debate and not really there and it did
was it was confusing and also you know
she was standing next to somebody having
one of the greatest debates we've ever
seen so it was it was just it was
overshadowed overshadow right next to
her she did but I do think that after
Bernie Biden after the top four you know
Gillibrand stood out and I think but I
think your right side like Gillibrand
and Bennet seemed to me the next to that
sort of I thought Chlo bechard the night
before - yeah oh yeah
now marianne williamson stood out for
very different reasons can we can we
play the clip the place where it's the
best place in the world for a child to
grow up and I'm the type of girlfriend
you were so on because the United States
of America is going to be the best place
in the world for a child to grow up I'm
gonna call the head of a country reeling
from the most horrific mass shooting you
could possibly imagine say you were
number one you were you're on you're on
we're gonna we're gonna have a
competition with New Zealand was she
raised on the set of Designing Women and
what is that what is that cadence I
can't find that accent mid centrally
mid-atlantic yeah no it is not
mid-atlantic because you know the
there's a Roosevelt how to mid-atlantic
that's mid-atlantic this is not
mid-atlantic it's a bit more southern
it's weird I find out it was wild
everything about the the performance was
wild everyone last night finding all of
her teachers and tweeting them Texas
yeah that is not Texas that is why that
is that is Texas by way of Los Angeles
by way of Europa the moon of Jupiter
look I I don't know if it's from - BRR
just tell me what I'm sorry if I got the
moon wrong I interviewed her here and
she's a very lovely person and we had a
nice conversation but I did think after
the interview like oh yeah I wonder how
this is gonna I wonder how this is gonna
go on a debate stage well just because
it's very I think that person's
different it is it is different you know
when she I feel like it's quite
revealing when she's like asked an
actual substantive question about about
prescription drugs and this notion the
thing that that I do think like I don't
believe marianne williamson is a serious
candidate and you know come at me in my
mentions williams and i don't give a
 uh but you're so brave sober he's
here to talk about the hard truths we'll
even throw crystals that you weren't
worried about yeah that's fine
that's fine but guys I think there were
someone in my house it smells like
incense no but but uh the message around
like hilarious to be like I'm sick of
all this superficial medicare-for-all
discussion let's talk about let's talk
about our thirty thousand foot view of
like how we're describing Trump but the
like the notion of don't forget that
Trump campaigns on something deeper than
policy and something deeper than
rhetoric this idea of fear and hate is
driving his campaign and the kind of the
the deeper emotions that undergird our
political debates right now I do think
there is value and somebody reminding us
of that I just don't think she's the
right messenger for it and I do that's
partly why I'm so disappointed in Cory
Booker but it is worth remembering to to
always come back to those first
principles that we're not fighting
Donald Trump ultimately on policy those
policies are about a way of capturing
our values and our understanding of the
moment that's all
so can dates who did well over the two
nights what do they have to do now to
build on this momentum you're in a
campaign now with a candidate who just
had a good night what do you do
I mean sadly what you have to do is
raise money yeah in deadline the
deadline is Sunday night Sunday night
for this quarter and then next week
we'll start getting all these numbers
from
that quasi good news for most of the
lake just for democracy and generals
most these candidates we're gonna be
focused on raising money from grassroots
donors online for the next week yeah but
you want like you have momentum you got
to use it you like you better get to
Iowa or New Hampshire like have a Town
Hall you'll get more people that you
would otherwise get you'll get different
people yeah who saw you on the debate
stage could get those people signed up
now's the time have you been trying to
get endorsements from local officials or
other politicians now is a time to go
make those calls but you gotta you gotta
come out of the gates blazing here in
order to get something out of this what
do you do if you're a Joe Biden's
campaign right now aside from leaked to
the press that everything you did was
correct but it was your candidates fault
which seems to be what's been happening
on that campaign which I can tell you is
 a garbage way to be well that is
first of all it's awful it's awful to do
that it speaks really ill of somebody
that would do that while working on a
campaign that's a my guess is that they
Duck and Cover and see what the next
round of polling says yeah and then and
then be able to say like see this didn't
really matter this was a media creation
which which sucks and that's a very
Trumpy way to approach politics but you
know there's a whole world of people
that argue that that's what you should
do well in a weird bit of scheduling you
know Joe Biden is today oh is neat
Rainbow PUSH rainbow Park just retweeted
a photo with him and Jesse Jackson if I
uh he'll probably be he's probably
talking about this race about if I were
one thought would be if I were them I
would find a way to address it that will
ultimately maybe just maybe stench
stench some of the damaged stench
substantial bleeding so maybe staunch
some of the damage the stench starts to
say well just try to make such a void
making matters worse figure a way out of
this terrible cycle and then what I
would be looking for is a big rally
where I could pick a huge fight with
Donald Trump that's what I would be
doing if I were to go and pick a fight
with Donald Trump because when you're
arguing with Donald Trump you're in much
better position when the argument komal
Harris yeah I agree
fine and Biden has this advantage too
which is this is when he was in the
middle of the the two weeks ago blow up
over Biden race around his praise of
segregationist he was able to get people
like Jim Clyburn and John Lewis to come
out and speak on his behalf and so he's
gonna do that again today because the
the hard part with what is so
foolish of buy-ins approach of this is
he has very good parts of his record he
can talk about in the years since then
yeah and he tried he sort of mentioned
them but he could have just apologized
and gone on to what he's done since and
that would be a compelling explanation
for a mistake in his record you know one
under discussed Abidin moment that was
bad because there were so many of them
was his Iraq war answer which was like
well you know once I got to the White
House Obama put me in charge of getting
all the troops back I mean he certainly
did not get really pressed on his vote
for the Iraq war or count for it in any
way it's gonna be a hard one a duck with
Bernie's next year one other thing about
biting too is I would also look to get
him out of get him out of his suit
jacket like go to the border go go go be
amongst you follow be with people be
where people are being hit by this
administration be where the crises are
like be the you know you have this
electability argument that people are
buying they just want to win they want
to be safe show them that you're safe
and show them that you are sort of in
the fight with them okay that's all the
time we have for today next week
schedule because the fourth you're
getting here from love it and me on
Monday I'm on vacation Tommy's on
vacation Dan and I are gonna record a
mailbag on Tuesday that will go out on
Thursday I believe so
so we'll have some pods next week look
case anything happens have a beer eat a
hot dog
fireworks rule listen to our demagogue
leader addressing the country on 4th of
July do you guys want which clip do you
guys want to play us out do you want
Marianne Williamson New Zealand or
Eric's wha well torch can we get Andrew
yang people not being allowed to speak
we're gonna get pulling up by the yang
gang guys hey yang gang he didn't do
well he didn't speak you have one job
one job you're in fairness he didn't get
called on much but even so you gotta
jump in you got to say you got one
chance you explain what you be I was but
then no one knew who you were or why you
believe it's important here's general
advice for some of these peripheral
candidates try to be somewhere between
Delaney and yang in terms of your
approach to getting your words in don't
go to the fold de Blasio but you gotta
just so just a thought 4x well I'll pick
up a torch and set these speeches you've
written
fire yeah all right we're out
