welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John love entire you tour
I'm Dan Pfeiffer get the whole crew here
today to talk about the election that
happened last night old news John were
talking about session yeah well also be
talking about Jeff Sessions who was just
fired let's be honest the president
technically asked for his resignation
but he was fired man didn't installed a
 Republican hack in his place and
who knows what will happen to the mother
investigation now so that's huge news
which I'm sure he wanted because he
wanted to step on the election results
last night we're not gonna let that
happen
no we're gonna talk about those first
and then we'll get to our friend Jeff
Sessions can't kill this hi all right
Democrats took control of the House of
Representatives last night winning 26
seats they are ahead and eight more plus
a few more in California that are too
close to call we probably end up with
thirty five ish seats Democrats held all
seven contested governorships where they
had Democratic governors and flipped
another seven defeating a number of
Republicans including two of our
favorite villains Kris Kobach and Scott
Walker we flipped 333 state legislative
seats seven state houses and one three
trifectas where Democrats now control
the state houses and the governorships
finally we flipped one Senate seat
Jackie Rosen defeating dirty Dean Heller
but we lost for Gary Indiana please let
me finish
I'm sorry but we finally we flipped one
Senate seat Jackie Rosen defeating dirty
Dean Heller but we lost for Missouri
Indiana North Dakota and it looks like
Florida though it may be going into a
recount
hey John how does Paul Bunyan's ox say
hello oh it's a blue wave overall
takeaway fine night good night
 great night that's the question
from vampire Dan why did you start since
you asked the question I think it's a
good night good night I should have put
a fourth option somewhere between good
and great so that's good where I
am yeah I think it it is great I think
we can't say it's
 great because we missed some
opportunities in the Senate we miss some
governor's races but yeah we won the
house which is everything it changes
everything in politics and as we're
seeing today yes she'll see yeah I mean
things I'm really happy about taking the
house enormous we're in control of all
the committee's now Adam Schiff is now
in charge not Devan newness of the House
Intelligence Committee we can
investigate all the things we care about
some really great people one like Lucy
Macbeth in Georgia six days hold it out
late last night amazing candidate like
great human being exciting race you won
governor's races in Michigan Wisconsin
Illinois Kansas Maine Pennsylvania New
Mexico huge deal for you know control of
power in those states for our ability to
redistricting process of legislation the
year of the woman is real more than a
hundred women are on track to win in the
house things I'm sad about I wanted a
full projection and repeat ei ssin of
trumpism his racist fear-mongering
strategy maybe that's a little naive
because it's hardly new to win based on
anger and fear in racism but I wanted it
I wanted it to kill him to win I want a
better work to win but I always knew
those were more difficult races so I
would say very good night B+ love it
yeah I mean I you know I think about
where we were two years ago and what we
said to each other what we said again
and again was which was that we were
heading into a really really hard
midterm that the Senate was nearly
impossible and the house was tough but
doable and that winning the house was
central not just for democratic politics
improving we can win but central to
taking our country back and restoring
checks and balances and standing up for
the basic virtues of the country that
that ID we were afraid to exaggerate
before the midterms because we weren't
sure if we would win the house just how
important winning the house would be but
I think if we were sitting here today
having not won the house having we would
be we would be looking at a demoralized
majority of the country who feel like
their voices don't matter we would be
looking at a sense we would be would be
looking at Donald Trump with total
permission to be corrupt
to pursue a radical agenda to go after
immigrants to go after people of color
to go after trans people and I'm really
really glad we didn't wake up in that
country and I'm very glad that what we
hoped would happen which is that all the
marching and the energy and the protest
and the paying attention would culminate
in people actually turning out to vote
that was an open question and it is
undeniable that we answered that
question with a yes people turned out
and Republicans turned out too but we
turned out more and we did what we had
to do and we actually have power and
that changes everything
yes go ahead no it was the highest
turnout since I believe 1960 in a
midterm broke all kinds of records but
of course like you said love that
Republicans turned out to no look
a majority of Americans voted for
Democrats and now Democrats represent a
majority of Americans in the House of
Representatives there is a majoritarian
representation for the first time in a
while
despite all the gerrymandering a
majority of Americans are now governed
by Democratic governors which is also
hugely important and we can talk about
where the Senate's up and admit
but in those two in the sense of
governorships and the house there's now
we are closer to a real democracy today
more unison I would say we have if you
look at the difference between 2010 2014
two midterms where Democrats did
incredibly poorly the reason we did well
in 2018 is first time voters yeah
these people who do not know which has
pain in midterms people who some of them
we've been sat out 2016 who decided to
get engaged and that was the big
question that all the cynical pundits
and political analysis was saying will
people actually turn out well young
people turned out well people of color
turned out into midterm they didn't
really do it and they did and Democrats
now have the power to stop Trump's
agenda for that very reason so those new
voters don't turn out and young people
don't turn out young people we will get
the final numbers but it looks like they
increase their share in the midterms
certainly the margin among young people
and now we say young people now it's
really to two groups now it's 18 to 29
and it's 30 to 39 because the thirty or
thirty nine year olds you know we were
the Obama generation and now we're
voting heavily Democrat and there they
voted more heavily Democratic the margin
between
some Republicans among those two age
groups is if you just you look at this
chart it just sort of goes like often
off into different directions
it's the biggest margin it's ever been
in a midterm I would note that you put
the cutoff at young people 39 even
though I'm the only one over 39 sitting
here oh sorry I still think of you in
your late thirties yeah thank you what
is one other thing - it's also one other
thing there were Republicans in the
house especially the house leadership
that made a devil's bargain with Donald
Trump which is they would capitulate to
him they would look past as a beauty
you
tepid responses against it some of them
used it like Paul Ryan in a super-pac
and it is really really important that
that strategy did not work for Paul Ryan
it sends a really powerful message to
future Republicans to that that there
was not a majority in race baiting and
anti-immigration sentiment plus a
deregulation anti health care sort of
anti working person agenda there if they
had been able to succeed in that it
would have been incredibly dangerous and
it is very exciting and I've been
waiting to say it on the podcast I want
to say at one time we get to take that
gavel from Paul Ryan's hand I
have to say I have no faith that it
sends that message to Republicans it is
you are right that it did not work 100%
right that's why we're all happy today
yeah but they will continue well I think
two things will happen someone pointed
out that Mike Murphy pointed that said I
GOP strategist that Trump was talking
today about in his press conference like
maybe I'll work with Democrats on
infrastructure or drug prices and it's
like yeah you know what
Nancy Pelosi in the house probably would
work with Donald Trump on a big
infrastructure package or a packet or a
bill to reduce dark places and you know
where it would die in the Republican
Senate because you still have a bunch of
Republican establishment hacks who are
so bad at politics yeah I miss read
politics that they will be like no we
don't want infrastructure or drug prices
because those things aren't conservative
economic policies also his pledge to his
offer to do that was caveated
with the assumption that Democrats won't
be thoroughly investigated if you're
nice to me if you're good to me I won't
I won't shoot you don't uncover my
crimes maybe we pay the Road
what you still have a bunch of
establishment Republicans I still
believe that somehow out there in the
country there is a constituency for tax
cuts and huge cuts to health care and
small government all that kind of
and so they will continue to push that
and then you have Donald Trump and a
bunch of Trump Republicans which is now
the whole party who believe that the
road to power is race baiting and
xenophobia and they will continue down
that road right let me know think the
truth is you can look at this election
and drop both conclusions certainly it
is better that the Republicans failed in
their quest to use that strategy in the
house
maybe the lesson there is in the way the
house works it's more it's less
advantageous than it is in Senate races
where you can just run up the score in
rural places and and and you're trying
to win across the whole state but I
think that that's it
so how big of a deal is taking the house
we talked about this a little last night
on the live stream but for those who
didn't tune in what what changes now
what can the Democrats do I mean
everything changes it is to quote Joe
Biden it's a big deal mm-hmm
Donald Trump can never pass another
piece of legislation without Nancy
Pelosi signing off on it he can never
pass an appropriations bill and we it is
not all the power it's not enough power
but we now have an actual lever of power
to negotiate over things we they need
Democratic votes to do the very basic
things of keeping the government open
and we can demand that some of these
horrible regulations are go away we can
demand funding for some of our
priorities we can push back on some of
the internal sabotage to the Football
Care Act it also means that they cannot
there is a bill to repeal the Affordable
Care Act will never be on the house the
floor of the house again and then as we
pointed out we now have the ability to
issue subpoenas to look at what what
happened we are living in a world a
swamp of Republican corruption you have
just the Secretary of the Interior who
has just been referred for criminal
investigation you have the president
States an unindicted co-conspirator to
multiple crimes you have a Rico
investigation to the entire family of
the President of the of the president in
his company and on all Nancy Ron jr. and
in all those cases we now have the
ability to provide a measure of checks
and balances on this president yeah yeah
how big of a deal is winning all those
governorships and state legislators what
is that what does that mean it's a
massive deal I mean I think one we just
get to govern in a more progressive way
in these states one we get to two we get
to increase access for voting rights for
people
I mean like think about Dan you talked
about this before I mean in Wisconsin
Scott Walker made it his lifelong
ambition to prevent people who might
vote Democratic so young people African
Americans people of color to prevent
them from getting to the polls we can
now undo a lot of that work you know we
can read it straight will be coming up
so we can draw fairer maps in a lot of
places including in places like Maryland
where Democrats Giroux pretty unfair
maps and you might see some realignment
but generally speaking like the
democracy will be a lot healthier I
think under the stewardship of these
Democratic governor yeah you'll see a
lot of progressive legislation pass and
also you've talked about this before Dan
but in 2024 the whoever the Democratic
nominee is it helps to have Democratic
governors in states like Wisconsin
Michigan Pennsylvania so that's that's
really great to Kansas somehow Kansas is
it's so cool Kansas is also a great
example because Kansas and we've talked
about this before
Kansas is where the supply-side
tax cutting government destroying
Republicans were able to test their
experiment and it totally destroyed the
Kansas economy Kansas is Paul Ryan's
America and a biodome this won't get
enough attention I think because Trump
went out there and he's gonna talk about
all the places he campaigned and take
credit for everything he took credit for
but Kansas is an example of him being a
poison pill he endorsed Kris Kobach who
lost the governorship in Kansas I think
he primary mark Sanford in South
Carolina who lost a congressional who's
who's a key primary congressman mark
Sanford in South Carolina the person he
endorsed then went on to lose so Trump
was actually a poison pill in a couple
elections yeah about Kansas too is its
again you see a test of this idea as can
someone's anti-immigrant bona fides be
enough to overcome the sense in the
state that right-wing Republican
politics has been bad for business bad
for their bottom line and bad for people
sort of you know ability to pay for
things in their lives their teachers the
teachers in their schools getting enough
money and here the answer was no which
is really exciting and I think you can
connect it and we're talking about
everything you connected to some of the
ballot measures that pass
that show you that that inside of even
deep Republican states there is a
resistance to right-wing politics and
there is an openness to democratic ideas
whether it's a Medicare expansion
whether it's a Medicaid expansion or you
know electing a Democratic governor even
though you've been sending Republicans
to the Senate for years and years it
doesn't get more conservative than
Kansas I remember like our old friend
Kathleen Sebelius or was governor of
Kansas and the our Health and Human
Services Secretary she reached out a
couple of months ago and was like you
guys should come to a pod in Kansas
because we have real races here we can
have a governor's race there's a couple
House seats we can flip and Sebelius as
usually is was absolutely right like
we're not sure if we have this is just a
betta Kansas to me it's a little bit
like Laura Kelly is showing up like
midway through the game BioShock after
they've tried libertarian governance and
that's it that's just for somebody
that's four that's four that's four five
of you all right let's talk about why
did Democrats win what happened why did
we met all those seats last night what
did we do right
we ran everywhere great candidates like
you look at some of the seats we picked
up Seton Oklahoma seat in Utah seats in
Texas these are seats that have gone
uncontested in your past and even if we
did find a candidate those races were
not staffed they weren't funded and it
really like did the d-triple-c deserves
credit for the work they did but a lot
of the funding of these like what would
be sort of outer more like stroke like
more outer tea outer eivol some of the
reach districts yes thank you these
these reach districts were funded at the
grassroots level from people who believe
like we like we've told the story before
but in Mereen Arizona or Colorado in a
pod show last year yeah Colorado in
Denver Colorado last year and someone
stood up a woman who was a dreamer
dreamer gave a very impassioned got a
very impassioned response from the crowd
about being a dreamer but then it told
us that we could win that race it was a
meal of race and be a long race in Utah
yeah I remember that I remember that
last night when I thought I was like oh
this is the first time I heard that we
could win that race and and so we ran
everywhere we were and we ran hard
everywhere and the grassroots drove what
we did and that's incredibly important
because the
effort to take back the house every to
take back our country came from the
bottom up it came from groups like run
for something swing left indivisible and
to the credit of the more establishment
groups they were they did not act
threatened most of the time by these
groups and worked with them and we ended
up with really strong candidates running
really strong campaigns up and down the
ballot all across the country and a
slate of candidates that was you know
more female there are more candidates
for people of color there were so many
firsts first Native American going to
congressman Therese David's
first I mean we'll go through the first
the first list later but there's it's a
very impressive gays gays are crushing
it I mean it's funny this is not a
traditional slate of cam it's not a
whole bunch of state reps and state
legislators who took the next step it's
like Chrissy Houlihan is an Air Force
veteran in the businesswoman an educator
Colin Allred in Texas played in the NFL
I mean these are exciting new types of
candidates they look different they
sound different and and I think that
worked in Congress will be a better for
it
I will also say we I guess can't get
worse for it we ran a very focused
campaign every single one of those
candidates ran on health care we saw in
the early exit polls last night health
care forty-one percent of voters said
that was their top issue and Democrats
completely crushed and that's no easy
thing because when Donald Trump's out
there talking about caravans and mobs
and all this other it's very
easy to take the bait and just get in a
 fight with Donald Trump when
Republicans over this and these
candidates were laser-like focused on
health care and specifically protecting
pre-existing conditions in all these
races and I think that is a lesson you
know I also want to say like somehow
something like how some of these
candidates won to and sort of took back
some some Trump areas like we did very
well in the Midwest although certain
places in the Midwest there what do you
think accounts for some of the
Midwestern strengths last night I think
we held on to Hillary Clinton's strength
in the suburbs and so these sort of
Romney Clinton voters who
who do not like Donald Trump and Donald
Trump is sort of radicalized them
against the Republican Party and that
was a question were we going to win
these voters who voted for Romney over
Clinton would they vote for a Democrat
against a generic Republican essentially
and yes but we also did better in many
places in the rule and exurban areas we
held down some of our losses and 16 and
that to me is like you see the path in
2020 which is if we can maintain our
enthusiasm and turnout in the suburbs
and urban areas and win back some of
those Obama Trump voters where we hold
down the margins in the rural areas then
you can wreak it reconstitute the the
Obama coalition that one so handily in
no eight and twelve that sort of the
path in the candidates who won whether
it's Gretchen Whitmer or Tony Evers
sherrod Brown they did that and the
candidates who lost in those states were
unable to do that I want to talk about
Gretchen Whitmer for a second because
she's a rising star in the party and I
want to talk about the what she pulled
off in Michigan in 2016
Trump won huge margins in working-class
areas in Michigan and then Hillary's
margins in affluent areas and suburbs
and urban areas were underwhelming last
night Whitmer narrowed the margins in
working-class areas ran up huge margins
in affluent urban areas so she took back
the Obama Trump counties that Hillary
lost Whitmer took those back and she
matched Obama's margins in Detroit where
Hillary fell short by 10 points of
whitmer and Obama so it just goes to
show you that like we had this election
in 1812 where Obama presented this
coalition in Michigan
Hillary lost a lot of it in 16 and last
night Whitmer put it back together and
she were in this very discipline
campaign focused on the economy talked
about infrastructure she had been
responsible for expanding Medicaid when
she was in the Michigan Legislature so
just goes to show you like that is a
path for Democrats in the Midwest yeah I
mean another good example of that I
think is the Iowa first district it was
I remember when when when Hillary lost
Iowa and I were looking at how we got
kind of blown out in those northeastern
Iowa districts that to me was always
like a place of progressive democratic
strength and it's kind of a base because
working-class places like Dubuque and
all these River County
rod Blum one in 2016 with a 53% margin
and I felt like oh my god like what
happened to Iowa we got blown out but
last night have you think an hour one
fifty point nine percent to forty six
percent I mean she romped in that
district and she is young and
progressive and from a labor household
and like an exciting you know she's
about twenty eight twenty nine yeah
nothing concur about it's a huge bounce
back which I think you know tells you a
story about what can happen when you put
forward a really great slate of
candidates and you run a smart campaign
but it also I think tells you a story
about why 2016 was unique and there was
something that big that went on at the
top of the ticket that I think we
corrected a little bit last night yeah
why why was the Senate so hard last
night that was obviously the big display
we have a couple disappointments let's
start with the Senate I think it's an
easy I think this is actually easy look
America went to the polls and they came
up with a split decision right then what
do you think about the split decision I
would like to thank everyone on Twitter
who has decided to send me every tweet
there's a split decision so every time i
rage subsides for a second i am reminded
of it anyone on the senate i mean look i
think something like if we really look
at the map like trump one missouri by
double digits indiana by double digits
high double digits where else did we
lose
north dakota by double digits florida
week if i can talk about in a second but
i do think that some of the like we we
won senators democratic senators one in
a lot of trump states last night sherrod
Brown tammy baldwin bob casey they they
did great John tester John tester just
pulled it off right it was closer there
but he pulled it off but in these other
states where McCaskill asked and
Donnelly and Hyde camp
those were just Trump e'er redder States
and I don't I don't know that we'll see
Democratic senators in those states
again no I like the country Gary the
country is polarizing and the redder
parts of the country are getting redder
and the bluer parts are getting bluer
and the question going into last night
was what was gonna happen in the purple
parts were they were these Midway
western states on a path to red because
of demographic change because of
something Trump had done to shake up the
political coalition's in this country
and the answer to that is as of last
night at least no I think we have to
look at all of these Senate races
because there are a lot of lessons to
learn them all right why did what did
John tester do to win that Heidi
Heitkamp Joe Donald and Claire McCaskill
could not do it's a great question
what did sherrod Brown do to win that
record race Richard Cordray who running
for governor Ohio did not do what did
Jackie Rosen do to win that Kris and
cinema couldn't do and I think we have
to understand because we the the purple
Senate races are the most important
thing sure the presidential election or
so we have to figure that out because we
have zero margin for error in the Senate
we have to win every blue seat in every
purple City even had a have a shot at 50
in a system that gives the same amount
of political power to Wyoming isn't just
the California New York right I see we
can all complain about that we could all
say the Senate is undemocratic and it
doesn't represent people yeah we know we
can't change that but we have to get the
power for us what I'm saying is the only
way to change it is to win so we have to
figure out a way to win these states
just so people know so we have it looks
like the Republic's are gonna end up
with 54 seats in the Senate when all is
said and done right or 53 54
so in 2020 the possible targets are cory
gardner in colorado
joni ernst in iowa Thom Tillis in North
Carolina we have McCain seat which is
going to be up so another open seat in
Arizona and Susan Collins and me we also
are defending doug jones seat in alabama
so that's gonna be really really tough
so that means like you said we have to
almost run the table in those seats so
we have to be very careful and think
really hard about the candidates we put
forth in those states because as we saw
last night candidate quality really
matters and it matters most in states
that are on the razor's edge like that
demographically right I think we need to
so I think we I think there's two
questions one is how do we how do we
have a chance in some of these red
states and the other is how do we field
candidates that can win in Florida and
zona because that Ben Nelson race that
cinnamon race these are places where
he'll know what I say but no then oh
yeah ben nelson tried him for a bad hit
from nebraska i'll go but but those i've
you know there can there's a there's a
longer-term challenge in places like
missouri but there's a we should really
have a longer-term challenges so i think
we should ask the candidate question
right a kind of tactical strategic
tactical questions about what happened
in arizona
what happened in florida but one thing
that I'm thinking about is the fact that
in Missouri Missouri came out really
hard for a pro-union ballot initiative
recently we have in very red states
where we don't believe Democratic Senate
candidate aid expansion we are passing
liberal policies and so I think one
thing that it is going to be a that is a
bigger harder question is how how can we
get democratic politics to be as
appealing to people as liberal politics
once the democratic label has been
removed and I don't think what the media
will do because this is what they do
they'll make it all ideological right
the I'll be the it's the ideological you
know part of the candidate what do they
believe are they too far to this you
know too far to the left or they
centrist a whole bunch of you know true
centrists lost in these races I said
Phil Bredesen was supposed to be the one
in Tennessee who knows his states so
well because he was an absurdly popular
governor in the 90s went down to an
eleven point two feet you can't get more
centrist than Phil Bredesen unless you
were Republican right so I don't think
the answer necessarily is ideological
about who we nominate you get both
answers out of this right you have joe
Manchin winning you have bredesen losing
you have Jon Tester winning you have
Claire McCaskill losing right you had so
there's no one is gonna be able to come
up with a simple sentence to describe
the ideological take away from this from
this night yeah I also think that you
know Maryland and Massachusetts are
interesting examples in Maryland you
have Larry Hogan who was reelected
overwhelmingly as governor Charlie Baker
in Massachusetts wildly popular so in in
some of these liberal bastions you do
see they like Republican governors they
like divided leadership for some reason
Massachusetts we have forever and so I
mean maybe we can learn something from
them I do think when you look at your
2020 map like Iowa feels doable to
again it didn't before last night Maine
feels very doable Arizona with the right
person you know we can give it a shot
but you're right I mean candidate like a
candidate quality is everything well
it's up but why do we think Kyrsten
Sinema she came really close why do we
think she did do I think martha mcsalley
was the Republicans Republican
establishment tell you that they were
she was like their favorite candidate
all the cooks loved martha mcsalley
she's going washington she's be part of
that Club I thought she was pretty
sloppy with the health care answer and
the previous 10 condition stuff I think
that's probably cashed and sent him I
kept it close but do we think there was
a what do you think day what do you
think happened in Arizona I don't know
like I think we have to we have to see
more data yeah about that state but what
I think the question around Kyrsten
Sinema
was was she exciting enough to turn out
enough first time voters or periodic
voters in Arizona because Arizona has a
large population of potential voters and
the only way that Democrats can win it's
a very polarized state demographically
you have a lot of older white voters
it's why Republicans have done so well
there for so long but it has been
changing demographically over time but
we have not had the success of taking
the newer the new residents new people
have aged into the electorate and turn
them into voters yet now it is worth
noting that in even in our losses
whether it is Arizona it is Florida it
is Texas it is Georgia Democrats did
better in those races than they have in
a very long time yeah and there is
something if you were trying to just
extract some silver linings from those
dark clouds there is it we've been
talking about Arizona moving blue for a
while mm-hmm you see some evidence that
that as a possibility for us based on
the results of last night because there
she's down by a point in image Arizona
is ground zero for the immigration
battles in America it is the place where
Trump's Caravan message birthright
citizenship message general race baiting
white people fear-mongering works very
very well it is a place that Joe Arpaio
was from it is where some of the
most hardline immigration politicians
have been from and so if you see you see
you're beginning to see the transition
it is a huge missed opportunity for us
still all right now let's get to then
the real Heartbreakers our favorite
three candidates of all four of us I'd
say Andrew Gilliam in Florida Stacey
Abrams in Georgia and in better o'rourke
in Texas all lost last night Tommy told
me Bredesen was his favorite I don't
understand why we're not able to sit
here all right and talk about the fact
that an inspirational young leader the
future this party Bob Menendez the one
in New Jersey
against the odds despite a lot of people
saying he's a criminal
all right all morning you love it and
say give me some Cuomo all right the
future the party is in so I will say
like you know I had been when I was in
my high anxiety for two weeks before the
election it was following the early vote
in Florida and all of Steve shales
tweets everything because I thought I
loved Beto and I loved Abrams I'm
inspired over them but I know how
demographics work and states were kind
of like may have an uphill climb Gilliam
should have won Florida all the polls
had him ahead it was probably the
biggest polling miss of last night is
Gilman Florida Robby has had him running
ahead of Nelson and he ran probably
slightly behind Nelson and I don't what
happened there but I'm really
mad at Florida yeah I don't know what
happened either I mean I do think the
more I read this morning's I think we
all underestimated the drag of having an
FBI investigation on your campaign
that's an unprecedent thing it never
happened before I mean when you I'm
still waiting for Broward to come in his
former friends were dumping emails and
there's all this talk of an FBI
informant and these ticket like I like
it
last night we're all watching the
results come in we're like how the hell
is the governor's race lagging in the
Senate race and maybe that's something
you can point I think yeah I think we
don't have enough information yet we may
never that certainly could be a fact
race could certainly be a factor and in
you know that's I mean if he if it's
true that he ran slightly behind Nelson
you know why is that or ideology he was
further to the left the Nelson weed
those are all three possible factors we
don't know which one it is all I know is
a combination or a combination yeah
is that love Andrew Gilliam is
still love Andrew Gilliam he is young we
were gonna hear from him again and I
just we're just fortunate that we got to
see him run like he is great and I think
even though he lost there are lessons to
be learned for Democrats on how you run
races and also we're about to watch
Florida expand voting rights to over a
million people which is not only just a
morally good thing it is going to change
the Florida electorate I mean these were
really really close oh we hope so at
least you know there was also good news
out of Florida and and you know all
those disenfranchised people having a
chance to vote and Pope participating
might help tilt tilt the balance in a
state that will continue to be very
close and on Stacey Abrams you know we
were here pretty late last night and
watching her speech last night it was
the most maybe the most inspiring speech
of the whole night and people people
here at cooking media were cheering
clapping getting out of their seats it
was it was fantastic that race may be
headed for a runoff she has not conceded
yet there are something like 80 80
thousand plus ballots out if she reduces
the margin by about twenty thousand
votes Kemp goes under 50% and we're
headed to a runoff in Georgia and
everyone gets to the important point not
a recount or run errata we're having
another Allegra's a new race that Kemp
can try to steal but in a new able a new
race in a new environment where some of
sorry a new race in a new environment
where courts have overruled some of
Kemp's decision to purge rotor roll so
you're going to have another few weeks
to get some most people who were denied
the right to vote the chance of show up
at the polls and we got to go all in on
helping her if that happens we'll see in
Atlanta if that happens but before you
move on you should just read just you
said Stacey hasn't lost at the top just
say Stacey Abrams just reports something
that says something like you you can
just say it in like a run of things but
say something like Stacey Abrams is is
it down in your mind I'll say what I
originally said in the first sentence
and I'll just say this
I should say actually Stacey Abrams has
not lost yet she's not conceited because
that could go to a runoff
kanessa do you want my other point we
don't have to actually make this but I
brain farted on it but the difference in
Arizona is the Green Party candidate
actually got a larger margin than cinema
38,000 votes
yeah thanks Green Party yeah who could
have seen that coming
happen before I always appreciate you
all right the final candidate let's talk
about bet oh that uh better or Roarke
who lost by two point six percentage
points to Ted Cruz something like four
million fifty thousand votes highest
vote total of any Democrat in Texas
statewide and as long as we can remember
highest percentage of as long as we can
remember organize the state help win
some House races for us lifted a lot of
boats it's helping a Fletcher Colin
Allred fantastic candidates both of them
certainly lifted by better or more
eleven seats in the Texas House
elevenses in the Texas House in the
judiciary they want some seats as well
Gina Ortiz Jones came like a couple
hundred votes from beating will heard
and and he inspired you know just a
whole bunch of people not just in Texas
but all over the country to get involved
in politics and that organization isn't
going anywhere that's still gonna be
there and that's that's really important
unless it moves to Iowa Barrow Rourke
ran the best race he could have possibly
run I mean short of winning better he
ran a hell of a good race he inspired
millions of people he exceeded all
turnout expectations and I say that not
because I give a about moral
victories I don't I want wins and losses
just like everybody else does but there
was this sneering conventional
wisdom coming out of Washington embodied
in a politico story called did Beto blow
it that was released two days before the
election day that seemed to suggest that
because Beto didn't have a pollster
because he didn't poll test his position
on the NFL kneeling question in all this
like nonsense
that he was somehow a bad candidate that
what we needed to do was tack to the
center like Phil Bredesen well Phil
Bredesen got his ass handed to him and
better O'Rourke kept it real tight in a
very very red state so I want to see
more better O'Rourke like candidates
they're who they don't have to be like
super liberal that's not what I'm saying
I want you to say what you think and
mean it and not worry about the politics
of these your statements in advance
better that's what we want better
o'rourke and in Texas came closer than
Claire McCaskill Joe Donnelly Heidi
Heitkamp
Phil Bredesen Richard Richard Cordray
and so did Stacey Abrams and so did
Andrew Gilliam just just so everyone
knows and look at the the bed o the bed
Oh mockery comes from the most obvious
 suspects which are the most
cynical reporters in DC who think they
 know everything and don't and
establishment Republicans who are
jealous that we have inspiring
candidates in our party and they do not
which is what they used to do to Barack
Obama we heard all the same stuff about
Brock Obama no so no way it's right from
the same cynical DC reporters and the
same establishment Republicans and the
reason they mock it is because they
don't want us to have those kids because
they are afraid that they will win
that's why they mock it the like it is I
think it's we had last night in a lot of
ways went the expected route right you
know we we thought maybe there's a
chance we could win these Senate races
we thought maybe Stacy Evers has a
chance maybe she still does we thought
maybe Beto has a chance we were more
hopeful about Gilliam but we won the
house which was what our focus was which
we what we believe was the most
important thing
I believed going into election night
that Andrew Gilliam better work Stacey
Abrams that they represented the future
of the Democratic Party and that is true
win or lose yeah I we have plenty of
time to talk about 2020 in the coming
weeks and months but I will say you
watch better O'Rourke speech last night
you worked watch Stacey Abrams you watch
Andrew Gilliam and you see that the
movement they've inspired the people
they've inspired and then you tell me
that that's not what we need in 2020
here's the deal it does I hope all three
of them run for president Tony joy all
right I really do if they don't other
2020 candidates look at them that is the
bar and you have to meet that bar we are
not accepting anything less we are not
we want inspiring candidates like that
who can both excite the base and reach
out to non voters and build a movement
and get
people excited about politics again and
if you cannot get on that level on
better works level or Stacey Abrams / or
Andrew gillum's level you have to think
twice about running for president you
have to think hard about your campaign
that was that's what I'll say about that
I would add a couple points on this one
is that there was a lot of criticism
from the cynical reporters saying why
did you nominate these these liberals
these dyed-in-the-wool progressives in
these conservative states those liberals
did better than all of the Sentra's
vanilla candidates we have run in those
states in recent years and they did
better with independents they were able
to have the magic formula of exciting
the better one independence 52-47 in
Texas one them and if just to make it
better for president point which that
doing that well with independence in
Texas if you were to motley if you were
to model that performance so he would
win 350 electoral votes if we do that
across the country he won he won
independence by 3
he won 7 percent of Republicans and
there were 23% in Texas were new voters
and he won them by you know 30 points or
something like that and that's how you
get to within two and a half points of
Ted Cruz in Texas but the way the
Washington media judges it is you what
you do is you live up the ass of Ted
Cruz's main consultant for a month and
then you write a piece it's I mean it is
just a warning to everyone like you're
gonna we're gonna see more of this as we
get closer to 2020 there's gonna be all
this pundit Rhee it's all they all base
it on ideology all they can think about
is someone centrist or someone left
someone two in the middle or two and
it's all garbage like look for the
candidate who you you're in your gut
tells you will inspire a movement of
Americans from all walks of life to get
out there work their asses off and go to
the polls look for that candidate I'd
also say too that one thing that better
Gilliam and Stacey Abrams have in common
is their they are inspire inspirational
they are hopeful they are they are
positive sounding yet their agenda is
something that speaks to that kind of
working-class roots at the Democratic
Party and the the values of independent
voters who have maybe gone to Bernie in
the past who are the kind of people that
are coming out in red states to vote for
Medicaid
expansion to vote for whole campaign was
about Medicaid expansion she had to put
it everywhere she went so there is there
is this interplay between the the
quality of the candidates and the
authenticity they bring to the table and
their ability to relate to a broad
ideological spectrum of voters and their
willingness to advocate for simple
working-class politics everyone looked
at gillum's campaign so he took on race
really well he handled it really well
but gillum's message every single day
was about the economy Beddoes message
every single day was about the economy
these people had a populist economic
message and a broad political appeal
that was inspiring to people on from all
walks of life that is the key all right
now to bring us back down to earth let's
talk about Donald Trump's press
conference today which was followed by
Donald Trump firing Jeff Sessions first
of all let's talk about the press
conference was he a little more unhinged
than usual he seemed a little sadder
than usual
I thought he would pretend to be a
little more upbeat than he was came out
really sad and really honestly he only
got excited when when a bunch of
reporters kind of got in his face and
then he came out you get all fired up he
took energy from them he got excited he
got his groove back because CNN pissed
him off so maybe he does that make Jimmy
shot a diggs he Brandt he decided to
dance on the graves of Republicans who
had lost and who didn't show sufficient
fealty to him including Niall of
congresswoman out of Utah whose race
hasn't been called yet so crazy yeah he
sounded like a mob boss up there he was
he started listing off Republican
candidates and said didn't want to give
me the embrace yeah forget about me
didn't want to embrace I mean you didn't
come you didn't come to me it was look
the the way the press reacted to it not
in the room that coverage of it also
sort of bespeaks their yearning for the
normalcy of politics that left us two
years ago where in the press conference
Trump did he like just kind of threw out
there like of course I'd work with the
Democrats on things and I called Nancy
Pelosi last night but that came three
it's after he said that if they subpoena
me I'm going to SiC the Senate to
investigate them in vindictive which on
snow and the New York Times News Alert
was Trump pledges to work with Democrats
it was also a reminder of how many baked
in lies they just accept like he's still
saying two years later that he is under
audit that his taxes were being audited
and thus he can't release them one how
long the audits take to you're the
president's aides could you not expedite
them three of course you can release
them it's a lie but we they accept this
no one pushes back on the substance or
ask for any commitment or anything else
they still two years in they have not
figured out how to deal with him and I
realize it is a very difficult task I
don't know that I would be the question
where the tax returns explode somehow
both sides where they they're like
baited into making this whole thing
about a fight with Donald Trump
reporters versus Donald Trump and that
becomes a headline which is what he
wants and yet when he like lies and does
his Caravan and they all just sort
of play it well it's a hard thing right
it's a little bit like you're pulling
into a parking spot and Donald Trump
comes in and swings in and stops you
from getting to the parking spot and
it's your parking spot and then
he gets out of the car and so you're in
my spot get the out of my
parking spot I was here first and you
have a choice right you can either rise
to his level to fight back or give in in
some way and there's no good option
there's no good option because because
you know no he drags you down to his
level and it's happened to politicians
it's happened to the press it's one of
the great challenges to shopping at
Wegmans shopping at the press
conferences he's asked his jeff Sessions
job safe he says I don't want to answer
that right now maybe in a little bit as
soon as the press conference ends this
is where the laughter stops because we
get a news alert that he has asked Jeff
Sessions to resign Matthew Whitaker who
was Jeff Sessions chief of staff now
becomes the acting Attorney General this
also means that rod Rosenstein is no law
in charge of the Russia investigation
the only reason he was is because
sessions recused himself now that
sessions is gone Whittaker can take over
what who is Matthew Whitaker and and
what does this mean for the Russian
investigation who wants it it's the end
of the Russia investigation as we know
it Matthew Whitaker is or was a US
attorney in Iowa he's a Republican
political operative he was a CNN
commentator who wrote an op-ed basically
giving Trump a playbook to end the
Russia investigation before he became
that Jeff session chief of staff the New
York Times had an article a few months
ago which we should have seen this
coming about how Trump loved Whitaker
and Whitaker had been hanging out in the
Oval Office for months and we worked in
the White House it is very very strange
for the presidency it's moody meeting
with the chief of staff of any cabinet
secretary let alone the Department of
Justice in which you were supposed to
have a hands-off relationship but so the
fix is in here and what this means yeah
to say the least yeah what this means is
that Bob Muller needs Donald Trump's
chosen political hacks permission to
file an indictment of Donald Trump jr.
he needs to release his report to
subpoena Roger stone any move that he
has to make he has to ask that Trump's
hand-picked successor to sessions and
that's the only thing that the rule of
law this country has going for it right
now if the Democrats left the house and
so Adam Schiff can reopen the Russia
investigation you can use the subpoena
power he has to track down to continue
this going if the Russia investigation
as we know it and today well you can
also add the the house house having that
the subpoena power also gives them the
ability to subpoena anyone involved in
the quashing of the investigations you
can also it creates a little bit of a
higher threshold for them to act because
they know that anything they do will
eventually end up in front of a Senate
committee and probably a public set of
committee the other thing we don't know
is we don't know what Robert Muller did
or didn't do to protect himself in his
investigation from this eventualities
just we don't know what's already we
don't we don't know we just
we know so little and we've been months
and months behind Muller for basically
the entire time he's been special
counsel so there is a little bit of Hope
in that but we just were in the dark and
that's it I'm good I was gonna say if
Robert mother has a draft of his report
sitting in a desk drawer somewhere I
believe that Adam Schiff can subpoena
that now the Trump Justice Department
can refuse to comply with that subpoena
and then that would go to a court the
court with Brett Kavanaugh exacting his
partisan revenge on which he promised to
do in front of the entire country does
hearing so you everyone who says
Democrats overplayed their hands because
that's the guy that's gonna be on the
Supreme Court judge here's what we need
to do everyone that gave to the Peter
struck GoFundMe we set up a new GoFundMe
I'm gonna get Bob Muller a photocopier
and he's gonna get going and print these
 things and distribute them all
over town there's also one other there's
one other defense which is people inside
the Justice Department and their friend
Matt Miller was saying there's people
with integrity inside the Justice
Department being willing to either leak
or resign tell their story so you know
this is a very very bad this is a
pictorial moment its precarious moment I
think no one knows how it will turn out
but we would it would be a devastating
moment had you all not worked so hard to
take the house back last night yes now
we have the house which is the which is
a level of power that we did not have a
couple days ago yeah it is a hell of a
lot easier to shut down the Russian
investigation at Department of Justice
if they don't have to worry about Devin
unis we're headed into some interesting
times people all right
well anything else anyone got any
closing thoughts on the election we
should say thank you yeah yeah I wanna
say thank you to to all of you who have
listened and decided to go out and knock
on doors and volunteered and donate it
to candidates and run yourselves I know
there's a lot of candidates you know
listening to for state legislators and
other places we're just so proud of
everyone and and it's it the best part
of our days is when you guys you know
have tweeted pictures at us that you're
you know knocking on doors and that's
great yeah also just a quick thank you
to our team here I don't want to start I
don't wanna start naming names cuz you
never leave somebody out but crooked
media is about 25 people and they people
on our team built the votes save America
website that serviced like half a
million people used it to find a sample
ballot 200,000 people pledged to to vote
on the site
I think 20,000 volunteer shifts were
signed up throughout the site so like
very small handful of people were
working their asses off like camp
presidential campaign hours because we
thought they thought that it was good
for democracy and it'd be useful for you
guys so thank you to our team and thank
you to you all for using it and getting
out there Tommy would regularly yell at
our staff say Tonya home Anya Shaniqua
EJ go home that you know we we focused
on the races in California because we're
out here and one thing we woke up to
this morning was people like Katie hill
ahead by a tiny bit people like Carly
rue de ed by a tiny bit a couple other
races up Mike Levin ahead by a little
bit other races really really close we
have a chance of eating out everybody
who sort of whoo-hoo-hoo got involved
here in California and got involved in
the crooked eight you can really be
proud that you helped win some races
because without that energy I think it's
pretty clear that we would not have won
those races Lucy Macbeth is sitting
there and had to just a couple hundred
votes ahead of Karen handle a couple
thousand votes Tony Evers as governor
Wisconsin by you know these were we had
we want so many races by the slimmest of
margins
yeah and in those races you all made the
difference and now you know we wake up
and we had some good wins and we had
some tough losses and the fight
continues yeah say we everyone out there
who ran who canvassed who made phone
calls who gave five and ten dollars
where they could save democracy like
there's not done yet but this we didn't
get through those call yeah Tuesday like
we have more work to do in 2020 to take
the weekend off we got to go back and we
got a win more Senate seats win more
governorships and take the White House
back but
all of that everything that we care
about would be at risk had we not taken
the house back last night and just this
has been a really hard two years and you
know I say that a lot but I I think in
all the frenetic coverage and all the
angst and all the news and the endless
Trump and the endless
disappointments you can lose sight of
the fact that all of that noise beneath
it is just a real sense of fear and a
sense that we didn't know our country
that we couldn't that we weren't that
we'd lost our ability to have a say in
our democracy and I'm just so proud that
we were part of taking that back I'm
proud of everybody that participated
just because we woke up today with a win
and it's good to know what it feels like
to win and I know we needed it and we
got it and that's really exciting all
right well well uh we'll talk to you
next week go everyone take the weekend
off and then and then Monday 2020 and
fighting baby do they see a bruise run
off hopefully hopefully hopefully all
right we'll talk to you later bye
everyone bye
you
