on the pod today senator sherrod Brown
of Ohio senator welcome back to the pod
good to be back enjoy particularly being
with you live in Cleveland that day oh
that was a fun show right so thank you
that was a very popular show you should
know I I don't I'm sure it was you but
I'm sure it was also Connie to people
were big fans so I want to start with
with GM Ohio is obviously gonna be
directly affected by the recent decision
by General Motors to shut down plants
and lay off thousands of workers you've
pointed out that the GOP Trump tax plan
gives companies like GM tax incentives
to do exactly what they're doing you
said this before the tax plan passed
what did you and Donald Trump talk about
when you got on the phone with him last
week about this I first of all he it was
a bit of an interesting conversation he
first of all didn't really understand
his own tax bill because I said to him
we need your help in General Motors this
is potentially 20,000 jobs in a
community of mo'ne valleys about 500,000
people so this is just devastating it's
beyond devastating people use that word
it's worse than that in this community
that's just recovering and coming back
from a couple of decades of real
hardship and so the president I said if
I said we need your help on our cars and
American jobs American cars Act the bill
does something simple it takes away the
tax break that the Trump tax law gave
these companies if you shut down
production in Cleveland and move to
Mexico you get if you go on your taxes
you get a 50% off coupon and he said
well how'd that happen I said well mr.
president was in your tax bill and he
didn't seem aware of that Oh
which was pretty amazing but I said we
take that money and we put it to ins to
give incentives to American car buyers
to buy cars made in the United States by
American workers and that's a hundred
different models so people have plenty
of choice but why should we give tax
breaks to move jobs overseas instead of
encouraging people to buy products made
in this country and give people that
opportunity yeah I mean it certainly
seems like you know better tax
incentives will help keep jobs and
states like Ohio but knowing that
you know labor will always be cheaper in
other countries knowing that automation
is making more jobs obsolete what is in
your view the long term solution here to
you know keeping jobs in Ohio keeping
the man.you American manufacturing
strong thank you for asking that first
of all this is this is a president who
has the history of saying the right
thing to working people and then selling
them out to corporate interests we know
that we know the White House looks like
a retreat for Wall Street executives but
heroics illustrated with a short story
after NAFTA pass I I flew to South South
Texas and rented a car and went across
the border and I went to an auto plan an
American auto plan in Mexico and it
looked just like a u.s. plant in
Cleveland or an or in Toledo and it had
new equipment clean floors high-tech
everything you'd expect only more modern
and newer than some of the plants in
Ohio that are older and there was one
difference between the American auto
plan the Mexican auto plan in that
difference was there was no parking lot
at the Mexican auto plant because the
workers can't afford to buy the cars
they make and that that fundamentally is
is the distilling down and looking at
trade policy you want if you want to
have a trade policy where workers in
developing countries and countries that
are that are a little poorer than we are
that workers make good enough wages that
they bring their standard of living up
and then they can buy American products
so if that were the case if we had the
kind of labor standards and after 2.0
that that Trump's negotiating it hasn't
done nearly gone nearly far enough yet
if labor standards are higher and wages
go up and they can begin to make
middle-class wages middle-class in their
countries they'll begin to buy American
products and then trade works then it
becomes trade like we have in this
country between in among different
states and that that's where you want to
end up and that's that's where we've
fallen short on this trade policy
senator in the discussions around
replacing NAFTA are there particular
things that you were looking for that
might be able to get your support for
such an agreement yeah I had a meeting
today with Senator Schumer and Senator
Wyden Wyden is the senior Democrat of
the Finance Committee's you know Dan and
in this we have talked about we talked
about
how we need to upgrade this NAFTA 2.0
the president of course is declared
victory saying this is a good agreement
this won't stop jobs from moving
offshore this will not do anything to
raise wages in Mexico anything and so we
need first of all we need not just
strong labor standards there's some good
language in this bill but there's we
need strong enforceable labor standards
so income when products are sent to the
united with our made in mexico and
they're made with child labor they're
made with among workers that are making
below the minimum wage they have to
certify at the border that this these
these products were made by by under
conditions that are that are that we
support under the values we have about
about rewarding the dignity of work so
we was as we reward that any work in
this country we should be rewarding the
dignity of work in our in recognizing it
in our trade policy and we're we're
surely not doing that so when when
mexican workers are paid too little
american workers can't compete i mean we
we can compete with lower wages in
mexico we can compete with even weaker
environmental laws although we try to
raise them but we can't compete when
when they're not even close i mean i our
workers are very productive
we know workers in mexico will be paid
less but they shouldn't be paid
one-fifth of one-tenth what they're
making the united states then then we
just simply can't when you look on top
of that they give a tax break that whole
idea of in the president's tax law new
tax law that if you move to mexico you
get 50% off on your taxes what kind of
stupid policy is that senator some of
the house democrats the progressive
house democrats especially some of the
ones who just got elected are supporting
a green new deal some of the versions of
a green new deal and there's different
versions out there have a green job
guarantee what do you think about the
green new deal what do you think about a
job guarantee is one way to sort of
guarantee employment about that i don't
i don't know details yet but i i i think
i guess i look at it this way i have
heard for years corporate interests in
this country and right-wingers try to
play off corporations against the
environment we
to raise if you raise fuel standards on
so cars get better mileage you're
putting Auto Workers out of business if
you if you regulate the emissions coming
out of a steel mill out of there or the
stuff they dump in the water the stuff
they put into the air if you try to deal
with that environment and the right
environmental way it'll put steel
workers out of business I've never
bought that you play off workers against
the environment because what I've seen
is good environmental policy means more
good jobs and the jobs maybe
manufacturing they may be distribution
they may be a whole host of hohohoh a
bunch of different kinds of jobs and I
for instance both Toledo Ohio has is
number one or two or three depending how
measure it and in solar energy jobs I
mean people don't know that around the
country but we've we've really we've
done some things that that's happened in
Toledo we know that cleaning up the
Great Lakes our greatest natural
resource in our country next to the
people in this country cleaning up the
Great Lakes is in embargo is obviously
very important for the environment but
it's also very important for economic
development and jobs and and we passed
were in the verge of passing a farm bill
that's gonna mean a cleaner lake area
it's gonna mean better water water
quality it's gonna mean fewer algae
blooms it's gonna mean more good
agriculture jobs because we're doing or
being the stewards of the land that we
ought to be senator a lot of those
progressives who are pushing in green
New Deal and progresses around the
country are very concerned about Senator
Manchin becoming the ranking member on
the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee and I was curious if you had
it up in including you know governor jay
Inslee of Washington actually called on
Democrats to oppose that appointment you
have an opinion on that short on that
appointment yeah III don't have an
opinion on they the pointment per se but
I talked to Senator Schumer about all
this and talked to some others and we
this this caucus has a full commitment
to good environmental policy we will we
will not compromise on the environment
we know that that we know a good
environmental policy as I was saying
earlier is also a good jobs policy and
that's gonna continue to be our focus
that we that we stand strong in the
environment it means opposing a lot of
the stuff Trump's doing it
means supporting what President Obama
did on clean air that goes back even
before President Obama he updated it and
renewed it but it mean it means no real
compromise on safe drinking water and
clean air and I mean I come from a state
that that where people have consoled me
you know you can't really be a
progressive you can't you can't get a
good rating from the League of
Conservation Voters you've got to
compromise in the environment I never
have because I know that good
environmental policies good economic
policy and I want my kids to breathe
clean air and drink clean water and I
don't think there's a the Democrats are
as we stuck together in the tax bill and
stuck together in the Affordable Care
Act we'll stick together in
environmental policy senator you just
comfortably won reelection by about
seven points in a state the Trump won by
about eight points not only did you
outperform Hillary Clinton by a
double-digit margin you also
outperformed the 2018 gubernatorial
candidate Richard Cordray who lost his
race for governor by four points how do
you account for that what was different
about your candidacy in your campaign
it's about start with this if you love
your when you love your country you
fight for the people who make it work
and and that's that really is all
workers whether you punch a clock or
swipe a badge whether you work on salary
or whether you're working for tips or
whether you're your home raising kids or
taking care of an aging parent and I
think that when you start with the
dignity of work when you everything
flows from that good health care policy
good retirement policy better wages so
you can have a decent kind of standard
of living and I think that we often
forget in Washington and politicians in
Washington forget about honoring and
respecting the dignity of work and I I
kind of all of my all of my career comes
out of that and all of my campaign
messaging it comes out of that and I
think that when you talk about dignity
work it's not just it's not just a steel
worker in Ohio it's also physical
therapists and in Berkeley it's also I
you know an IT worker and Tampa it's
also a a realtor somebody selling real
estate and suburban Boston I mean it's
people because we've seen we've seen
corporate profits go up we've seen
executive compensation explode we seen
workers are more productive and working
harder yet their wages are flat and
people don't feel like you know when you
work hard you should be able to have you
play by the rules you ought to be able
to have a decent standard of living and
I I think that that my career devoted to
that in my campaign about that really
accounts for the fact that we probably
got 15% maybe 20% I haven't quite been
able to figure out of the Trump boat
people that voted for Trump voted for me
because I know they know I had their
backs they know I'm on their side on
these issues so you have said that
you're thinking about running for
president in the past I know you've been
less enthusiastic about this idea what
what changed your mind and what factors
will you and Connie and your family be
talking about over the holidays when you
think about making this decision um it's
a hard call thank you for that question
I I you know a lot of my colleagues have
planned to run for president for a long
long time and I I've you know we
obviously everybody talks about any
senator running for president but I um
since the election mean after election
night Connie and I started hearing from
we were pretty overwhelmed by the number
of people kind of across the country and
activists and people that were party
leaders and people that have been
energised to wake up and fight back
against Trump and people have they liked
my message they've liked the career of
fighting for workers I think dignity of
work works not just through the
industrial Midwest which where we need
to win the Heartland Michigan Ohio
Pennsylvania Wisconsin but it appeals to
I said it appeals to somebody working in
a diner in Baltimore or somebody I'm
working construction in Seattle so I how
you make the decision that's just a
question of thinking about it and
talking to family and but I I mean my I
got a call from somebody you guys both
know who was very involved with
President Obama and he he he said to me
said are you thinking of this because
you would you be thinking of this if
Trump weren't president and the answer
is I don't know I mean I I just think
it's so important we nominate the person
that can beat Donald Trump and not just
with a message that wins in the
heartland but a message that wins
everywhere and if I if I run or if I
don't run I want this message
of the dignity of work to be part of the
narrative for every Democratic candidate
because I think it's the way to appeal
to the whole country
senator when you were on with Jake
Tapper recently he asked you if you were
the best person to take if you believed
you were the best person to take on
Trump and you very transparently and
honestly said you didn't know do you
need to come to the conclusion that you
are the best person before you make that
decision or is that something you would
get in the race and then let the voters
figure that out well I guess you second
part of your question is sort of self
Evan if you get in the race you let the
voters figure it out but you try to help
them come to the right conclusion um I
don't know I mean I think that that I
get in this race if one if it works for
my family and that's that's a pretty
scary thought and a difficult a
difficult just a difficult bar to get
over for all of us and how we work this
out and Connie has been very much a part
of this decision that will be and will
be our four children their spouses our
grandkids most of whom don't really know
what any of this means because they're
they're five and under but I I think the
most important thing is that I really
want to that I really want this job I
know that I think president Trump should
be replaced I start with that I want to
be convinced that I will be the best
candidate and this for this and then
it's my job if I'm a candidate to go out
and convince others that but in a
minimum I've as I've said not realized
this I want this narrative of the
dignity of work to be the narrative for
all any of us everybody does things her
own way or his own way but I think
that's really important that that our
narrative be about respecting work
because that message just works
everywhere it's got to be an authentic
message you've got to live it you got to
understand you got to believe in
organized labor you got to believe in in
workers having to say whether they're in
a union or not um you've got to believe
about that this drives the economy and
you'll never hear me talk white workers
or brown workers or black workers you'll
hear me talk about workers and that that
that definition is pretty expansive
about people who have been left behind
far too many cases because the system is
too often rigged against them
well senator thank you so much for
joining us good luck making your
decision and you know if you have any
announcements to make feel free to come
back all right well thanks Dan thanks
John take care bye-bye
thank you
