welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod you'll hear from congressman
Adam Schiff the incoming chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee and the
latest target of Donald Trump's ire will
be not actually by the time you hear
this yeah give me three back we're also
going to talk about the latest midterm
results because 2018 is the election
that never ends and we're going to talk
about the race for Speaker of the House
first love or leave it that still
happening lover leave it is on a
much-needed break we will be back after
Thanksgiving for a run of shows in
December but there's a great episode up
right now that you can download ever
ever green in our hearts
well okay tell me what about the world
is out there the world does last week
the world owes were treated to a tour of
the world's news with Ben Rhodes and
then we dug deep with an expert from
CSIS of North Korea's nuclear weapons
program and how they're cheating on the
non agreement we made with President
Trump and then this week gonna talk to
someone who monitors right-wing
extremists for a living which sounds
like a very hard dark job and I'm
excited to learn about oh that'll be an
excellent ethical and also for
Thanksgiving dan and I are going to
answer all of your questions or some of
your questions this afternoon and then
that episode will be up on Thursday okay
let's get to the News News and the
nearly two weeks since the election
Democrats have now officially gained 37
seats on the house were likely to pick
up a 38 when all's said and done that's
the best Democratic midterm performance
since the early 70s we've also won the
popular vote by 7 point 7 percent and
Counting it could hit 9 percent by the
time California's done counting that
would be the largest midterm margin by
either party in over 40 years one
particularly fun thing for us
Californians Democrats have now won 6 of
the 7 Republican held House districts in
this state that voted for Hillary
Clinton in 2016 also known as the
crooked 7 the original crooked 7 Orange
County is now completely blue for the
first time since the 1930s how about
that guys and how did Democrats get it
done John thanks to Julia for what I'm
about to say mm-hmm
what do you call a crazy dance party
when they serve craft beer
instead of club drugs they call it a
brew rave John Thank You Julia uh Julia
thank you for that always appreciate it
uh I think a few things are important
about the The Crooked seven one
we had great candidates right who were
well matched to the district Katey
Porter compelling story fought the big
banks Katie Hill was well matched hardly
ruda I also think of you at early
investment and that is a credit to the
listeners of this show who were given
money to the crooked seven before any of
them won their primaries its credit the
new groups like swing left credits the
d-triple-c and invisible yeah
indivisible who like made this a
priority early identified an opportunity
and then went after it and then you know
I mean you also have to talk about like
there was changing demographics in the
state and in these districts that I
think helped us have a better chance of
winning this time around I also think it
doesn't help any of these candidates
that Kevin McCarthy pushed some of them
off a cliff by making them vote against
Obamacare all of them in President Trump
right in President Trump jammed through
this tax bill that hurt people in
California so as we can make a tax
argument against a bunch of Republicans
which was a new feeling yeah every
second it's I was surprised by that that
every single one voted against ACA
repealed is there about twenty
Republicans in the House who didn't and
these people had to know they were in
danger but Kevin McCarthy the the new
Minority Leader just pushed them all off
the cliff I think you're right the
demographics have really changed in a
lot of these counties but the other
thing that's important one of the
reasons that that we won these are a
bunch of Republicans came out and voted
for Democrats yeah and we knew this
Tommy we were in Harley Rudess district
that last Sunday that was a an
especially Republican district day in a
row Barker's district and when they had
us knocking out a bunch of doors they
said you know as they told the
volunteers to go out and knock they're
like look you're all gonna have lists
with a bunch of Republicans don't be
scared about that that's for a reason so
it's for a reason and a lot of them are
gonna want to vote for Harley ruda which
by the way they were only able to do
expand the world of their their fill
program because so many people were
volunteering amazing yeah we some
districts I think there were more
volunteers than residents in the
disruption which
I think you were Katie Hills District it
was uh there were like thousands of
people in lie a lot of people
chock-a-block with volunteers a lot of
you over the first time which was great
but a lot of friends of the pottery
showed up yeah but so the demographics
changed we have a lot more Democratic
voters in these but look and most of
these and a lot of these counties
Republicans have a registration edge
they there's more registered Republicans
than Democrats and the Republicans
didn't stay home they came out to vote
but they voted for Democrats and you
know that's something to keep in mind
that we were able to persuade a lot of
people which is important and before we
move on there's also an outside shot the
Democrats may sweep all of the crooked
seven races in the California 21st
Democrat TJ Cox is only two thousand
ballots behind Republican representative
David Bella Deo and even though most
networks called the race pretty much all
of them called the race a lot of the
forecasters like 537 Dave Wasserman
those folks are now moving the race back
to toss-up there were about thirty
thousand ballots left with the next
update expected on Wednesday
amazing can we close it's gonna be very
very close it's certainly gonna be
closer than almost any of the polling
that one was written off early they
thought that you know valide Oh had a
huge lead in all the polls and and there
was no shot there so yeah very very it's
interesting about the tax cuts too
because obviously they didn't campaign
on the tax cuts as much as they claimed
they did and certainly if they had one
more of these seats they would have been
saying they want on the tax cut message
but it was a bad message everywhere they
tried it is especially bad in states
high tax states like California New York
Connecticut elsewhere because this the
tax clot was written to punish
California yeah it was written to punish
high tax states it was a a reward for
states that obey their conservative
ideology so it's not surprising that
Republicans were not on board all right
let's talk about the other high profile
races that have now been called after
coming close enough to demand a machine
recount Andrew Gilliam only picked up
one vote and on Saturday he conceded to
run to Santos Florida Democratic Senator
Bill Nelson conceded his incredibly
tight Senate race to outgoing Republican
Governor Rick Scott on Sunday after the
manual recount shrunk Scott's lead from
12,000 votes to about 10,000 votes not
enough to give him the win and then
Stacey Abrams who stood to become the
nation's first black woman governor
acknowledged on Friday that her opponent
Brian Kemp would be quote certified as
the victor ending her search to find
enough votes to reduce Kemp's lead and
force
run off she did say her speech was not a
concession that quote democracy failed
Georgia and in an interview on Sunday
with Jake Tapper she refused to say that
Kemp was quote the legitimate
governor-elect only the legal
governor-elect and she told CNN that the
law as it stands says that he received
an adequate number of votes to become
the governor of Georgia but we know
sometimes the law does not do what it
should and something being legal doesn't
make it right what did you guys think of
Stacey Abrams non concession speech I
think governor Stacy Adams did a great
job you know we talked about this in the
run-up to the election and we were
saying that if this election is closed
and Brian camp eeks it out with the help
of votes oppression and these sort of
illegitimate tactics it's gonna be a
real test for Democrats in the media and
one of the things that we disagreed with
a little bit at the time was my view was
that no one in politics is good at
talking about these kinds of situations
you pointed out that the media is often
the biggest practitioner of once the
election is over pretend all the
legitimacy is pretend all the problems
and they never happen for the sake of
decorum and moving forward but that even
Democrats at time have acceded to that
kind of politics and what was
fascinating is this was an example and
and one of things I said I have no idea
what it sounds like when a Democrat
doesn't play by that game but this is
what it sounds like it was fascinating
because it was something different it
was refusing to simply pretend all the
things we said before the election
weren't true just because it would it be
easier and smoother to just move forward
tell me what you think yeah winning
doesn't make you right you know I mean I
and then that's one of the great
frustrations in politics like I think
sometimes people act like the fact that
President Trump was accused a sexual
assault by dozens of women is wiped away
by winning an election it is not we will
never forget and I think that's what was
so great about Stacey Abrams speech it
was tough and it was honest and she was
blunt about how angry she was and how
she felt cheated and robbed in this
process and there was not some false
call for unity but instead she talked
about the unfairness of the way Brian
Kemp ran these elections and pledged to
seek legal recourse and and talked about
how she was going to build an
organization to fix it in the future I
mean I think like it was one of the most
it was a remarkable speech yeah she's a
great speaker
speak all the time Williams she's so
smart and so deliberate with her words
and she was the same way with Jake like
she knows what she thinks and she's not
gonna let you corner her into saying
something she doesn't believe um you
know rich Lowry if the National Review
said it showed a lack of grace because
she wouldn't concede Jake asked her you
know are you worried that you're
undermining faith in democracy
Jake Tapper this is Jake Tapper yeah by
going this route I will say I believe
that her speech and the words that she
chose very carefully were very different
from what Donald Trump has done what
Marco Rubio has done what Rick Scott has
done I mean she first of all she also
said in that speech I will pray for the
success of Brian Kemp that he will
indeed be a leader for all Georgians she
said as the law stands of course he is
the legal governor of Georgia at that
but what she wanted to do in that speech
is rightly call attention to the fact
that a million citizens in that state in
the state of Georgia were purged from
the rolls tens of thousands of others
had their votes you know not counted
because of some ridiculous signature
program yeah that was you know judged by
random poll workers right like there's
all kinds of in Tibet a federal judge
found was lacking sorry yeah I mean
Brian camp is the legitimate winner of
an illegitimate process yep and it's a
hard thing to talk about because it
would be in some sense more graceful to
just accept it and move on and you know
the intellectuals and bonis that follow
behind Trump and clean up the kind of
things that he say well they'll say well
you know you all praised martha mcsalley
when she conceded and yet now you're
praising stacey abrams for refusing to
do the same thing that mama that
mcsalley did it's it's a trick of course
because the act of saying an election
result is in some way tainted does not
undermine democracy it's only something
that undermines democracy when the
allegation isn't true actually set
pretending the problem doesn't exist for
the sake of unity or color or or decorum
undermines democracy because you reward
the abuses that led to it so all this
effort to say there's an equivalence
between jonald Trump saying there were
three million fakes votes and questions
about votes oppression Russian
interference and propaganda and stacey
abrams pointing out legitimate
differences is as always an effort to
say see
you're just as bad as we are you're just
as bad as we are yes
I mean her comments were careful
documented specific backed up by
multiple judges rulings and critically
the man she ran against oversaw the
election and you don't we know that
Georgia had 214 polling places closed
down since 2012 Georgia had the second
longest voting wait times of any state
in 2016 and it got worse than 2018 so he
either sucks at his job or he did this
deliberately deliberately in
neighborhoods that leaned Democratic to
help himself win an election I believe
strongly that there's a lot of evidence
that it was the latter including his
effort to purge many many many
african-american voters from the rolls
yes and I will also say that she chose
her words so carefully and she also made
sure that her argument about this wasn't
entirely partisan she said in her
stretch earlier this year in the
Republican State Legislative primary of
Dan Gassaway under the direction of
Secretary of State counties issued
flawed ballots and not for the first
time and not just there but in that
instance the mistakes clearly altered
the outcome representative Gassaway a
Republican in a heavily Republican
district had to go to court to force a
fair fight and he won in court so she's
trying to lay out her case that this
incompetent buffoon Brian Kemp has
systematically tried to you know
disenfranchise people and didn't give
them right to vote and she's what she's
trying to do is defend the right to vote
which is sacrosanct in this country is a
constitutional right and she's right
well draw attention to that it should be
a constitutional yeah no but is
currently enshrined in the Constitution
just not really being followed uh you
know the the the rich Lowry argument
against AC Abrams this is how he sort of
this is I think the summation of his
point every indication is that Stacey
Abrams lost fair and square in an
election where everybody knew the rules
beforehand and they weren't unreasonable
that's the trick right
and they weren't unreasonable we
disagree we believe the rules were
unreasonable we believe that there is
evidence that in a partisan way he said
about making sure that the election was
tilted in his favor and in a close
election that means the result is
tainted it may mean that he won
according to the rules but the rules
aren't right and if she and and she has
an obligation to say that and you may
disagree with this but it is not the
same
praising martha mcsalley and it is not
the same as what Donald Trump did or any
of the insinuations that that's the case
she's not there saying don't recognize
him as governor go protest and she's not
doing any of that you know she was it
was either was showed a lot of grace how
she completed her language so one way we
can fight voter suppression in the
future in Georgia is by helping John
Barrow win his run off for Georgia
Secretary of State on December 4th guys
why is this race so important because he
will oversee the voting process next
time and he will get to decide whether
we're gonna invest in things that make
it easier to vote that give people more
access to voting if we're gonna invest
in more you know polling locations so
you don't have 4.5 hour waiting times or
not and I think most people agree that
stacey abrams probably would have won if
that investment had occurred yeah and
also I mean the races he'll oversee now
the 2020 presidential race in Georgia
which could be much closer than any
presidential race and Georgia has been
ever and or at least in Mott in the
recent decades and also the 2020 Senate
race sonny Perdue sup in Georgia as well
so extremely important if we have John
Barrow in there a Democrat who was
pledging to you know oversee elections
in a nonpartisan fair way unlike Brian
Kemp did when he was running for the
office welcomed Georgia to the special
Hall where we keep our swing states the
attention the visits of TV ads to ads
get it all enjoy enjoy it you will be
taking Missouri's you'll be taking
Missouri's place in that vaunted Hall
but yeah so you know I think Barrow is
probably a little bit behind in that but
you know if he relies on Stacey Abrams
field organization which is probably the
best field organization the state's ever
seen I mean she's really received more
votes than any other presidential
contenders over the last couple years
then you know he could definitely do it
so we want to help John Barrow there's a
second runoff election in Mississippi
this is for the US Senate where Senator
Cindy hyde-smith lead over Democratic
challenger mike espy has narrowed
significantly in recent days trump's
planning to hold two rallies in
mississippi in the days leading up to
the November
27th runoff to shore up support that
should be a good time
yeah the Republican Party's all in the
NRS see the RNC is there and now the
Democratic Party is in as well has been
for a while
Democratic Party you know put a bunch of
money in there as well guys as Mike as
we have a chance here I do not know know
so the results in the first round where
hyde-smith got 41.5% SP got forty point
six but then a really fringe awful
Republican named Chris McDaniel got
sixteen point five percent so the
combined two Republicans got more than
the Democrat SP normally you would look
at a race like this and think oh man
president in the United States going
down to Duke to campaign events for a
Senate seat in Mississippi they must be
in trouble then you have to remember oh
wait our president does nothing between
watch his favorite thing in the world to
do it's but you might as well be golfing
and and you know he doesn't care about
using his time effectively and if the
thing is he goes and then the Republican
wins by eight points he gets to say that
he did it was just blame whoever he
wants the most nurses you can just you
just need the narcissistic answer and
he's gone so according Republicans who
are quoted in background on pieces so we
can't vet this they say that Heights
mislead has gone down in the last few
days in part because of a truly bizarre
comment she made about how if a
supporter of hers invited her to a
public lynching she would sit in the
front row I don't get the joke
I don't get the reference I don't know
why the you would say that in
Mississippi or anywhere else but Wow and
then she made a second quote-unquote
joke where she said quote maybe we want
to make it just a little more difficult
for liberal college students to vote
hahahaha those things combined have you
know and the post a couple other places
have interviewed people you know voters
in Mississippi and they're a few who are
like you know I thought about voting for
her but now I'm not sure you know so
it's clear that the race has narrowed a
little bit that you know the tough part
is this is a state that Trump carried by
18 points in 2016 so just so we all know
what they love what the hill is that
we're climbing but on the on the side
for hope here
african-american voters make up 38% of
the population in Mississippi and
Democratic strategists estimate that SB
only needs about thirty percent of the
white vote to win in that state if
african-american turnout is high and
votes and margins that they have in the
past so
it's definitely possible still it's
definitely possible at Alabama if you
want to help John Barrow in Georgia and
Mike SB in Mississippi you can go to
vote save America comm slash donate page
is still up but save America still here
everyone going and we are sort of
collecting fundraising for the run offs
and races that are still out there in
recounts which now is basically Georgia
Secretary of State and Mike sb so go to
vote save America comm / donate you're
not taking Stacey Abrams lead and I'm
going to be campaigning for her
continuously forever because this
election is not over that that the
upshot yeah should we talk we have 68
tweets like you see a tweet 68 tweets
and then he had the nerve after alleging
that democratic lawyers were running
down to Florida to steal the vote to
talk about his friend Bill Nelson and
how they've never had a better
relationship and they forged it like
you've been accusing his lawyer like
stealing the election dude repeatedly
with no evidence what are you for Marco
Rubio or like Trump 68 tweets he what
about a tail it's like a son he's like a
zombie senator at this point like I like
what are you doing there you don't seem
to want to be there this is the fight
you pick none of the ones that are
important to the state of the country
none of the none of the big issues this
is it this is where Marco Rubio may
exist an unbelievable how do you not
slip through a sewer grate you're so
tiny so we haven't yet had a chance to
talk about the big race for Speaker of
the House current Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi who served as speaker from 2007
to 2011
tough tough race for Speaker Nancy
Pelosi versus mm-hm so she faces a
challenge her leadership changed it
faces a challenge from Democratic
members like Seth Moulton Tim Ryan and a
number of incoming Democratic freshmen
from more moderate and Republican
leaning districts who pledged during
their campaigns not to support Pelosi so
far there is no House member who's
actually declared that he or she would
run against Malusi though Ohio's Marcia
fudge a former chair of the
Congressional Black Caucus says she's
weighing a run just so you all know how
this works to be Speaker you need
first one a majority of House Democrats
who vote in a private conference on
November 27th
by all accounts policies going to win
that vote she has a majority for that in
the conference but then the full house
votes on the floor for speaker on
January 3rd and during that vote Pelosi
can lose no more than about 15
Democratic votes since it's highly
likely that no Republicans will vote for
her so far 16 Democrats have signed a
letter saying they oppose her and about
69 are undecided
nice thank you for I'm hoping you would
do that guys what's the what's the
argument being made by Seth Moulton and
other House Democrats who oppose Pelosi
and is it a good one
I think the argument is sort of
multifaceted I think there's a
generational argument that we just swept
in this new group of young dynamic
diverse interesting lawmakers and that
the leadership as currently constituted
does not reflect that youth in diversity
and excitement I think there's another
argument that Pelosi gets tied to
Democrats and elections and thus hurts
the party and I think the second
argument is not a very effective one
because we just took back the house
overwhelmingly right so that's the other
piece of that is I don't think we should
let a bunch of Republicans determine our
strategy they're going to attack
whomever they decide to attack and they
always will I also think you know we
need strong leadership for the next
couple of years that you can argue that
speaker Pelosi is one of the best
speakers in history I I do understand
the desire for new leadership yeah and I
don't I don't like find it offensive
that people challenge other leaders for
positions in power I PI certainly did 15
years ago when she first became the
Minority Whip I guess at the time so I
you know but I also think like you need
to put someone forward and say X
individual would do the job better than
Nancy Pelosi and I've never heard that
argument made and until you do I think
close to you would be the best speaker
yeah love it what do you think so I do
believe Nancy Pelosi is one of the
greatest speakers in American history
and probably the best Speaker of the
House in half a century if you were a
man she'd be more recognized as such
that said I felt it for the first
I'm actually and I'm a big defender and
believer in Nancy Pelosi but I felt it
for the first time on election night
watching her speak and it was like wait
a second we just ushered in a new
Congress we just ushered in a ton of new
representation a diverse changing
America represented in this new caucus
that that is going to be elected to hold
Trump accountable and our person
standing at the helm is someone that's
been around for a long time and and it
was the first time I actually felt some
sympathy for the argument that says we
need new leadership because we need new
leadership which is I think a lot of
what the criticism amounts to I'm also
sympathetic to the argument that sort of
made it's never made so openly but the
basic idea is and sometimes made only
whatever that she has not allowed for
younger leaders to rise up and to create
a bench and so she's kind of being
rewarded for her failure as a leader
right because there is no obvious
successor to her she gets to be Speaker
in part because she did not create the
conditions for other people to rise up
that said because there is no
alternative right now I am very
interested in the the progressive
members of the caucus pushing her
pushing her on things like pay-as-you-go
and getting those kinds of concessions
I'm interested in progressive leaders
having important roles within the caucus
but right now the fact that she has
agreed to say I will be a transitional
leader does for me everything I need her
to do to assuage my concern about the
fact that there does need to be new
leadership and right now what I want is
for Democrats to come together not in
unity behind Nancy Pelosi but in unity
of purpose in beginning the work of
holding hearings beginning the work of
putting out a legislative agenda and
that doesn't mean just going along with
what Pelosi wants but it does mean
having this fight now getting
concessions from the leadership as it
exists right now and then make a
decision to move forward together unless
somebody steps up which it doesn't seem
like there will be yeah I guess my view
on this is it's fine if you want to
challenge Nancy Pelosi but I don't think
they have made a very good argument I
don't really know what the argument is
like Tommy probably made it better than
they have so far of whether you know
it's a little clumsy it's a little
clumsy some of it is based like I think
if you want to make an argument and you
want to sort of rally people to your
argument has to be based around is there
an issue that
see Pelosi isn't with the party on right
is there something specific that she's
not doing it is like you said love it is
right that she has not allowed for a lot
of the younger members to become heart
leadership again this isn't just a
critique of Nancy Pelosi like Steny
Hoyer number two he's 79 Jim Clyburn
'he's number three he's only they've
been there for a long long time like you
would you'd really like if the number
two number three number four were sort
of part of this new generation of
Democrats that were coming in you know
so it's not just blow see but again all
that said she is undoubting the fact
that she is one of the most effective
speakers we've ever had in the party we
would not have the Affordable Care Act
today if it weren't for Nancy Pelosi I
know she she can whip votes having all
of us having been in the White House and
seen this she can whip votes like no one
else and and not only that on the
Affordable Care Act specifically I think
there's been some people criticizing her
because the Affordable Care Act didn't
go far enough she was part of the
establishment it didn't go further
the House bill went further the House
bill had the public option the House
bill was a more liberal version it was
only in her incredibly sophisticated
dealings with the Senate even after we
lost a seat in the Senate that we
managed to pass the affordable care act
at all she also passed a climate bill
which the Senate never got done the
strongest climate bill the Democrats
have ever passed it's just yes yeah I
mean there is some truth to this idea
that Democrats assigned committee
chairmanships based on longevity which
makes if you're a young dynamic member
like a bet or orc like it makes sitting
around for 30 years until you have real
power not very compelling so if you're
young and ambitious maybe you seek
another path that said I think you could
adjust that I also think it seems likely
that Pelosi would want to use this new
exciting dynamic group of people and put
them forward on issues like for example
in 2006 Harry Reid put out Barack Obama
and made him the key voice on ethics and
lobbying reform they knew brocco bomb I
could get press they knew that you know
Sunday shows would want to book him and
it helped us drive the issue so I think
she will probably do that and on that
note we have to remember that 2018 to
2020 is gonna be much different than
2016 to 2018 and that it's not like
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer will be
the face
and voices of the Democratic Party out
there on every issue because we will
have about 456 people running for
president and the presidential
candidates will be out there and they
will be the ones talking about the
vision for the party and the future and
stuff like that and so you know and
that'll be a whole nother conversation
of like who seems new change progressive
you know among all those candidates but
that's the other thing too that doesn't
bother me as much about like when you
were saying love it on election night
you know that she's giving that speech
and of course like Nancy Pelosi is the
one you turn to one when the Democratic
side that actually won't happen that
often yeah over the next two years we're
and where Pelosi shines is being a
tactician being a strategist figuring
out how to legislate that's what a
Speaker of the House should do and
that's what she does very well yeah you
know I would I do I I totally agree with
the transitional the transitional
Speaker thing and she might be able to
close this whole deal and and and end
this whole fight by just actually saying
all right on this day or at least around
this date I will you know I'll cede my
speakership to someone else I just the
one thing I don't totally get is the
anger at Seth Moulton for you know for
criticizing Pelosi I mean he's I like
Seth Moulton I think he's a good
progressive he was critical of Obama
about Iraq and Isis strategy and I
respect him for speaking out about that
he raised a ton of money to support
veterans running for office you know
like he's been very forward leaning on
this issue but I don't know that we
should question his motives there I like
I think people in politics fight for
power that's what happens all day I I
agree with that I mean I think this is
where it gets to you know but Peters
like my primary him
reporters pundits a lot of people on
Twitter everyone everyone is like let's
get the Democrats and disarray
let's show a party's you like you said
it is fine to challenge someone if you
challenge someone you should probably
have a good strategy and I don't know
yeah but I think everyone has a it's not
I mean
Seth Moulton is the face of it right now
but there's a bunch of Democrats who
were just elected to the house who we
all loved and fought for and worked for
that or I've also said they wouldn't
vote for her because they said in the
campaign right Abigail Spann burger from
Virginia who it's great you know
I don't think that Seth's criticism of
policy on gun control was fair no I
don't think Tim Ryan has been a
particularly effective messenger on this
issue for a while so yeah I mean they if
they want to win they need to do better
but yeah I also a right to try yeah
completely and I will I've done exactly
zero hand-wringing about the fact that
we're having this fight right now this
is when you have it
like Democrats shouldn't be having a
fight right now the election isn't just
is in one year in 360 days it's okay I
guarantee you we're not going to lose a
single vote in November of 2020 because
of the argument we're having right now
and if anything having the argument now
and having the fight now I think is a
very positive thing
the fight is good I just think it's like
when you have the fight and I believe
this for Democrats as we go into 2020
ideally the fights are about issues it's
about changes in leadership and stuff
like that and then we can all argue
about that when it gets super personal
that's when you know that's when we have
problems yeah okay one more thing before
we leave a piece of house related news
sorry one more piece of house related
news before we move on on Saturday
representative elect Alexandria Ocasio
Cortez said that she'll be supporting a
new campaign - my primary challenges
against incumbent Democrats and safe
blue districts who aren't as progressive
what do we think of this good idea a bad
idea
yeah good I mean like I mean fine with
it no it's like first of all saying
you're gonna do that isn't the same as
doing it so I think people should wait
to get mad until they're actually a
whole bunch of primary challengers
running but just talking about this is
likely to achieve part of her goal which
is to push lawmakers to the left and if
you think that you live in a liberal
district and you have a member who's too
moderate for you the way Joe Crowley was
then this is fine I'm not worried about
it was interesting because I first saw
the way it was tweeted about yeah and
then I saw what it was which is just
again what a surprise we're going to get
it right and the way it was tweeted
about it sounded like like like AOC was
going door-to-door in the Capitol and
trying to throw people out like get the
 out of here it's AOC town now you
know and then you realize like she did a
call with progressives saying this isn't
about any one person this is about you
know this is about electing the kind of
people we believe this is like a
completely reasonable thing to do this
is the bait we should have Democrats
have retaken power
now but a lot of the assumptions
Democrats have made over the past decade
led to a rout of our party this is the
debate we want to have and the primaries
aren't bad if you do if you if you're
worried about a primary it means you're
worried about your you're worried about
a Democratic candidate having to defend
the positions they've taken to the party
itself and I just am not worried about
that
I also applaud her for being incredibly
strategic about this right she's again
the key here is challengers primary
challenges in safe blue districts she's
not going around to some purple and red
district and saying let's possibly cost
ourselves the seat because we want you
know it even that like if again if it's
a primary based on issues fine we
already have seen the results of what's
happened here in 2018 there were a
number of primary challengers like her
that did this and I don't know we had
the best Democratic performance in a
midterm since Watergate yeah and we have
a party with everyone from Joe Manchin
to Alexandria Ocasio Cortes and
everyone's just fine incumbency ain't
what it used to be either like let's not
get too worried about the the safety of
these seats long-term right I mean what
happens when a more progressive
candidate challenges an incumbent
Democrat in a safe blue sea is one of
two things either the incumbent wins
because the incumbent ends up being
pushed to the left on some of these
issues or the Challenger wins and either
way now we have a representative who
might be four who might be out there
fighting for Medicare for all fighting
for a green new deal fighting for all
kinds of progressive issues and maybe
they might win some of those fights
maybe they won't because a lot of the
rest of the caucus still is in purple
and red states where they have to be
more conservative that's the way
politics works yeah you know very
strategic one of the things I liked
about it you know Trump calls it a swamp
and the thing I miss thing about is that
a lot of ways DC is kind of like a lazy
river
at an amusement park you know and
there's just like tubes floating and
basically there are people that have
been there forever and they're just
lying there and they're just like
pointing at the two that get put in this
tube just ride this river in a couple
circles and what's exciting I've loved
like seeing all the people we met on the
trail whether it was Crissy Houlihan or
Katie Hill or Katey Porter seeing them
like just taking pictures in the hall
it's very much like it's awesome it's
awesome and it's but one of the things
that's exciting about it is everyone is
taking their job very soon
but they're not letting someone else
tell them what the job is you know and I
think one of the problems Democrats have
had is there's just this idea of like
this is how things are done this is the
way my predecessor did it this is the
way I'm gonna do it and what's exciting
is in part because Donald Trump became
president in part because the party and
the authorities that were saying this is
how it's done we're so late lo there's
this new generation coming to Washington
and not just showing up not just showing
up and trying to learn how things are
done but coming saying this is what I
believe in this is why I'm here and I'm
excited to do this I'm excited to take
it really seriously and taking it really
seriously means actually acting on the
things I said when I was on the campaign
trail like I actually believe that money
in politics is a problem I actually
believe the Democratic Party will do
better when more candidates are for
Medicare for all these are the things I
actually care about and so I'm gonna
actually start acting to make them
happen starting on day one and that is
an incredibly good thing yeah one
wouldn't get out of the lazy river when
Tom and I were canvassing with Joe Biden
for the HBO show and we talked to Katie
Porter she was saying oh she's like I
know this is gonna sound cheesy but I
want to go to Washington because I'm a
nerd who cares about policy and want to
write legislation about consumer
protection that's why I'm doing this I
really just wanted to go do that and we
were like two of us I love you last time
I was in a lazy river I was at Water
Country and Portsmouth New Hampshire was
in high school in America me my brother
my sister and my brother through a tube
at the lifeguard and they tried to kick
us out and the guy just walked around
the lazy river following us for like a
mile love it who is the lifeguard in
that scenario in Congress too bad it's
the American people and we're on duty
and you know what for a long time that
lifeguard wasn't paying attention that
lifeguard was uh you know trying to get
a date you know again a tan go to a PAC
fundraiser you know but now let guard
back on duty back on duty okay when we
go back really jury question I did I
asked I I asked for it when we come back
we'll be hearing from congressman Adam
Schiff
you
