on the pod today we have Adam sir were
staff writer at the Atlantic and one of
my favorite writers about race and
politics in the Trump era Adam welcome
to the pot thank you for having me and
thank you for that kind introduction so
you have a piece out this morning about
why Ralph Northam should resign where
you say that more is at stake than the
governor's career or ambitions what did
you mean by that I think that you know
this is something that's obvious to
pretty much everyone but the social
barriers against overt expressions of
prejudice have been eroded by the
president they began eroding the second
he came down that golden staircase
calling Mexicans rapists and murderers
and the only way to repair or ensure
that that standard is not further wrote
it is to hold public officials
accountable for that kind of behavior
and I think that's even more important
for a party that wants to hold the
mantle of anti racism in the way that
the Democratic Party doesn't in a way
that Northam in particular did when he
was running for governor so you know
it's not enough to say well it's not
like Trump's going to resign if you want
to be a leader of a party which holds
itself to a higher standard of behavior
than the person that they consider
racist who is in the white house then
you really have to hold yourself to that
yeah that makes sense I mean you also
write about the difference between
interpersonal racism as you define an
individual acts of cruelty or prejudice
and systemic racism the embrace of
policies that aren't people of color why
do you think that incidents of
interpersonal racism like Northam
picture or Trump's language tend to get
so much more attention and sort of swift
condemnation than systemic racism and
what can we do about that I'm not sure
what we can do about it sort of sort of
having everyone look more closely at the
big picture yeah but when we're talking
about this that distinction I mean it's
just easier to say you used a naughty
word and you shouldn't have done that or
you you know you did something
that that was individually that was
racist and condemned that because it's a
lot less scary than really considering
the extent to which racism has shaped
the American political political system
and continues to shape it yeah and once
you get into that it starts implicating
people who may not necessarily have
malicious intentions but are
participating in a system and upholding
a system that treats people differently
according to race and in the case of
Donald Trump you have someone who wrote
about this a couple years ago who you
know a lot of people consider themselves
anti-racist nevertheless pulled the
lever for Trump because they convinced
themselves that his he wasn't actually
racist that he cared about everyone
despite policies that he was proposing
that you know as I list in the piece
were an incredibly discriminatory and
have hurt hundreds of thousands of
people when you really start looking at
the numbers ya know I mean I thought
about this too during the whole
Covington Catholic incident and I was
like you know we're spending like four
or five days talking about what really
happened here and in the meantime we it
did not facilitate a larger discussion
about how we treat Native people in this
country which would be a good discussion
to have but it seems like every time
there's an incident like this we can't
seem to sort of like broaden the
discussion into the larger systemic
issues at play here I think people I
think these sort of large symbolic
events draw people's attention in part
because those they feel like the lines
are clear whereas when you start talking
about systemic discrimination things
particularly for people who benefit from
the system start getting you know
grayish pretty fast and once that starts
happening they people tend to get less
righted which i think is in a way why
it's so important for Democrats to draw
a really bright line here what did you
make of how quickly nearly the entire
Democratic Party both in Virginia and
nationally called on Northam to resign
well I think that's a reflection of the
fact that the Democratic Party is in is
reliant it is not viable without black
voters and I think the image of a
physician in 1984 possibly wearing
blackface and northern admitted that he
wore black face in another context is
this evocative of eight centuries long
history of black people either being
mistreated or being exploited for
medical research or or being
misdiagnosed or not properly treated for
medical problems based on beliefs about
intrinsic racial differences that don't
actually exist and so I think it was a
combination of the sort of the the
evocation of this form of entertainment
that was created in effect to say that
black people are happier when they are
subservient to rights subservient to
white people in combination with this
history of medical racism in the United
States they think really I think it just
really hit a strong chord with people
without whom the Democratic Party simply
is not viable and the distinction
between that and you know the fact that
Steve King is still in office and wasn't
censured until now in the fact that
Donald Trump is this president is
reflective of the fact that there are no
there's no constituency of voters within
the Republican Party that are willing to
punish their elected officials in the
same way well yeah and you've written
about this before too right because it's
you know the fault line in American
politics right now is not it's not
tribalism
it's it's racism as you as written right
like that and this is why there's
actually a substantive difference
between the two parties and how they
deal with these incidents and I think
you can actually see that on on the
local level you can actually see where
Republicans are beholden to voters of
color they believe in kind of
differently and you look at in Florida
where that elections official resigned
when he was revealed to have dressed up
in a blackface costume in part because
Ron de santis is reliant on a
substantial
constituency of of non-white voters for
whom you know without whom he wouldn't
have actually beaten Gilliam so I think
that you know again it's about who is
who politicians are beholden to and who
their constituencies are and I think
that has a lot more to do with whether
people actually get punished for racism
or elected officials get held
accountable for racism then you know
whether or not the individual politician
is themselves particularly virtuous so I
wonder how you see this dynamic playing
out in the Democratic primary because I
thought it was interesting that on the
same day the yearbook photo surfaced
you've got Cory Booker kicking off his
presidential campaign and when a
reporter asked whether Trump is racist
he says well he says bigoted things and
he uses the language of white
supremacist but I don't know the heart
of anybody and then also interestingly
sherrod Brown has asked the same
question and says yes he's a racist what
did you sort of make of those different
responses I think that Booker's
responses is reflective of a recognition
that you see you know throughout the
mainstream press and and throughout it
among a lot of politicians honestly
Democratic and Republican that white
people are more likely to be accused of
racism then suffer from racial
discrimination and as a result they're
extremely sensitive or not everybody but
a lot of people are very sensitive to
the idea that they're going to be
accused of being racist when actually
they think they're a good person and I
think Booker's remarks are reflective of
that concern he thinks that you know in
order to appeal to white voters he has
to avoid avoid a situation in which he
seems he appears to be labeling a large
chunk of the electorate is racist and
for whatever reason sherrod Brown is
less concerned about that and I don't
know if that that's because he it
because he feels that he is accountable
to a set of voters who are going to
forgive him for that or his presidential
ambitions
and presidential ambitions aren't fully
fleshed out or I'm not sure yeah but I
do think that the reality is that white
people are the demographic majority and
their concerns are going to have an
outsize influence on the way that we
talk about racism yeah I just wonder if
there's there are white voters out there
who if you say that Trump says racist
things and does raises things that will
give them a different impression or
somehow influence their vote differently
than if you say Trump is racist like I
just don't know how much that
distinction matters but maybe it does to
some people I don't know well I
something that I thought about when when
Booker said that was to what extent he
feels like you know as a black candidate
who's trying to appeal to those Trump
Obama voters whether he can you know he
can in a sense reassure those voters
that he's not judging them by talking
about racism honestly in a way that
reminds me of the way that Obama talked
about totally that was my first thought
I mean Obama was very careful to like I
don't think Obama would have called
Trump a racist to be perfectly honest
and I think that I think that you know
Brown may feel more comfortable doing
that because he's a white guy yeah but I
don't that you know I I wouldn't
necessarily say that those actions are
predetermined based on race I mean um I
I don't recall what Kamala Harris has
said about it but you know I don't think
it's necessarily the case that a black
candidate has to be like well I don't
know what their what's in their heart
but I do think that the political
calculation may be a bit different
because of that yeah so last question
Stacey Abrams is is gonna be delivering
the Democratic rebuttal on Tuesday she
recently wrote a pretty forceful essay
for foreign affairs about how identity
politics actually strengthens our
democracy and she said that she makes
the argument that her diverse coalition
in the 2018 Senate race was built by
understanding each groups unique
concerns instead of trying to create
what she calls a false image of
universality what did you think of that
piece
I thought it was a great piece I am NOT
from Georgia and obviously I followed
the Georgia race but I'm not you know
I'm not a SPT Abrams expert but I
thought that piece was extraordinarily
perceptive about what what conservatives
call identity politics actually is which
is formally Mar which is marginalized
people who formerly did not have a voice
demanding the same rights as everyone
else and that's generally what people
mean when they say identity politics and
it's a it's a kind of integration of
those people's vital interests and I
think Abrams is fundamentally right it's
about expanding democracy not
constricting it ya know I thought she
made a very persuasive case to that part
of the problems with calls for more
universality and sort of a message that
appeals to everyone at once is that it
sort of ignores the historical
discrimination that's not too far in the
past at all legally that all kinds of
different minority groups have faced in
the country I also think that you can
find the universality in the specific
mm-hmm you know talking about I think
Obama was pretty good at this you know
he was he cast his unusual heritage as
as a uniquely American thing and I'm not
necessarily sure that's the case but
what he did was he made that story
Universal in part by being so specific
and talking about the values that he
inherited in his unusual family that
were reflective of you know the way that
people raise their kids everywhere so I
think there's a way to be both Universal
and specific at the same time and I
think that the extent that there's a
barrier in seeing those certain stories
as Universal because they're specific it
has a lot to do with not being able to
relate to people who are unlike you
yeah but you're right I mean Obama tried
to root his unique story and his
differences as Quint in the in the
American story you know this is
fundamentally American and no other
story is this is no other country on
earth is my story even possible right
would be the line Adam thank you so much
for joining I really appreciate it yeah
and come back again soon take care
you
