welcome to puzzle I've here in the
studio y'all ready just trying to sound
as old as we can that's and now the
Space Jam is sick
it was coming back to you LeBron but
what's old is new I didn't know there's
gonna be a space I mean it's been
reported know every I'm sorry this one
slipped by me guys with Bianca cam
there's a Priyanka it's called a pre on
cam is it is there is there a elijah cam
hey quick shout out for elijah subscribe
to the crooked media youtube channel
please do he gets paid and takes so okay
alright we'll take you so let's take
some questions yeah okay first one from
Gracie Lou she's asking can we talk
about why Michael Cohen gets to wait to
surrender until March 6th talk about
white effing privilege she typed effing
also how does this affect Trump they
have to bring charges right if Cohen is
guilty so is Trump exclamation point hmm
I don't know why he gets to wait till
March 6 I don't know how that works the
justice system is not just if you have a
lot of money and great lawyers you
probably get to push these things out
but I don't know yes I mean cash bail is
stupid all these things the larger issue
is we do not the laws on the books do
not treat white-collar crime as
seriously as they should certainly not
as serious as minor drug offenses I just
looked so because I knew we were getting
probably get one question like this in
Florida if you have 20 grams or more of
marijuana which is a little more than
half an ounce of the drug you'll be
convicted of a felony and will be
required to spend five years in prison
Michael Cohen for multiple counts of tax
fraud criminal conspiracies conspiracy
gives the United States all the
different crimes is gonna get three
years now I guess cuz he cooperated
somewhat half-half cooperation I'm
really glad this is a bit of a tangent
I'm really glad this criminal justice
reform bill is moving through Congress
it is it kind of bothers me that Jared
Kushner is driving this because his dad
was arrested for like trying to set up
his stepbrother and some sex sting or
whatever not because like the drug laws
in this country are just an abomination
but right to your point glad that jared
has a has a soft spot for this so what
does it mean for Trump if if Cohen is
indicted does Trump have to be indicted
so there is a Department of Justice rule
that says or an opinion in the
Department of Justice that says
president sitting presidents cannot be
indicted now some people believe there's
some exceptions to that rule
you know cacio who was a Solicitor
General in the Obama administration who
also helped draft the special counsel
regulations said there's a few
exceptions in his mind to this rule one
is if the crime was committed in order
to obtain the presidency itself mm-hmm
which this one would be and the reason
for that is pretty simple it's like we
don't want to give candidates for
president the incentive of saying you
can commit a crime in order to obtain
the office of the presidency and if you
win you you're you're off because
sitting presidents can't get indicted
like that doesn't seem to make much
sense so that could be one exception
also there's another exception as state
crimes may be an exception to but if
Trump isn't indicted then impeachments
almost a must because the reason you
don't indicted sitting presidents could
you say the reason these guidelines say
is because well the president has so
many jobs to do he's the president it's
States he can't be spending time in a
trial that would hurt the country right
on a day where he shows up to work at
2:00 p.m. a bra been reported repeatedly
today that by 2:00 p.m. Eastern still
wasn't it work tweeting watching TV on
the toilet or every does I do not think
that people that came up with the
guidelines envisioned if the president
would not usually come to work anyway
this lazy like absolutely insane because
he lives like right above his office
yeah he lives above his door so so the
idea is you shouldn't have a president
going through a trial while he's
indicted but the remedy then if the
president commits a crime supposed is
supposed to be impeachment and what we
know now after today not just Cohen's
attorneys not just the prosecutors the
judge the
federal judge himself today said that
President Trump directed Michael Cohen
to commit this crime and the American
media incorporated which is the national
Enquirer's parent company also admitted
to paying $150,000 today to quash the
story for the purposes of concealing it
before the 2016 election yeah so that's
more evidence now there's basically it
is without a doubt the Donald Trump
directed Michael Cohen to commit a crime
it's not Michael Cohen's word it's not
anyone's word against anyone there is
hard evidence now we have multiple
people copping to this the thing that
sucks is that when it comes to
impeachment we need Republicans to do
the right thing in both the right way he
will be gone but not forgotten senator
Orrin Hatch one of the many individuals
who is completely disgrace himself
during the trouble administration but he
recently said when asked about Trump's
recent legal problems I don't care all I
can say is he's doing a good job as
president so that kind of Craven amoral
 is what we're up against
the other thing I want to point out
about Michael Cohen is he wasn't just
Trump's lawyer and fixer this guy was
the deputy finance chair of the
Republican National Committee huge job
and now he's going to three years in the
pokey the other guy was Elliot Brody who
was working with all kinds of foreign
Craven creeps and conspiring and also
you know cutting these hush money deals
so you know tough run for the RNC home
tire leadership the Republican Party
thank God you have Orrin Hatch's and in
Paul Ryan's to you know hide from their
obligations so that no one's gonna face
any accountability except for a while I
guess Cohen yeah so no yeah so the final
answer is Trump could still be invited
indicted potentially and if he is not
because of these drj guidelines it means
that it's because he should be impeached
or there should be impeachment
proceedings and if they don't happen
it's because as Tommy pointed out you
need a whole bunch of Republicans in the
Senate to go along with this so that is
where we are right now gotcha all right
we have this question from Yannick how
close are we to Muller time for Trump
family members and for Trump himself
weeks months ever Cohen's testimony
should suffice
we don't know we're on the prediction
game here but we do know that Donnie jr.
is in some trouble mmm because you can't
lie to Congress no no kids watching
don't lie to Congress Ivanka Eric they
were on the board of the Trump
Foundation they have a fiduciary
responsibility to the charity so you
know there's a whole bunch of ways that
those goobers could be in trouble
yeah so I just saw this in Politico the
ultimate target of the New York federal
criminal investigation maybe the Trump
Organization official dubbed executive 2
and the charges against Cohen and
paragraph 38 of the Cohen chargers
executive one which is reportedly Alan
Weisberg who's the CFO who has an
immunity deal whose lips who play shot
approval for payments to Cohen from
executive two and then told another
employee to pay from the trust executive
two can only be one of three people Don
jr. Eric Trump or vodka can we we just
pause on how up it is to get a
call from your CFO to approve a payment
to your dad's mistress to quiet her
first I didn't even think about
disgusting sexual tryst what a wretched
human being we have in charge of this
country where are we right now what does
happen the worst people in the world we
never step back and remind her sounds
like yeah yeah okay dad here's your
money
so so yeah for for potential perjury for
his potential role in a conspiracy with
a hostile power to influence an election
because the Trump Tower meeting and now
for approving illegal payments to quash
stories from their dad's mistress the
Trump kids could be in trouble soon yeah
we know but we don't know how when or
hand
evanka used personal email which we know
is a capital offense everyone's very
upset about that very upset lock her up
it's everything all right we're now
switching gears to yesterday's wild
meeting Chuck and Nancy in the White
House crazy crazy this next question do
you guys think Schumer did well in the
oval office meeting what could or should
he have done differently I'd like to
start with a positive okay
[Applause]
[Music]
what a bad-ass total badass just
sitting there staring him down me like
well if you have the votes call the vote
you know just like sip on her so I put
it down just watch him unravel
great Chuck listen if you're quoting if
you're citing the Washington Post
Pinocchio's you're losing the argument
with that Washington Post says you
oughta let me know many years ago
decided to assign Pinocchio's to people
when they lied what was the hilarious
one Cody sent us the other day whether
Verde Hayes had a phone
yeah yeah right Obama once said that
Rutherford birth of Ruby Hayes answer
the phone or something and then he got
like fact-check to death because they
weren't funny yes exact in the day that
got us three Pinocchio's I would say the
Pinocchio's ranking system hasn't really
kept up with the seriousness of the time
so it's sort of stupid and not something
you should say not true not true Tommy
just the other day they finally came up
with a Pinocchio bottomless it's called
the bomb brunch with your buddies
yeah okay cool great one so anyway I
would love to have seen Chuck Chuck and
speaker Pelosi future Speaker Pelosi and
Schumer I think ultimately got out of
what they needed which was Trump being
like I'm gonna shut the government down
and like lit himself on fire so that's
good I would like to have seen him take
the bait a little less and been a little
tougher the way she was yeah I mean
overall we pay a lot attention to
theatrics around these things and when
it was the Republicans in power and now
that it's gonna be the Democrats in the
House theatrics matter a lot less than
who actually has power and Donald Ron
doesn't have votes for his wall so Chuck
and Nancy are winners for that reason
alone but if you're gonna then judge the
theatrics of that insane meeting yeah
like I thought there was a good
interesting difference between Chuck and
Nancy Trump sort of like tries to draw
them into this like tit-for-tat fight
where he starts at one point talking
about like well no I need ten seats even
though I won I won North Dakota in
Indiana and then Chuck's room is like oh
can you believe him he's bragging about
winning North Dakota Indiana that's when
you know he's in trouble and it's like
it's that sort of an example of
Trump throwing out the bait and you like
always just take the bait now you're in
the dirt with him talking about like
 an electoral victory make it a
joke for the press pool really they
understand I just never think you come
out stronger after that but Pelosi
is just sitting there calmly explaining
to Donald Trump like you don't have the
votes if you have the votes you should
call the vote in the house this is how
it's gonna work this is what and she
just like calmly laid it out and didn't
really allow herself to get sucked in by
Trump's little baiting in my little
fantasy world Chuck would have said look
I know you're really upset about what
the special counsel did we can get past
that but I hope that won't bleed into
policy and there was a good mole but you
know but they both did okay because
they're you know they I mean Trump and
said in the meeting I'm at fault for a
shutdown and I'll take all the blame
which like I mean Schumer look like he
was gonna jump out of the chair and
start Shirley so fun meeting yeah
this next question you guys hit the
majority of the beginning part but Danny
is asking should we expect a shutdown
and after what happened yesterday do
Dems risk taking blame for it if so it
feels like we're careening towards a
shutdown I think what would it last like
13 14 days or something told January 3rd
until the new Congress takes over yeah
though then I still don't know how did
they get out of it that yeah I mean I'm
not too worried about Democrats taking
blame when you have a sound bite of the
president taking the blame
I don't think the wall is stupid no one
wants a stupid wall he said
Mexico would pay for it they're not
gonna pay for the wall so I don't like
I'll have this fight he's playing the
politics of this all wrong he believes
border security is popular in the wall
is popular wall is not popular with
anyone but his base border security is
broadly popular but if you ask people oh
if the president doesn't get all the
border security funding he wants or the
wall that he wants would you be happy
shutting down the federal government no
no one's gonna be supportive of that
very few people are gonna be supportive
that may be his own base and not much
more so I think there's no risk that the
Democrats get blamed for Donald Trump
saying I'll keep the government closed
unless you give me my very unpopular
walls you lost loser
you lost that's that's what that's what
you know that's what they should have
said really quick before we move on to
what else is going on in the world can
we go over what the consequences of a
government shutdown when we this is an
interesting one because this would not
be a full shutdown many of the agencies
in government are funded already through
other appropriations bills so this would
be a partial shutdown so I think it's
the Department of Homeland Security the
Department of Justice though the special
counsels work continues because I know
everyone's gonna be interested in that
and a few other agencies so the people
who work in those agencies in the
Department of Homeland Security and
others would be furloughed they wouldn't
be able to come to work until the
shutdown is ended any services provided
by the government to people are cut off
a lot of federal employees won't get
paid the ones who don't come to work so
that's not good the economy usually
takes a hit during a shutdown yeah it's
not good it's not good but it's not
great it's not you know we've seen a
bunch of now and like the world hasn't
ended so dumb it's a dumb thing and then
the question is how you get out of it
and I don't know how we get out of this
one except for Trump deciding to cave
and saying all right I'll take a couple
billion dollars in border security and
I'll get my wall later mm-hmm
gotcha all right I think we're moving on
outside of the United States this one is
for Tommy
she wants her take on what's going on
with Huawei and forget her name the
arrest situation in Canada and how that
plays into Trump and China and
everything
yeah the CFO or last name is magnet for
good yeah so the daughter of the founder
of Huawei which is the second biggest
smartphone maker in the world's biggest
in China it was arrested in Canada where
she was on there for a layover I think
for allegedly covering up efforts to
circumvent US sanctions on Iran and sell
them stuff so that's a no-no um Huawei
is especially fraught company because
it's seen as having links to the PLA the
Chinese military and
services it's a company that US
intelligence service is US intelligence
agencies have suggested that Americans
not use because there's a concern that
they could put backdoors into the
technology that would allow them to spy
on people and whatnot they're a big
competitor to companies like Apple and
Samsung so you know we've called for
extradition
I believe the it will likely get
politicized and pulled into the whole
bunch of issues we have a China right
now in terms of trade in the trade war
and IP theft and this massive hack of
Marriott and other places so it's a mess
it has the potential to be a much much
bigger mess so you know it's something
to watch for sure all righty
and now we also want to know what's
going on with Theresa May no confidence
that happened very recent so she
survived the no confidence vote she got
two hundred conservatives one hundred
and seventeen voted against her which is
a pretty big protest vote
so yeah you shouldn't feel good the
background is on Monday she postponed a
vote on her brexit deal which everyone
really seems to hate no one really seems
to understand but they know they hate it
so Theresa May was pushing this thing
forward she negotiated the best deal she
thought she could with the EU the EU was
like literally like off don't come
back to us again we're not gonna do this
so she tried to ram it through she
didn't have the votes she tried to pull
it back now she's trying to renegotiate
with the EU this is just a disaster it's
just a mess I listened to Rhodes talk
about this on+ the world with you it's
so fascinating because it does seem like
the people who campaigned on leave you
basically just lied somewhat every every
person in the UK and said oh we can get
all these wonderful things we'll be able
to leave there'll be no more problems
well blah and it's just not true I don't
know they're forced to do it and they're
gonna they're gonna be screwed they're
like wilful funnel all this money into
our national health services will do
this flu save this will say that I mean
it's a disaster it's a total disaster
right and all the architects the Knights
of Rogers of the world
the what's Boris Johnson's these
grifters are all like well I don't know
not my problem
so not great tough tough politics with
Theresa May and but I it's also like I
don't know who can fix this these are
gonna be very complicated fraught
negotiations over all kinds of my new
shift for decades could there be another
vote I mean I guess there could be it's
funny the New York Times did this um you
know one of those charts it's like sort
of I choose your own adventure like
sponsoring like it is just there's like
four thousand combinations that what
could happen nobody has any idea messy
messy truly also messy we now have a
question about Maria betina's plea and
Putin's response Tommy what's your input
I don't know it's fascinating what Putin
say so I don't know that I saw what he
specifically said I saw what state TV he
was saying which is they were running
pieces Russian state TV was running
pieces saying that she had been tortured
yet and that she was forced to change
her plea or whatever so I don't know
this is cool if the NRA goes down to I'd
be exciting yeah it seems like her
boyfriend yeah is basically admitting
that he was
you mean the goober who was like he
brought notes to himself and was like
should I accept
FSB offer question mark question mark
and they found is Russian Intel yeah why
would you think should I commit crime to
South mr. self figure out whether you
want to commit a crime or not the was he
journaling I don't know I think you're
just taking notes and the McMartins of
things but did you say journaling a
self-care that may be true but it's bad
criminally mmm it's bad treason I mean I
think that's like a good self-care good
self-care short term bad self-care
Lauren he's in best practice alright and
now we're gonna move on to France
besides a known rejection of a fuel tax
you know macarons not doing that water
do the French seems to hate him what's
going on I know there's a bunch of new
he spoke I think on Monday and had a
bunch of new things he was doing in
response to the protests that have been
happening so this protest started
people being pissed off about a gasoline
tax increase and gas is really expensive
in in France I think it's like seven
bucks a gallon so it's pretty brutal it
also I think exacerbated a feeling of
class frustration among the elites and
and people out in rural areas who really
need their cars to get around and do
their jobs and don't like McCrone anyway
because they feel like they're very
highly taxed and this was like a climate
agenda that he thought you know
burnished his reputation on the world
stage he is this new party that they
basically I think own bone March or own
March that they invented like a couple
years ago so it's a very like the
innovation partying party that's a no
that's a joke thing for the back cos for
those watching no not the people who
work there just the founders eyes who
Jimena so he he's viewed as too close to
business kind of elitist the protests
about the gas tax have morphed into a
broader class cultural thing where you
have like farmers out protesting and
students who are pissed off about debt
so it's just it's like kind of a
nationalist populist microcosm of what
we see in a lot of places yeah like if
you're going to levy a gas tax or a fuel
tax in order to reduce you know
transportation that emits fossil fuels
the way to do that to hold low and
middle income people harmless is to do
something where you know you raise the
fuel tax but then you cut payroll taxes
that everyone is yeah that would be like
how you do a carbon tax in a way that
doesn't it's not regressive
McCrone decided to raise the fuel tax
use the revenue to cut the deficit and
then he also cut corporate taxes for
companies so he's sort of like he's the
centrist but he's bringing together all
the worst sides of both both ideologies
and in fueling you know a populist
revolt I mean there's already sort of an
anti-immigrant sentiment like there's
been sweeping Europe for a while and if
you add on top of that like a bunch of
leaders who are like cutting taxes for
the wealthy and help King care rich
people and not taking care of people who
are economically struggling you're gonna
eventually get protests like this
there's
rumors that ira madison the third
actually sparks the protests he's like
that Tunisian fruit vendor whatever you
can did I read light himself on fire
metaphorically do you know this is a
question from me and no one is asking if
the minimum wage hike that he was
talking about on McCrone was talking
about on Monday and things that he was
saying like in response to all these
people being really upset like here are
some things I'm gonna do I didn't I
haven't really seen anything after do we
know how that's being received by people
who are protesting the yellow vests
movement I had the same question and I
think it's probably it's too soon to
know I mean the problem when you get
these like you know Facebook fueled
protests that are just taking off is
there's so much misinformation out there
that at this point even if macron
proposes a whole bunch of measures like
minimum wage hikes and all that kind of
stuff who knows how long it takes to
sort of disseminate out into the public
of people who are out there protesting
yeah there's also not like a leader of
the yellow vest movement it's just sort
of distributed so there's no one to
negotiate with so I think he's in some
trouble yeah all right we're gonna move
on to questions about Yemen and Saudi
Arabia uplift this one is another one
specifically addressed to you Tommy
what would the actual implications be if
the resolution against Saudi Arabia
passes the Senate and what weight would
it have well so I mean I think what it
would do was cut off our ability to
support the u.s. other side of the
saudi-led Coalition in Yemen so we
wouldn't be able to sell them arms for
use over there we wouldn't be able to do
refueling of their jets because they
really need us to help them with midair
refueling which is not hard but is
really important if you want to keep up
the clip of bombings so it'd be a big
big deal it would be a huge rebuke Oh
Trump is the obvious obvious morally
right thing to do
why why did we support the saudi-led
coalition in the first place
there was actual so during the Arab
Spring you know it got to Yemen early
but eventually it sort of took out all
the abdullah saleh who was the the
president at the time
and during that period of instability
the Houthi rebels started fighting even
more vociferous ly that's the wrong word
that got nastier I think they took the
capital for a little while and then they
ended up aligning with Salle's former
military forces so it became this big
movement that could like unseat the
government and sort of you know
completely destabilizing so I think we
got involved in it because Mohammed bin
Salman and his cronies wanted to it was
probably a terrible idea then I mean
there was like legitimate concern about
the Houthi rebels like they're not good
actors I don't think that they're like
Iranian troops there there they get
support from the Iranian government they
get weapons and boats shipments of
and stuff to use against them but there
was a real threat from the rebels to
remember they launched like a huge
missile oh yeah in Riyadh that one time
it's like it's pretty intense stuff so
anyway we started providing them we
started supporting them in that
coalition it got out of hands Obama
administration peeled back some of that
support though they should should have
gone much further and then Trump came in
he just let them do what they want
got it sucked so if this it just passes
the Senate or even if it passes the
house as well it's still in Trump's
hands right well I would cut off I mean
one thing we can this one thing that
Congress can really do is cut off arms
sales so we could stop this from
happening or like use the War Powers
Resolution to like fully cut off our
involvement there it passed the Senate I
think it was 6237 but the house do you
see the farm bill thing yeah it's some
rider got attached to the farm bill
which stripped out any Yemen related
language from it and a bunch of
Democrats voted with the Republicans to
strip out the Yemen language in the farm
bill and we should just hammer those
five Democrats yeah five Democrats
people like Dutch Ruppersberger bill
named Jim Kosta you know David Scott
Colin Peterson
they should really be ashamed of
themselves and then unfortunately seven
people abstained which I probably means
they were out of town
so it sucks it really sucks it's a
demoralizing all right hopefully this
turned to 20 20 questions yeah pick it
back up first here this question is from
Alyssa she were working with the rumor
mill I guess she recently heard someone
float the idea that if things keep
getting worse Trump won't run in 2020
and the GOP will instead run nikki Haley
that terrifies me what do you think
about this scenario we all talk about
the inevitability of Trump as the
nominee what if he isn't there are a few
things that surprise me these days
Donald Trump choosing not to run for
reelection would be the biggest I just
he is such an intense narcissist
that I think the idea that he would
either resign or pull a Lyndon Johnson
and say I will not be running for
reelection is so far I mean I guess the
only way you'd resign is if someone get
if he thought he was going to jail and
the deal was alright resign and you got
a pardon and you get out of jail or
something like maybe you could see that
but it's everything we know about Donald
Trump everything we've heard from him
everything we've seen for him seems like
he is a guy who was going to stick it
out until the bitter bitter end and so I
think and I also think the way that the
Republican Party is because it's
basically his party now the only way you
could primary Donald Trump I think is
from the right but if you had a bunch
like UC Lee Ann Coulter's out there
being like they're upset with Trump now
because he didn't build the wall fast
enough right if you have some people
from his right god help us all
who start saying like he didn't fulfill
his promise to build the wall he didn't
do enough on immigration he didn't do
enough on this then maybe you can see
some sort of a challenge home but the
idea that there is gonna be a challenge
from his left or from the center in the
Republican party like a nikki Haley or
John Kasich I don't know who when the
Republican primaries gonna vote for that
because these people have all been like
radicalized to support Donald Trump and
his policies in his agenda no matter
what he does yeah his super racist core
base like that bad vote doesn't transfer
to somebody else I don't think so either
so I think Nick I think for nikki Haley
it's like if Donald Trump is out of
office and not in the picture can
she run and when the nomination in like
you know 2024 or something and I don't
know I don't know if she wants to get
his Trump is as he is TBD I suppose
we're onto the fun stuff now
Madison asks a great question if pundit
Leo and Luco ran for president what
would each of their campaign slogans be
[Music]
all you look so content leo 2020 throw
the ball yeah build that ball Luca would
just offer lots of face licks and pledge
to wake you up at 4:45 in the morning at
least twice a week that would be her
platform and pundits would be more
barking all right this is a rapid-fire
question from Leslie Robin what music is
currently on your playlist oh boy
I'm listening to some holiday music I
gotta have some Christmas music let's
look at my top songs in 2018 there's a
lot of garbage but I want amend Leslie's
question to read your yeah I got 65th
and Ingleside nice for what this is
America I have to say there's some
Hamilton on here there's some was
playing a bunch of Hamilton in our card
of the day and we're pulling dis a sort
of public place like turn that down it's
kind of embarrassing you're shouting
along to this the Hamill's the stuff is
on from last year at this time because
that's when I finally saw Hamilton so
that was I haven't listened okay wait
what song from a star is born I mean I
was hoping it was a lady Gaga one where
like everyone said that she sold out but
actually she's not a great no yeah I
don't like that song as much anyway tell
me any any input from you I'm trying to
remember I just think that Travis Scott
album a bunch lately
I forget I don't know it's cool cool he
gave a cool answer all right this one's
from Connor he's asking if crooked media
is doing a Secret Santa
white elephant that's what we were
talking to op Yankee Swap it's like a
bunch of you know cheap New England's
we're doing I gotta get that or some of
the good ones last year there was a game
yeah it was a board game
oh you like it was like a pink like a
beer pong II kind of like watched and
took up someone got an electric car I
think loved it it was the dogs pooping
calendar that I didn't Corinne bottles I
think I did like we used to be right
next to a bad mo so I just I did the 19
it was fun I'm excited we do a lot of we
have a lot of holiday cheer here at the
crooked media
we had a big partying last Friday we had
yeah we had a menorah lighting ceremony
you know menorah lighting ceremony
exchange which is a separate day what is
the cookie cookies and then you everyone
gets some of everyone's cookies that's
that's a week from Friday
yeah Hannah made chocolate-covered matzo
and it was like amazing but I realized
if it's a week from Friday
I'm not gonna be here change your flight
okay this is our last question from a
friend of the pod senator Brian Schatz
who responded during this live stream
Wow
has a question for you guys he's
wondering when you guys are coming on a
luau ah we want to future Majority
Leader shots and can't I come I would
love to go my wife wants my wife really
wants to go in February we're going
backwards I know you are you
you stole her trip haha yours want to
come with us she she has some specific
thing she wants to do there's senator
there's a place where you can see whales
you can paddle out to them that's what I
wanted to we the the real question I
think there is when we gonna do a show
there yeah we want to do it we took this
where we wanted yeah we we actually
looked into it we looked into what we
thought about doing because we did some
did a couple places in Europe last
January and so we thought about a
another January trip it just didn't come
together in time but one of the ideas
was to stop and did maybe do a show in
hello there I think it's I think I want
to do it only if senator Schatz is in
town yeah it's not worth it otherwise so
some sometimes we'll get there
want to go to I'll be there in February
go to Pune who old stop against what
else we cool gym gang different chip I'm
gonna say Pearl Harbor but yeah Jin gang
cool senator schatz we'll have our
people call your people it'll be great
and that's it for the stream mmm good
stream happy holidays everyone
yes there'll be one next week so again
good boy you can talk about your
presents
you
