joining us on the pod today he's written
for The Times the Atlantic in Slate he's
currently a staff writer at The New
Yorker where he most recently conducted
some pretty excellent interviews with
former Trump aide cliff Sims and future
reverse mortgage salesman Rudy Giuliani
welcome Isaak showed her how you doing
good how are you all right let's talk
about these interviews and if you
haven't read them you know I
we never suggest pausing podcasts here
on a moral level but you should read
them what were you interested in
learning from Rudy Giuliani and cliff
Sims well I think that there are two
different people and I was interested in
a couple different things with with
Giuliani I was interested in there there
just been so many stories coming out of
the White House and from the president's
legal team about exactly what they were
trying to say and what they made of all
these different things going on with
Michael Cohen and and you know I know
sort of nailing Rudy Giuliani down on
any of these things are hard but I just
sort of wanted to get a better idea of
exactly what their response was this was
last week to the BuzzFeed story about
Trump pressuring Michael Cohen to lie to
Congress which obviously the story has
been very contentious and has been
disputed by people including the special
counsels office and then with Cliff
Simms it had been basically I read this
book
his new book team of vipers which is
about his time working in the White
House and the sort of portrait that he
puts forward of the President to his
administration was interesting to me and
then just more broadly this idea of
people who are going to work for the
White House for the Trump administration
going along with very controversial
policies and then making a lot of money
writing books about it you know with
Giuliani right it's it's everyone's
trying to pin him down and he's sort of
all he's all over the place he's it's
sort of a fusillade of of words some of
them seeming to be intentional some of
them unintentional and yet even inside
of that interview that you conducted
with him you also wanted to get at
something deeper you know Rudy's about
to jump in the shower but he ends up
talking about what it's gonna say on his
tombstone you know why what are you
trying to it
this goes I think it goes beyond what
what other interviewers have done they
but you it seems like you're trying to
get at something underneath I mean about
motivations well I guess something
that's interesting to me about the Trump
administration I had two related things
one is that agree to which people are
sort of true believers in the President
and some of them are and some of them
are and I think most of them are not and
then also just the degree to which
people know that a lot of what they're
doing what they have to say publicly for
this administration is not true and that
that has some cost to their integrity
and to their or to their sense of self
and so those interests of that in both
cases and especially with Rudy who you
know my sort of pop psychological
reading is that he's someone who knows
that he's saying a lot of things that
are not true and this is a guy who's had
a career controversial career but a very
sort of important career I think an
American and a New York political
history and that this is sort of where
he's ended up and so yes that was
definitely psychologically interesting
to me right I think there's these two
kinds of figures inside of Trump Trump's
world there are those who were just on
the outskirts of politics or even polite
society and then there are people
whether it's Chris Christie Rudy
Giuliani
his now his attorney general nominee
John Bolton these are people who had
reputations careers what we could this
we can define those reputations
positively or negatively who are now
kind of hitching their name to Donald
Trump and it seems like a lot of them do
struggle with that yeah and you know III
think I think that's true and I also
think with the case you know one of the
things the Simms book which one of the
things I tries to raise in the interview
with him is that you know I think sort
of Trump inherently I mean you do have
these figures like Christie and Giuliani
but you do have these other figures who
I think are basically out to make a
quick buck they've joined the white
house because they want some sort of
outside business deal and you know I
think one interpretation of that is that
the President himself is someone who
very clearly cares about his own
business interests he's surrounded by
people who have been involved with
various forms of corruption and lying to
investigators and I think that that does
stem from the top that if you have an
administration this chaotic and this
crazy where there's this much sort of
stuff going on that is you know not
always a hundred percent legal that
you're sort of destined to end up
surrounding yourself
people who are also looking to make a
quick buck yeah and right and that's I
suppose like you know I think a lot of
people out there myself included like
one of the questions you ask how does
somebody get there and get themselves to
do that like are they are they different
from me
is there something broken about these
people or are they just people in a
different circumstance and and do you
feel like in your in these conversations
so so with cliff Sims you pushed him
pretty hard
on questions around charlottesville on
questions around birtherism and it's
hard to tell you know even in that
conversation whether he's he's not open
to you or he's not even able to process
it himself what do you think well I
think that one of the things for Sims
and for other people is if Sims his book
is very critical of people around Trump
but it's not really critical of the
President himself he basically still
respects the president he doesn't agree
with everything President Trump says he
says you know sometimes he's kind of
uncouth with his words but basically he
likes how many things he's been Mis
served by his staff and you know I think
for a lot of people in the Trump orbit
and you know since his big rumored to
wanting to have a political career as a
Republican in Alabama where he's from I
think that they're trying to walk this
line which is you want to sell a book or
you want to do something that makes
money and you know get to a certain
amount of attention so you have to have
some criticisms in there but you also
want to stay on the president's good
side and so you kind of have to tiptoe
around what you say about him I mean in
since this case it doesn't seem to have
worked because apparently Trump is angry
about the book and tweeting about it
even though Sims himself is pretty
complimentary to Trump but I think that
that's one of the things going on that
you just because of the character of the
president and who he is and how we
respond to stuff that people kind of
have to tiptoe around what they say and
sort of what it would mean for their
future and a Republican Party that for
now is still led by Donald Trump all
right this is gonna be this is gonna
demand some speculation I guess but
you're talking to Rudy Giuliani you know
he is currently one of the most
important figures in American public
life he is the lawyer to the President
of the United States and yet I think as
a political culture we genuinely don't
know if he knows what he's doing
we genuinely don't know if he's
if he's even you know up to this task at
the most basic level you just had a
conversation with him do you think he's
sharp do you think he's do you think
he's able to follow the plot here yes I
do and I actually thought he was
responding to me very quickly and
clearly I mean his he said a bunch of
things as he has an other interviews
that may be contradictory in some way
but I don't think that that was because
he's somehow losing it and I have no
reason to speculate I mean he may have
changes as a person what he wants in
life what he's willing to do may have
changed but I don't think he's he's sort
of losing it in in any way that was not
I I've seen speculation about that and I
think that that's I you know I'm not a
doctor so I would not speculate about
that but he seemed very clear to me I
suppose it's just this question is is
there a method to the madness that did
that when he goes on television in the
span of two or three days and says
multiple contradictory sentences
statements when he makes outlandish
claims about collusion when yeah sorry
well no I was just gonna say I mean I
think just to just throw in a word for
Rudy here half jokingly I mean that it
essentially I think people maybe
sometimes understand understate how hard
it would be to work for this president
you have a president who changes his
story all the time I can only assume
that the president I mean we there have
been news reports about this is calling
up people who work for him like Rudy
Giuliani or people Kellyanne conway
whoever it is in the Oval Office
probably giving them different marching
orders every single day about what they
should say and he's tweeting different
things that change rapidly so I don't
think there's any way to really go out
and defend this president and seem like
you're a logical person or you're saying
things that make some sort of coherent
sense and I think that that's led to a
lot of speculation about the people
around him do they know that they're
lying all the time and and I kind of
assume most of them do and most of them
don't have a choice because you know
this is the man that they serve and this
is the character that he has so there's
others who have left the administration
people like you know Madison Kelly or at
least they're okay that has officially
left yet I've been losing yeah
yeah so mattes or Kelly are you
interested in talking to these people do
you think that you could would you be
interested in hearing their perspective
oh yeah absolutely I mean Madison Kelly
would be two people that I'd be
fascinated to hear their perspective I
also you know I think that yes no that's
the short answer is I am why would do
something appeal to them about you more
than I guess they both I suppose
interviewed I think that there is well I
put I would put Rex Tillerson mattis
dina powell john kelly in this category
of people unlike sims unlike rudy
giuliani and even for a time unlike
chris christie who never who seemed to
have signaled either explicitly or
implicitly that they were going in with
eyes open that they knew who Trump was
and in some sense they were doing it for
the country and these are the people who
have actually been more quiet and I'm
wondering if you think that there's a
distinction there and if you think if
you think these people have an
obligation to say more about what was
going on while they were in the White
House I mean I think that if you really
think is there have been sort of reports
that people like Kelly and mattis think
that what's been going on with the Trump
administration is some sort of you know
I don't know if they've ever used a
phrase national emergency but that
they're worried about a thing yeah I do
think they have they have reasons to
speak out I mean I also think you know
if you are someone who believes that
going to work for the Trump
administration is basically morally
objectionable which I think a lot of
liberals a lot of people in America
think I think at the very least if
you're the Secretary of Defense you can
make a sort of case for why we want or
we being people who believe this believe
that you know Jim mattis should be
Secretary of Defense or you know
McMaster should be national security
adviser rather than Mike Flynn that that
makes some sense to me even if you think
Trump is engaged in policies that are
you know immoral and he shouldn't be
served I think it's much harder to make
the case that David Sims should go serve
in the Communications Office of the
White House sorry cliff Sims David Sims
writes for The Atlantic apologies to
David dent
yes so you know III think that those
people in a way are more interesting
because I think whatever you think of
the choices they've made I think the
sort of ethical decisions around them
are more complex so just to close out
here you know your interviews with these
figures have been unique in trying to
attack the moral reasoning of these
candidates is is there an implicit
critique about the way people like cliff
Sims people like Rudy Giuliani have
people like Kellyanne Conway have
generally been treated in the media do
you think do you think that these people
have not been given the kind of scrutiny
that they deserve no I mean well you
know look I think Giuliani and Kelly and
Conway have been given a lot of really
tough interviews so I wouldn't I
wouldn't want to say that I think that I
the response to cliff Sims his book I
was sort of surprised by that he was
sort of presented on some some segments
of shows that I saw as kind of a figure
who is you know sort of speaking out in
some way or was writing sort of a brave
book that was truth-telling and you know
I thought that that should be
interrogated I mean this is a guy who
who basically says as we covered in my
interview that the president is in no
way a racist and sort of had a both
sides approach to Charlottesville and
Sims and Trump both obviously and so I
was sort of surprised that he had not
been given a tougher interview but but
yeah you know look I think that I think
that people who are in this
administration and we look at some of
the things going on I mean look this is
true in any administration I you know I
would like to think that people in the
Obama administration which you served in
that there are policies that people
don't like about Yemen or anything like
that that people who served in the
administration or ask tough questions
about them but I also I think in this
administration as much as ever more so
there's a there's a need to put tough
questions to people and and I think that
there are a lot of good journalists who
are doing that all right Isaac Jonah
thank you so much for joining us
you
