welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod we'll talk to Jessica Yellin
CNN's former chief White House
correspondent who's written a new novel
about the news media in DC before that
we're gonna talk about the debate over
impeachment Elizabeth Warren's new plan
to eliminate student debt and provide
free college and Seth Moulton is
announcement that he's joining the other
few dozen Democrats already running for
president and he's not the last one
loved it I was loved it or leave it
we had a great episode of lovely relieve
it congressman Schiff came by very
graciously to the improv on a Thursday
night the day them all a report to talk
to us about it we had a great
conversation about about the actual
report and the Congressional response
and we discussed impeachment and whether
it's worth pursuing very much worth
listening also uh Jason Leopold of
BuzzFeed who's and reporting on this
came by to talk about it we also had
Mitra du Hari and Paul Downes it was a
fantastic episode also I think you have
some some tickets you might want oh my
god are you heading back out on the road
soon Austin Dallas Houston our next
swing coming up the first week of May we
have some very fine next week oh my god
next week but it's gonna be great we're
gonna have a great time did you come
check out those shows there are some
tickets left for all three shows so I've
been joking about Houston not selling
but guess what sort of picked up but you
still get them tickets
jokes worked also congratulations to our
friends at pod save the people who just
won two webby award double webby
bookends for their fantastic podcast
Congrats to DeRay Brittany Sam and Clint
yeah there's probably a lot of new
listeners to the show having checked out
pots of the people go now smash the
subscribe button you will not regret
it's fantastic alright let's get to the
news we've now had a few days to fully
digest the redacted version of Robert
Muller's report a 400 plus page document
the details the Russian government's
attempt to sabotage our presidential
election on behalf of Donald Trump
sabotage the Trump and his campaign knew
of sought out welcomed and lied about
the report then details 10 different
instances where the president obstructed
justice in an attempt to impede the
investigation into that Russian sabotage
in addition to his own wrongdoing as a
result there is now a debate about
whether impeachment proceedings should
begin guys before we get to impeachment
I wanted to get your biggest takeaways
from the Muller
port since this is your first pod to
talk about it dan and I talked about it
on Thursday Tommy what's your some of
your biggest takeaways you know I think
we always need to step back as far as
possible and just remember that the
report confirmed that the Russian
interference efforts were sweeping and
systematic okay because this was debated
early on right the Clinton people were
treated like they were crazy for
suggesting so and and the incredibly
frustrating thing about the malla report
is that there's probably no recourse for
that right there doesn't even make a
real be a a way to punish the Trump
campaign for its you know part in this
so that would require the Trump
administration to undertake some
sanctions or some sort of covert action
or something additional to what we've
already done to punish the Russians for
this election interference so they will
likely do it again and that sucks and
it's a huge huge win for Putin and you
already have people like Mark Assad and
you have people like Jared Kushner who
today tried to downplay it by suggesting
it was just a few Facebook ads no I mean
this was a a massive effort that
Russians were able to create real-life
protests and get people out on both
sides of the protests in the United
States during our election to be
involved um that then and by the way and
that's the social media part of it of
the sabotage it's not just that never
mind the hack it was a theft of
documents again if you don't think that
matters
go publish your inbox yes yeah that
feels it also speaks to the the use of
the word the leak was very prevalent
during this period of time even the Sony
emails remember and Sony was hacked they
were called leaks the emails are leaking
they're never leaked they were stolen
and released they were stolen documents
there anyway tell me go ahead no no it's
you know and also like the the laying
out of all the efforts to obstruct the
investigation is so striking and it's so
egregious and it's so transparently
illegal and unethical and I'm deeply
frustrated by the argument that somehow
Trump was saved by his own staff
coordination or or that you know just
because we couldn't prove the underlying
criminal conspiracy crime that he can
get away with obstructing something
that's just not true right we know that
there was a campaign finance violation
in terms of the payments Trump made to
stormy Daniels to
silenced her and keep her from telling
her story before the election it stands
to reason that any obstruction effort
might have been to prevent that from
coming out right so like just it he did
a lot of bad stuff it's very frustrating
but you know I guess the thing I keep
telling myself is it's very hard to
digest a 448 page report quickly we're
gonna we're gonna keep going through it
over and over again in the weeks and
months to follow so take a deep breath I
guess I'm talking to myself right now
but it's also you know the interesting
example of we're really dogged
investigative reporting clearly added to
the Muller report and helped him along
the way but it also lessened the
explosive impact of all these
revelations coming out at one time
because reporters have been doing great
work I was stunned by the number of very
good journalists and outlets who went
with the Trump staff saved him from
himself because they didn't carry out
his orders to obstruct justice like the
legal definition of obstruction of
justice includes attempts to obstruct
justice Donald Trump attempted attempted
to obstruct justice the reason his staff
wasn't charged with obstruction of
justice is because they ignored his
orders but just because they ignored his
orders doesn't mean that he didn't
obstruct justice that there's no such
thing as than him right it's it's um
it's actually backwards the fact that
first of all Donald did it it's also
it's not either/or he very clearly
successfully obstructed justice on many
occasions and succeeded in intimidating
witnesses exceeded succeeded in
tampering with the investigation on many
occasions the fact that on several other
occasions he was thwarted by staff who
out of either self-preservation or
cowardice refused to carry out those
orders is an argument for impeachment is
an argument for calling it obstruction
not an argument against it
I love it what were your big takeaways
you know yeah we talked about this with
Schiff I talked I actually talked about
it at the top of other leave it and then
cut it because there's just me kind of
being sad for a while and you know what
I've been thinking about more and more
is you know we talked about this since
the beginning of the Trump
administration this vice-grip between
those of us seeking to preserve
institutions and upholding their
character against the president who has
no interest in them and I and I do feel
right now that we are paying for that in
a lot of ways because what you take from
the Muller report is someone so
canseco mitad to faithfully executing
the duty of special counsel so faithful
to the idea of an impartial adjudication
of the law a careful prosecutor that he
airs so many times on the side of
caution and how he describes things airs
so many times with caution in whether or
not to call some a conspiracy whether to
call some in collusion whether to call
someone or something a crime and I and I
believe that that is in part what has
guided robert muller in his
investigation and and and maybe his
career which is a faith in our system a
faith in the political process of faith
that once outed the information itself
will do the job he needs it to do and I
come away from the way we've responded
this weekend the way the media has
responded the way Trump has responded
the way Republicans responded saying you
know what in this case that really may
not be so that that that ultimately the
reason the investigation didn't leak for
so long
ultimately the reason we were in a
position where we're seeing this report
is because Robert Muller thought the
information would be enough to galvanize
the public and my fear I think all this
debate about impeachment as part of that
is my fear is it just won't happen and I
think it's worth taking a moment to say
where we are as a culture and where we
are as a culture as a place in which we
all collectively do not believe
Republicans would ever do the right
thing and it informs every aspect of
what we decide to do the fact that we
know that there are a group of
Republicans that no matter what the
truth holds that they are and they are
inured that they are immunized against a
morally responsible path well I want to
talk a little bit more about Robert
Muller's and tensions with this report
yoni Applebaum writes in the Atlantic
that quote the Muller report in short is
an impeachment referral he says that
quote Muller spelled out a concern with
alleging a crime against a sitting
president and that concern was the risk
that it would preempt quote from the
report constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct is
that what it read like to you guys an
impeachment referral you know what I
don't know what you know I don't know
the difference I don't know it's what is
it impeachment for all this would be the
first one I've read you know at least in
some time so well just for some
background just so we can talk about it
under the old independent counsel
special counsel law
when Ken Starr was special counsel I'm
sorry was he Special Counsel no he was
independent counsel in the bucket under
the old Independent Counsel statute when
Ken Starr was independent counsel the
independent counsel was allowed at the
end of investigation to make a formal
impeachment referral under the new
regulations the Special Counsel Robert
Muller was not allowed to make an
explicit impeachment referral and yet by
saying that you know charging the
president with a crime which Muller did
not think you could do because a sitting
president can't be indicted under DOJ
guidelines and then also saying well I
think it would preempt the
constitutional processes for dealing
with presidential misconduct which is
impeachment it seemed like he was
signaling that this was perhaps in a
yeah well there's also a fairness
question right if you accuse someone of
a crime and then they're not able to go
through the process of a speedy trial to
adjudicate it I think he really that
weighed on him as well yeah it's also he
also makes there's a there's another
caveat inside of the report right inside
of this argument that here that here
here you know this roadmap toward
impeachment there's also a point where
he makes it makes it clear despite these
constitutional questions despite these
restrictions even take those aside there
would still be reasons to debate whether
or not to pursue charges he makes that
point explicit as well so but but
ultimately yes I mean I think this video
also says he also says explicitly if
there were facts that could exonerate
him we would there are not right
something like that this is again what I
mean though right he was so careful in
his language that he left outs for
everybody but yes I mean you attire
that's what the our game is you said
that I was wondering like I don't think
he was not allowed to say yes Donald
Donald Trump should be impeached in
Congress should impeach him and he also
believed he was not allowed to say
because of DOJ guidelines that I want to
indict a sitting president so I don't
even know if it was just Robert Muller's
own caution or what he imagined the
political implications would be or how
he thought he was going to galvanize the
country I thought he was more like well
I'm gonna do this by the book and by the
letter of the law and the regulations at
DOJ yeah but knowing that I'm gonna go
pretty far and letting you know
that I think this misconduct was pretty
was possibly impeachable right I do you
think the argument for that is
the careful laying out of the legal
defense of why obstruction of justice is
a crime without the constitutional
implications that bar recommends it
really is an argument against bar and
there really is a it's very legal but it
is the end of the end of the the
obstruction section has this beautiful
language about why about why obstruction
of justice is important what that that
why if a president were to commit
obstruction of justice it is important
that Congress have the power to to tip
to to investigate it and to impeach a
president over at the conclusion that
Congress may apply the obstruction laws
to the president's corrupt exercise of
the powers of the office accords with
our constitutional system of checks and
balances and the principle that no
person is above the law and I think
there's men why add that language if
you're not if you know if you don't have
a message to send about impeachment and
in a very careful way right because he's
laying out he introduces this idea that
if the president is using his powers in
a corrupt way it's a high threshold for
it to be corrupt but if it is it's
actually important for Congress to for
the faithful execution of the laws it's
important for Congress to make sure that
the president is faithfully executing
the laws yeah what is the Trump
Republican strategy been since the bar
letter and has the Moller report changed
that strategy at all I mean you know
this is the premature victory lap to end
all victory laps and the rest of the
thing came out and they're just still
doing loops around that track you know I
they're just going to make this a
political fight and they're gonna say no
collusion no obstruction we win time to
move on the key point that everyone
needs to watch for is time to move on
time to move on time to move on
that's where they want to get the
American people ironically the
organization move on name for write
censure and move on and they were trying
to get Bill Clinton out of it
obstruction case yeah we've tried this
before yeah it's it's it's move on and
let's and nothing to see here no
obstruction no collusion but it's also
as we're seeing from Trump and you know
all of his tweets over the weekend and
everyone from the White House now it's
time to investigate the investigators
that Democrats committed a crime by
starting this investigation which makes
no sense the Democrats didn't start
anything they never do and it wasn't a
crime oh yeah I mean the best part the
molar reporters at the very beginning it
totally obliterates obliterates the
talking point on the right that somehow
the FISA warrant on Carter page is what
started this and the FISA warrant wasn't
right when it was like no actually
George papadopolis right
looking sitting with you know yeah with
a bunch of Australians so we didn't
learn that much that we didn't already
know about Donald Trump we learned a
whole lot about the Attorney General
William bar in a very short period of
time he is a total hack he was willing
to lie and spin and misrepresent this
report and he was willing to entertain
the notion that the Obama administration
was spying on the Trump campaign and
maybe that was the genesis of these
things so these punitive steps that
Trump has been out there talking about
for a very long time
he now has some serious top cover and
some allies within the Department of
Justice a supposedly independent entity
who might execute on them yeah thatthat
seems to me there was a category error a
round bar that a lot of people made I
mean I think I I was I was open to the
argument but there was a category error
round bar where he was sorted let me
just fix that there was a category error
round bar where he was sorted into
serious maybe shifty Republican but
where he has now actually behave more
like completely unserious Trump goon
right that is I think something that
even surprised Robert Muller because I
do I do believe based on what we now
know that Robert Muller seems to have
been caught off guard by the way in
which bar took that report wrote that
four page memo basically tried to get
Trump out of the possibility of being
charged in the future etc etc etc I mean
to me I think we see the kind of the
range of Republicans responses they run
from what Tommy's describing the and
what you were describing the kind of
totally exonerated let's investigate the
investigators all the way to the Romneys
which have decided to land on something
along the lines of it was reckoned SiC
he's that he's sickened by the
administration's dishonesty that's right
yeah that it is sickening unpatriotic
terrible reprehensible not a crime right
that's where they're landing on and
thank God oh what a relief to discover
that the sickening unpatriotic
reprehensible president did not commit a
crime we need to and we need to you know
it's it's shameful its deserves to be
held accountable but it's not a crime
and that to me is where the Republican
ranges yeah and there's there's two
other categories of reactions that I
want to mention because they matter
going forward one is Rudy Giuliani on
CNN telling Jake Tapper there's nothing
wrong with
taking information from the Russians who
says it's even illegal
well it's clearly a campaign finance
violations to take something of value
from a foreign individual or entity
right if he's wrong on the most basic
facts that's true okay and and let's say
even because clearly in the case of the
Trump Tower meeting Muller thought that
Don Jr was too stupid to know that
taking something of value from a foreign
entity was illegal and in the case of
the ban on foreign contributions to an
election ignorance of the law in that
instance you know it you couldn't you
I'm sorry ignorance of the law is okay
apparently in that instance because
campaign finance law is quite
complicated I guess which is which is
outrageous but set aside which is crazy
to say set aside the legal issues here I
mean that's basically Giuliani is saying
in the future 2020 comes around and the
Russians or the Chinese or any foreign
power offers us information about our
opponent we think it's now okay to do
that well it's also it's such a
fundamental thing I mean we're a country
founded with certain rules and
restrictions to try to prevent the
foreign influence on our democracy right
it's like it's so central to who we are
that foreign something the founders were
worried right we know that that foreign
power should not be able to come in here
and take over our elections medal in our
elections choose our leader for us right
that is partially why the president
needs to be born in the United States
right this is all goes into our sort of
our fundamental tenants of who we are
which they don't give a about I do
think though there's this problem which
is Rudy's been saying that kind of thing
before to remember we've been watching
him slowly evolve even before the Moller
report came out to you it was like no
collusion maybe collusion from some
other people but not from Trump what's
the problem with collision right that
was a joke for a long time but it's
interesting when it seems to matter when
it doesn't Rudy says that it doesn't
seem to get everybody kind of amped but
what happens when Donald Trump stands
next to Vladimir Putin in Helsinki and
behaves like a supplicant that does sort
of shake people to attention so I think
one of the challenges here is this
question about foreign influence does
seem to have a real kind of subjective
and emotional quality and people clearly
react in a stronger way depending on
literally how it feels to see it play
out there is a what about as an argument
that you will hear a lot that is valid
which is
to say the US has intervened or
interfered in foreign elections time and
time again throughout our history uh
and that is true but I don't think it
then excuses what the Russians did or
excuses the Giuliani argument maybe it
should make us step back and think hmm
maybe we shouldn't do that she might
take maybe you in the fast one we've had
these stupid covert actions to get
cooked up by a bunch of unaccountable
CIA agents that you know they don't end
that well it's all sad we're supposed to
be for values in transparency and
democracy and rule of law
let's keep pushing ourselves in that
direction not excuse it it does yeah
it's like I don't think anybody's
faithfully making the argument like I
don't care if china intercedes in our
election remember what we did to the
shop well no yes you got on Twitter all
the time from some very well-known oh
well we're stuffy and it is not the the
other reaction that I think bears upon
what Democrats should do now is over the
last couple days we've seen two
different stories Trump and his
businesses are suing House Democrats to
hide their financial records to avoid
all the subpoenas for Trump's financial
records and then today was the deadline
that Trump was opposed to handover his
taxes or the IRS was supposed to hand
over Trump's taxes to Congress and they
have just blown through that deadline
and said they're not going to do it so
they do by saying nothing's here this
was a sham this was a witch-hunt they're
now saying whatever other investigations
you got we're going to ignore subpoenas
we're gonna ignore regulations we know
this because this is all a witch-hunt
right so these are all the reactions and
this all leads us to the democratic
reaction on Thursday when this whole
thing broke House Majority Leader Steny
Hoyer initially said that impeachment
quote wasn't worthwhile and that there
would be an election coming up where the
American people could make a judgement
he since walked that comment back and
said quote Congress must have the full
report and all underlying evidence in
order to determine what actions may be
necessary Jerry Nadler the chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee said over
the weekend that he wouldn't rule
impeachment out but that he needs to
hear from both Muller and William Barr
and read the full report first on Monday
Speaker Nancy Pelosi threw cold water on
the move to start impeachment
proceedings immediately releasing a
letter to her colleagues that says quote
while our views range from proceeding to
investigate the findings of the Moller
report or proceeding directly to
impeachment we all firmly agree that we
should proceed
down a path of finding the truth all
right so I think this one is not an easy
call so let's go let's go through all
the different arguments one by one what
is the argument for taking impeachment
off the table and just moving on I mean
so here here's how I'm trying to think
about it which is I I believe all the
moral arguments
I am swayed that it is an obligation
that this is what Congress was set up to
do this is why we have impeachment but I
just don't care about them
all I want to here is the most crass
political argument about how this may
benefit us or not and so what I want to
know is two things what can we learn via
impeachment that we can't learn through
other investigative means through
committees and how will it impact public
opinion and I think you know what we
will learn basically boils down to like
what information and people do we get
access to during an impeachment
proceeding that we wouldn't get during a
subpoena process if they're ignoring
subpoenas now they might again later
we'll probably need a court to compel
them in in either direction so you know
I'm mindful that impeachment and it's
the process started in the house is why
we ultimately got the Nixon tapes that
proved to be the smoking gun to take him
down but you know so there's a track
record of success there but the second
half is going to be a big PR fight and
so will impeachment hearings
fundamentally change hardened public
opinion or coverage of Trump in a way
that is strategically important or that
just subpoenaed on McGann might not and
this is where I I really struggle
because I think the impeachment timeline
will be what like three four or five
months from start to finish will that
focused attention be enough to change
public opinion so that even when we get
to the end of it and the house does what
it's likely to do which is to not vote
to impeach him that he doesn't walk away
with an even bigger benefit which is to
say Muller and the Senate found me
innocent let's move on and and I think
the answer to your question Tommy is
like what is you know what are the
politics of impeachment you know does
public opinion move we don't know we
don't right like we can't answer it and
so I'm look I think it's the morally you
know you could talk about that the the
moral dimension
this you know or the the
constitutional obligation of this and I
understand that like that doesn't have a
lot of doesn't feel real world and
practical and political I also think
there's a precedent that it sets right
like by not taking action which okay
robert muller who as love it just said
is has been very conservative not
ideologically conservative but
conservative by nature very careful and
how he laid this out basically lays out
ten instances where the president united
states obstructs justice and goes all
the way up to the line of basically
saying this is an impeachment referral
for congress and so if we take the
special counsel who found all this
evidence that the president committed a
crime and it wasn't by the way just this
is this is I think qualitatively
different than what Bill Clinton was
impeached for Bill Clinton it was
obstruction of justice
it was perjury for an underlying you
know it was a it was an affair right he
lied about an affair this is the
president obstructing an investigation
into foreign sabotage of our elections
and I think that is a very very big deal
for a couple reasons one future
presidents then if you don't impeach
future presidents can say as long as my
party has enough votes in Congress to
make sure that I'm not convicted I can
commit whatever crime I want because
Donald Trump got away with it that's
number one number two we have an
election but what if you do impeach and
he gets away with it
future presidents will draw the same
lesson of partisanship it's it's right
it's possible but it but we don't know
we exactly but we're at the stage right
now where we don't know what the
consequences of it I'm presuming the
outcome right I'm presuming that that
the supermajority of the Senate will not
vote and what I'm saying is whatever the
outcome may be if we go through an
impeachment proceeding that fund that
does actually change the public
perception of Donald Trump because we
don't know that it won't yet and it does
lead to you know more information and if
more information is uncovered if more
crimes are uncovered throughout the
course of the impeachment proceeding
then you know maybe set other presidents
will think twice well they did do that
to Donald Trump and he didn't get in he
didn't get reelected again we don't know
the other big thing is we have an
election coming up in 2020 there is if I
was the Russian government
why wouldn't I try to interfere again
why would not and and highlighting the
fact that there's a foreign power that
interfered in our election and that we
took action to make sure they didn't get
with it by going through the impeachment
proceedings because we knew that this
the president committed a crime that may
have an effect - it may not I don't
think it'll have any deterrent effect on
them personally that but that's I mean
look I'm just trying to make the county
know I know I know I'm torn I'm
personally I mean here's good to me this
is why I thought this is why I think the
conversation is I think a bit
frustrating and it's actually why the
further we get from what sending her
said the more furious I am for him
having said it because he introduced
this binary of should we impeach or
should be not impeach and that's become
the sort of the the core of the debate
among them Democrats but to me you know
everything we're discussing it is a
hypothetical it's a hypothetical about
what impeachment will do and they're all
dancing around it right like the facts
are obvious right he's morally
intellectually unfit to be President
he's obviously committed obstruction of
justice unless you're paid by a network
to pretend otherwise it's clear yeah you
know impeachment also exists for a
president just like this so then why
wouldn't we right and to me it very much
boils down to what you're saying how
malleable is public opinion right that's
really what we're talking about you know
we can we can bet you know shift on
unloved leave it said oh there's other
avenues we could shift
I said chef you said shift shift sorry
shift on love it or leave it talked well
there's other avenues we could explore
there's the counterintelligence
dimensions there are financial
dimensions there's other things that
that were outside of the scope of Robert
Mullins investigation and again this
always comes back to this same problem
which is we just right now are not sure
how to move public opinion there is this
question as to whether or not that even
though he just routes that route the
fear is that even though Trump deserves
to be impeached
even though impeachment power exists for
this purpose we don't believe Democrats
have the moral authority or political
acumen or reach inside of the media to
make that case that Fox News immunizes
Republicans to impeachment and we're in
this place where that very well may be
true it simply may be true that we are
right now facing a thirty-year problem
of an onslaught of conservative
propaganda that makes Donald Trump
immune to the effects of impeachment it
is horrifying
it is terrible but ultimately I think I
wish we could be more honest about that
because the fact that Donald Trump's
deserves to be impeached to me is
unassailable it's hard to argue with and
when you say he shouldn't be impeached
what you're really saying is this system
is so fundamentally broken that we can't
remove an unfit criminal precedent look
I also think if we
just want to put everything else aside
and talk pure politics and polling about
this I think there has been a problem
where certain public polling has been
baked into the narrative around
impeachment where if you go out to
voters and ask them what do you care
about in this election
impeachment never shows up right which
is absolutely true but when you ask
voters do you believe that Donald Trump
should be impeach or not it is much much
closer it is pretty split and if you
look at independence the numbers are
pretty close right there were a few
polls that had it a plurality opposed a
few polls that had a plurality support
right so again you're talking the the
people who watch Fox News are again are
lost to public opinion right they can't
agree on just like their Fox News is
convincing them that basic facts aren't
correct right but we're thinking about
Democrats and independents right when
we're talking about moving public
opinion and it is very unknown right
like it is very possible that most
people in this country do not want all
their 20 20 candidates and all of their
politicians to be talking about
impeachment all the time for sure but if
Democrats make a case the case that
Robert Mulder independent special
counsel Robert Muller made that the
president has obstructed justice and
when everyone turns their televisions on
cable news is covering that for a couple
months and all the crimes that Donald
Trump committed are being shown on TV
and talked about everything and
potentially other crimes were out there
what does that do to public opinion we
don't know and and and I'll assume one
one more point Brian boiler brought this
up there is in his piece there is what
happens if Democrats move on and what
Republicans do and what Republicans do
what we've seen already is they don't
just move on they start the counter
investigation they start saying the
Democrats committed a crime by starting
this investigation and now because the
the Democrats have clearly moved on
anyway because they know it's a loser
for them so now we're gonna start going
after the Democrats now we're gonna
start investing so here's here's the
problem I think with that argument I
think I think everything you're saying
is true and you're saying there might be
a political benefit in a twenty twenty
election to having this period of time
where we're focused on this issue and it
is true that with those Fox News people
aren't get appalled but if what we want
to do is have a successful impeachment
in which Donald Trump is entak weed
isn't acquitted and declares any another
another layer of exoneration right he
declared himself exonerated by the Mobil
report we take the Muller report we
impeach him based on it he that is
referred that is sent to the Senate the
Senate
quits him he's exonerated yet again to
me for impeachment to be successful it
requires piercing that Fox News bubble
and I think right now we just don't feel
as though we have the capacity to do
that but let me make good so I don't
think this is binary
I don't think moving on is the option I
think anyone suggesting that I also
think that they're gonna start a counter
investigation no matter what we do I
think they're especially likely to start
a counter investigation in the Senate if
we started impeachment in the in the
house
so just to game it out for a minute like
for Bill Clinton the time line was the
house the house authorized impeachment
in October of 98 the house proposed
articles December of 1998 the trial
began January 99 the Senate acquitted
him in February 12th so that's like five
months I believe they bombed a rock in
the middle so maybe shrinker so we start
this thing in two three months it's sort
of done by the end of the year super
focused attention I'm trying to
understand how that's more politically
beneficial than one blockbuster hearing
per month with a dawn began or another
really key individual that gets us all
the way through the election now so I
think what I think you could make an
argument that the media coverage of
individual investigations and hearings
would not be as significant as the media
coverage for a full-blown impeach I
think that's reasonable and another
argument for impeachment is kind of
crass but it's just running out the
clock like this would be all-consuming
for them for six months they wouldn't be
able to do much more damage in terms of
policy or legislation and getting stuff
through the house sorry not the house
but the Senate so that's another
interesting element and the other end
the other point talking about in
Clinton's impeachment is everyone looks
back at that and says okay the House
Republicans impeach Bill Clinton and
then the 1998 midterms Bill Clinton's
party the Democrats actually gained
slightly a few seats in the House but
also by the end of Bill Clinton's
presidency while his job approval was at
60% because the economy was one of the
best economies of all time his personal
approval was 30 percent with 66 percent
opposed to Bill Clinton personally and
he was so toxic as a political figure
that Al Gore did not want him to
campaign with him the entire time in
both Al Gore and George W Bush were camp
restoring integrity and honesty to the
white house so they did not do much for
Bill Clinton's personal ratings being
impeached by the Hat no I guess I just
come back to this problem right if if
impeachment has political I think I
think then it's work but we're then
talking about is the pure political
calculus about the benefits of
impeachment and then the moral argument
kind of fades away to me right we know
we can make that I was just putting it
aside cuz it's time you said like we can
make the moral but let's just talk about
no I I agree I agree but I'm just saying
look so if I guess what I I guess what I
what I'm saying is if in order for the
moral argument for impeachment to make
sense right that we must we - Tommy's
point if impeachment is doomed to fail
in the Senate right then the moral
argument is kind of iffy because it's
like wait how did we serve the
constitutional question if a president
committed crimes he's impeached and that
exonerated so if it for there to be a
moral case for impeachment to me it
involves but having faith in our ability
to pierce the finally pierce through
that that that right wing bubble and
have it carry over and change the way
Republicans are behaved but I'll be like
I also think if you start an impeachment
proceeding the expectations that Donald
Trump will be convicted in the Senate
are zero right I don't put any of us
believe that he'll be convicted in the
Senate no does anyone believe he'll be
convicted in the Senate no so and Dan
makes this point all the time that when
Donald Trump is exonerated by the Senate
because Republicans don't vote for his
conviction he's gonna run around saying
total exoneration but we know that's
gonna happen now right right like we and
Elizabeth Warren to me made the best
argument last night at the CNN Town Hall
where she's like I she fully realizes
he's not gonna get be convicted by the
Senate but she's like I want every
single member of the United States
Congress to take the vote do you believe
what he did was okay or not okay and if
you think it was okay you take that vote
and you live with it for the rest of
your life because it might my thing is
that if we make this a debate where it's
the moral case here is that we should
impeach him but the political case is
that it's it's dangerous and so we
shouldn't but we don't know that the
political cases basically the question
what we think is the moral cases yes he
should be impeached and the political
consequences of whether we when we teach
him we don't know they're unknown so if
that's the case then maybe go with
what's morally correct it's it look it's
a reasonable argument I I don't know the
answer and that's why I'm debating both
sides of it
I'm just you know I keep thinking back
to a really really bad loss we had on my
football team in high school and my
friend losing his mind screaming I'm
sick and tired of moral
victories and that's how I feel right
now like I want to win and I want to be
as crass and political about this and
I'm trying to game it out and I don't
know the answer but I the hesitancy we
already have and the numbers we already
have about impeachment going into it
makes me concerned and I'd love to see
these committees just dig and dig and
dig and dig and dig and find more
information and evidence and rolling out
well I keep thinking about your argument
Tommy that you just made about running
out the clock to we know from the past
however many years he's been in office
now that when the news is focused on
Donald Trump doing something wrong
Donald Trump acting badly Donald Trump
then his approval ratings are lower and
Democrats do better yeah he's back to 39
one notable he's bet yes rating has
already dropped since the model report
came out and the more the focus is if if
Congress is focused on impeaching Donald
Trump and the news is about that and the
2020 candidates are out there on the
trail talking about health care talking
about jobs talking about all these
issues that to me is a news narrative in
a news environment that I don't find
particularly problematic or detrimental
to the prospects for Democrats in 2020
that's just my sheer that's my crass
political yeah I mean this is why I come
back to my frustration with how the
debate is unfolded because I do feel as
though Democrats in Congress weren't on
the same page at all and turning it into
a binary of his impeachment worth while
was not of was not a smart decision
because I do believe that there's a
version of how we're talking about this
right now
which is something along the lines of
robert muller has exposed gross
criminality on the part of donald trump
it demands to be investigated and it
could lead to impeachment and every
Democrat in Congress is committed to
that investigation and if it leads to
impeachment so be it we will do what
will go where the facts take us and and
do what we believe is morally right and
instead we're in this debate whether now
we've to they've managed to turn
investigating the president for his
crimes in a way that could lead to
impeachment into some half-measure
well yeah I mean look I also think in
some ways this is all a moot point
because if we don't if if not all the
Democrats are on board with moving
forward with impeachment then
this whole thing becomes a story about
the Democratic Party divided over
impeachment and I think politically that
certainly doesn't read down to our
benefit and that's what we started right
because between Steny coming out against
it and then AOC leaning in I mean the
divide was read and to your point about
other investigations to me this is why
it's it very similar actually it's it
it's amateur arguing about the
filibuster it's too much for the
argument but adding justice judges to
the Supreme Court whether or not you
believe that that's ultimately where
we'll land when when when you say we're
gonna add more judges it tells something
to the judges that are currently there
when you say you might get rid of the
filibuster it is a lever of power to
those who want to preserve the
filibuster and keep some power when you
say that impeachment is not worthwhile
you send a message to everyone that says
we don't have the stomach to go all the
way for an investigation and to me
that's to me the most dangerous thing
because we could be on a place we give
me the exact same position we are right
now without this idea of us taking
impeachment off the table and I think
we'd have a much stronger position yeah
and the other non-political argument
about the investigations is what is what
are these congressional committees going
to learn that Robert Muller and his all
his FBI invitations and everyone else it
didn't already tell us in her four
hundred page report but I don't think
that's how anyone should be thinking
about this no one no one read and
internalized and went through the whole
forehead forty-eight page report you
pluck out pieces then you hold
blockbuster TV hearings at a regular
you're saying this is truly a political
show that on that I believe this is a
purely political PR fight and we need to
win it and then when you lecture that
that's my take but that and that but
that's nothing and that's saying the
reason that we need to do that is
because the word impeachment itself has
some sort of political trigger in voters
heads that they're gonna say somehow the
impeachment isn't fair but the
investigations are I'm just trying to
say that I think you could get the same
outcome which is massive news stories TV
coverage witnesses on camera speaking
under oath for the record through
standard-issue committee hearings with
someone like a Don McGann testifying
over two days for several hours and you
don't necessarily need to label it
impeachment we're at the end there is
almost undoubtedly going to be an
outcome that is seen as exonerating the
president I also would add just one
other thing there are things that
Congress could uncover and there's
actually two shifts point there are
other things that Congress could uncover
that didn't come out of the Moller
report because Muller's report was
scoped right they did not look into the
current the current intelligence
I'm sorry the counterintelligence
portion of the investigation was almost
entirely hidden in the report and we
also know that this report is not called
the report is not a look at donald
trump's history of criminality across
his businesses over the past 30 years
it's a Russian interference and his
efforts to obstruct it there are also
huge avenues to explore around
corruption around the emoluments Klaus
around his financial dealings in Russia
around other criminal acts that he has
taken as a as a real estate investor
money laundering all the other that
we've been kind of dancing around while
waiting for the Muller report so that is
you know do I believe that they're still
out there something that could learn
that would change the fundamental
dynamics of our politics where Donald
Trump's popularity hovers between 35 and
45 percent and the Republicans were on
board no matter what I don't know I
doubt it but still I do think that there
are places to go that robert muller
didn't go yep and i guess
yeah and my only concern and we'll see
what happens since it seems like they're
going to go down the investigations
route is let's see how much coverage
these individual investigations spread
over a bunch of different committees
actually get and how much we're talking
about them over the next 12 months let's
talk about the 20 20 candidates
responded at least three Democratic
candidates for president feel that
impeachment is an appropriate process to
consider in the wake of the malla report
former San Antonio mayor and former HUD
secretary Julian Castro said in a
television interview on Friday that
starting impeachment proceedings would
be perfectly reasonable Elizabeth Warren
also tweeted her support for impeachment
on Friday and on Monday night defended
her position in a CNN Town Hall saying
quote there's no political inconvenience
exception in the Constitution which I
thought was a fantastic quote about this
Camille Harris also said in her CNN Town
Hall that she believes Congress should
take steps towards impeachment Bernie
Sanders however aligned himself with
Pelosi strategy and said quote if for
the next year all the Congress is
talking about is impeaching Trump what I
worry about is does that work to Trump's
advantage what do you guys make of sort
of the different dynamics of play here
with the different candidates it's so
fascinating I do think it's interesting
they're having the same I think Bernie
is sincerely having the same debate
because Bernie doesn't feel like he
needs to prove his bona fides on being
progressive on being tough so he can be
honest about his current reservations I
think I think Elizabeth Warren is very
sincere in her argument and she clearly
like I take her out of work she read the
report came to this conclusion I think
there are others who will look at this
and see where do I fall in this group of
three thousand candidates how do i
distinguish myself but it's interesting
that Bernie's reaction was I think a
sincere one I don't know that it was
very to me it was just very pundit it
was it was again Bernie guessing the
political consequences of impeachment
without really know if I also just you
know look so the Congress is gonna spend
the next year passing a bunch of bills
through the house that are dead on
arrival and the Senate I mean I guess
there's a good zero coverage there guess
there's some messaging benefit kind of
but not really because it doesn't get
cover doesn't get how many messaging
bills if they pass through the house
that we haven't heard about most most of
the bills I like I am totally open with
people saying they need to spend more
time reading this I am open to people
being on either side the only response
that kind of bothered me was mayor Pete
saying sort of passing the buck and
saying Congress should make that
decision and that I'm not a part of
Congress so I'm sort of not gonna weigh
and that's on how this works buddy you
got to take a position on this people
are gonna be waiting to hear it yeah you
got to say yes or no and he and intimate
in fairness mara Pete did say I think he
deserves impeachment but I'll let I'll
let Congress do it but I do think he got
a you know one way or the other
um one last question about the Twenty
twenty Kate's how if at all do you think
they should incorporate the Muller
report the findings of the Muller report
into their larger messaging as they go
out on the trail I think that's actually
a really good way to put the question
because you know in one way I'm also
sympathetic to my repeat because again
if any this is about choosing who could
be the next president and if they are
the next president they can tap each
Donald Trump you know they're not
they're not part of that decision at all
but I'd but it is this fundamental
question I think it's what Bernie is
ultimately getting at to by the question
of is this a distraction
like how should Muller factor into what
we talked about and you know I think
we've had that conversation a million
times and I think it always boils down
to finding a way to make Donald Trump's
criminality corruption misbehavior fit
into a larger story about the failure of
his presidency I suspect that the 2020
Democratic primary is not going to be
won based on who is the hardest on
meanest two nastiest to Donald Trump
right it's gonna be based on how well
you can set yourself out show your
vision for the country and then make an
argument about why you were the best
person to beat him in an election so I
would
focus on that I think once you win the
nomination that the Muller report
findings will feature heavily in all of
your messaging all of your negative ads
it will be an enormous gift to the next
candidate just like that's another face
so I completely agree with that on the
general - and I do think right now again
the debate is do you talk about Muller
and impeachment or do you not I think if
the Democratic nominee is out there
saying he should have been impeached
obstruction of justice gets down in the
weeds on Muller it's not really helpful
I think like you were saying love it if
you step back and I don't know why
Democrats aren't saying this already
Donald Trump betrayed his country in
order to win an election and enrich
himself that's what he did that's what
the molar report tells you to do right
he he wanted to cheat he tried to cheat
he welcomed the help right also he can
win an election he lied to us about the
fact that he had that he was gonna win
get 300 million dollars from a deal with
Putin with the Trump Tower Moscow thing
completely lied about it he had a
financial advantage to being nice to
Putin and and having favorable policy
towards Russia and I think when the
Democratic nominee is making their case
against Donald Trump and saying that
this guy said you know sorry it
basically the Democratic nominee is
making their case against Donald Trump
part of that cases he's in this for him
he is not in this for you everything he
has done since before he took office
since he was running this campaign has
been for his benefit he wanted power he
wanted wealth that's why he cheated he
tried to cheat to win this election and
then tried to cover it up and I think I
think that's actually an important part
of the message so I think like it I
think it's useful for candidates day
yeah it's also it's worth you know it's
funny just like here we are it you could
have we you that's exactly what we would
have said three days before the mall
report came out it's what we can say
three days after yeah cuz it's all been
right cause it was all reported that's
the other thing too you know you step
back from this thing and again it comes
down to this vice grip part of the
reason this report did not land as hard
as it should've is because there were so
much excellent journalism for the last
year and a half that has exposed us to a
lot of this criminality before if if
that report had landed well in
everything you know cuz every
day is memento and we forget what
happened yesterday so I know but I did
but it is worth but like this is the
moment right this is it right this
report lands it is a catalogue of gross
malfeasance and abuse of power
misbehavior and a lack of patriotism and
cowardice and and and evil on the part
of a great many people to benefit Donald
Trump and to hurt the country and yet
because so much of it is something we
kind of knew before because it really
elucidated a larger story we were
already telling it didn't land as hard
as if we had just gotten this report all
at once and I don't know how you deal
with that I don't know you changed that
but it's worth noting that if we learned
all this all at once there would be no
question about what we'd be talking
about it would be an emergency to remove
this man from office as soon as humanly
possible and the last thing I'll say is
you know Democrats as they make this
case right now in the media it's
Democrats and are being pushed to the
left by their base for impeachment
Republicans aren't George Conway very
very conservative lawyer who was part of
the in Clinton impeachment process
Alexandria Acacio Conway married to a
White House adviser Kellyanne Conway
wrote a very good piece in The
Washington Post about how the president
should be impeached just this morning a
staffer on Trump's 10th transition team
who worked on Marco Rubio's campaign
said that he should be impeached like
there are conservatives out there not
electeds because you know electeds are
beholden to their Fox News base but
there are conservatives out there who
believe the president should be
impeached this is not a democratic based
thing all right let's talk about 2020 on
Monday Massachusetts senator Elizabeth
Warren introduced the most comprehensive
higher education policy of the campaign
universal free public college and the
cancellation of student loan debt the
plan would cancel up to 50,000 dollars
worth of debt for people with household
incomes under $100,000 it would
eliminate tuition and fees for two and
four-year public colleges it would end
federal funding for for-profit schools
and set up a fifty billion dollar fund
for historically bout black colleges and
universities the plan would be fully
paid for by Warren's ultra millionaire
tax which is a two percent annual tax on
the seventy-five thousand families whose
net worth is valued at fifty million
dollars or more what do we think
obviously Warren has introduced a lot of
ambitious plans but on the spending
investment side this is probably her
most ambitious and specific yet why do
you think she chose the cost of higher
education to tackle good question I mean
I don't know it's a great idea I think
that long term the idea that the
would invest in education to invest in
its people in its workforce is obvious
it makes a lot of sense I also think
that student loan debt is particularly
crippling and she knows that because you
know we can't seem to get a handle on it
on as a country and you see you know
Millennials in particular young people
not buying houses for decades and years
because they're paying 8 or 9 percent of
their student loans and it's crazy so I
think it's a smart policy it will it
will play well politically it will
provide an economic boost and then I do
think again she has been very smart
about focusing on reducing reducing
racial inequality since
african-americans are 20% more likely to
need federal student loans so this is
something we need to fix what do you
think yeah I think it's it's you know on
the you know she is running through
America's thorniest and biggest
structural problems and saying what she
would do to fix them if she were
president and could pass things through
through a Congress that was democratic
it is holding a generation back I think
is also a chance that is unleashes a
wave of support from young people who
could knock on doors for her and
campaign for her and galvanized support
for her I think for all those reasons
you know it's that's that to me makes
sense I also think the other part that's
really interesting is that the the the
policies around you know what solovey
there I do think it's interesting to
compare her plan to other candidates as
well because you know Bernie Sanders
supporters and staffers rightfully so
we're saying well you know Bernie was
for free College in 2016 and he was his
free college plan actually doesn't go
quite as far as Warren's he was focused
on tuition she's focused on tuition and
fees housing transportation books but
the big difference is the student loan
forgiveness and the student sorry the
student debt forgiveness yeah and that
is very Elizabeth Warren right because
remember how she started her career
focused on bankruptcy right and and
there are a lot of people who think that
the next big economic crisis in this
country or one of the next big economic
crisis in this country is going to be
the fact that not just kids out of
college now but 20 year-olds 30
year-olds 40 year-olds people are
walking around with all of this student
loan debt six figures student loan debt
that is not just holding bow
a lot of middle-class families in this
economy but it's holding back the entire
economy because we have all this debt
out there and she's she's and this is
definitely in in terms of forgiving
student debt the most ambitious plan in
the field you know and there are just to
let this sorry just to point out there
are other candidates who have been who
are on record for debt-free college
Carla Harris Cory Booker Kirsten
Gillibrand all signed on to a plan in
the Senate Castro said he supports
debt-free college Amy Klobuchar and Pete
Buddha judge recently rejected free
college plans and then not sure where
everyone else is yet so anyway that's
sort of how it compares with the rest of
the field yeah it's interesting
debt forgiveness on student loans again
another way that it's quite it fits with
what Elizabeth Warren has done as a
candidate and as a person is it's one of
those issues where well you can't be for
that yeah yeah you should be for free
college but we can't go back and cancel
all this debt I mean they took they took
the loans you know that's it's not fair
they took on these loans they should
need to pay their fair share it's not
fair it's wrong it's wrong it's a very
like you feel there's like a third way
argument against it there's a
conservative argument against that there
this is a this is now getting at kind of
some of the the the deeper structural
barriers to progressive policy in
America which is yeah maybe in the
future we can fix it for the people that
are coming but there's nothing we can do
for the people who came before
she's also a uniquely credible messenger
on this point Richard she was 19 she
scholarship to college and then she got
married and dropped out and basically
thought her her dream of getting a job
was was finished until she found a cheap
commuter college closeby so a lot of the
policies she talks about her anchored in
who she is and I don't think that is
probably understood by the broader
electorate nearly enough and it's not
for lack of trying on her part it's just
I guess it hasn't broken through because
the the words used to describe her are
Harvard professor or senator it's not
this middle-class upbringing that leads
you to understand why she would be so
sympathetic to kids dealing with
crushing debt from school yeah and love
it to your point on sort of the politics
of free college versus the politics of
forgiving debt the it you know yesterday
everyone was on Twitter was like piling
on all the conservatives who said you
know it's people's fault for
taking you know what about all the
people who paid off their debt but it's
not just conservatives so when you look
at the polls on this a recent Fox News
poll from last week Fox News providing
free college tuition for all 57% support
40% oppose very free college very
popular which is maybe one of the
reasons what you're seeing so many
Democrats for it data for progress and
civics which is a you know lefty liberal
organization they pulled this in October
would you support reversing the recent
Trump tax cuts and using the proceeds to
cancel outstanding student debt only 41
percent in favor thirty five percent
oppose there's still a plurality in
favor
with Democrats sixty six percent in
favor thirteen percent opposed great
with Democrats but overall among
independents and Republicans and
everyone else it is a more controversial
proposal yeah it's a controversial
proposal I mean also it's very clear if
you have student loan debt it will help
you if you don't it won't right and
you're looking this like wait a second
you're just gonna give money to all
these people but then you just think it
there's something so I think a lot of I
think about this political moment in a
larger way and I think Democrats have
been in this debate and it comes like
how do we wake up the American people
right that's where this impeachment
debate spike how do we wake them up like
we feel like we're yelling and we're
yelling we blame the media we blame Fox
News we blame a lot of things and
they're all deserving but ultimately
it's how do we get people in this fight
with us this fight that we believe is so
existential that so many people are
protesting and knocking on doors every
single day even though there are
millions of millions of Americans who
aren't so engaged and to me what I find
so attractive about this is it's it's
saying that like for people that feel
trapped in our current system that feel
as though they were under the they're
under the yoke of a process that has let
them loaded with debt that they can't
get out of that there's even even the
best policies that came before would not
have helped them that it says like I'm
gonna do this and your life's gonna be
better it's just gonna be better
like you need a president gonna make
your life you use someone with debt use
someone who did everything they were
supposed to do your life gets better
when I become president and I think
there's something so powerful and
important about that for people that try
to do the right thing and worried that
they feel trapped forever by a mistake
they didn't know they were making that
there's someone out there who's gonna do
something for them and I think that's so
it's just it's brave because it is all
not necessarily a popular policy but
it's clearly something she believes is
the right thing to do yeah okay finally
on Monday Massachusetts congressman Seth
Moulton announced that he too will be
running for the Democratic nomination
for president this election cycle
Moulton is a Marine veteran who was
first elected to Congress in 2014 he
turned up in the press a fair amount
last November as part of a group of
House Democrats who pushed back on Nancy
Pelosi returning to her previous role as
Speaker and his first day in the race
Moulton also made a point of saying
quote I'm not a socialist I'm a Democrat
he said that he also said that as a
person who receives his medical care
through the government for him it's the
VA because he's a veteran single payer
systems aren't perfect and that as
president he wouldn't force people off
their private health care plans guys
water Seth Moulton strengths and
challenges so he's been a congressman
since 2014
he's a Marine who graduated from Harvard
I believe and then decided to join the
Marines and he ended up serving four
tours in Iraq he was awarded the Bronze
Star something he refused to talk about
until actually the Boston Globe figured
it out and disclosed it so I know the
video he released talks about service
and being compelled to service and the
honor and and reasons behind it and in a
way that I think is incredibly admirable
I know Seth a little bit I think he's
gonna struggle with the fact that most
Democrats know of him via the anti
Pelosi efforts which I think probably
worse in hindsight that they even did at
the time but um you know he wants to
mount a national security argument
against Donald Trump I'm always
interested to see that in some ways it's
the thing the president can actually do
versus talk a big game about a bunch of
policies that might never get through
Congress but it's going to be tough it's
gonna beat uphill climb to get in a
slate with this many candidates and to
make an argument that is a little more
moderate in nature love it you know he
he didn't interview with George
Stephanopoulos George Stephanopoulos
said you're you know you're the 19th
person to get in why you and he said I'm
getting in because of we need a
candidate who's going to talk about
patriotism service and security I don't
find that a particularly compelling
rationale I am very open to that
turning into a more compelling rationale
but saying you're basically for a public
option and that you want to talk about
national security
it may be valuable and maybe there's a
place for you to kind of bring that to
the debate but in terms of mounting a
presidential campaign based around it
when a lot of the the strengths you
bring to the table are also brought to
the table by several other candidates I
think it's hard to justify and it's it
it shouldn't matter that you're 19th
versus first right like if you're the
person who should win you're the person
who should win but at this point when we
have 18 people who are in the race when
you're getting in as number 19 it has to
be because you believe these other 18
aren't up to it and you're the one and
so far I have not heard an argument in
favor of that and because this election
is so important and because we need to
have these debates and these
conversations to find that exact right
person to represent us in the fight
against Donald Trump if you're getting
in now you need to button up that
rationale and you need to make that case
he still can
he absolutely still can I have not heard
it yet I worry less about the timing
because I think we're sort of trapped in
the present and it's April and there's
so much time left but I do think his
main challenge is it's going to be the
challenge of anyone who doesn't have
significant name recognition in a field
of what's going to be 20 candidates when
Joe Biden went the news today that he's
going to announce on Thursday 20-plus
candidates in the field and finding
media attention in the field of 20
candidates is going to be paramount and
a lot of these candidates think well as
soon as I get to the debate stage then
I'll make my mark and I'll get noticed
but two nights of a democratic debate
with 10 people on a stage each night
it's still gonna be really hard to break
through yeah right I mean we don't know
what's gonna be the big issue in
December right so it's why we can never
count somebody out now I do think losing
all these months really hurts you in
terms of organizing and infrastructure
that's not raising and staff but let's
say there's a major national security
incident that occurs in the next several
months god help us that does not happen
but you know we invade Venezuela there's
a terrorist attack Seth Moulton standing
up on that stage and saying I served
four tours in Iraq I know what it's like
to command men and women in battle see
people you love die that could become
the single most compelling issue on that
stage something people judge could make
- it's not something that the other
candidates necessarily could Tulsi
Gabbard could make it as well but the
others might yeah and then sidon could
say I was in the Situation Room right
right and then you know cuz I've done
armed service and stuff like that but
beyond that it becomes a little trickier
Moulton's also we should just say he's
argued for automatic voter registration
abolishing the filibuster abolishing the
electoral college so on the process
democratic reform stuff that's where he
is what do we make of his criticism of
single-payer other candidates have not
been for you know Bernie's Medicare for
all version the specific criticism that
hey I'm on single-payer at the VA it's
not everything it's cracked up to be so
I don't want to push people on that what
did you guys make that I think it's a
interesting way in to land at a
Democratic position that is also pretty
mainstream right like that position does
still aligns him with say Medicare for
America right cap plan right so it puts
him very much in the mainstream I think
I think it's a I think the question is
does this even in this field of twenty
or fifty whatever is there still room
for one person to stand on that stage
and say I'm gonna represent this
argument for moderation right the
argument we sometimes mock sometimes
don't we I'm sorry moderation uh you
know will that have value right this was
I think the debate that Mike Bloomberg
had what should I represent that voice
Howard Schultz decided he was gonna
represent that voice by setting himself
on fire on the Morning Joe set but for
the for the Democratic nomination right
there is seems to be a competition to be
progressive either to represent the
actual progressivism you've shown your
entire career or to prove your bona
fides
to people who might be skeptical he's
saying I'm gonna do something a little
bit different and maybe that is a that
is a place for him and again it's all
how we talk about moderation too we just
talked about how you know you know very
very popular free college is and I
thought about Moulton's comment on
single-payer because morning consult
just had a new survey of 6,000 plus
adults which is quite a big survey
Medicare for all defined as everyone
enrolled in one federal plan the numbers
are now forty seven in favor thirty four
opposed
Medicare buy-in or public option is now
sixty two to seventeen that is very very
popular and then they asked would you be
more likely to support Medicare for all
if it means Americans could keep their
hospital and doctor sixty-two percent
said they'd be more in favor of it and
would you be more in favor if it's
voluntary enrollment sixty percent some
more in favor so it is a very
interesting yeah these Medicare for all
numbers the more its
and we knew this was gonna happen the
more it's been out there talked about
and the more that Republicans have
started beating up on it you can start
to see how the numbers go down a little
bit
agree or disagree with the policy it's a
pretty powerful rejoinder and it's one
drawn from experience and it's one that
would probably be backed up by a whole
lot of other veterans who have been in
the VA system and have not always been
thrilled with the outcomes of the care
they've gotten or the timelines or the
treatment so I don't know I would like
to hear more about it from him but it's
certainly the most least political
sounding most novel argument I've heard
against eliminating private insurance so
far yeah and again it is a testament to
every activist who has pushed for
Medicare for all that a massive
expansion of Medicare where you can
voluntarily enroll or you can buy in
depending on the plan this is the
important quote moderate position
because basically all of these
Democratic candidates I don't accept you
know I don't know who I'm sorry
basically all of these Democratic
candidates are now on record for a
massive expansion of Medicare I also
think it's also unclear to me is Seth
Moulton criticizing single-payer is he
criticizing a national a national health
service right like it's a bit it sounds
a bit unclear yeah okay when we come
back we will talk to Jessica Yellin
you
