and we finally got the green light to
hint at what's coming we're announcing
all the details early next week but if
you want to be the first to know or up
to you get a sign up for the newsletter
which is just fantastic
fantastic we've got Sara Lazarus on
board now writing it
Brian Boyer as always the whole crew
here it's fantastic you can sign up at
crooked comm slash subscribe to find out
about our new podcast we're really
excited about it and we think you will
be too
also little plug for the 2019 elections
that are coming up in a month Democrats
have a chance to make big gains in
Kentucky Louisiana Mississippi and
Virginia where we need just to where we
need to flip just four seats to win the
legislature and the chance to draw fair
congressional districts in 2021 gun
reform all kinds of good stuff could
come from from winning Virginia so head
to vote save America calm where you can
donate to our gerrymandering fund
and find out volunteer opportunities in
these states some that you can do right
from the comfort of your home all right
let's get to the news last night in
Westerville Ohio the Democrats held
their fourth and largest primary debate
in history featuring 12 candidates Joe
Biden Elizabeth Warren Bernie Sanders
pee poo to judge Kamala Harris Andrew
yang Cory Booker better o'rourke Amy
Klobuchar Julian Castro Tulsi Gabbard
and Tom Steyer shared the stage for
three hours three hours that's normal
right usually you're getting more to
people in debates as you they go on in
primary get longer by right right before
I or there will be a seven-hour debate
with all 50 candidates I will say though
even though there were a lot of people
on the stage and it was three hours long
it actually only felt like three hours
felt like five to me like exactly three
hours one hour in I said John Harwood
tweet well that's an hour we got two
left and I merely started crying it was
long it was it was hosted by CNN in the
New York Times the moderators were
Anderson Cooper and burn Aaron Burr
Anderson Cooper and Erin Burnett of CNN
and Mark lacy of the New York Times so
guys this was the first debate where
Elizabeth Warren was if not a
front-runner
on her and she was you know it's about
it's a tie it's like a tie in the
average race your weight I prefer to
wait time for first between her and
button and she was challenged more than
she ever has been before by almost every
candidate on stage so which is a lot of
people it's a lot of people so let's
listen to her first exchange with people
to judge and Amy Klobuchar over you
guessed it Medicare for all your
signature senator is to have a plan for
everything except this no plan has been
laid out to explain have a multi
trillion dollar hole in this Medicare
for all plan that Senator Warren is
putting forward is supposed to get
filled in these Bernie's being honest
here and saying how he's gonna pay for
this and that taxes are gonna go up and
I'm sorry Elizabeth but you have not
said that and I think we owe it to the
American people to tell them where we're
gonna send the invoice I believe the
best and boldest idea here is to not
trash Obamacare but to do exactly what
Barack Obama wanted to do from the
beginning and that's have a public
option that would bring down the cost of
the premium and expand the number of
people covered and take on the
pharmaceutical companies that is what we
should be doing instead of taking a
hundred 49 million people off their
insurance in four years and I'm tired of
hearing whenever I say these things
oh it's Republican talking appoints you
are making Republican talking points
right now in this room by coming out for
a plan that's gonna do that it's a very
Canadian style Sori's a conversation
about it's a Canadian style medicine
Minnesota coming up at the point first
question why do we keep having these
exchanges every single debate or will we
be having them forever
[Laughter]
[Music]
what a good question well I think
there's two parts of it
one is I I guess here's here's the
question I had when I watched that
exchange so we've had this conversation
four times now I mean four different
debates almost verbatim and there are
two parts to it the one part is the
public option can
that's trying to find a way to criticize
Medicare for all without seeming like
wet blankets and I think each time
they've been trying different tax at
this and then the second piece of it is
that Elizabeth Warren is refusing to say
something very specific and everyone on
that stage knows what's going on she
does not want to say on camera that
according to the Bernie plan taxes will
rise for the middle class because she is
making a bigger argument that on the
whole cost for the middle class will go
down and she does not want to create
video of herself saying that which will
be used as a cudgel in the general to
misleadingly
tell middle class voters that she's
gonna cost them more money because her
broader point is correct on her Medicare
for all even if your taxes go up over
all your health care costs will go down
further than your taxes will go up
because the cost will be shifted will be
progressive and shifted up towards the
wealthy and we've kind of been trapped
in a loop on this but the difference
with this debate is this time I think we
had the most sophisticated debaters
coming at her on this which which are
which are Amy Klobuchar and mayor Pete
two people that if they were a high
school debating team would be I
think like ferocious yeah they would be
I mean they maybe are one they see that
these guys smell some blood in the water
here politically for a warrant right I
mean there's two parts of this one
there's the cost of Medicare for all
which is an attack on both Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren but the
critique for Warren is broader and it
becomes about her credibility I was just
reading a gaggle Biden did today
Wednesday morning where he is doubling
tripling down on this and just hammering
her at a stop in Columbus Ohio so you
know that's why Pete is focused on the
cost of Medicare for all and the lack of
specificity just like a specificity
Michael Bennett is running I think like
a million dollars worth of ads against
Medicare for all in Iowa and I think it
becomes even more challenging for Warren
and everybody on stage knows this
because the contrast of her answer with
Bernie just being like yep gonna raise
taxes as part of the plan it is pretty
stark when you're like toe-tapping
for 10 15 30 minutes or you're her
entire CNN interview after the debate
was about this - but she wishes that uh
Bernie never said that about the taxes
going up and if you'll notice
burries had that once before a couple
debates ago and has not said it's the
ultimate irony of this is Elizabeth
Warren's gonna dance around this in
every debate till the end of time and
then if she's the nominee
the Trump campaign will just create a
deep fake of her saying yet run an ad on
Facebook it'll get 10 million views and
Mark Zuckerberg refused to take it out
that's we're ending it do you think it's
sustainable Dan for her to continue this
with this answer for the whole primary
no I don't think it sustainable because
it's not about the financing of Medicare
for all that's not that's it's no part
of the actual conversation
people are harping on this because it is
the first crack in the armor that she
has offered she has put so much and so
successfully put so much stock in to
this persona as a incredibly courageous
policy oriented detail-oriented personal
plan for everything and here we have on
her biggest most expensive plan a huge
hole and she's dancing around and
dancing around it
sorry dancing around it obviously and it
makes she it makes her look like a
typical politician in the fact that she
has seemed different than other
politicians that's been our strength and
so they're gonna keep people are gonna
keep hammering this on her and the other
point about this conversation both this
question the larger medicare-for-all
conversation as it relates elizabeth
warren is it's a proxy for electability
hmm they want to say that oh that
medicare-for-all is bad politically and
it makes her in your prope makes her
more likely to lose if she's the nominee
and they're proving that because she
can't answer a fundamental question that
everyone knows will be asked every
single day by every reporter in the
general election let me ask what would
you guys do if you were on the Warren
campaign next time you face this
question I mean I eventually to get out
of this box right you were saying it's
not sustainable it did seem like you
know that the strategy on both sides was
pretty apparent last night we talked
about the strategy on the public option
side on them on for Bernie and Elizabeth
Warren the strategy was every time the
public option folks sort of got into the
details about cost and sort of accused
him accused Warren of not being honest
about but the taxes they would sort of
bring it back to
the system is fundamentally broken
insured private insurance companies are
awful they make money by denying care
there's a lot of people in this country
who can't afford health insurance so
they brought back to the problem with
the current private health insurance but
that's but that's about all that that's
where they went they didn't go anywhere
else where would you go
I think there would be benefit and
Elizabeth Warren being honest about this
she has to like she is exactly right to
be very clear she is right about costs
and it is dumb and sort of operating in
a Reaganesque political frame to think
about this in the context of taxes only
and not overall costs for families but
it is also a fact that every policy has
winners and losers and there will be
some people whose taxes go up more than
their health care costs come down and I
think she would because she's been so
honest about all of her other policies
having an answer that took on more
aggressively the problem with the
framing of that question but then gave a
little ground or on taxes will go out
for some people almost entirely the
wealthy but there were like that well I
think that there is I just think when
she says the same answer over and over
again in every debate for the rest of
time that is not going to wear well and
so there needs to be some sort of pivot
that gives a little ground here yeah and
I do think to the original question
about like why do we keep going over
this time time again it's a proxy for
electability but also we've all been in
primaries before it is difficult to find
policy differences in a primary when you
do find on a policy difference
it becomes the opportunity to
differentiate yourself from the other
candidate I mean we spent a month in
2008 and the primary arguing with
Hillary Clinton over a gas tax because
innate feeling it was stomach it was a
we made it a huge deal we made the
individual mandate in the health care
plan an enormous deal that is a primary
amidgett individual mandate vers
automatic enrollment right and so that
like this is why this kept these keeps
getting brought up because there aren't
a ton of other big issues going forward
where the candidates have big
disagreements I do think the into Europe
about where Warren should go from here I
think if she is more granular about
taxes and costs and and specific about
the plan it will also give her the
opportunity to point to the other
candidates and say you have trade-offs
in your plan as well like I don't know
that either Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth
Warren have been sharp enough on the
deficiencies in the auto trade-offs in
the other plans
because yeah there's trade-offs on
Medicare for all there's cost their
taxes they're also gonna know stuff
there's also trade-offs in Pete's plan
and Amy Klobuchar is planning and
Biden's plan right like they don't cut
costs in the health care system as much
as the Sanders and Warren plan their
plans are more expensive other people
are gonna pay more out-of-pocket in
their plans than they are in Sanders
more like they're just you know they
don't they don't the this was I think
the most sophisticated debate we've had
but it's still not really getting at the
pros and cons of a public option versus
Medicare for all and why they why they
actually do believe it is a better
system in which people are people
transition from private insurance I also
think the reason you see Peake going at
this is I do think I think Pete Pete and
Amy one thing I was thinking about when
I was watching them it's like this is
not Amy Klobuchar and people who judge
are really smart and Pete
specifically I think has thought a lot
about how can I be on the attack without
giving ground on policy how can I go
after Elizabeth Warren without seeming
like I'm throwing a wet blanket on
boldness it's same thing what he tried
to do with with better later on and it
is the this is the one place where the
script is kind of flipped for the past
three debates what we've seen is I think
the bolder more left candidates
attacking kind of the the the the
moderation and lack of kind of and the
nuance of some of the other candidates
on the stage and this is the one place
where that sort of is flipped where what
they're actually doing is they're saying
you're not being you're but they're
saying you're not being your you're
being political you're the political one
now I'm the honest bold change maker
your political and I think that's why
ultimately it's such a good attack and
why it's not sustainable for to stay
where she's at the other reason we go
around the bend on this is the debates
in the conversation the campaigns are
always focused on legislation you pass
which is really a dumb way to think
about the president so we know having
worked there that you can do so much
fourth executive authority not obviously
spent time time on foreign policy which
is something peasant do on their own but
there should be more of a conversation
but not about the bills that no
candidate is likely to pass in the form
in which their proposed and more about
how they would go about fixing the
healthcare system on their own how would
they repair or Obama care who will point
to these jobs which would be a very
refreshing question and debate you know
like asking them all let's say that
Mitch McConnell holds the Senate and
there's a Republican Senate what are you
gonna do to improve the health care
system be very interesting yeah I do
think back to your point love it there's
a difference between Klobuchar and Pete
which I want to raise here Klobuchar has
been moderate from the start this has
been her her whole theory of the case
maybe she hasn't made the argument as
sharply as she has she did last night in
the fourth debate which I thought she
was very sharp piete piete back in
February was arguing that Medicare for
all is the compromise position in the
center of the political debate because
it involves private hospitals and
doctors but public a public payer and a
lot of liberals and people on the Left
at all that's a very interesting way to
frame it for Pete Pete also said many
times about Republicans it's time to
stop worrying about what the Republicans
will say because they'll accuse us of
being crazy socialist no matter what
kind of policies we proposed so we might
as well propose the policies that are
right so the fact that he came out of
the gate and became so popular by being
this bold progressive truth teller and
now he's looking to be the more moderate
alternative to alternative to Joe Biden
I think opens up a vulnerability for him
as we go forward that Warren or Sanders
or some of the other more progressive
candidates could easily exploit yeah I
mean he probably benefits by being one
of many people attacking Elizabeth
Warren last night but I was surprised
that we saw so much angry Pete last
night because it served him well I don't
know that it did I mean look we'll find
out I don't know that did either I mean
Dan I saw you talking about this on
Twitter like he has two choices when
you're in third or fourth place you have
the choice of attacking and losing or
not attacking all right it's like you
have to do something to to shake up your
campaign but I mean to John's point I
think if you're going to attack
someone's honesty and credibility when
you yourself have changed significantly
on policy that's a challenge
and when you're gonna sound a little bit
harsh in tone when you have been sort of
bring everybody together this is why
they hate Washington stop the food
fights guy it felt a little disjointed
with the previous part of his campaign I
think I have a different take I don't
think he came off as angry I think this
was his best debate into the and I say
that not because his performance was as
good right cuz that's often how we
judges were like what Cory Booker was
incredibly likable and he had some good
moments he knows what his strategy is he
knows what he thinks his Lane is and he
executed it aggressively he is trying to
change the dynamic of a race he's really
of the most of the cancel stage there
have no plan to win right they just
really don't he has a path he has
figured it out that is a hundred percent
right he has really does history it has
required him to make some adjustments
from where he was but every candidate
does that right and like and I think it
like we should watch it very carefully
but there is an existential question
about how much these debates matter in
terms of changing public opinion but
they are very helpful in understanding
how candidates see the race the question
is are the adjustments natural and do
they seem authentic or do they seem
calculated and I don't and I don't know
you're right like that we are we are way
too in this we pay attention to this way
too closely it is very possible that for
most people who watch the debate they
just saw a really strong performance
from Pete he executed on a lot of
answers very very well but there's a
little bit of like you know for the last
couple weeks a lot of pundits out there
being like Pete's gotta get into that
moderate Lane Pete's gotta be more
aggressive in these debates and then he
shows up and he's in the moderate Lane
and more aggressive in these debates
you know I saw Liz Smith his
communications person on Twitter last
night tweet out she's like for all the
people who were saying that Pete
couldn't throw or take a punch
tonight's you know tonight's shows you
otherwise and it's like okay well that's
that's even more leaving into like all
right you told us to do this and now
we're doing well I also though I
actually think what's more important to
me is not did he throw a punch or not
and even not what were the attacks what
was he trying to say about Warren or
Beto or any other people he kind of
mixed it up with it's more what does it
say about him as a candidate right
so the the aggressiveness is a means to
get attention what is he saying so when
he goes after Elizabeth Warren about
being evasive he's saying I'm the honest
Midwestern truth teller when he goes
after Beto on guns he's saying I'm the
only one being honest about what we can
actually achieve right like you start to
see the attacks or a vehicle for the
message that he's now trying to say and
I think it's actually them like we have
seen debate after debate the more
moderate candidates struggle to figure
out how to not fall into the into seem
kind of you know squishy compared to
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders it's
happened again and again I think that
that to me is the take away on Pete that
he is thinking about how to be a angry
bold moderate I thought Pete was like
aggressive in compelling on Syria for
example yes NU'EST he was righteous
it was his best moment work and maybe
the best moment of the night yeah it was
really impressive I just do think like
you know he the the frontrunners in Iowa
are like 20 21 22 % he's sitting at 14
percent which is really kind of great
place to be at this point in the race
and there is a risk if suddenly all the
Warren people are like what the he
was being a dick to her last night and
all the Biden people think that and all
the beto people you know it's like there
is a risk to being too negative too
early oh for sure
looking at I think he was not as
aggressive as Castro was with Biden in
the last debate or as we're gonna talk
about Biden was with Warren at the end
of last night's debate over the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
which was like way too much I was bad
but there were there were like I think
Pete's walking a fine line here and I
think there were flashes of annoyance
and aggressiveness that were a little
much but he mainly kept it he mainly
kept it in the right place it was just
fuse tool that he was using it was like
it was like now is the time where I'm
gonna make this point by contrasting
myself with you but if you actually like
dig into the actual contry like what are
you actually saying here what is their
actual disagreement it's not really I
kind of it falls apart of your fingers
well that's my thing is that I think I
think Warren was maybe not as prepared
as she'll be next time to sort of tear
into some of Pete's inconsistency that
we handled I don't think she handled
them as well as she could last night I
think that's like
and for Pete which is now he has got
like the pages turned for a long time he
was the inspiring good news
non-threatening candidate right and now
people he is make he's making a play for
other people's supporters he's trying to
take down Biden and Warren because he is
the one candidate who is most likely to
benefit from the fall of both of them
yeah and so and if you talk to reporters
you talk to people my campaigns almost
universally the Canada in the campaign
that all the other campaigns are most
annoyed with his Pete yeah and so I
think there's gonna be several counter
punches of the next few days and we'll
have to see whether they're ready for it
alright Warren was also challenged on
her wealth tax by better or or canned
amy klobuchar let's take a listen I
think we need to be focused on lifting
people up and sometimes I think that
Senator Warren is more focused on being
punitive or pitting some part of the
country against the other instead of
lifting people up and making sure that
this country comes together around those
solutions I want to give a reality check
here to Elizabeth because no one on this
stage wants to protect billionaires not
even the billionaire wants to protect
billionaire good luck your idea is not
the only idea and when I look at this I
think about Donald Trump the guy that
after that tax bill passed when tomorrow
logo got together with his cronies and
said guess what you guys all got a lot
richer that was the one time in his
presidency he told the truth so we have
different ways
I would repeal significant portions of
that tax bill that helped the rich
including what he did with the corporate
tax rate including what he did on
international taxation you add it all up
you got a lot of money that one helps
pay for that child care protects that
dignity of work make sure we have decent
retirement and make sure that our kids
can go to thank you all said it is not
one so there was a this was a moment
where I was like I don't understand what
we're arguing about like just Elizabeth
Warren does not support the Trump tax
cuts you know it's like a strange see oh
go ahead go ahead
no I was gonna say what she is
spawning to is this idea that if you're
not for Warren's wealth tax than you are
pro billionaire which is an argument
that both Bernie who has a similar
wealth tax and Warren have made
certainly implicitly and sometimes
explicitly in global charts position
which I think she delivered very well
is there are other ways to get that and
no one here is Pro billionaire even Tom
Styer is taxing himself at fifteen
dollars in order to run a campaign
I thought clover chairs answer was the
sharper one there and and made sense
that was time what better sense per
second what amy clubbers are saying
there is we can do a lot of good by
repealing the Trump tax cuts but I don't
think anyone on that stage really
disagrees with that she made a
compelling argument for why we should
repeal those tax cuts but I don't
understand like because she because
she's just saying I don't think the
wealth tax works and and the way to get
the money we need is to repeal the Trump
tax cuts I guess I guess that's what I'm
sayin make an argument against Elizabeth
Warren's plan she made an argument for
something that everybody on that stage
would do anyway that's room no one has
no one except for betters weird argument
was talking about why the wealth heck
specifically is bad the reason that and
we didn't play the first part about
betters answer the reason that Beddoes
answer was so confusing and
basically nonsensical was they asked
Beto do you support a wealth tax and he
said yeah I think that's part of the
solution and then he was like I'm
worried that Elizabeth Warren is
punitive yeah he's trying to make the
point that Elizabeth Warren is too
divisive right he but he didn't have the
facts to like this is also Pete's
argument right he had this was implicit
at the entire debate and more in coal
Bashar's to another senators we need you
we need a candidate who can unify the
country when this is all over both to
win the election and fix all the
problems Trump did and the argument
which I think is unfair but is that
Warren is too divisive to do that I just
think the wealth tax is a terrible it is
way to make that argue maybe the worst
way to make the argument the polling on
the wealth tax is latest polling from
June as 66 percent of people in this
country think it's a good idea it'll
bring the country together specifically
Elizabeth the question is Elizabeth
Warren has proposed a well text was very
specific 66 percent agree thirty percent
disagree 55 percent of Republicans think
it's a good idea 43 percent disagree
Warren you could talk all day long about
the vulnerabilities of Medicare for all
and the position on taking Medicare for
all there are
no political vulnerabilities in being
for wealth tax you're just on you should
be in the Democratic party platform in
the twenty twenty mention brother
Elizabeth Warren the nominee or not
there's no data that shows it show me
data that shows it's politically
problematic I'm no policy wonk but I
think hammering billionaires is pretty
good politics
let's take em oh man even the
billionaire on stage thinks it's a good
Paul let's take a moment to say I think
it's so exciting because Tom Steyer has
spent forty eight million dollars to get
on that stage and it was so nice of
everybody to kind of make him part of it
you know because like when you pay for a
VIP ticket like that like sometimes you
don't know if you're really gonna feel
like it was worth it but then like the
fact that Amy made a joke about him like
made him part of the show I think was
really cool divisive tie I kind of liked
it
Platt ties I like I thought I think
there's a backstory of the time yeah he
wears it all the time wonderful later in
the night Warren was even challenged by
Kamala Harris on her reluctance to call
on Twitter to ban Donald Trump's account
let's take a listen this is a matter of
corporate responsibility Twitter should
be held accountable and shut down that
site it is a matter of safety and
corporate accountability thank you
senator Warren you can respond so Clark
I don't just want to push Donald Trump
off Twitter I want to push him out of
the White House that's our job but the
way join me in saying that is to be shut
down let's figure out know why it is
that we have had laws on the books for
antitrust for over a century and yet for
decades now we've all called on how the
big drug companies are calling the shots
in Washington big AG how up the gun
industry big tech you know we really
need to address the elephant in the room
and that is how campaigns are financed
so we didn't hear the very beginning of
that but that whole thing started with
Elizabeth Warren talking about so
breaking up Facebook and tech regulation
and then kamo sort of gets herself ready
and says you know senator Warren I
called on Twitter to take down the
account and and I saw that you refused
to join me on this why so she she
specifically decided to just kind of
take make a challenge to Elizabeth
Warren about this issue why do we think
she did this yeah I mean so I
I criticized this Lionel maybe a little
too harshly on Twitter her from some
folks uncommon loathe team look I like
calm Alerus a lot I thought she did a
really great line on the assault weapons
ban when she brought up reproductive
health I thought it was really
compelling and powerful
those are big important issues right the
fact that we have a white nationalist
president who is inciting violence
against others I think is a big
important issue that is worthy of
discussion on that stage but I think the
solution of shutting down his Twitter
account by appealing to jack dorsey is
as small and will not solve it i mean
just the hill you can go on facebook he
can go on instagram you can do big
rallies he can hold a press conference
right like we have to beat Donald Trump
by appealing to voters not by appealing
to Jack Dorsey in my opinion so right
but like this is a debate everything is
planned and designed for political
advantage and so even just from like a
tactical perspective
I don't think strategically this was the
issue I would have taken up against
Elizabeth Warren I'm not dismissing the
the issue of abuse of people on Twitter
but I don't think it's gonna drive a lot
of support her way
it seemed sort of pre-calculated and it
seems smaller than the issue of the way
facebook specifically has distorted our
democracy and like it wasn't also just
like one little moment right like when
you say something like that you know all
the reporters gonna pick it up because
they live on Twitter and I watched her
post debate interview on CNN and on
MSNBC and this was the focus of both of
those conversations like three questions
in a row on both networks so there's
just not the thing I would have wanted
to be talking about today love it I was
also pretty critical of it I was also
pretty critical of it and you know
actually you know Kara Swisher I talked
to her I loved her leave it about this
and she actually makes a really good
argument for why Trump Trump's account
should be taken down from Twitter
actually the argument she's really
making his Twitter should enforce its
rules and by any fair objective reading
of Twitter's policies Donald Trump
violates them on the regular don't let
me say that again don't run violates in
them all the time and he does so in a
way that incites violence and hate and
could even lead to like genuine harm and
and and threats and and and fear for
people and it does every single day
that's absolutely true
Elizabeth Warren was making a larger
argument about the structural problems
economy the ways in which big tech
companies and monopolies are influencing
our politics and influencing our society
and the dangers that that poses and the
importance of of regulation and common
law Harris was saying that Donald Trump
should be banned from Twitter and
Twitter should observe it's it's Terms
of Service fine but she was also using
it as an opportunity to draw contrast
right she didn't make an argument for
removing Trump from Twitter she took an
opportunity to try to kind of put
Elizabeth Warren on notice to draw a
contrast to make a moment out of it and
I found that ultimately not I just
didn't find it reflected well of Kamala
Harris who I think is a much better
candidate than that who's had incredibly
strong debates in the past who can make
a compelling argument against Donald
Trump who can be bigger and you know
that that's it
I yeah I think it's pretty simple if
Kamla Harris had said by the way you
know now that we're since we're talking
about tech big tech and it's
responsibility I've called on Jack to
shut down Donald Trump's account and I
hope everyone on this stage will join me
in saying that I don't think she would
have gotten any criticism over it I
don't think anyone were thought it was
well it seemed I never begrudge someone
for taking a position that they really
believe in and are passionate about you
know even if it's something that I
disagree with because they just
genuinely believed in it where I where I
worry is when candidates seem like they
are trying to calculate a moment or a
lane or a position or something like
that and I look I realize that's
campaigns you do that in campaigns right
but sometimes it's clumsier than other
times right like we just said that
Pete's I believe that Pete's transition
here has been a little clumsy and a
little obvious and I think in that
moment
Gamla Harris getting herself ready
turning to Elizabeth Warren pointing to
her to try to bring that the contrast
was what that was about
like I said if she had just stood up and
said everyone on the stage should join
me in this it would have been different
it would have been different it was a
stunt it is the definition of a stunt it
was a pre-planned moment for her to not
just make a case for something important
which is trying to deep platform violent
and racist rhetoric it was about trying
to take
at Elizabeth Warren and at a time when
Elizabeth Warren was making a pretty big
and important argument about large
forces in our society in our economy the
kind of the place where she's strongest
as a candidate and you know I just I
find it really disappointing because I
think one of the things we've talked
about many times is how strong a
candidate we believe common lahars to be
we saw that in the first debate when she
really you know struck at Joe Biden in a
way that showed the kind of strength
that she has as a candidate but what
we've also talked about all along is we
sometimes don't understand the larger
justification for why she's running for
president and the question I would have
for her first senator Harris would be
what does this say about the kind of
president you'll be that you think this
is the big issue to draw contrast with
on Elizabeth Warren I mean yeah and look
at every candidate that this is this is
the problem as we get this deep into the
primary is that all of the candidates
were not frontrunners are being told by
everyone they know and everyone who's
working for them everyone is consulting
them that like you got to draw a
contrast you got to have a moment to get
to get out front here and it's not just
combo like a lot of them are doing that
and you know it's just it's tough to
watch because so many of them seem
pre-planned and it's just like it's an
extra level of artifice on the process
that I think is you know it's just
obvious sometimes the only other thing I
would add to this very long conversation
about this topic is is if we're thinking
about what to be really concerned about
the behavior of tech companies as
relates to politicians and Donald Trump
it is Facebook's policy that allows
politicians most uh nobody Donald Trump
to lie in ads yeah right and basically
use Facebook's immense amount of data to
target disinformation at the voters at
Facebook tells them are most likely to
fall for that disinformation and that is
in like a massive threat to democracy
and I don't think that should be a point
of contrast between the candidates but I
think it is an issue that should be
raised in Facebook's you have to be held
accountable for and the president were
candidates can help do that
yeah for sure all right we talked about
Pete earlier who was particularly
dominant and and and more aggressive
than usual and in one of his most
praised moments of the night I think
rightly he and fellow veteran Tulsi
ever debated the role our military
should play in defending our Kurdish
allies in Syria let's take a listen
respectfully congresswoman I think that
is dead wrong the slaughter going on in
Syria is not a consequence of American
presence it's a consequence of a
withdrawal and II betrayal by this
president of American allies and
American values look I didn't think we
should have gone to Iraq in the first
place I think we need to get out of
Afghanistan but it's also the case that
a small number of specialized special
operations forces and intelligence
capabilities were the only thing that
stood between that part of Syria and
what we're seeing now which is the
beginning of a genocide and the
resurgence of Isis meanwhile soldiers in
the field are reporting that for the
first time they feel ashamed ashamed of
what their country has done so we didn't
here tells either side of that but what
what was wrong with Tulsi his argument
there it's all CGI a bird's argument
what was what's going on with her what's
she doing yes so she's saying that
Turkey is invading Syria and killing the
Kurds our allies because of a quote
regime change war that we've been waging
in Syria she said that a lot if she used
that phrase a lot yeah she referred to a
regime change war in Yemen as well
that's just not accurate right when
Obama was president he called on
President Assad to go but there was no
effort to you know march towards
Damascus and take him out that never
happened so she's just totally she's
just totally wrong in fact the
northeastern part of Syria has been
occupied by these Kurdish forces and
things have been relatively safe and
relatively calm there for you know since
basically the Kurds and the
international coalition waged this
campaign against Isis and took back
Raqqa and all these other places so I
don't know what the she's talking
and then she starts talking about how
the New York Times and CNN smeared her
for calling for attention so it's like
it's just so loaded with grievance and
to use this moment on the world stage
and to use this moment on this huge
stage when you're a veteran and you have
experience serving the military and in
you know some knowledge of the
and to make it about yourself in the way
you were treated by a CNN commenter just
so misses the point I couldn't believe
it yeah and I think the reason that
Pete's answer was so effective aside
from the fact that he just delivered it
really well and was strong and forceful
was anytime someone on stage makes an
argument that seems like Trump's
argument which she basically did it and
then you can say don't make Trump's
argument you know is a pretty powerful
moment and I think Pete seized on that
pretty pretty quickly yeah that's
interesting you know the the the first
applause line of the night I made fun of
him earlier but sharply but like Tom
Styer is the first time the audience
broke and agreed to applaud when they
were kind of I think maybe told not to
yeah and to the chagrin of the
candidates with their prepped applause
lines just sort of going where is our
laugh track yeah really tough but it was
when he said let's remember where every
person on the stage is a decent person
who would be a far better president
Donald Trump and we should all just keep
that in mind like it was it was a I
doubt a very gracious way for Tom Styer
to introduce himself and a reminder to
of like the stakes I think sometimes in
these debates especially with so many
people and say do you lose sight of that
and what Pete did was I think recenter
the focus on the actual stakes of this
and just how damaging Donald Trump is
and how unpatriotic he is and I think
that was incredibly powerful in probably
the best moment Pete's had across all
debates I agree another heated exchange
was between Pete and better--or Rourke
who continued the fight they've been
having about betos proposal to have the
government buy back every assault weapon
in America let's listen but when you
mayor good a judge described this policy
a shiny object I don't care what that
meant to me or my candidacy but to those
who have survived gun violence those
who've lost a loved one to an ar-15 an
ak-47 March for our lives formed in the
courage of students willing to stand up
to the NRA and conventional politics and
poll-tested politicians that was a slap
in the face to every single one of those
groups and every single survivor of a
mass casualty assault with an ar-15 and
an ak-47 you must buy them back alright
so uh who is more persuasive here on
this better or Pete I think
Beto did it with Pat betta was making an
argument about policy with passion Pete
was making an argument about legislative
strategy and how the Republicans react
to our proposals which as we've noted in
the terms of Pete's awkward transitions
is the exact opposite of the argument
that he's been he made through the
beginning of this campaign that we
should say what we believe and they make
that sale the voters and not try to
change our rhetoric to adjust to the
Republican talking points that are
coming yeah I mean I I think it's pretty
clear if you were to be inside the
Buddha touch campaign that none of them
were happy with Pete blurting out that
Beddoes position on this was chasing a
shiny object right like it's just a
dismissive thing to say it's also again
looking at the polling like we did in
the wealth tax
you know mandatory buybacks surprisingly
to me is a position that a little over
half the country agrees with right it is
not a very unpopular position it's in
fact a you know it's not like a whole
bunch of Republican sir for it I'm sure
it's harder and in swing states and
swing districts but it's not terribly
unpopular so to call it a shiny object
does open you up to charges of are you
too worried about the polls which Beto
accused him of being and then to come
back at that by saying don't I don't
need any lessons encouraged from you
referencing his military service struck
me is a little much particularly when
Beto started by started the debate by
praising Pete and Tulsi Gabbard for
their military service and was making a
point purely about polls and didn't even
say the word courage actually yeah seems
right do you know but but but it's
interesting like this was one of those
times where I was like I'm trying to
like Pete is so I just see what Pete's
trying to avoid saying in the answer and
it's and and you know the the like does
Pete think like if if he could make
policy in a vacuum would he support what
bet I was doing I don't know I don't
know the answer because he didn't want
to address the actual substance of it he
didn't want to actually said he did
which was funny he was like this isn't
about the politic this is about the
policy which I don't think is workable
well which is interesting right like and
then it was this this sort of kind of
confusing conversation about the
enforcing of the law which I found like
very
weird question weird weird question and
weird conversation that really I think
was pretty hard to follow and didn't
leave much of an impression but it's
interesting I think the thing that I
contrasts with is what Pete said earlier
about like you know after Donald Trump
is gone the country will be incredibly
divided do you really want to do you
really want to create even more division
by by going for Medicare for all I got I
think that's a more honest argument
right basically saying like I don't
think it's worth the political capital
to do Medicare for all I'd rather do a
public option and something else I find
that I think at least worthy of a debate
but his his pushback I just it was just
sort of a diffuse I'm being honest
you're being politically unrealistic
your boldness is a sign of ordinary
politics my lack of boldness is a sign
of the fact that I tell it like it is
but it just wasn't telling it like it is
because he was you know dancing through
the various pitfalls of what he was
saying I'm sure there were people who
think that the the courage line was was
strong and well delivered and you know
compelling and set speed up well to
throw a punch at Donald Trump that may
or may not involve his military service
there probably others who think that
better O'Rourke's framing of making this
about victims of gun violence and March
for our lives felt bigger right and made
it not about him or the politics of the
moment big like stepping back like I
think they both landed some blows it got
them some attention which I think
probably net benefits both campaigns but
like longer-term better Roark has done a
lot of great work on raising the issue
of gun violence and gun control in this
campaign if he cannot find another
chapter in this campaign I mean another
set of issues to talk about it will be
over and they need to know that you know
like these candidates like they all have
to make the next debate or they're
probably their campaign is not gonna be
able to raise any more money and they
will essentially have to shut down and
like if I were his team I would be
trying to figure out what is that next
thing how do I broaden this a message
that I've been delivering on guns about
a whole other set of issues I think
there's a real debate to be had about
the feasibility of mandatory buybacks
right like it is a position that I
support I think Democrats should have a
gate but there are there are real
questions how you can get these guns
what's the process the penalty for
people not doing it yeah
and like the even Elizabeth Warren right
and Bernie Sanders have not adopted this
position right so this isn't what
necessarily a progressive litmus test
then also we should note that Castro
made a very interesting case for made an
interesting point on this which is I
don't want to give the police another
reason to be going door-to-door in
communities especially communities of
color poor communities with you know the
problems we have with police violence
trying to take back guns which is not an
argument I heard before and you know
interesting that erased it I think there
are two elements of this I think it is
good when Democrats take positions that
move the Overton Window on these things
I think this has done that because it is
insane not just that people can buy
ar-15s and other weapons of war but
there's tens of thousands of them
running around it you know rolling
around in our streets my prime with
Pete's argument is is my most and is the
Democratic argument that most annoys me
it is it is 90s pre-obama argument that
we cannot there are certain things we
cannot say because they will accept they
will upset Republican voters that if we
say this they will turn out against us
or it'll make the NRA want to spend more
money or the Koch brothers want to spend
more money in any stray any discussion
around 2020 it doesn't begin with the
premise that every Republican dollar
will be spent every Republican donor
will every Republic sorry every
Republican voter will turn out is wrong
we should just say we believe one person
who's made that argument quite
eloquently is Pete Buddha yet again it's
Peter just rolled out thirty to fifty
feral hogs said what the you gonna
do about that it looked the same the
same people the same strategists and
pundits who told me that he's got to be
more aggressive and be in the moderate
lane were also concerned when he made
that argument about Republicans are
gonna call us crazy socialist anyway so
we might as well say what we believe and
they were concerned about then and then
they've been pushing him to the moderate
lane and then he did it why I mean they
do may be aligned in this specific way
that he does genuinely believe in a
moderate approach to governing and it is
sincere belief that that's what we
should be doing but I don't until we get
to pack in the course well but I love it
see that's interesting because if Pete's
a peace only arguments last night
I'm for my medicare-for-all wanna plan
because I just think it's too expensive
to do I think it's a better plan I think
it's a better plan
I don't like mandatory buybacks only
because I think it's unworkable then he
would be fine there the I would not be
criticizing it right he keeps bringing
in it's too divisive it's a shiny object
he keeps bringing the politics of this
into his argument and that's where his
problem is because previously he said
that politics shouldn't matter if his
only critiques of these progressive
positions are policy based that's
totally fine bringing the politics into
it is refuting himself from earlier and
I'm trying to be there anyway to square
it is there any way you can actually
make this consistent from what he said
before about not adopting Republican
talking points and then not wanting to
be too divisive I mean every candidate
has this problem yeah right Elizabeth
Warren has made not you know not doing
fundraisers a big part of it she did a
bunch of fundraisers you know they gave
her her first ten million dollars in
seed money for this campaign
Bernie has gun positions that don't that
he's tried to score the circle on
commonly Harris has supported Bernie's
co-sponsor Bernie's medicare-for-all
bill now it's a different like yeah
everyone has this problem the question
is how well is Pete going to be able to
execute this mm-hmm
and are people going to effectively call
him out on it
right and that is if you know everybody
did we call them up and it's your
problem Democratic primary 2020
all right listen about Bernie Sanders
who appeared in this debate just a few
weeks after suffering a heart attack
he got questions about his health and
his age but he was also very sharp and
energetic in this debate I thought here
he is challenging Joe Biden's record
about working with Republicans and
getting things done but you know were
you also got done tonight saying this is
a good friend what do you say to your
friends country you got trade agreements
like NAFTA PNTR with China done which of
course was four million jobs you seen
after Terry Boston I'll say one thing
about that exchange we've been talking
about sort of the right way to go after
by and a lot of people have gone after
by
in a whole bunch of different ways in
this primary to me going after his
policies and his record especially Iraq
trade deals the bankruptcy bill is I
think probably with voters the most
effective way to go after Joe Biden a
lot of people are waiting I think a lot
of people think that foreign policy and
experience is Biden strength right
certainly Joe Biden does he set it last
night on stage the challenge for him is
that when he was asked last night to
articulate what he would do differently
in Syria it wasn't the most coherent
thing I've ever heard it nor was it
particularly compelling he often makes
the point about I've met with Putin I've
met with everyone like I'm maybe that
works it's certainly simple for voters
to understand but like I didn't come
away blown away by the net impact of
that experience and then Bernie
consistently drops the hammer on
the Iraq war vote and that he has not
figured out how to counter that yet and
we're on like round three or four of
that exact same criticism yes do you
think voters still care about that it's
a great question I'm sure it's did no
I'm sure it's diminishing in the minds
of some voters and especially for
younger voters who are you know have
aged into the electorate and weren't
really around during the Iraq war debate
maybe less so but I think there's
probably it's like issue five or six
after one through four being
electability but I do think that there
are a bunch of anti-war activists in
Iowa that still can be pretty
influential um what do we think of
Bernie's performance in general before
we get to Biden stuff great we should
get hit get his doctors yeah look good I
mean he was he was really strong this
was a very important debate for Bernie
because his campaign because he'd been
he'd fallen behind more in the polls he
there'd been some polls to show him
getting closer to the body to the you
know single digits in some cases and
they've been the sort of narrative of is
this over for his campaign and so he
needed a strong showing and he has put
together he had really good cash on hand
numbers to come out he had a good from
the highest of anyone else is the most
cash on him he had a good debate
performance and he's gonna cap off this
week with the endorsements of aoc
proceeded to leap in ohon omar at a
rally and queens and so he has
reasserted himself as a force in this
race and that was an incredibly
important if he had had a
like a mediocre debate performance it
could have been pretty devastating to
his chances Bernie is not going anywhere
that that was that was that much clearer
from us and he is in this for the long
haul and and look I think we back to the
medicare-for-all discussion his response
I thought on medicare-for-all punching
back at Biden and Budaj and Klobuchar
was even stronger than Warren's last
night because he had this moment where
he said the Democratic Party has to have
the guts to take on the insurance
companies and the drug companies and it
was really and I saw someone someone was
conducting a focus group somewhere of
Democratic voters and he said that the
focus group of voters much preferred
Bernie's response actually to Warren's
response in the tube to Pete and Amy
which I thought was interesting yeah I
think we saw it's funny because before
long before we got to the health
question right you can ask Biden and
Bernie and how health questions all you
want they won't answer those questions
not in a specific bit I'm sorry miss it
you can ask Bernie and Biden health
questions they will answer those
questions not in that moment but in how
they perform right that is what we were
looking at and Bernie was incredibly
strong I thought you know the moment I
actually I forgot to mention which I
think is important is Elizabeth Warren I
think for the first time connected she
made an argument against private
insurance she talked about how in her
work in bankruptcy you discover just how
how many medical related bankruptcies
are for people with insurance which I
think is one of the most compelling and
important arguments for Medicare for all
not just a public option but what for
Medicare for all not just a public
option but what Bernie did I think in
the health care section and I think what
Bernie did was there was show why his
he's so strong and I think sometimes I
myself do this that we all do this you
get into the kind of the tactics in the
strategy but then you realize wait what
actually makes a candidate incredibly
strong in a debate is they have a
compelling and faithful rationale for
their candidacy that makes them
unassailable right you know Bernie can
make that incredibly strong argument
because it is something he has said
forever it is consistent it is
incredibly strong it speaks to his
values it speaks to his genuine
philosophical disagreement with the kind
of politician Joe Biden is and it means
that the candidates are debating not on
garnish not on little things not on
things on the outskirts but like they're
facing each other kind of chest to chest
big stuff versus big stuff and and to me
that's I think
Blaine's why we've seen Bernie and
Warren and Biden and other they may just
I was like you know and I think that's
why we've seen Bernie have such strength
so at one point Biden and Warren tangled
over the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau let's listen to that clip I
agreed with the great job she did and I
went on the floor and got you votes
I got votes for that bill I convinced
people to vote for it so let's get those
things straight to Senator Warren doing
a response
I am deeply grateful to President Obama
he fought so hard to make sure that
agency was passed into law and I am
deeply grateful to every single person
who fought for it and who helped pass it
into law but understand did it he'll
that job you job thank you but
understand this it was a dream big fight
heart people told me go for something
little go for something small go for
something that the big corporations will
be able to accept I said let's go for an
agency that will make structural change
in our economy and Obama said I will
fight for that and he sometimes had to
fight against people in his own
administration
mayor booter big structural change why
do you think Joe Biden got so mad there
I don't know if that was so bad it'd be
bad the angle I was watching we were all
watching from I think he gestures at her
it looks so aggressive it sounded so
petty
and so condescending of all the things
to grab credit for I don't know why he
would lurch for credit for the formation
of the CFPB what are you doing man and
her response was poised and devastating
and like he he really had a bad moment
there
I'm surprised it's not getting more
attention because I mean and look it
seems excist it seemed khandhas look we
we criticized Castro for going too hard
to Biden last debate and I thought this
was the same kind of aggressive tone
it's the same thing and it was bad you
know and I just and also it's like I'm
talking even thinking about voters Minds
right like I got these votes for you for
like an agency that's good for everyone
that we all agree on like why are we
making it about like I got these like as
if like he was reluctant but because he
was a good soldier he wouldn't got the
votes voters like well versed in the
whip count process talking about have
you believe you've been robbed of your
credit for Elizabeth Warren's signature
achievement I know what it is he's
thinking to himself I have been a good
progressive Democrat my whole life I was
a good foot soldier in the Obama
administration I did everything I was
told and now I'm running for president
everyone's telling me I'm this corporate
stooge moderate who doesn't care about
anything that's what's in his mind in
the mind of his campaign and every once
in a while there's these you know he
can't he can't control these flashes of
anger where he you know talks about that
and how angry is putting aside Biden's
reaction to Warren which i think is
problematic for all the reasons you guys
said I think the point he's trying to
make is it was really hard to
pass the bill that CFPB was in yeah and
whenever there was trouble getting
something through the Senate bian would
go to the Senate and he would deliver
the votes he did that on a whole range
of things and I think Ryan grim from the
intercept tweeted he covered the CFPB
for a year or so and never never ran
into Biden in that process I think it is
true that in the formation the policy
development the staffing of the CFPB
that was not something Biden was
involved in it wasn't in his policy
portfolio but it is true when we needed
votes from a pretty conservative group
of Democratic senators Biden delivered
those only he made his point well but
it's like that is true it also has a
point that came out like if he had been
directly accused by Elizabeth Warren or
a moderator of you didn't care about the
CFPB or you weren't there on that fight
and then he responded say actually I was
out there getting those votes it'll be
totally legitimate to say that but it
sort of came out of nowhere it
the it was responding to the meta
conversation right there not the actual
that's exactly which is which was the
reason it was a little right I mean just
you know passing dot like it's it's and
there is there is a real you know there
is a real lesson right that Biden could
offer that right that like passing
dodd-frank right the Elizabeth Warren
brought an incredibly bold and
innovative idea it's actually I to me
it's before long for Elizabeth Warren
was a candidate to me just from our time
in the White House it was always to be
an inspirational case of like of
democracy because here she was just a
thinker an intellectual who had this
idea for an agency that could protect
consumers and it through politics
through the Obama administration through
victories and elections like there was a
administration that was willing to
embrace it and fight for it and then it
took an incredible amount of horse
trading and difficult politics to get
dodd-frank through in fact the Consumer
Financial Protection Agency had to be
downgraded to a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau because of Trump
because in the fight to get it through
you had to make compromises that look
downgraded it just a bit to put it
inside of another agency just to get it
done and then after that Elizabeth
Warren who was supposed to run the
agency got dinged and so she wasn't able
to even run the agency she created again
just because of just just bargaining and
politics that takes place which I think
Joe Biden has a case to to make um why
that's important and why is expertise in
it what we think of Biden's performance
overall I mean I do think that he had a
few really strong moments when he was
asked about his age and he said you know
one of the reasons I think I'm running
for president is because my age and with
age comes wisdom another when when you
know Tom you were talking about this
before in policy his record on foreign
policy you could you could ding a few
times but when he said look I've met
with Berta whan I've met with Putin I've
been as you know like it the he did a
better job last night than usual I
thought talking up his experience and in
his wisdom that came with experience
right so I thought he had some good
moments there but again I think on other
answers he you know some of the other
answers I couldn't follow again
I just couldn't follow it Mike I have a
ton of respect for Joe Biden I think
he's incredibly smart he is experienced
he does have wisdom that comes for age
but like I just can't grade him on a
curve you know he
shitty week I'm waiting for him to walk
into one of these debates and seem sharp
and on his toes and on top of everything
and to do it with a smile like the Joe
Biden who debated Paul Ryan and Sarah
Palin did with that big beaming Joe
Biden smile that could make every every
you know political shot go down easier
and instead you get the like pointing at
Elizabeth Warren shouting moments which
I think are just gonna nullify anything
else that happened in it yeah I think
Biden has begun to make a turn right and
is not a smooth turn but it like moving
an ocean liner but he is deciding to
make his experience an asset right which
is something we've been talking about a
lot yeah be sort of bidding know like
trying to allied the Aged question and
now he's leaning into it in a way which
is I've been here to do all these things
because I have this experience to do all
these things I am the person best suited
not only to beat Trump but to fix the
problems that Trump has created and
that's it that's a very good argument to
make I think the the problem that for
Biden that Tommy has pointed I think
very rightfully pointed out is Biden has
lost the happy part of happy warrior
yeah and that is very understandable
like his family has been in the cross
hairs from the present United States for
the last two weeks
mm-hmm his son who is incredibly
important to him I mean Joe Biden's
connection to his children is is so
incredibly close in born in tragedy and
his son who has struggled in his life
you know in in struggle in the public
eye because whose father was is now
being tweeted about by the president
states like I think I'm not trying to
grade him on a curve I'm just going to
create context for why yeah we may not
see the smile and the ability to laugh
the stuff off that you otherwise they
we've seen from Biden in the past yeah
but I also think it's and I don't think
this is necessarily an age thing because
Bernie Sanders is a year older and just
had a heart attack a couple weeks ago
and was as sharp as they come in this to
be but it's just this I don't know if
any usually happens to Biden when he's
getting a little angry about things that
the he becomes a little less coherent on
some of these answers like he almost
gets so ready to go that he just starts
you know blabbing a little bit it's just
I think you I don't know in Outlook it
may not caused him among his supporters
but it you know we can all see the trend
in the race and he does need to sort of
expand the universe of people who were
supporting him at some point or at least
not lose anymore but I don't know I
don't know if it serves him well I think
he's got to find a way to be sharper
he's I've been involved with prepping
Biden for TV shows interviews in the
past and he's someone who's pretty
resistant to prep
I mean he's he is he knows what he wants
to say and he feels like he knows how to
say it better and he's usually right
he clearly has submitted to the prep
process here and it makes sense he as
we've said before he is the best debate
preppers in all of democratic politics
working forum but it sort of feels like
he has a hundred and twenty seconds
worth of things to say and he's trying
to get him in the 60 seconds and he
knows that and it's like Holly knows
like in that answer where he was going
through his accomplishments which should
have been a very very powerful moment he
tried to fit so many things in that you
like saying you accomplished 12 things
is not twice as good as saying you
accomplished six things right and I
think that has been a problem and you
know maybe as these debates go on he'll
be able to get into a more natural
balance between having the strategic
benefits of being involved with a very
good debate prep process and still
maintaining the authenticity that is has
been courting his political appeal for
decades now a few more candidates who we
haven't talked about yet we should how
effective was cory booker's strategy of
constantly calling for democratic unity
and focusing on Donald Trump that was
that was pretty much his play last night
who wants it I mean I'll take it Cory
Booker once again was great yeah he was
likeable
he had moments that cause people to clap
and as far as I can tell we did nothing
to advance his path to the presidency I
do not understand his theory of the case
his plan to win how to changed a dynamic
of the race where he is at three percent
of the Bulls and I know you know we've
said this before his campaign says
organize organize organize and that
isn't kind of important but you have to
organize for something you have to have
a rationale and it just is not I have
from the very beginning as someone who
really likes cory booker a lot and the
key offers a lot both in this
presidential race and in american life i
have yet to figure out what he'd like
what is his case for himself to be
president why him over everyone else
I get the world everyone on the stage is
a good person everyone in here is better
than Donald Trump
I get the I respect the sentiment and I
respect the strategy there I do think
though you know and so like maybe it did
work for him hasn't a date but maybe it
did this time I do think though that you
know as we were you know we pointed out
that Pete has sort of changed strategy
over time and it's a bit discordant it's
worth noting that after the last debate
I believe cory booker went on TV and
said that you know people are worried
that joe biden is too old and might
fumble the ball before he gets over the
goal line right which is a pretty stark
contrast to the tone we see on the
debate stage so like to me it's
interesting he always seems sort of like
kind of annoyed or bemused by the the
question it's like a Todd it rubs me an
odd way but I do very I really like him
as well he feels like an outside outside
observer to this presidential campaign
yeah there was a moment during one of
the little um you know scuffles I think
one with Pete and and and Booker comes
in once again to say see this is what
I'm talking about you know we can't do
da you know we have to we have to not do
Donald Trump's work for him or whatever
the specific line was and it was an
opportunity I think to kind of enter the
debate right say what you think say why
you think we're the gun's thing it was
on the guns yeah say why you think mayor
Pete's that's what you think
you your face says that you think mayor
Pete's well he said it last
week he also thinks writing these other
things that Beto came to the issue too
recently yeah he has problems
interesting interesting things to say
hear them and and I and I guess like to
me I think I've always found the promise
of cory booker as a candidate quite real
and i think it's and it's something he
he kind of shows you little glint Sauve
and and and when he talks about love and
and embracing people you disagree with
and a deeper understanding of what it
means to be part of politics like i have
i just you know i talked to him adamant
when i when i interviewed him like I
just I keep waiting for like the the
meat on the bone that says okay if you
have this different take show me what it
means in policy show me what it means in
politics show him what it means and how
you conduct herself as a candidate and
because he sort of stays to these
platitudes in the debate you never see
it and I've just been waiting to see it
and once again I didn't
yes if I were trying to guess what the
Booker campaign strategy is and what
what Booker strategy was last night
they're all trying to become the
alternative to the third alternative to
Biden and Warren Bernie fourth
alternative right and Booker's cases I'm
gonna be the one who is all about
bringing this country together and not
attacking my fellow candidates I mean
like you said he has not been there all
along because he has been taking shots
here and there but last night clearly
his strategy was I'm gonna be the guy
that when all these people are fighting
and taking shots at Warren or buying
whatever else I'm gonna stand back and
people are not gonna want that people
are gonna want someone who can bring
someone together and talk about love and
talk about unity and all that kind of
stuff so I think I think that's his plan
whether it works
who knows who Leanne Castro was he'd
been more aggressive in past debates
last night I think he was much more
subdued how do we think that went I
think it's I think subdued is hard at
this stage you know I think your your
job basically is to get attention one
way or the other I like look let me say
that differently I think your job with
these debates is to get attention and to
stand out in a way that earned some news
coverage or as compelling I think that
he overcorrected the wrong direction in
the last debate and was a probably a
little too harsh and it didn't wear well
but I think he probably needed to do a
little more yeah I think as someone who
had criticized him in the past was being
too aggressive
I really liked the bullying in Castro
that showed up last night I thought he
did a great job
I thought he even had a lot of really
strong answers and I thought you know I
thought but it again it's the question
for you brought up tin for Castro for
Booker for Beto for a lot of these
candidates like what's your plan to get
out of 2/3 percent and I think this
isn't an easy it's not an easy thing to
solve right because if it was you'd just
be like okay attack other candidates and
that's how I get it but there are risks
with attacking other candidates there
are risks with being too aggressive that
we've talked about a lot on the other
end of the spectrum there's risks with
not standing out and just giving pad
answers so and you're when you're in
these campaigns you're like how do we
get attention
tommy said without coming across as too
aggressive or unfair or too calculated
and that's a really tough challenge at
this stage of the race it's really tough
and it's tough not because just it's
it's not really a tactical question part
of the issue is that the three
frontrunners represent the kind of broad
ideological divisions of the democratic
movement you have Joe Biden representing
the center-to-center left you have
Bernie representing the left and you
have Elizabeth Warren toward Bernie but
but basically saying that I will you
know she left pretty pretty no but but I
was a pretty left while travels friend
friend to a friendly left establishment
friendly left saying I you know she's
capitalist Bernie's a Democratic
Socialist but I'm but I'm but I'm not a
moderate like Joe Biden and so into that
I think all of these other candidates
have struggled for months and months to
find a way to get into that conversation
and show why they are uniquely suited to
be the nominee and I think we see
various efforts to and rang and rang on
stage again last night continues to
raise a good amount of money continues
to pull higher than some of the other
candidates on the stage last night what
do we think how did it how did gang do
with the possible exception of Donald
Trump running on racism
Andrew yang is his single most sorry and
reing is the most successful single
issue candidate in history yeah I mean
he well they all talked about income
like yeah he ran he put that in the
debate he made that a debate issue and
it was a very serious discussion for in
front of what I assume was millions of
Americans and put it squarely in the
middle of the policy discussion in the
country and for that he should be
applauded and apparently Elizabeth
Warren went up to him after the debate
last night and said could you please
send me the data on you be high and the
details of your plan everything because
I mean if he was pumped about it dan
what you just said about Steve Forbes is
disgraceful and I think we need to yeah
like I like me want to make this but he
voted for Steve big for Forbes head look
fine tax Tommy you gotta like you you
see these debates we all offer some
subjective opinion about what we think
happened or what voters will think but
then there's a bunch of data in terms of
fundraising and polling and Andrew
is an unmitigated success story you
can't like in rien
two years ago was a guy with with one
eye one big idea about universal basic
income and now he's duking it out on
stage with Elizabeth warned about
automation like that's pretty
unbelievable yeah it's also yeah it's
interesting and we got you know these
debates can be very frustrating but just
stepping back we've seen actually really
good and interesting shifts in the
policy discussion as a result of this
primary whether it's sort of ubi leading
to a discussion of ubi versus a jobs
guarantee both incredibly big would be
incredibly bold and and and new policies
the well tax I think Beto has moved the
debate on guns I think Julian Castro
moved the debate on immigration we can
be critical of some of the ways in which
he's moved it but he's certainly in
police reform and police reform as well
and I'm forgetting a few but but we've
seen that in this debate like there has
been you know genuine policy focus in
these campaigns and actually think one
of the one of the interesting things in
these debates I think partly because I
think moderators have been a little
cowed by Twitter and afraid to think
afraid to be called frivolous the debate
questions have been such big policy
questions it's why we have big
immigration questions big healthcare
questions but actually there hasn't been
a lot of like Ellen and George Bush well
not perfect but uh I think one of the
reasons we've seen it stay at these sort
of big policy levels because there's
been such a focus on policy from the
candidates and finally let's end where
we began Tom Steyer okay first first
debate first time on the stage what do
we think how do we how did Tom Steyer do
he did good I mean he I mean he did like
he like he has a message he delivered it
if he it's a lot like Warren and
Bernie's message very close there's
something interesting about a
billionaire saying tax me more it's the
Roosevelt traitor to their cat class
yeah argument from pretended to be yeah
a lot of eye contact not sure how a lot
of eye contact with me specific staring
into your soul me and Tommy sties were
locking eyes all night long I like would
told them like look on that stage you're
not talking to the other candidates for
the audience right talking right into
that camera which is you know the piece
of advice that you do give people who
are prepping for debate but he took that
advice and he ran with it again in terms
of just like success right along the
same lines and you yang
Tom Steyer spent loads of money to
run ads and get a million dollars
god-self on the stage so he had a very
expensive strategy executed it and here
yes yeah I mean as also I'm very gleich
we've seen I'm very glad that the
billionaire on that stage is not saying
we need to be nicer to billionaires more
moderate in the center it's not the kind
of results right it's not the unfit
right sign Howard Schultz it's not I'm
fiscally I'm fiscally conservative but
socially liberal it's it's actually I
think a bet that basically you want what
a it's it's implied but it's basically
saying you want what Elizabeth Warren
his offering but you don't think she can
win take a look at me I'm a businessman
like Trump
yeah but the tough the right you don't
think she can win is because you have
all the same policy positions as her
basically you don't think she can win
because she's a woman I mean I'm not
saying stomp Tom Sawyer I said that but
I what I didn't get from him last night
is what is why you and not Bernie
Sanders or Elizabeth Warren what
specifically are you gonna do
differently than the two of them since
your message is so similar what you know
what qualifications do you have I guess
he said you know I started a business so
if you like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren's message and policies but you
like the idea of a businessman in the
White House then I guess you got Tom's
like someone who can make the arguments
they're making from a while pushing well
while batting down the argument that
they don't understand how the world
works right that's sort of that's the I
think the the fair reading of it I mean
we've had basically like a full day
worth of debates in this primary yeah
true hours at a time and like with the
exception of Klobuchar and Pete tonight
almost no other candidate who's not in
the top three has had any success making
argument for why them why not the others
and so yeah the fact that Tom Sarah did
not do that only does not mean that he
is failing or others have succeeded he's
just doing exactly as well as most
everyone else in the same tier he's in
well which brings me to the final
question do we think this debate you
know well do we think this debate will
change the race in any way has this
changed the race or reshaped the race in
any way I you know I do think it's it's
notable that both Budaj edge and
Klobuchar came out swinging last night
and that's gonna get most of the
attention today most of the headlines
today are moderates fight back last
night
which has been what moderates have been
trying to do for the last three debates
and haven't really done successfully
until last night so I do wonder if it
was a bit more of an important debate
than usual I mean it's a preview for
what's to come we I think we see the
race has been the exact same play since
the very beginning with the exception of
Elizabeth Warren rising from 3rd or 4th
to 2nd and now we're seeing I think what
the campaign can look like I think for
the first time we've seen people land a
punch on Elizabeth Warren who otherwise
has been untouched and flawless I still
think by any measure she was excellent
last night delivered her points but
there was some weakness you could see
some cracks where people might be able
to exploit it over time and so I don't
think this debate is gonna change the
poll numbers but I think we know more
about how the candidates are thinking
about the race and we have at any point
before now I agree all right say one
more thing I sure can
I think the most important thing that
happened last night with the most
consequences for the race is not what
happened the debate it's the release of
the q3 talk about that and which showed
Bernie Sanders were the most money
Elizabeth Warren and Pete Budaj edge
behind behind but was still what they
with in the 20s and millions of dollars
and Joe Biden Co frontrunner as you
called him with less than nine million
dollars which is shocking stuff
devastating like Joe Biden's path the
nomination is to be able to organize and
advertise in the Super Tuesday states
because he because of his high name
recognition his how well-known he is in
the party he is the abilities broad base
of support his path animation called
racking up Delic racking up delegates
and everything that happens after the
first four states and right now he does
not have enough money to run a full
campaign in two of the four states let
alone four states and everything that
comes after and he has shown zero
ability to raise money online so he does
not have the capacity that a Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren or even if he
Buddha just would have to refill his
coffers and I think I think that is a
fundamental game changer it's going to
cause the bank to make some very serious
very hard decisions about where he's
gonna play one of these candidates had
just bit the head off in Ellen doll-like
Ozzy Osbourne spit it out on stage this
thing would be over
that last question Ellen who's your
weirdest friend skip climate like
climate cheats no reproductive race no
weirdest fellow cool everyone say John
McCain all at once skip the rest of the
question I don't know cane and and then
and then for Cory Booker or someone who
ate meat Sarah Lazar is predicted like
verbatim amazing John your wife Emily
said that I'm her weirdest friend yeah
that's always been true that's always
been true I think all of our John McCain
think that was part of your speech at
our wedding that's true we're like when
a turtle and a rabbit become friends at
the zoo alright everyone wait again we
will have no pod Thursday because it's
Wednesday and then we will we'll see you
next
