welcome to pod save America live taking
your questions as always what's up I'm
retweeting the stream now technically
I've deleted Twitter from my phone
however it turns out that there is an
integrated slack Twitter that I can also
use so I've sort of got a workaround
pertinent information from John love it
also with us as always is Priyanka Arab
in hey everybody asking us all of your
questions including some of her own yeah
I was gonna start with a little more on
love it's new Twitter policy but maybe
we'll kick off with the mullah report
get into some of that stuff and then
circle back to this how do we go back to
that slack Twitter integration
yeah I'm intrigued I wanted no more all
right let's hear it okay first off we're
coming in hot
where should our expectations be for
tomorrow with the release of the quote
Muller report guilty done there you have
it
look I think the best thing to do is to
skim it quickly read everyone's Twitter
reactions RT the ones you like ignore
the ones you don't and that's about it
what do you think John I think that'll
work I look you know let's see what it
feels like I come back to how it feels
you know when it's a real tactile
politics when well you know emotionally
tactile I don't you know not grabbing
shoulders the I would say we will see
them on a report we know how Fox News is
gonna respond we know how Donald Trump
is gonna respond I think we won't know
until we see it how mainstream
journalists respond and then I'm eager
to see just how surprised we are I guess
that's what it boils down to how
surprised are we what's now in there
yeah I think the first everything
everyone's going to look at the
obstruction section first since that is
the part that we still that seems most
unclear right we know that there was
evidence on both sides evidence the
Trump the President did obstruct justice
and commit
and evidence that maybe he did not and
Muller declined to say whether the
president should be indicted or not and
obviously bar decided that he should not
so looking to see that evidence we know
that there's gonna be some new evidence
of obstruction in there that hasn't been
reported already and then look at the
section of the report that's about the
links between the Trump campaign and
Russia we know that there was no or at
least Muller and Barr decided there were
no additional crimes to prosecute in in
terms of connections between Trump and
Russia but clearly there were links and
connections there were a lot of cases
that Muller took on including the
Russian trolls the hacking all kinds of
stuff that was not initially under
Muller's purview the Flynn case all this
guy stuff and he took it on probably
because there were links between the
Trump campaign and Russia which was his
charge at the beginning and it will be
interesting to see why he declined to
prosecute some of these people and some
of the people in the Trump campaign or
or including Don junior people like that
and what evidence there was or wasn't of
course the other thing we have to look
out for is Barr did say he will redact
four categories of information on the
report basically he will reject anything
that's classified he'll react anything
that hurts the reputation of third
parties though he has said he will not
read add anything to hurt the reputation
of Donald Trump himself and he will
redact anything that the grand jury
information and anything that will
interfere with ongoing investigations so
those are four categories and we don't
know how yeah we don't know how much
he's gonna redact and I also think one
we don't really know what this report is
going to look like some of the stories
have said that there were summaries that
Robert Muller wrote for the purpose of
being released so that each of these
sections of the report have this public
facing synopsis and Robert Muller is a
very smart person who knows what the
public should and should not see it
seems and if if bar goes in and starts
redacting the parts that
Moeller wrote to be public I think that
will be an important part of the
controversy and one last thing to keep
in mind
Robert Muller's job was not to write a
report that revealed everything he found
out about Russia and its role in the
2016 election this report is about why
he decided to prosecute and then decline
to prosecute a whole bunch of different
individuals so just understanding the
scope there could be a lot of
information that he discovered through
the course of his investigation that's
not on the report because the very
narrow charge was write a report that
tells you why he decided to prosecute
some people why you decided to not
prosecute other people regardless of
what happens and is in the actual report
what's redacted was not do we think the
push from Democrats to get the full on
redacted report was still going to be
ongoing after this I believe it will and
I also think that mean the other thing
we have to keep in mind is that we might
the public might not see everything in
the report but Barr and may decide to
brief the heads of various House
committees which include Democrats and
Republicans on some of the more
classified information
so we'll see after the reports released
if Adam Schiff for example is happy with
the information that is both in the
report and that he may be receiving
privately from the Attorney General but
I do think either way you know the
Democrats will probably push to make
sure that at least our representatives
in Congress have seen the full report
footnotes redactions at all got it and I
know you guys are Pro artis how do you
feel about faves if you see a Mel report
tweets that you like are you like no is
it an artsy or nothing I'll be saving my
ass off look you know work we're only we
don't know how many faves it'll take to
get rid of Donald Trump they're working
on it it's probably more faves than we
think and it was hard to get to that
number but we'll only get to the number
of faves we need to remove Donald Trump
if we're all fading together I mean
that's one of the lessons of the last
year's got it all right this next
question is about another thing related
to William bar bars decision to deny
bond hearings to asylum seekers can we
talk about why that's incredibly cruel
is it unconstitutional
traditional what is our takeaway from
this news I don't know if it's
unconstitutional but I think the ACLU is
going to sue just so everyone knows
basically what happens now is if you
come if you come to this country if you
do not have papers but you have a
credible claim of asylum you go through
an interview with the Border Patrol if
they think that your asylum claim might
be credible then you get a hearing
scheduled with the judge in between that
time the question is what happens to the
asylum seeker yeah and in between if you
if you show up yourself without papers
and you turn yourself in you basically
you are detained the question is how
long are you detained and when the
hearing is basically what Barra said is
there's only there's only two ways to
not be detained you can the ice ice can
decide that you're released and then
come back for the trial or you can have
a hearing with a judge with an
immigration judge and say can I a bond
hearing basically I can I can I go out
on bail and basically when sessions was
attorney general he started this process
which now Barr has made a ruling on by
looking at a decision in 2005 that said
asylum seekers can request a bail
hearing a bond hearing and Barra saying
no they can anymore
now what's crazy about this is all
they're doing basically the Trump
administration is trying to say we want
to detain more people right for longer
by detaining more people for longer
you're only increasing sort of the
backlog of asylum cases that we have so
it's not do it's not fixing the problem
it's not preventing more people from
seeking asylum it's not getting the
cases heard any faster it's not
deporting people any faster it's merely
just keeping people detained for longer
we should also say this only affects
single individuals who come and do this
because families aren't allowed to be
detained because of the floor as a
settlement so this is only if you were a
single person who arrives at the border
and tries to claim asylum and it's worth
just remembering that you know this is
William bar now carrying water for
Donald Trump again did we've just went
through a whole conversation or
Kirstin Nielsen and her involvement in
the zero tolerance policy and the
separating of parents from children that
is also a policy that emanated from the
Justice Department under sessions Barr
is continuing that effort to you know
ratified Donald Trump's immigration
agenda and once again finding ways to
exact cruelty on asylum seekers because
of Donald Trump's position that they're
all a bunch of whining fakers yeah
switching gears a little bit well move
to other big news this week how do you
guys feel about the administration
offering to help in the rehabilitation
of the notre-dame cathedral while places
like Flint Michigan Puerto Rico American
citizens are not being helped I know
there were some takes earlier this week
I will say justice we have we love and I
have talked about this so we have some
takes so I looked this up because I was
like what it what exactly did the
administration promise Trump said we
would offer help like our experts in
rebuilding would would offer advice
right and then Sarah Huckabee Sanders
said we will offer assistance didn't
specify and then there were reports that
Trump himself might make a personal
donation to help reboot it I hope that
painting of him will help didn't see it
didn't seem like the administration said
we're going to send like US tax dollars
in foreign aid over there yet like I
didn't see could be I didn't see
anything like that but yeah so there but
I'll tell you what my official position
would be this is you know it is of
course Donald Trump would start tweeting
about Notre Dom it was on television
right of course he would start tweeting
you know firefighting ideas based on
nothing because it was on television
forcing the Parisian firefighters to
have to give out a public statement in
English rebuking the president in the
middle of the fighting of the fire
because he is a low information cable
news viewer who became the president
just every old man just just who
is every old man just
bullshitting about ourselves every
problem in the earth at the like Country
Club locker room because they're the
smartest people on earth because no
one's told them no in 40 years I am a
bit frustrated by the it's very sad
what's happened to the
notre-dame Cathedral obviously it is a
tragedy it is sad when something so
beautiful and so old and so important to
a culture is you know lost or damaged in
that way I will say people tweeting
selfies of themselves in front of the
cathedral I didn't do much to stop the
fire uh and it is amazing what people
care about and what they don't it is not
a surprise that Donald Trump and many
like him would be moved by the
destruction of a Cathedral all at the
same time trying to stop aid from going
to places like Puerto Rico Flint
Michigan Michigan um people hungry in
this country it's just like all these
companies - not just Donald Trump like
all these companies that immediately say
they're gonna send like hundreds of
millions of dollars over there like good
for them but I don't I don't know yes I
would love some of that 100 millions of
dollars those companies to be spent on
the poor and hungry people in
this country yeah like what does it take
people are person to get help do they
need to be made out of 13th century
masonry like what what is the like we've
got people who like are using GoFundMe
to sort of raise money so they can get
their surgeries and buy insulin you know
it's just and it's all media
driven because when something like this
happens it's all over Twitter everyone's
seeing the fire everything and so like
it's a groundswell of support and like
that's great but why can't we do that
when people are yeah you know in Puerto
Rico and flint and begging for help look
beneath your feet you're walking on the
crunchy broken ground of a ton of
cathedrals you can give a about
great bottom line drives me nuts right
drives me nuts it's some things that we
focus on and care about it some yeah
yeah it tells you it tells you a lot
about what we care about for sure all
right this next one is getting into gem
policy going into 2020 so we're shifting
gears again but not too far Christine
wants to know about the international
agreements that Trump terminated like
the Paris climate agreement Iran nuclear
deal
the one with Russia and the missiles
flash did the 2020 candidate comment or
commit to re-enter them is that even
possible or useful like what should we
be looking for yeah the easiest one of
visas Paris and I've heard a number of
candidates say that on Dave I mean it's
like the easiest we can say is a canada
cory booker said it to me here
I heard Beto say it I've heard Warren
say it that like on day one you can
reenter the Paris agreement and the good
news is we don't leave the Paris
agreement until November of 2020 even
though Trump pulled us out of it we're
still in it right now because it doesn't
actually happen until November 2020 so
if a Democrat wins the election 2020
we're in we're bad it's we're not even
it's not even like we were out of it
it's like it's like it never happened
yes like never happen except for the
permanent ruination of the American word
on the international stage but other
than that well in in terms of climate
that the more significant action that
Trump took was repealing the clean power
plan Act which Obama put into effect and
I think you know the candidates can make
sure that that you know we have that in
place again as well we can also if Iran
is still complying with the with the
Iran deal
we can certainly reenter that agreement
as well and so look I think we sort of
gotten around to this with some of these
candidates we talked a lot about the
filibuster we talked about a lot about
their legislative agenda but you know
say there's a divided Congress say we
don't get the Senate back a lot of these
candidates need to think about what
actions they can take on their own
through executive order not just undoing
some of the damage Trump has done by
executive order but what can what power
do they have to sort of put in place
some progressive policies on their own
yeah Donald Trump's biggest legislative
achievement and his only significant
legislative achievement is the tax bill
right that is something that will take
legislative effort to revoke he's also
had an incredible amount of success
putting judges on the bench that is
required Congress a lot of the other
steps he's taken have been vindictive
and cruel and meant to undo the Allegra
see of Barack Obama because he has a
personal vendetta no ideology but the
the the good news of that is there's
nothing Donald Trump that has done has
done by executive order that Pat that
that won't evolve to a new president who
can use that power to reverse it or
reverse as much as they can as quickly
as they can when they take office yeah
no it is
I mean look case the
you step back from it and you know it
actually I think has a it's part of 2022
you know we 2020 as well we are all
paying attention so much and it means we
see all the the frenetic chaos and noise
of Donald Trump and it matters and it's
important because he's just damaging our
culture and he's hurting people and he's
attacking people and he's making America
a more cruel and wanton place but at the
end of the day what a president does is
make policy and implement those policies
and then you can step back and see that
what he is ultimately what we can
hopefully make him isn't ultimately
ineffectual and memorable but not
long-lasting president in terms of
policymaking if we win this election and
that's a big if and I think a lot of
reason this this 2020 election will be
so important is that the effects of
Donald Trump when winning re-election
will not double the effect of his first
term it will be far more cataclysmic
because everything he has done
in his first term will be something that
lasts and everything he does in the
years that follow will have a better
chance of lasting as well
so it is 2020 is thought we didn't know
that hopeful note Priyanka but I just I
just was thinking about it just was I
was thinking about it well you know what
maybe a hopeful note is not what we
 need you know maybe hopeful
notes so we got into this goddamn mess
you know Priyanka I feel attacked I love
a hopeful not beautiful day out next
question lovely I'm gonna interject with
one of my own you're a bunch of
questions from people who like reached
out and submitted and are kind of
wondering like when candidates are gonna
talk about X or like what has been said
about this issue I think broadly in
general can we talk about the phase of
the primary that we're in what we should
be expecting from candidates cuz I know
that there are some like Elizabeth
Warren who has a new policy proposal
every week there are some who are just
announcing is there like what should we
be looking for what should we you know
yeah what standard should we hold our
candidates to it yeah it's tough right
because I mean just from my point of
view and you were on Hillary's campaign
at the time in 2007 I would say from
February when they announced through the
summer through the early summer even
through that's when most of the
big policy announcements and speeches
were so it's not like either of them had
all of their policies announced by now
or even close we were we were right in
policy speeches all through the spring
and summer of 2007 but the the
interesting thing is they don't have all
their policies out and I'll at least
aside from Elizabeth Warren they don't
have all their policies out they haven't
all done their big policy speeches or
rollouts and yet they're all campaigning
at this frenetic pace so they're getting
asked by reporters and voters what's
your stance on this what's your stance
on that so they're answering but they
don't necessarily have policies of their
own just yet some of them do the
senators tend to like you know like to
comel Harris this week and her big
policy her top priority for his
president is the lift Act that's
actually something that she introduced
while she was a senator her first new
campaign proposal is this proposal that
we talked about on the pod to pay
teachers more right and so that but
that's her one proposal so far she's
probably gonna have a ton more right
we're gonna and you know there's
candidates getting into the race right
now that will probably you know Joe
Biden's still not in the race he's
probably gonna have a bunch of policy
proposals so look let's say this is an
episode of chopped they just open their
baskets in the appetizer round right and
it's the easiest round right you know
they've opened that basket and there's
like chocolate nibs that's how that's
the hard ingredient for incorporating
into their appetizer that's where we're
at right we have not reached an entree
in which they have to use vanilla ice
cream we have not reached dessert where
they need to use pickles you know the
first basket has just opened at the end
of that I hope so
ooh president Trump says Attorney
General bar will be giving a press
conference tomorrow when the Moller
report is released
oh and says the Trump all might also
might do a press conference that's
they're gonna they're trying to all
right they want to try to spin this
thing oh it must be very bad
or maybe it's great time will tell all
right next topic can you guys talk about
Bernie's Fox townhall got the highest
ratings of any townhall so far was it
actually a good idea long term should
more Democrats go on fox I know some are
thinking about it what are you guys as
thoughts that's a tough one it is a
tough one
I actually think Dan Pfeiffer summarized
my thoughts on it pretty well in a tweet
we
I didn't see because I don't have
Twitter it was that he said he said that
he understands the short-term benefits
of going on fox for candidates but he
doesn't believe it's correct to
contribute to the long-term harm of
lending legitimacy to fox news which is
one of the most destructive forces in
American public life and I think that
captures the problem really well I
understand the value of a candidate
going on however the point that Dan made
which I think is a really good one is
when you go on and do a forum like that
even with their legitimate journalists
even if there's value even if it's a
good forum you are helping to lend
legitimacy to a network well then turn
around and be able to sell more
advertisements for Laura Ingraham and
Tara Carlson and Sean Hannity who are
vicious hateful mean-spirited
disseminators of misinformation and who
have contributed to the toxic political
environment that has really damaged this
country and I think it's a tough
situation I understand the value of it
but I don't know how you get past that
fundamental moral problem I agree with
all of that I think I come down on if I
was campaign manager or communications
director for any of these candidates I
would say go do the Fox News townhall
don't do the other interviews maybe do I
saw people to judge a month ago do a
Chris Wallace interview yeah maybe
that's fine but the townhall to me is is
different because as we saw with Bernie
you get an audience that I mean for all
these Fox News viewers right again
most of them are hardcore Trump fan
Republicans we're never getting them
they're lost right but there's a good
chunk of people who watch Fox they may
be independent they move at Democrats
sometime and for them to watch their
favorite propaganda channel which always
just be used
and suddenly there's Bernie Sanders and
he's talking about Medicare for all and
this crowd of people is clapping and and
not only that but Bernie was able to
call out Fox to the hosts during the
townhall and attack Fox
I imagine that whole spectacle was very
confusing it's very very confusing but I
do think if you're someone who that
probably a mine or minority but a small
percentage of Fox viewers who are
up for grabs and might go either way
that's look at its the top rated cable
network in the country I think it's from
a campaign perspective it's a it could
be a good way to get some voters and
look and to me like but that's isn't
that giving in to the like yeah that's
the point right it we see the advantage
for the candidates to do it it there are
a lot of things that campaigns can do
that are good for them but bad for the
country in this case isn't an example
and is there unfortunately true that it
is good for them and bad for the country
to contribute to Fox it is but electing
a Democratic president and having
someone win that campaign is the most
important thing for the country more
important than anything else
and so if appearing on a Fox News Town
Hall and getting a few voters which we
need every last voter we can get
non-voters base voters moderate voters
swing voters we need all of them if
we're gonna win to me if you can get
that and we have this emergency of
Donald Trump as a president like I can
pain manager I will do literally
everything I can to win this election so
but but let's think about what happen so
Bernie Sanders goes on Fox he has a
great night I agree it has value from
Bernie's not gonna be on Fox again for a
very long time right but they're gonna
turn around and go to their advertisers
who've maybe been skittish maybe be on
the fence it look we're yeah we're right
wing sometimes but look Bernie Sanders
is coming here we're part of the
mainstream people recognize that if
Democrats are okay with us just don't
why are you okay I don't think that's
why advertisers are making the decision
also these advertisers let's be honest
like they cancel they just shift them
around they don't they're not on
Tucker's show anymore right they're not
a Laura Ingraham show but Fox uses them
with the rest of the programming I think
there has been a collective there's been
a collective effort on the part of
activists to try to drive a wedge in Fox
by making it harder and harder for
advertisers to justify being on that
network especially being on their prime
time which cost them the most cuz their
hosts are the most expensive and
anything we do that hurts the work of
those abject at those activists I think
is the wrong thing to do I think you're
right I think every argument you're
making is correct and I think if I were
advising a candidate I would say do it
it's good for you but I think it is
worth recognizing that they're doing
something that does contribute to Fox
News and I think it's an open question
as to whether the good of Bernie Sanders
reaching that audience is is undone by
the bad of lending legitimacy to Fox and
I think that is an open question yeah I
just legitimacy is such a
fuzzy term I don't know the concrete
consequences of what it means of like
can you quantify how much legitimacy
Bernie Bernie gave as a fox and what
that does and what the consequences of
that thye are what that does have I just
don't know I think it's it's hard to
look I think it says Ghazi to try to
figure out what it means to lend
legitimacy as it is to try to exactly
deduce how much benefit Bernie got from
going on Fox News I think these are all
these are all hard things to sort out
got it onto the next one look at us
little disagreement little debate about
this - I think I'm feel I just feel a
little differently on this one and I get
all the other arguments but I just I I
guess I'm just like solely focused on
just whatever it takes to win
this thing and win the argument with
people but and I realize that like it is
we have and I've been part of this I've
been part of the progressive movement to
shame Fox and shame the advertisers and
all that I'm proud of that I want to
keep doing that I but the best as we've
said before the best thing that any
 liberal billionaire could do for
this country is by Fox News and shut the
 thing down right hundred percent
but I would say that there's even on the
terms of being singers they've
singularly focused on winning 2020 I
think it is even still there and open
question as to whether it is good or bad
to go on Fox do you think before we move
from the topic sorry do you think that
it makes a difference in the primary
versus general election like that
they're doing it now versus in the
general that's a good question I don't
know like I think I would I would have
my candidate do it in the general -
probably because it's a big audience and
it's been more useful in the general
maybe even more useful in the general
yeah I mean I find it hard to believe
that there are more natural primary
voters watching Fox News and there are
more natural potential Democratic
general election voters watching Fox
News yeah although I look we were in
Boston and I went out with my aunt and
cousins after the show and I have why
not and at least one cousin that I think
are they're Republicans they watch Fox
News they don't like Donald Trump and
they're telling me about you know
they're like oh I found this pee Buddha
judge guy interesting I found
amy klobuchar interesting whatever you
know and I'm thinking about them and
there's they were trying to figure out
right like they probably want to vote
for a Democrat but they want to know who
the Democrat is and if they're learning
about that Democrat through Fox News
because they're watching Fox News anyway
then it might be useful in a primary but
you're right I think it's more I think
it's more useful at a general that our
prime got it okay so this person wants
to know what they should be doing at
home right now about this 2020 race is
canvassing for candidates up and down
the ballot a good use of our time right
now
or is it too early what should people at
home who are interested be doing I would
canvass now I think we should be in a
conversation with voters every day all
the time we should not wait until the
election whether you're canvassing about
a specific candidate or they are
canvassing about a specific issue
anytime that you can be talking to
people in your social networks in your
neighborhood even strangers about
politics and getting a conversation
going to the extent that they want to
have a conversation about politics and
don't shut the door in your face because
it's not you know a couple months before
November I think it's great to do I
think organizing is work that has to
happen every single day all the time and
we and part of the problem is we you
know sometimes only do it around an
election and that's too late and in
particular now is it also a time to be
registering voters yeah for sure like
this is we we Democrats especially tend
to focus on registration as we're
focusing on the election itself but it's
a it's a slog you know we saw that you
know when you talk to the groups that
are even registering voters close to an
election that a victory a good day as
the day we get a few people you know
it's hard so that's that's important too
yeah sure all right next question can we
talk about the possibility with all of
these candidates I think there are like
what 19 or 20 were officially declared
that we reached the convention without a
nominee what are the consequences of
that if it would happen do you think the
party can reunite after division between
these candidates what is your take on
this so Jonathan Martin did the New York
Times were a great story about this this
week and it the story started off with a
woman named I'm gonna forget her name
but I think it's Leah Doherty and she
helped run the last two Democratic
conventions and
very much and so she knows all the rules
all the delicate rules and everything
and she's very much believes that we
will get to the convention without a
nominee and so here's how that might
happen super - so we have the first
floor now nominating contest Iowa New
Hampshire South Carolina and Nevada
right after that is Super Tuesday
California Texas eight other states
about 40% of the delegates will be
allocated after Super Tuesday yeah so so
how do you get how do you get delegates
right you get delegates so how do you
get him how do you get him right the
republic insisted the republican system
in the primary is this whoever wins the
state whichever republican candidate
wins the state gets all the delegates in
that state a coke brother places on the
the crest of deciding and walks with the
chosen candidate into the sepulcher
anoints him with the blood of roger
ailes and he will soon be president the
democratic party works very differently
the Democratic Party works well if you
win the state you get a certain number
of Delegates for winning but then all of
the other delegates are allocated
proportionally and some delegates are
allocated by congressional district so
if you hit fifteen percent in the poll
if you hit under fifteen person if you
get under fifteen percent in the polls
at that in that state you don't want any
delegates sorry you're you're probably
gonna drop out but if you're at fifteen
percent are over you're eligible for
delegates sometimes you could get
statewide delegates sometimes if you win
a congressional district even if you
lose the state you get a couple
delegates for that we're drumming would
help with this so anyway so because the
delegates all get split up and we have a
big field you could see a scenario which
might even be a likely scenario that you
get to June and we go to Milwaukee and
no one has a majority of pledged
delegates because the rule is it's not
who has the most pledged delegates
getting into the convention it's who
crosses the threshold of having a
majority and so if we have three or four
candidates at that point maybe three and
not and none of them have a majority
then what do you do so you go to the
convention
we have the first ballot and all the
pledged delegates that that were won by
the primary contest have to vote the way
that they were pledged to buy by who won
the contest and no one has a majority of
Delegates so then what happens well one
thing is you could the two candidates in
the lead could decide to form a unity
ticket president and vice president and
say all right we got you know then it's
just fine swallow so you just do it
there and then we avoid catastrophe
that's it or they can say no we hate
each other we're not doing that so I was
like I'm done I'm not listening to you
anymore Joe Biden and then you go to the
second ballot and on the second ballot
the super delegates can then participate
that's like that's spider-man Thor super
delegates our past presidents party
leaders governor's ant-man elected party
bigwigs and they can all decide to vote
and then that zips up so but but the
question is like oh my god what if the
super delegates vote and they vote for
the person who didn't get the most
pledged delegates everybody's cool with
it and then we all come together because
we're a big team anyway it could be
chaos good if you want listen to the
episode of the wilderness about the the
party and it starts with the 68
convention in Chicago when things got a
little rowdy how did the general go that
year how did it go well didn't go well
um look what do you think love it very
bad doesn't feel great doesn't feel
great look I think I think that that is
a dangerous and frightening and quite
possible outcome and we should all be
aware of that on the up-and-up I
honestly think that what I said in the
middle there which is the the best way
to avoid this if we get to that if that
potential outcome is for everyone to
encourage the very forcefully the first
and second to form a unike the first
place becomes the the presidential
nominee the second person becomes the
vice president Amin II and that is the
that is the unified Democratic Party in
all seriousness I think in all the noise
and all the conversations and all the
debate
that may get heated it is always worth
remembering stepping back and saying
what is this process it yeah it's
picking a candidate right that's where
it is but it is a it is a group of
people coming together to choose the
person to represent them in the biggest
fight that maybe we've ever had like in
one of the biggest political fights in
our lifetimes for sure and that is
stressful and it is it is contentious
and is anxiety provoking but ultimately
we are all coming together to pick the
person that best represents all of us
and if we can keep that in mind if we
ever even get to that situation this is
the final Avengers movie this is it this
is it and it's three hours long and they
don't validate parking
[Laughter]
all right before we leave the topic it's
not necessarily a topic but can you
remind everyone how to contribute to the
campaign that will benefit the eventual
nominee parentheses I forget the name of
it what a planted question Wow
yeah sure we're all supporting our
different candidates now but we need
that candidate have all the resources
they need to take on Donald Trump once
they do become the nominee I wish there
was a place they could go to get that
kind of information what do you think
John unify or Die vote save america.com
slash unify and what happens there John
well you can go give to a fund that will
go to the Democratic nominee the second
that she or he takes the nomination
Thank You Wallace paid off okay we can
get to the fun stuff now first there's
some there's some chatter going on
Twitter Emily wants to know this is a
question for me can she wear Albert's to
Coachella I'm sorry your wife asked you
Priyanka to ask John and I a question I
know she asked me to just address this
in life well what's your answer no you
can never wear Albert's sorry I won't be
wearing overalls
yes where yes really we just bunk now oh
this will be fun
I'm wearing the Hat Travis his hat
what's the worth Travis's hellboy hat oh
oh that's great all right so we will
find you then yeah and then Jen Travis's
wife is also also in the comments she
said do you guys let
participate in live streams or no just
to be clear I think the answer should be
no we usually do what I don't know why
he's not here today he's here in the
office I think he's just I'm ambivalent
I don't care one way down there it's
just tweeting all right this one's from
Emily and Jen for the questions any
other relatives of medium I'm gonna have
abandon any live stream live stream
questions or people who can text me you
can text me text me if you can't the
live stream is a great forum Oh harsh
okay this one's for me so I mean I guess
I could text you but oh I saw this one
wasn't that one that was just for my
Instagram stories this morning and I was
like be my own biggest fan right I was
wondering can the 20/20 interviews that
you guys did what have been your most
memorable moments so far and like you
don't have to speak to every single one
that you've released but just like the
interviews that you're like have done
yourselves interesting or have there
been like things that surprised you or
like people so we had Andrew yang I love
it or leave it I asked when he came on
stage any members of the gang gang in
the house very very light smattering of
applause few people randomly distributed
very quiet sick okay not there then
Andrew yang started doing a
call-and-response based on his stump
speech something I'd never heard before
and when I say that the crowd knew how
to respond in time I was very surprised
what I learned is that the yang gang
they're sneaky and they'll sneak into
your event and they'll hide and then
they'll reveal themselves well I
personally liked when when I was
interviewing Cory Booker and I did my
thing about the filibuster and he
finally said oh I'm open to it now like
maybe all the minute he's like I have to
tell you it's all these people who
listened to pod save America they come
up to me at events and they talk about
the filibuster so I've heard your
listeners and it just goes show like
what you know you what you guys all do
and impress people on that can it make a
difference it can really make a
difference until joe manchin changes
parties to keep the filibuster in place
yeah that's in 21 I also really enjoyed
my conversation with Carla Harris
yesterday which will be out later this
afternoon
TuneIn that's just a plug kirsten
gillibrand she was in the sausage a she
is warm funny she's just a pleasure love
caramel Harris kissed kirsten gillibrand
she hugs me to get over being bullied as
a child I've had a blast with these
Canada blasts okay
don't boo vote asks what was the best
meal you guys had when you were home
well I guess only you when you were home
in Boston but you also what did you eat
good things I went to Fanueil Hall which
who tour strapped but loved annual Hall
and I got myself lobster roll some clam
chowder
it was delicious I was so happy couple
couple points I'd like to make about
this I had some great lobster rolls I
had some great oysters I had some great
chowder
I will also concede something right here
right now for the first time Dunkin
Donuts as a hell of a breakfast yeah and
you know I only realized it this morning
this very morning because I was thinking
to myself ah hey Meghan she's on
englishmen onion I'm not a ham person
it's somehow I never was kosher but ham
was a bridge too far him was so glacier
to me like I could never touch it
but I still what a what a what a lovely
array of options end of thought okay
thoughts on the game of thrones premiere
did the dogs behave what happened here
uh there were no dogs because we were on
we were in a van back from Concord New
Hampshire to Boston Massachusetts and we
were very upset because we didn't think
we'd be able to watch in time we didn't
we didn't think we were able to look at
our phones the whole ride home because
people would be texting us spoilers
tweeting spoilers heaven forfend that we
do not have an opportunity to look at
our phones for one hour we don't want to
talk to each other it's been a long
weekend we've said all we need to say to
John and Tommy come the end of a tour
absolutely nothing so instead all of us
in that fan write me love it Tommy Dan
trap everyone had they use their phone
as a hotspot and we had our laptops and
we watched it streaming on HBO go on the
ride home that's Abbasid weed store and
I had such a blast watching that episode
in listen I want to talk about this
episode without giving you even a hint
of a spoiler some comforter there are
people people out there okay who have
made quite a leap to suggest that
because we have left the books behind we
are no longer in capable hands and I
want to say to those people shame on you
shame on you have some faith alright
have some faith in where the story has
taken us have some faith I'm where it
will go I enjoyed the first episode I
felt as I was in loved the new opening
credits in the hands of just great and
talented television makers and writers
loved the new opening credits I can't
wait to see where it goes I expect we
will be visited by incredible Horrors on
characters we've loved for years yeah I
just to put in a plug too after that was
over watched the veep latest veep
episode 2 and I was laughing all the way
home
dude I was on a van junk you'd have
thought John and Tommy were 75 year old
men and easy chairs just cackling at a
television it was a never losing their
 on this quiet van I was like what
what is happening on this episode I'm a
season or so behind veep love veep
catching up Julia Louie Dreyfus the cast
of veep Dave Mandel hope they are
 geniuses it is the best comedy
on television go watch it cannot get
enough of it let me so sad when it's
over I love be love deep so much
cackling all right last question what is
everyone's star sign and what star sign
do you think we need in the Oval Office
I'm a Gemini and I'm an adult God born
June 2nd uh-huh
I don't know what it means about me yeah
you're a Gemini too I have found there
is nothing I find less interesting than
anything related to horoscopes it is one
of the dumbest
middle-aged nonsense thing I don't
understand why people care I understand
birthday who gives a Leo is a Leo
no care about her birthday pundit born
in August that's reasons we name Hyundai
is an October dog I mean look look at
all of us look at all of us living Andy
living under living in the world that
science has created for us living
healthy fulfilling lives and then
turning around and basically believing
in witchcraft oh I'm in a bad mood
because Saturn's in the wrong place
merchant Mercury's in retrograde read a
book all right that's our stream
beautiful thanks for joining us I mean
let your eyes always check it out every
Wednesday at 1:00 p.m. Pacific time
Thanks
thanks to NAR on the ones and twos yeah
on camera Priyanka on the cues what a
day
thanks everyone
