now it's time for a game call - okay
stop you know it works we roll the clip
and the panel can say okay stop at any
point to comment usually an okay stop
will show you a clip that's like Tucker
Carlson tryna and failing to say the
word indefatigable or something but
today we wanted to try something
different
Hillary Clinton former presidential
candidate and current clinching
enthusiast went on Rachel Maddow this
week and for the and really seemed like
she had nothing to lose so let's watch
imagine Rachel that you had one of the
Democratic nominees for 2020 on your
show and that person said you know the
only other adversary of ours who's
anywhere near as good as the Russians is
China so why should Russia have all the
fun and since Russia is clearly backing
Republicans why don't we ask China to
back us I hear good stuff
first of all can I just say so far this
is not a good guided meditation I just
want people at home to know that she is
wearing black on black which is very
cool very sir see you know Hillary
Clinton is reaching her final form this
is the final stage of the Hillary
Clinton Pokemon and I don't hate it
and the radiating anger from Hillary
Clinton I just earned fantastic shared
with it and not only that China if
you're listening why don't you get
Trump's tax returns
[Applause]
I'm just gonna say yes all of that I
love this because it's like she's saying
imagine a hypothetical where someone
like me goes on a show like this and
suggests something like this Meghan
wouldn't that be insane
she's saying it like she just suggested
ordering fries for the table now
according to the Muller report that is
not conspiracy because it's done right
out in the open so if after this
hypothetical Democratic candidate says
this on your show within hours all of a
sudden the IRS offices are bombarded
with incredibly sophisticated cyber
tools looking for Trump's tax returns
and then extract them and then passes
them to look at stuff your analogies
getting really specific your little
hypothetical scenario has a lot of
detail I think that you know what they
need the back of her mind she's like
these may lock me up next year
anyway I might as well go out with some
style this is probably unpopular penny
so if we could play devil's advocate for
a second okay yeah
[Laughter]
I so yeah I'm excited take it nobody
here is a huge chunk fan me neither but
if we could take something positive from
this presidency let's do it hey boy you
ain't even hurt yet sometimes the devil
offers really good deals so I I think he
has diluted the prestige of what a
president is in this country nobody in
the world is equipped or nobody is
nobody can lead 300 million people right
it's an insane thought so what he has
done is he kind of diluted the the seat
of what the president is and so when you
see her talking like this oh she's
a human right and you start seeing the
human side of all these politicians
which I kind of like I don't like Trump
I'm just saying that yeah I prefaced it
then I want to read preface it but but
what he has done for me and she said you
know what is not that what I
thought it was and so if candidates go
forward like that I'm okay with that cuz
now it's okay to be human you don't have
to be these robots who are perfect human
beings and the that he got away
with
there's no way Republicans can walk back
now you know I mean so like humans can
be humans again I'm okay with that
cause it and they start being unraveled
and disclosed nothing wrong with that I
mean if you're going to let Russia get
away with what they did and are still
doing according to Christopher array the
current FBI director who said that last
week there in our election systems we're
worried about 2020 he said so hey let's
have a great power contest and let's get
the Chinese in on the side of somebody
else just saying that shows how absurd
the situation
she really is icy right now I don't know
Kingdom over here it's gonna come over
here and help us with this yes
yeah I don't know she's thirsty cause it
a little bit of this it does feel like
she's about to get on a dragon that
spits out copies of what happened she
gets on her dragon to spit out the what
a pit with what happened fire it flies
away bill tries to get on the other
dragon that two other dragons like no
shakes bachlin right off
[Music]
[Music]
