welcome back to pod save America I'm Jon
Favreau and Tommy beat or oh I kind of
wanted to be the concerned Tommy Vietor
who clutches the table and seems very
conscientious but I'll be wisecrack and
John loved it I don't care
Louis if I'm Tommy Vietor you can look
at me that's you can't look at yourself
like I'm Penn Badgley on you know
tulsi gabbard is running for president
Friday night Democratic Representative
from Hawaii second District Tulsi
announced that she plans to run for
president in 2020
along with 700 other sweepstakes
oh did it like at the same two weeks and
they're all instagramming themselves
you're very annoying they're all trying
to like jack-ay AOC swag and like it
looks weird like I was with Warren don't
know what I'm gonna see you Instagram
liveing in your kitchen with a beer with
a beer like because we know you're just
copying a young person who did it right
that's all you're doing
no also like when she says she watches
ballers it's like right that's the exact
cool level I want from you right which
is not that cool I don't want it any
cooler yeah mm-hmm Beto is so grabbing
his mouth he's at the dentist the
is wrong with these people
what did we learn from that is this the
Magic School Bus I don't want to go down
your throat voting for the one person
who doesn't Instagram live their life
that's who my next president ah good
luck this Democrat who wants to run for
president has been stirring up some
controversy yeah sure online
she is a 37 year old Iraq war veteran
who once touted the anti LGBTQ group the
Alliance for traditional marriage
literally sounds like an alias villain I
it's it sounds so like something Tipper
Gore would have had it in 1983 you know
evylyn buttoned up it was a group that
spent more than a hundred thousand
dollars to lobby for an amendment
reserved marriage to opposite sex
couples and it described homosexuality
as unhealthy abnormal behavior that
should not be promoted or accepted in
society you got it sweetie as I smacked
my own ass moving on maybe she has a
point
[Laughter]
well she was running for a seat in the
Hawaii State Legislature in 2002 she
cited her work for the Alliance and the
Alliance also actively supported gay
conversion therapy and which if you know
science works right um and in 2004 she
also fought a bill that would have
legalized same-sex marriage in Hawaii
anyway she's she's running for president
so clearly she got some apology she said
first let me say that I regret these
positions I took in the past and the
things that I said I'm grateful for
those in the lgbtq+ community who have
shared their Aloha with me throughout my
personal journey she means the minim a
thank you for showing me that over the
past six years in Congress I have been
fortunate to have had the opportunity to
help work towards passing legislation
that ensures equal rights and
protections on lgbtq+ issues such as the
Equality Act the repeal of DOMA blah
blah blah whatever she probably brought
glory on iTunes - that's right anyway
Twitter has been driving me crazy
because now we are embroiled in a
conversation of didn't all Democrats
used to be anti-gay at some point and
bringing up the fact that in 2008 Obama
said I believe marriage is between a man
and a woman I am not in favor of gay
marriage and Hillary Clinton saying
marriage has got historic religious and
moral content that goes back to the
beginning of time and I think it's
between a man and a woman in 2000 listen
that is not conversion therapy
it's like and that was like it's again
one of those things that we look back on
and you're like this was not okay but
there was this prevailing sort of idea
about marriage in particular which is
not at all the same as this that
this woman was doing and also she claims
she was dogged by homosexual extremists
just totally calling us like Carly Rae
Jepsen Fair was not a part of a group
that was actively trying you know what a
special organization whose only goal was
to stop this was like not what these
other people were doing teenagers who go
through conversion therapy kill
themselves yeah like this is this is a
big difference and I think that 2020 is
really going to be the year of
politicians tried to rebrand themselves
now and I think that rebranding yourself
may work if you're Joe Biden and you
want us to forget about that Anita Hill
said right but if you were supported
conversion therapy like no I'm not
supporting you I also like it in other
years right like you sort of understand
this like all these people who are never
gonna be president ever ever ever ever
who are running that it's like to
increase their notoriety like that's a
point you know they're like trying to
raise their profile and so they run for
president and they get a book dealing
whatever and they know good and goddamn
well they're not gonna be President but
it is to become like more well-known
politicians in Charlie's way arena in
2020 for me it's like this is
serious like we don't have time for this
 like this is not the year for
all of you to try to become more famous
or whatever the like we need some
real we need real people running
not this clown we don't need
everyone jumping in like we need to get
serious about who the is going to
run for president because we need Donald
Trump to not be president anymore so
this year in particular this like clown
car of people rolling up saying that
they're running for president I find
very irritating and honestly borderline
irresponsible I do and I also want to
say that there are ways to defend Barack
and Hillary without some of the insanity
that I've seen
with some people tweeting we all know
that Barack was really just lying
because you know it wasn't good to
publicly support gay marriage back that
I'm like listen I don't care if he was
lying I don't care if he actually meant
it then I'm glad that he changed his
opinion later on but it's also like I'm
not going to say that it's okay ya know
like you don't have to create hoops and
I thought he would say it was okay I
think you asked him I don't think he
would be like that was a that was a fine
opinion to have I bet he would express
or has expressed regret for having that
opinion so it's like you don't even you
don't even know that that's what he's
thinking also by the way I remember
distinctly in 2012 when it was Michelle
Obama who gave the speech that she said
something it was the DNC I think
indicated that she was for gay marriage
and remember that being so kind of
shocking you know like oh wow they're
actually going public with this so let's
not pretend it was even that long ago
that it was unsurprising that a
Democratic camp that a Democratic
candidate would say these things so we
are still I feel I am still recovering
from how awful that was you know I mean
I don't think we should roll over that
it was that Robin Roberts interview when
they sat down that was like the moment
when they sat and he was like I am now
in support of gay marriage and they got
they got Robin up in there looking great
as always
just always looking flawless looking
good this is like I beat cancer
how many times right looks like she does
a jaunty job I was about to say the
jaunty esteem n' rarely you describe a
woman as jaunty thank god we have her
Katharine Hepburn had Robin Roberts who
is the other the other politician I feel
like now it's just politicians
inundating us I mean with their
constantly that's all they're doing but
like even even more so because now we've
got scaramouche is school school
much school he's gonna be on your
favorite TV show I
listen so Celebrity Big Brother is back
the Peabody winning Celebrity Big
Brother scare Moochie is joining the
Celebrity Big Brother house did you also
by the way see like the fake lists of
people that were supposed to be on the
show that turned out to be wrong for a
while I had believed that Sean Spicer
was gonna be in the house so god I'm
already deadened
to this news like I was prepared for it
to be even somehow worse what did Sean
Spicer doing man that is a name I have
forgotten about fortunately he's
interning here at Christian media he's
running a resident uh this is obviously
scaramouche EES own attempt to
politically reinvent himself because we
he saw her work for Omarosa but I'm also
like but I wasn't work all Mirza was
also there for longer than 10 days true
I had I don't know if she had a real job
he had more of a real job than her but
like Omarosa was also a name we already
recognized yeah Sean Spicer was just
like around for a while and was like so
crazy and he was in such a public
position
Omarosa we already knew who she was she
was there for a minute look dude nobody
knew who you were you were there for a
hot blink of an eye and then up
in record time yeah like there's no
reinvention on also the idea
that Omarosa going to the Celebrity Big
Brother was her gourd back to what she
should be doing in reality TV this is
like no one wants to see you I would
like if you want trash and you tried to
get me fired if you walked down the
street and you pulled you had a picture
of this man nobody knows who nobody
could identify him yeah I don't think so
either but by the way this cast list is
disturbing in a couple of ways when I'm
looking and I'm worried for kandi
Burruss
because dina Lohan is in that house kato
kaelin who is a parody of somebody who
would get selected for the show he
literally is just known for being a
witness in the oj thing that was I
believe 24 years ago not even a youthful
witness no he
Brad Pitt a scare that is what we
remember about him and he gets in the
house I'm just saying kandi Burruss has
a Grammy I know would and she has money
yeah like she doesn't have like if it's
silly like non Beverly Hills housewife
money like this has real cash what
are you doing girl and also talent yeah
yeah go write a song I'm worried she
never turns down a check never never
Tamar's in the house that's also Rollo
Jones didn't now do you think you were
so when I'm Errol so is on Big Brother
she was doing her like dropping Trump
secret like don't you think he's
gonna try he doesn't have anything else
right like he doesn't know other what is
now 15 also by the way that actually
throws into sharp relief how Omarosa in
her own way again again scam stris
obviously like waving a finger in the
camera like you don't know what I know
this guy is so helplessly guileless I
feel like he'll just spill it all in ten
minutes to Jonathan Bennett the guy's I
mean girls what if the mooch is the
reason Donald Trump gets brought down
because on Big Brother he throws out the
receipt yeah
and Julie Chen Moonves raises an eyebrow
at the camera and says how about that
well she's got fries nope she's back for
a big brother oh so she just quit the
talk correct yes which which is an
interesting situation because I'm big
brother she actually does control the
conversation so it's it's an interesting
move do you think every night she's
gonna be like I'm Julie Chen Moonves
hope it's like that is wild to me
because now knowing everything that's
come out about laughs yeah it's just
like you know what cuz he didn't get his
sixty million dollars but she's got to
go back to work I would also lean the
other way if I were Julie said I would
just call myself some other name and
just hope that caught on hi it's me
Julia moon hi good night again we took a
wild turn in this conversation
imagine staying on the topic of
scaramouche II know that's true
tulsi Goa Goa Islands
I look forward to her on Celebrity Big
Brother they're gonna be able to do an
entire Celebrity Big Brother that's just
2020 presidential candidates oh yeah
2020 presidential candidates
what if 2020 is actually just a season
of drag race oh sure let's get sickening
2020 is so far away dear God I know it's
so like I just kidding so why don't you
just start I know we haven't had any
time to be disappointed in it yet uh
camel Harris is running to Kirsten yeah
oh yeah who is Brad I'm already I'm
already tired
there's too many names I would say truly
every Democrat I have heard of like
honestly almost like Cher's gonna run
Lady gaga wait guys wait till Howard
Schultz then you're gonna get like our
version of Donald Trump like Howard
Schultz is gonna come out here and and
run like it we got a we got a long long
road well I can't wait to see what Tommy
says about our positive America segment
oh yeah we'll get that that could sheet
it is weird how we do ultimately crave
his approval even though we pretend he's
just a nice fan anyway yeah a nice fan
who's bad at trivia oh that's right he
he can recover you have other skills
Tommy that's fine
you
