I'm excited to be joined by Minnesota
senator and Democratic presidential
candidate Amy Klobuchar well thanks Dan
let's not forget I was the first senator
to ever go on this show that is true you
we we all of this I mean you may have
been nothing I think we actually call
this the Amy Klobuchar studio yeah well
let's also remember I did it from DC and
I thought that I knew it was a very cool
show but I didn't know that it was a
podcast so I dressed up in a cool outfit
and realized that it was a podcast yes
yeah well you always know in your head
you had that cool outfit on I did it was
my daughter that told me it was cool
before we get to our notoriously hard
questions I do want to say the way to
happy birthday oh thank you this weekend
while campaigning I did many many cakes
and songs that's good yeah it was a lot
of fun actually my husband gave me and
our daughter and our staff Auto bingo
games kind of a retro thing to play in
the car while you're driving around Iowa
and you try to look for one cow that's
awesome yeah I want to start as we start
most these interviews with your decision
to run for president and in my
experience there are sort of two types
of senators there are the ones who
arrive at the view the Senate as a way
station on the way to a presidential
campaign and there are senators who come
to the Senate and take it very seriously
as legislators and I always saw you in
the latter camp as someone who came in
very focused on work in the Senate
passed a lot of bills I think more bills
than most senators and yet you decided
to run for president and I thought that
sort of is a shift and I'm curious what
it what led you down this path I think
this was unexpected to a lot of people
that you would do this part of my
thinking is that's exactly what we need
in the presidency we need someone right
now after these years of Donald Trump
that's actually going to go in there
instead of trying to divide people
instead of trying to make them hate each
other someone who's going to go in there
and try to get things done and have big
ideas for the country but be able to
actually go through with them I figure
anyone that runs for president but
have some real solutions for real
problems figure out how they're going to
pay for it and go forward and that
doesn't mean that it is not aspirational
that it is not a big idea campaign it
simply means that when it you take
everything away and everyone has all
these lofty ideas and these speeches and
they talk do you want someone in there
that's going to have the ability to get
things done that has a track record to
do it that has a track record for over a
decade of being a proven progressive
because I figure if you're gonna make
progress and be a progressive then you
have to make progress and that means
doing things like taking on the
prescription drug companies or making
sure that we have an Ag policy in place
that works for everyone including our
not just the every you know big major AG
company but our small farmers making
sure that we're doing something about
renewable energy and taking on the oil
companies I have a track record of
taking on these issues and I take it
that you know when you got in that
you're I think more than 10% of your
Senate caucus is running for president
and that's why it's so nice to sit down
with you today because it's I'm able to
see someone that's not running for
president that you had a fun for me it's
very I haven't let my intentions be
known fully oh okay well maybe that's
the big announces and I take it that you
you know when someone decides run for
president ice there is a wit there like
one of the ways of looking at so you
sort of look around the 309 America it's
inside that you yourself are uniquely
qualified to do this job and it in this
case the thing is even more interesting
in the sense that not just you but every
one of the every one of these senators
who are running or deciding that they
are more uniquely qualified to do that
than their colleagues and I'm like what
is the very specific unique thing that
you bring to the table that you want
voters to know about your candidacy sure
well I mentioned one of them but the
other one is that I am from the Midwest
I think you know from 2016 that the
story I always like to tell as my
husband is he's a third of six boys grew
up in a single trailer home tripled bunk
bed
and they would take one vacation every
summer in their station wagon and they'd
all pile in there and my husband was
always the quiet one the good boy and
the story is which is not yet quite been
proven that he once got left behind at a
gas station and they pulled out but what
we do know for certain is they counted
off every single boy and I in that
station wagon because they didn't want
to miss one and I can tell you one thing
when I head up the ticket we're not
going to leave the Midwest behind at the
gas station so that record of going not
just where it is comfortable but where
it's uncomfortable of winning 42 of the
counties at Donald Trump won in my state
back in 2018 he won them in 16 I come
back in 18 winning every congressional
district including Michele Bachmann's
every single time and I do it not by
selling out on our values but trying to
figure out where can we find some common
ground to move forward so I think that's
unique the other thing about me is I've
never lost an election I do what it
takes to win I know I'm an underdog
coming from a state that's not as has as
many people or has as much money but
every single time I've run I've found a
way to do it when I was running for
Senate I had a bunch of primary
opponents including two that were
wealthy and I remember calling everyone
around the country and some people
didn't call me back because they
couldn't say my last name and so I
finally just found a new way I called
everyone that I knew in my life and I
actually raised a all time this is still
a US Senate record I raised $17,000 from
ex-boyfriends and as my husband has
pointed out it is not an expanding base
so that is why I always encourage people
to help us at Amy Klobuchar comm because
ours is a grassroots campaign and I am
the only candidate that announced in the
middle of a blizzard and stayed out
there and delivered my entire speech
with eight inches of snow on top of my
head you brought up your state of
Minnesota and I'm curious about how like
what you have found is the form of
success that you have had in that state
and so I'm gonna ask you a couple
questions about this one is you know
Barack Oh
Minnesota's thought of until recently as
a battleground state but one that leans
Democratic Democrats have won at the
most I'm Brock Obama wanted by I think
around 8 points in 2012 Hillary Clinton
barely wanted in 2016 I was their
smallest margin of victory yeah less
than two points I believe and so is that
do you think that is that change from
2012 2016 is specific to Donald Trump to
that race or part of a larger trend that
we're seeing in the Midwest and say it's
like Wisconsin Michigan etc well I think
it was part of that trend and you saw we
had you know at one point we had when I
first got in there Governor Pawlenty we
had three of our four constitutional
officers Republican we had the other
senator was Republican and we've really
changed it around and we've done it as I
said by building up support in the
suburbs by building of support in the
rural areas and then by getting our base
voting we had the highest voter turnout
in the country in the last election and
I think that those are things that
differentiated us from Wisconsin which
is really similar but then what you saw
you know after Donald Trump's victory
for the most part in nearly every state
in the Midwest except for that short
victory that Hillary had in Minnesota
what happened in 2018 was people started
focusing on those bread-and-butter
issues our own economic agenda
especially when it came to health care
not kicking people off for pre-existing
conditions and then you know if you
don't think that worked I have four
words for you former Governor Scott
Walker right like this worked and we put
up candidates like Abby and Cindy and
Iowa and those congressional seats Dean
Phillips and Angie Craig in the suburbs
of Minnesota and we took back a bunch of
Republican seats and the house became
the people's house again allowing us to
work on democracy issues all kinds of
things and of course stymied in the
Senate and so you think healthcare is
healthcare the key message there I think
that around 2018 healthcare and which is
born out to be true anyone that thought
we were crying wolf when we said oh hey
they're going to try to take your health
care coverage away now look what they're
doing when they're filing that lawsuit
down in Texas and other things they've
done to sabotage the Affordable Care Act
so in 2018 that was it I think now as we
head into 20
20 because of Donald Trump's actions the
way I look at it
climate change is bigger than ever
because of what he's done and because of
the weather that we're seeing all across
the country this isn't just rising sea
levels this is also what we're seeing in
the heartland with farms underwater and
tornadoes and hail raging wildfires all
you have to do is look at that video of
that little girl in the car with her dad
as he drives through these lapping fires
with their house burning down behind him
singing to her to try to calm her down
people know that it's happening the gun
issue emerged where I think people had
written that off like oh no one's gonna
vote on that that's hard for Democrats
now look what happened after Parkland
you had kids voting in midterms in
record levels and you had them also
talking to their parents to convince
them that this was something that they
had to change their mind on that it
didn't hurt hunters like in Minnesota it
wasn't gonna hurt them if we had
universal background checks so I just
see a number of issues coming out in
2020 that make this more than just about
oh you know which person do you like
better to lead the ticket people are
interested in number one who can win and
I'll make my case for winning based on
the Midwest and how I've won but it is
also about a mandate to make changes
that this president every single day
goes back on I want to ask you about
your policy platform and you know what
you've been running on what you would do
as president and in one of the first
policies that you announced was a policy
to combat addiction and prioritize
mental health I want and you talked
about that in very personal terms so I
want to ask you what your plan would do
and why why you put it so close to the
top of your platform I thought it was
time for a candidate for president to
take this on and not just take it on
like war on drugs and not just take it
on like you know this is nice if we
could get this done one out of five
Americans are dealing with mental health
problems yet for one example the state
of Iowa there's only 64 public hospital
beds can you imagine for mental health
because we went away from this state
hospital system to community-based which
is a good idea but the money wasn't
there the resources weren't there
to help people addiction one out of two
people in this country have addiction in
their family or addiction with someone
they know well and yes for me it's
personal my dad was struggled with
alcoholism my whole life growing up he
had two DWIs when I was in middle school
and by the time right before we got
married my husband and I he had his
third one and that one was a different
time in our history and he was really
facing jail or treatment and he chose
treatment and with the help of his faith
and his friends and that treatment in
his own words he was pursued by grace
and he got his life together and now he
is 91 I just saw him on Memorial Day and
in his words he's in assisted living
it's hard to get a drink around here
anyway but the point of the story is he
was sober ever since he had that
treatment and he also went to AAA and is
a a group still visits him in assisted
living and it's my view that you know
everyone should have that right to be
pursued by grace whether you're
struggling with mental health or opioid
meth crack cocaine some of these drugs
we were we've seen an uptick especially
meth have gotten lost in the discussion
on opioids but there's a lot of people
and especially in communities of color
that are struggling with various drugs
so how do I pay for it I pay for it on
the backs of the those that cause this
addiction to the first place that's
those pharma companies that produce
opioids that didn't tell us the truth
about how addictive they were and they
got tons of money and you're gonna have
a master legal settlement you can also
put a milligram tax on them for opioids
and you can use that money not just for
opioids you can use it for treatment for
other drugs and mental illness do you
believe that you talk about how you
would pay for this proposal do you
believe that all policies need to be
paid for like how do you think about the
balance between short-term need needs we
have right now whether it's around
climate change or health care or other
things and long-term concerns around the
deficit well i think it was angus King
my friend from Maine he said it took us
30 years to rock into this woods with
this debt
to take us that long to walk out so you
want to have it as a factor if you make
decisions along the way and what bothers
me about this president is he doesn't
care at all he just did a tax bill that
was a trillion dollars that he'd add to
the to the to our country's underlying
debt and he does it all the time he
doesn't care well wall for you know
billions of dollars who cares money just
mounts up so for me it will be a factor
cuz I don't think that this next
generation who already has got saddled
with this debt student debt other things
should also be saddled with this so as
you look at things you try to figure out
how you're gonna pay for it in a crisis
do you think like that when Barack Obama
faces the downturn no we had to do this
stimulus but when you look at things
like infrastructure yeah I think we
should pay for it and I put out there
right how we can do it and a lot of it's
going to be reversing these regressive
tax policies that this administration
has put in place literally if you take
the corporate rate from 21 percent which
was way lower than anyone thought they
would do the Republicans and they did it
and you put it at 25 percent every point
you go is a hundred billion dollars so
that's four hundred billion right there
that can pay for infrastructure you go
back to the way that we were doing
taxation before they put in the
international tax plan where they take
an average of the tax rate in all these
countries you save 150 billion dollars
and depending on how many of your
listeners have money in the Bahamas it's
probably not going to hurt them so yes a
lot of this is reversing them then you
add things like changes that capital
gains tax where you could bring in
hundreds of billions of dollars
depending on how you do it closing the
carried interest loophole that's 14
billion passing comprehensive
immigration reform scored 100 by the
Congressional Budget Office 158 billion
dollars in ten years because people come
out of the shadows and pay their taxes
and I think it's important for people to
think about what those things mean about
our country the value statements and how
you pay for things so I'm going to talk
about it but do I do I think it's gonna
matter for every single policy no but I
do think
that you've got to keep it in the back
your mind and propose ways to pay for
things you brought up President Obama's
just did the stimulus package did you
guys all voted on the Senate as
something that wasn't paid for and for
good reason given both the economics of
it in the crisis we were in in the
moment a lot of people today would
believe that climate change is a crisis
on par with that how do you think about
like do the does climate change
mitigation or efforts to curb carbon
emissions need to be paid for as well I
think some of this is shifting where we
have our money now we have you know
billions of dollars to the oil companies
I would take that away right that is
their incentives basically that you
don't have for other forms of renewable
so that's one example it's shifting
where some of the money is now to put
the incentives in place and then I would
one get us back into the international
climate change agreement on day one and
then to bring back the Obama clean power
rules that end up on the cutting room
floor as well as the gas mileage
standards and then yes sweeping
legislation and there are many ways you
can pay for things but we also have to
see it as a long-term investment in
getting up off this track and the unique
thing I bring to this issue because
we've got a lot of great candidates as
you know you had them in the studio that
talked about climate change is that it's
a voice from the heartland we all know
we have rising sea levels and melting
ice sheet in Greenland but what people
don't always talk about are those raging
wildfires in Colorado losing the
firefighters in Arizona the tornadoes
and the hail storms and the woman in
Iowa named Fran who is on the in Pacific
Junction Iowa on the Nebraska border who
literally was hanging there on her neck
was this pair of binoculars
she had me looked through him and she
says this is my house I brought it with
my husband our four year old twins we
were gonna retire in this house and now
it's halfway underwater and she said
it's such a sturdy house when we bought
it it was there for almost a century
there's horsehair in the plaster and
then I said well I guess you built that
you got this house you she bought it
next to this
River and she said no no that's the road
the river is two and a half miles away
and the rivers never come like this
before
well there you go so those stories and
the levees we've seen breaking down and
the problems with the locks and dams and
the problems of not having good public
transportation those are the stories
that have to be told to capture the
imaginations of people in the Midwest to
get them behind the momentum that we
need to pass sweeping climate change
legislation I want to get your reaction
as a former prosecutor to the Muller
report what did it say to you about what
happened in 2016 and afterwards right
well the first thing it said to me was
that a foreign country invaded our
election and I know we have talked a lot
about obstruction of justice and I was
the one that asked Attorney General Barr
all those questions where he somehow
interestingly said that things were
obstruction of justice that I believe
then were in the report as established
facts and I got to ask him about it
again but if we just look at the at our
country's security and our national
security I look at that first part of
that report where we're very
methodically they go through what a
foreign power did to invade our
democracy and we know the what the
repercussions of that was slowed
reversed the momentum of an entire
presidential campaign by hacking into
their emails and putting that out there
tried to hack into the election
equipment and now we know every single
state got very close in Illinois and now
we know about those two counties in
Florida spent multiple multiple amounts
of money on trying to get propaganda out
there we know all that but it's
literally lays out that a foreign
country maybe they didn't use tanks
maybe they didn't use missiles but they
invaded our election all the same and
people call it meddling that's what I do
when I call my daughter on a Saturday
night and ask her what she's doing this
was actually an invasion of our election
so that's why I so dearly want to have
director Muller come before the Senate
or the house and testify publicly
because I think no
one's gonna get through that hole 448
page report except members of Congress
and the media and people that are going
I think that I think that people need to
actually hear him tell that story why
because I want to protect our election
in 2020 and this administration has done
everything to stop us in our tracks
senator Lankford not exactly liberal and
I have a bill the secure elections act
that requires backup paper ballots and
audit the white house
literally made calls to stop that bill
from getting through a committee markup
even though we had the Republican votes
to do it that happened the honest ads
Act a bill that I had with Senator
McCain and now senator Graham is lead
Republican that says that those social
media companies have to have the same
standards that radio TV and newspaper do
that you got to say who's paying for ads
and that you've got to say how much
money they spent on ads and you've got
to be able to see the ads those are some
pretty straightforward things we can do
to protect our democracy but this
administration stops us every time what
do you what do you think under what do
you think is beneath the
administration's opposition to these
issues do they welcome the interference
again is it like this I think this is a
voice well I it is but we have some
clues there little breadcrumbs to follow
I mean the first is what we found out
that former secretary Nielsen homeland
security secretary was told that she
couldn't go talk to the president about
this issue of Russians invasion well why
was that because he doesn't even like to
admit what happened right so I'd start
there is that they are afraid to even
suggest some serious and policy changes
that have to be made because he doesn't
want to hear anything about it because
he wants to relish in his victory when
he didn't even get you know the majority
of the popular vote okay we start with
that I think the other thing is that I
don't trust them of course I don't trust
him when it comes to protecting our
elections it's been in his interest to
have chaos every step of the way and
that's what he likes to foment imagine
if we have a closed election and which I
do not plan on having but if we had one
and one of the states had one or two
counties that got hacked into there were
no backup paper ballots then he would
cap the chaos of no conclusion in a
democracy and this makes no sense when
we can incentivize these remaining 14
states that have partial paper bouts or
don't have them at all to get there by
2020 in the second half of the report
robert muller lays out a fact pattern
that about of obstruction of justice or
attempt obstruction wherever said as a
prosecutor how do you look at that fact
better is that consistent with how
someone with is that consider the fact
pattern of someone who would be charged
with obstruction of justice i think it
is when you go through what he did you
have these there were ten points made by
the special counsel and I think the one
that's probably easiest to understand is
the one where Michael Cohen was out
there trying to decide if he wants a
plea or at least publicly that's what it
looks like and then you have Trump out
there saying things about his family
members you know threatening things that
he's saying about him and his family
members the guy in the highest office in
the land to me that's pretty obvious
that he's trying to get Michael Cohen to
not plead right to not put the facts out
there and threatening him in that way
you have the way he handled director
Comey you have the things that he said
about Flynn there's you can just go
through bit by bit and it is the pieces
of a puzzle to show a pattern and that's
what I was trying to get director Barr
to tell the truth on and that is that it
is not just you know one thing it's a
former prosecutor I know this you look
at that what is called the totality of
the evidence right you look at
everything together and to me this
showed a pattern do you do you think the
house should open impeachment inquiry
you know that is going to be up to them
I know that they are right now very
aggressively pursuing a number of
strange state strains of an
investigation they are trying to get all
the
financial documents which may be very
important in a different way to show the
president's business dealings and why he
does certain things that he does the
financial documents the tax returns they
are trying to get director Muller and
McGann and others to come in trying to
push on that and I think this is all
most likely going to end up in court so
piece by piece they are building this
case it may end up there and that may
end up being the right thing to do but
right now they're simply investigating
pushing and they could also as some have
suggested start an impeachment
proceeding just to gather the evidence
but I do agree with speaker Pelosi that
you can investigate and legislate at the
same time and one of the things that we
learned from that last election is that
people want they believe in the law they
believe in the truth they want to have a
check and balance on this president but
they also want us to stand for an
optimistic economic agenda for this
country when I used to work President
Obama I would always tell him before
press conferences to never answer a
hypothetical question but I'm gonna ask
you one but it's a good one like it's a
good one
so let's hypothetically you've won the
election there yeah that's really good
yeah congratulations sad so you are
you're sitting in transition office
speaker Pelosi Senator Schumer HughesNet
who was just about to become the
Democratic majority leader again Senate
Democrats at 52 votes let's say so
closely and Schumer come to you when
they say president-elect club azshara
the first bill we put on the floor is
the one that's gonna have the best
chance of passing what which of your
policy proposals you want us to put on
to put out first mm-hmm I would put up a
health care proposal to get at the
farmer prices with negotiation under
Medicare something that there's general
agreement with Democrats and on that
issue you can get some Republicans on
board doing something with a public
option something that we wanted to do
for a long time do I think that that
will pass immediately no but that's in
for the long haul the climate change
proposals we just laid out some of this
I could just do myself right put us
and that climate change agreement do
those and from then I think that would
be working with them on what that
legislation would look like and then the
third thing I would do which has to get
done is immigration reform this
president has been the rhetoric has been
so hurtful
and divisive for this country I always
think of this little girl in Minnesota
who I met her parents and they said that
during the height of his mean-spirited
rhetoric they they were Somali they took
their family out to dinner and this guy
walked by and says hey you four go home
you go home to where you come from and
the little girl looks up at her mom and
she says mom I don't want to go home and
eat dinner you said we could eat out
tonight you think of the words of that
innocent child she only knows one home
and that's my state she only knows one
home that's our country and so we have
to stop the rhetoric and at the same
time there could be a huge economic gain
for our country if we do immigration
reform as President Obama wanted to do
it and as we passed in the Senate in
2013 I mentioned the debt reduction but
it's much more than that you know 70 of
our fortune 500 companies are headed up
by people from other countries 25% of
our us Nobel laureates were born in
other countries and he's basically
stopping this economic march that we
have always been on where people have
not just survived in America they've led
America that immigrants don't diminish
America they are America and so I see
that as ripe for getting done our
business community wants it the labor
union supported the farm migrant workers
supported that bill back in 2013 as did
the farm groups we don't have enough
workers in many of our states in the
middle of the country in our fields in
our factories in our nursing homes in
our hospitals so this idea of a path to
citizenship and immigration reform
I believe that gets done in the first
year of a Democratic president any piece
of legislation or almost any piece of
legislation would require 60 votes in
the Senate and I wanted to ask you about
what you and you signed a letter back
2017 supporting the legislative
filibuster do you still support the
legislative fill the legislative
filibuster
I support it as a check and balance of
course so that we make sure that the
minority party has a say and that we
don't get basically shellacked
by the Republican Party but few things
first of all you know we've seen changes
on the other sides on the appointment
side on the judicial side and the
Republicans actually had the audacity to
make changes when it came to the Supreme
Court which we had not made and so that
is now going to change so when I'm
president you're gonna see us be able to
as long as we have the Senate to be able
to get those judicial nominees through
nearly immediately and it's something
that I would do right away the second
thing that we could look at is
legislative filibuster I would I would
prefer and I've said this publicly and
you can see in that letter have most of
my colleagues to keep it in place but I
think it's leverage it would be
leveraged for Senator Schumer if they
start blocking things that have
Republican support right immigration
reform doing something on climate change
there are Republicans that want to move
on this health care these huge
priorities against the National momentum
that we're going to see in the 2020
election with the house and what we just
saw if they start doing that yeah it's
leverage you could change it you could
you don't change it right away you can
change it later and I think that kind of
leverage matters when you're in in a
body like the Senate so you know that's
how I look at it okay I look at it as
leverage I look at it as you would
rather keep it in place if people are
actually in good faith legislating
because the shoe goes on the other feet
when you lose the minority and I would
look at it that way more practically you
you're someone who is known for your
relationship with Republicans I read an
article from right around when the time
you announced it's with a political
where the headline was like Republicans
gush about senator yeah that's just I
think that's gonna really help me in the
primary yeah that's my plan I'm gonna
put that right out there thanks for
bringing it up I don't actually my
hottest local news I think it would not
hurt you know I agree because as I said
proven progressive means you have to
make progress yes and
do you but relationship is something
that President Obama learned painfully
his relationships Republicans as a
senator are different their
relationships with Republicans as
president oh yes do you believe that
Senator McConnell would treat a
president kovash are any different than
he treated a President Obama it depends
on his own interest now first of all if
we are in the majority he's gonna have
to decide what to do is he gonna just
keep blocking things I would guess he
wouldn't I think you have to look at the
times that were in and I think President
Obama given the cards that he was dealt
did an extraordinary job but he was
dealing with the downturn and so it was
very hard to move on some of these other
priorities that I just laid out think
you know we have to do so we're not just
governing from chaos all the time but he
was stuck you know he came in I remember
him saying I still remember this was
after the Somali issue with the Pirates
and everything he said okay this is my
portfolio it's not the portfolio I asked
for and he like listed all these things
he had to deal with I loved that moment
and one of them was of course much
bigger than anything and that was that
extraordinary economic downturn caused
in part by some bad policies that the
Republicans had had supported so he
comes in and he can't do some of these
other things and that's why I think that
I would be coming in at a different time
you know I hope we keep economic
stability despite this president trying
to you know do everything to create an
uproar every day whether it's with the
trade wars or whether it's with how he's
dealing with the rest of the world but
if you come in at that moment you can
deal with these long-term challenges
that we haven't and then I think you've
got especially with some of the things
I've picked out in addition to those big
three challenges I put out their
infrastructure mental health you do have
I there's a reason I picked those it
wasn't just it's because those are
things Trump promised especially when it
came to infrastructure on election night
and he hasn't been able to do anything
on he hasn't kept his promise because
he's unwilling to even push the
big-money interests a little bit to help
pay for it
because he's such a he says he wants to
do it and then he gets back in the Oval
Office puts his head down and says oh I
can't pay for it so I think those is
or things that we could work with
McConnell on but I'm not naive about how
it would be different in the Oval Office
I just think the fact that I know who
people are and where they want to find
compromise will be very helpful it is
the like I think it's interesting that
you to me that you picked immigration
I'm sorry you picked infrastructure and
as your two issues because they and I
think you're you know you're saying this
we must reform it you picked them in
part because they are issues that have
bipartisan potential in a very polarized
country in Congress right right in part
because they can get done and because
they're crying out for a solution
because this guy has you know said words
that he wants to do something about it
but he hasn't done it and by the way I
have used that formula a lot I mean it's
just and some interesting things like
the sexual harassment policy it kind of
got lost in all of the horrible news
stories about these cases I led the bill
with Senator blunt to get that done we
changed the whole way those cases are
handled in Congress now that's the bill
that passed the House Klobuchar Blunt
and it requires members to be personally
liable it is something that is focused
on getting rid of these crazy waiting
periods or when I was given the problem
of Tammy Duckworth wanting to bring her
baby on the the Senate floor when they
had not changed the rules once except
for a dog I bet people thought well this
seems silly it wasn't silly to women of
America and so I did it by kind of
almost something using humor which I do
a lot by the way when hazard or Schatz
told us that you were the funniest
senator yeah well thank you yeah well
when hatch said that there maybe we
could have one baby on the floor but not
ten I said we already have ten babies on
the floor or I finally used a rhyme
because they were they were all lined up
in the had a classified briefing bunch
of the older senators and I went up and
I and I tap one of them on the shoulder
I said I you you guys are worried about
breastfeeding you sent someone over no
not worried do I go no I hear you are
and I so I use this dr. Seuss run that I
did she won't
she won't nurse the baby on the floor
she won't change its diaper by the door
she won't change his clothes in the
house she'll be as quiet as a mouse
she's not gonna be vaping burping the
baby at work stop being such a jerk okay
so then suddenly they changed the policy
and Tammy got to wheel herself out on
the floor this veteran with that little
tiny baby on her lap and I will tell you
that that use of humor against Trump is
going to be really important because he
uses humor you might not think what he
says is funny but you've got to be able
to have your own agenda ignore him when
it matters stand your ground and and
define those moments when he does
something that's abhorrent you know like
he did this this week when he embraces
kim jungeun again and then and then the
last thing is used some humor so when he
called me snowwoman and made fun of me
for announcing my candidacy in the
blizzard while talking about climate
change I said I wrote back in Twitter
you know Donald Trump the science is on
my side and I'd like to see how your
hair would fare in a blizzard
mr. umbrella man as a as a senator of
the Judiciary Committee what do you
think is the appropriate response from
Democrats
to what McConnell and the Republicans
did to Merrick garland the appropriate
response is when we take the White House
is that my guess is there'll be some
retirements then is that you immediately
put up a nominee and you never back down
you immediately and this is one of the
key things that gets lost there's going
to be circuit court and there's gonna be
district court nominations and when
Barack Obama came in as we know in the
middle of the downturn as you know it
was harder to have that as a high
priority that's got to be a priority
every day in terms of making sure we're
putting up qualified people who follow
the law and getting it done and putting
those names forth immediately because
any delay
is not good for our judicial system
given some of these characters that
they've put in place so for me the
response is we are just gonna put these
great judges in and they're going to be
judges that believe in the law that
follow precedent that are not these
crazy right-wing versions of judges that
they have been putting in so that we can
put bring some I'd say some balance and
some goodness back into our judicial
system do you I take it from that that
you do not support some of the ideas
floating around about changing the
composition of the court I am happy to
look at that I'm just looking at reality
even with even if we take back the
Senate do you get out everyone on there
and can you get the votes for that I
know that's the what's called the court
packing idea right you bring in more
court reform here at the pod save
America rules okay so the court reform
yes I am not opposed to that I just
think you'd have to look at your numbers
and your votes and if you could get
something like that done but my
immediate practical answer would be to
put forward judges immediately to get
them in place would you have a litmus
test for your judicial appointments on
choice or any other issues well yes that
they follow the law and the law is roe v
wade and i think when you look at some
of the choices that barack obama made
with that as his guide he put some great
justices on there from Sonia Sotomayor
to Elena Kagan he did that thinking
about a general election against Donald
Trump have you like what is your theory
on how you find the balance between
talking about yourself and and D in
responding to Trump mm-hmm that went off
balance in 2016 and it I wouldn't put it
all and in any way I'm Hillary Clinton
who
would have been a great president and
actually did I think a very good job
great job in those debates no one had
ever run against someone like him before
and now we know a lot we know that he
doesn't care how divisive it is or who
he makes his enemies he simply wants to
control the agenda he will literally fly
across the world and meet with Kim
jong-un for a summit that was ill
planned that had no outcomes just to
distract from something else he will
write a tweet that has all kinds of
falsehoods and misinformation he'll even
send out a doctored video about the
Speaker of the House just so he can
distract from the issues at hand whether
it is his own problems with the mullah
report whether it is a failed policy or
not getting something done and so what
I've learned from all of that is that
you literally have to stay on your own
agenda and you cannot always go down
every rabbit hole with him and I think
we've all learned that and we certainly
learned it in how we ran those 20 18
races so that would be my first answer
the second use some humor and push back
at him some of what he says is just
Minoo absurd he wants us to be going oh
my God look at what he just said that's
what he wants people know people like
that in their lives and so we have to
look at it that way do you are there any
other lessons that you take from Hillary
Clinton's experience in 2016 -
specifically it's just you know you
either more broadly or specifically
around the challenges she faced with
sexism the media misogyny from her
opponent that it's just the unfair set
of expectations are often placed on
female candidates I don't know what
you're talking about
I'm kidding okay so I would I would I'll
start with that and then say another
lesson I learned but on that front when
I've talked to other women and this has
been my own experience as well when we
ran for tough jobs we always knew that
we were having to have to prove
ourselves I think it was someone once
said that women candidates I agree with
part of this but not both things women
cranny dates have to speak softly I
don't agree with
have to speak softly and carry a big
statistic the idea there is that we had
this extra responsibility to be
accountable to know everything to be
able to answer every question and not
screw up like you know they just don't
look at a woman candidate and says cool
what an interesting story and I have
thought about that even within today's
coverage you know my own husband grew up
as I said in a trailer home right that's
kind of an interesting story he went on
to be somehow got himself to college and
when a year early graduated a year early
from law school
it worked hard for everything he did in
his whole life
he's got a pretty interesting story but
the media isn't is captured by that so
you've given all that you still have to
just run on your ideas you have to not
be brought down by this fact that you
know people in their head are thinking
can she really do this job well they
give they allow men a little more leeway
of thinking yeah of course he can do
that job and so when I first ran for
Senate I couldn't believe how many
people asked me constantly can a woman
really win and I would say well woman
won in taxes and a woman became governor
in Texas so I bet they could win in
Minnesota this is in 2005 and then I
would go to groups of men steel workers
and make my case and they kind of their
arms crossed I could tell they weren't
and so finally I would say to that
question
I'm not running as a woman candidate I'm
proud to be a woman candidate I'm not
running that way I'm running on my ideas
and when I want to get done and then I
would say which I would never use now it
doesn't quite make sense but I would say
because if I was just running as a woman
candidate I wouldn't win because half
the voters are men and then they would
take their arms down and put them down
like yeah and I think what they were
getting at was that I was willing to say
I have something to offer besides being
a woman candidate whether that's fair or
not it was in their heads and I think
it's still in their heads today and so
you have to just put it aside and not
talk about it all the time you asked it
so I did and then move on how you want
to win and then the other thing I'll say
that I learned oh and you also have to
show you can do tough jobs
and then people say you're too tough
like you can't win right but you again
have to just deal with that so the other
thing that I learned from all of this in
Hillary's election and what happened was
just the power of what her example was
later and I was I heard someone say the
other day that they were talking about
how when Billie Jean King had to be the
first woman and competing that crazy-mad
she had with Bobby Riggs and B and a lot
of your listeners will have to google it
you know what I'm talking about it
doesn't matter I get it but the point is
she said afterwards I felt like I had
all of women's sports on my shoulders
because I was the first one and that's
how I felt for Hillary and so what I
would say to her and have when I've seen
her well look what happened in 2018 yeah
maybe this didn't go the way it was
supposed to but then in 2018 it got all
these women to run all these people of
color to run who probably wouldn't have
run before but they felt that the job
had to continue and the job had to be
finished and you look at that day after
that inauguration that dark day where
millions of people marched all over the
country and then nine days later when
the Muslim ban comes out and people are
spontaneously showing up at the airports
or on day 100 my favorite March the
March for science what do we want
science when do we want it after
peer-review or into the summer where you
know they above forty eight Democrats
hang together and are joined by three
Republicans and vote down that repeal
the Affordable Care Act or that victory
for dignity or decency when Doug John
wins in Alabama the students in Parkland
this is an arc that were on right and
that arc started the day that he got
elected and then the day that he got
sworn in so when people tell me oh I
can't stand this anymore a tweet this is
getting so sickening how do you run
against all these people how does he say
we are on a March there are so many
people that are part of this and this is
not I am not worried about them getting
disenchanted about voting I am not
worried about them no matter what
mean-spirited purging they do of
electoral rolls or all this stuff people
are going to find a way and we are going
to have justice back in this country
that sounds like a great place to end
this interview but I have one more
question which is as important as all
the other ones which is positive America
is gonna be in Minneapolis in about two
weeks what should we eat and do while
we're there oh well there is much to do
there let's see well there are a lot of
fun places there's a very famous
hamburger called the Juicy Lucy that
maybe you've heard of reference of which
of the two very cool walk across the
Mississippi in Minneapolis right near
where I live actually near where I
announce but there was a blizzard it'll
be a nice day you can go over the stone
arch bridge and get a sense of the
original Minneapolis which was a mill
town and then there's the Prince Museum
of course we love Prince and miss him
every single day
there is the Mary Tyler Moore statue
know that really where she like took her
hat and threw it up in the air and
there's a statue commemorating it's
great and then there's just a lot of it
is a great town for young people this is
my pitch for people to move there or you
can come to our campaign headquarters
now that is exciting very cool building
you know like it and the there are so
many young people there just because it
is an exciting place to be
it's got great theater it's got great
music and it's got great food and people
are very involved in the community in
such a positive way which brings us to
where we started which is exactly why
I'm running for president well done
you've got diverse and interesting
generation that we've ever seen and I'm
proud to say my daughter's part of that
generation and we want to be able to
give them their place at the table
instead of going backwards to another
century well that's a great way to end
it senator Klobuchar thank you for
joining us on America and good luck out
there on the kid okay thanks Stan
you
