great welcome to pod save America live
is that we're calling it decide to go
with it I felt like it's weird every day
every week we do this we're like welcome
to the live stream that's dumb
I do think welcome to the live stream is
um pretty bad letting the air out of the
balloon a little welcome to pod save
America live we're taking your questions
and with us is Priyanka Hey who's gonna
ask the questions yeah that's a we can
jump in a lot here Travis is here NARS
here only one of those people doesn't
need to be here but we're happy to have
him and that's Travis Priyanka is not
it's not even a camera on Travis was
just a question
this is a Q&A I thought this is a Q&A
you're right you're correct Priyanka we
can jump in if you guys want please all
right we have our first question it's
from a name I can't read I know there's
nothing we can do about the rush of
stuff so talk me to death isn't helpful
but can we talk about the latest Russia
stuff and what the hell Paul Manafort
thinks he's doing where can we possibly
go from here I'll just start by saying
we want an election you all deserve some
Russia stuff not only that not only that
the old thing of there's nothing we can
do about the Russia stuff so talk about
other stuff isn't really true anymore
because we won the election yeah so
there we are
so one thing one thing that we you know
Jonna you you were about to you were
doing a kind of jokey inter inter ruff
into into intro into a real answer that
I interrupted well woody where we I was
gonna start with what is going on well
I'll do it I'll do it you do that and
then I'll go okay
some facts um Paul manna for who when we
left let last left our hero Paul fan for
head and you to guilty plea he was
cooperating with robert muller in the
special counsels office all was well and
good and then we found out the other day
thanks to bob muller that Paul Manafort
has lied to the FBI in the specialist
count special counsels office since he's
been cooperating with them violating the
conditions of his plea so now he doesn't
get any leniency in sentencing
whatsoever
it would mean that the sentencing would
lead to palma de fort spending the rest
of his life in jail and now what's
happening is muller said okay you
violated the plea Manta Ford's lawyers
disagree so they're going to court
they're gonna be in front of a judge and
palm and Muller said he will detail
exactly why he knows that Paul Manafort
lied and what he lied about to the judge
sentencing I know that every episode
ends in a cliffhanger
I know sentencing itself they think will
take place in February but they have a
meeting this Friday with the judge about
scheduling when the report comes out
from Muller about why Paul made a fort
lied we don't know exactly but he said
it soon and the other thing we don't
know is if that report will be made
public or not one other thing we don't
know is whether or not you can get em as
ties at the Leavenworth commissary it
seems unlikely the the point the one
thing I was gonna add is we've gone back
and forth on this a lot this idea that
you know look the Russia the Russia pot
well I watch Russia pot never boils
but but but there is a big change
because Democrats now do have some power
and I think one question that should
always be on on the back of our minds is
where when do we demand a bill passed to
protect Muller to protect the special
counsel as part of negotiations whether
it's over Trump's dumb wall or an
upcoming spending bill or what-have-you
so now there really is but for a long
time there really wasn't anything
substantive for Democrats to do not to
mention the many committees that will
now be chaired by Democrats and not
Craven over what it would he call it
when somebody's in over their head in
over their head people like Devin unas
in charge of these committees anymore so
you have committee members commit you
have committee chairs so you can decide
strategically how to deploy their
subpoenas their resources to get more
information to kind of buttress robert
muller and then you have this other
bigger question of when do we decide to
try to pass something to protect muller
and jam republicans who have refused to
sign on for something like that
so uso asked what the hell Paul Manafort
thinks he's doing so a couple options
here Paul Manafort lies during his
cooperation one he believes he's getting
a pardon from Trump - he believes he's
telling the truth yeah okay let's put
two aside that's what he's saying
publicly mm-hmm
three he believed that Muller would not
find out that he's lying for he believes
that he would rather spend the rest of
his life in jail then tell the truth so
I think those are the only options
I think the buckets of he lied by
mistake and he's willing to go to jail
forever to protect Donald Trump secrets
do not strike me as manna for desk know
that the this is very you know thriller
movie kind of story line but the
believes he'd rather spend the rest of
his life in jail rather than tell the
truth is not necessarily to protect
Donald Trump but it is the theory from
some that Paul Manafort is so afraid of
spilling the Russians secrets that if he
has let free and tells them that the
Russians will somehow find him and kill
him
that is the very it seems a little
far-fetched to me you know but who knows
yeah you know what a lot of people that
were them yeah a lot of things
were far-fetched before we elected a
international idiot criminal president a
couple other things are interesting here
it is very interesting that robert
muller knows that palm anna fort was
lying we don't know what the lies are we
don't know what they were about but the
fact that Muller knows he was lying
means that Muller once again was a
couple of steps ahead of these bad
criminals the other interesting thing we
learned is that this whole time that
Manta Ford's been cooperating with
Muller his lawyers have been telling
Donald Trump's lawyers everything what
Tom what Bob Muller asked him what he's
been saying which is to say that it's
highly unusual is an understatement
usually you have joint defense
agreements with someone when your
interests are aligned because you're
both the defendants
when one of those defendant starts
cooperating and basically joins the
prosecution's team you don't have those
agreements anymore
now what that means is Muller can
because the conversations between trumps
lawyers and Manta Ford's lawyers are not
privileged anymore because they are not
on the same side one was supposed to be
cooperating so Muller can try to find
out what was said between those two
legal teams and what was the other thing
I was gonna say I can't remember it
doesn't matter the point is presidents
who have nothing to hide tend not to
continue to have conversations with
people who have pled guilty to crimes
that they're associated with that would
be like you know it's like you know for
instance if let's say you and I we're on
the same team in a game all right and
then you're like actually now I'm on the
other team yeah the other interesting
John you get it I do get it where he
would be like on the other teams right
that's what I yeah that's what I meant
so when Gates when Rick Gates started
cooperating with the MoMA team in the
cooperation agreement it said
specifically that Gates was not supposed
to say a word to anyone about what they
were cooperating about but the Moller
but that Milan did not include that in
mana Ford's agreement right well we
learned a little bit about this earlier
right there was some we knew that there
was some communication going on between
the Trump team and the metaphor team
earlier it seemed like Muller knew that
earlier bro
so the question is how did why did
Muller knowing this that they were
probably communicating and also why did
he write a plea agreement that sort of
allowed this sort of communication some
people have speculated Moeller was
setting a trap that seemed like yes like
you know quite a legal theory yeah I
think this is a good example of nobody
knows right and we're always months
behind what what Muller is up to you so
I think this is a good a good one to not
speculate too wildly about the other
thing that came out yesterday about the
investigation was jerome corsi famous
birther just all-around crazy conspiracy
theorist bad guy friend of Roger stone
friend of Donald Trump's swift boat
Swift Boat guy if you run there at all
the bad things if you're a Priyanka and
younger Swift boating with something
over to John Kerry in 2004 what it was
there something called Swift Boat
Veterans for truth which actually lied
about John Kerry's service in Vietnam
Jerome Corsi was very much involved in
that that's how I first got to know his
um his of so Muller has emails between
Corsi and Roger stone showing that they
both had knowledge that WikiLeaks was
about to dump stolen emails regarding
Hillary Clinton John Podesta and the
Democratic Party in the statement of
events that has been leaked about Corsi
it also says that course Ian stone had
been in regular contact with the Trump
campaign including Donald J Trump which
got Trump's lawyers and Trump pretty
angry that he was specifically mentioned
in the in the statement you know um so
now we're pretty close now we have stone
and Corsi knowing about WikiLeaks and
calculus and them talking to Trump in
the campaign so we're pretty close to
connecting some dots there yes I would
also just say when you're dealing with
like you look at this cast of characters
and it's like Jerome Corsi and Roger
stone you know when you go to like a
Boston Market or a buffet or a Chipotle
and they're getting to the bottom of the
chicken so somebody comes and takes the
last little bits of gross chicken that
have been out all day takes them and
puts them on top of the new chicken and
that puts the new chicken down so that
you can start on the new chicken and if
you're first you're like oh I'm
getting all the old chicken these are
the burnt up disgusting bits of old
chicken that too is in running our
politics right now Jerome Corsi Roger
stone they're the grimy over cooked
boiled gross chicken bits at the bottom
of the thing that just got put on top of
us I imagine that if and it sounds like
when that has happened to you in the
past you were the type of person who
says please take that first scoop of
chicken and dump it out because I don't
want the old
I can imagine you saying you can't
imagine I will say that I tend not to do
that I will say that if I am at a Boston
Market and we're looking at some old
green beans that are kind of a little
more gray and a little less green I'll
say can we get some fresh green beans
can we get some nice plump green beans I
miss Boston Market I'd miss it
if I went less where is it close it
close look I travel a lot and sometimes
I go to Boston Market in New York it's
not a big deal I don't like to brag
about my bicoastal hood stop but I go to
my favorite places in New York and one
of them is Boston Market it's a good
stream any other Boston Market questions
Priyanka not that I see on the list but
I'll take some from Twitter but we can
move on to shutdown Schumer Pelosi this
question is from bill who is asking what
are your thoughts on Chuck Schumer at
offering 1.6 billion dollars to Trump
for border security and can you explain
the pros and cons of this offer and
strategy whatever it may be
do we have a fart noise button so I have
to say I saw a lot of the outrage over
the 1.6 billion
I saw the clarification from Chuck
Schumer I saw a lot of people saying why
are you just offering 1.6 billion why
would you that be your beginning
position of money for nothing why after
we want an election with the first thing
you do say we reach an old deal where
you get some money for nothing and I
thought there must be some sophisticated
explanation sitting beneath it some some
argument for why this is the right
strategy John here's the here's the rear
is there one here's here here would be
the Schumer camps reasoning first there
was a little mishap on Twitter as
sometimes there is where the CNN
reporter who reported this said that
Schumer said 1.6 billion for a wall it
is not for a while that scene reported
was wrong
it's 1.6 billion for fencing and so the
Schumer people will say okay I see my
eyes roll the 1.6 billion is it says in
the in the legislation over it's for
fencing Trump wanted it for you know
more Border Patrol more ice agents more
detention beds can't use any of that
it's all for fencing okay fine so you
get that now you might think to yourself
isn't 1.6 billion
fencing when the border is more secure
than it's ever been in the history of
the country sort of a waste of money yes
of course it is but anyway what happened
was this 1.6 billion was agreed to by
Democrats and Republicans in the Senate
months ago
so now as we're trying to figure out how
to fund the government for the next
couple months schumer thought that he
would say okay well we had an agreement
for 1.6 billion with republicans from
before so let's start there and we are
very reasonable negotiators because we
are willing to abide by the agreement we
had with Senate Republicans what we're
not abiding by is any kind of money for
a wall not a dime for a wall and so if
Donald Trump wants money for a wall and
refuses to fund the government unless he
gets that money he can shut the
government down
he's unreasonable where at least we're
trying to negotiate in good faith that's
where all this comes from and I would
just say that like this clarification
like it's not for a wall as for fencing
is it is so silly to me because that's
you've started out at a position of you
started out in trumps world you started
out saying we're gonna give you some
money for enhanced border security when
the entire trust the militarized border
it's all predicated on the the the the
campaign of fear and misinformation that
Trump has been leading for years and so
to me if you want like we've we've we've
also Schumer has been down this road
before we've come to a few near
agreements Trump's always walked away if
you want money for Boris security we're
never gonna be pay for a wall but if you
want money for fencing if you want money
for border security not for Isis that
are all the caveats that Schumer rightly
included we have to get something
whether it's help for daca whether it's
protection for Muller whether it's
strengthening of ACA whatever the
negotiation is over however smaller big
you want to make it a pretty simple
principle Democrats could be very
reasonable and upholding is if you want
more money for border security when the
border is never in more secured when
we've never spent more money in on the
border before when it when it is as
secure as it has ever been you have to
give more you
it's not just about the number it's
about what you get in exchange that's it
now it's true that these are all
imaginary numbers that none of this is
gonna come to fruition that it's all
posturing because Donald Trump is
president and he's crazy and he's
basically in a position where he's gonna
say give me money for the wall or I'm
shutting down the government which so
it's very likely we're headed first shut
down we should just let everyone know so
it's true that it's all imaginary who
cares it's nothing to get so upset about
because it's all posturing but it seems
like it would also be very reasonable
for Chuck Schumer and the Democrats to
say here's our position we want to fund
the government for the next couple
months a clean continuing resolution a
clean CR that just funds the government
with nothing attached that's very
reasonable
fund the government at current levels
when there's a new Congress that is
seated in January we can talk more about
future funding on stuff talk about
immigration talk about whatever you want
we can negotiate but our position is
just keep the government open for the
next couple months if your position
Donald Trump is the only way the
government staying open is with a
 5 billion dollar wall then
you our position is the government that
seems reasonable so I don't understand
why super uber just didn't offer that
position I don't think you need to throw
the 1.6 billion out there it reminds me
a little bit of when the Obama
administration negotiated with
Republicans over the debt ceiling and
then discovered quickly that you should
never do that that that you know don't
knesset different of course I mean I
understand that it's different but the
lesson there was that even engaging in
the debate on the topic was a mistake
that you basically say we can have a
negotiation over immigration we can have
a negotiation over what you want to do
for fencing and we want to protect daca
we can have that conversation but trying
to tie it to government funding and sort
of opening up into that debate to me
seems like a mistake oh I agree okay all
right you guys cover the next one so
we're gonna skip ahead to today we're
talking about Nancy Pelosi now could you
guys explain what the rule changes that
Nancy Pelosi and the problem-solvers
caucus have agreed to actually mean and
how bad is it for Democrats
the problem-solvers caucus let's just
say there's no there's no there's no
problem
the problem the problem solvers caucus
wants to solve is staying in power and
seeming reasonable to moderate voters no
matter who is hurt and no matter how
many conservative ideas are empowered by
a new Democratic Congress the
problem-solvers caucus and what they're
doing it's like oh when Republicans are
in charge of the government
conservatives they hold all the power
but when Democrats are in charge of the
government we also think the
Conservatives should be in charge even
if they even if their motivation was not
seeming reasonable or seeming moderate
even if you say okay your motivations
are pure you believe there's too much
gridlock and that we need more
bipartisanship okay Donald Trump is
president Mitch McConnell is running the
Senate I don't think the problem in
Washington and the source of gridlock is
the House of Representatives run by
Democrats who haven't even started yet
well that doesn't seem like we're the
source of the gridlock is it's the house
that is soon to be run by Nancy Pelosi
but we don't even know what they've done
yet meanwhile we have a Senate why won't
people OC go back in time and undo some
of the gridlock
it seems very Senator Paul Ryan up so it
seems like most of these rules world
changes are fairly toothless and minor I
don't think Democrats are worried we
asked Brian boiler about this crooked
media's editor-in-chief who was also
once a congressional reporter so Brian's
sort of identified one rule change that
actually has real teeth it's basically
about you know the process for getting a
vote on the floor so right now you
introduce legislation in the house it's
got to go through a committee oftentimes
if the committee is run by one party the
committee can just kill the legislation
and then it never sees a vote so a lot
of members say well that's not fair
things should get a vote if they have
broad support in the house right now
that requires this super super majority
of Democrats and Republicans this is
this very high number in the house to
bring some kind of vote to the floor to
force the speaker to put a piece of
legislation on the floor go to vote what
this says is if some bill gets 290
sponsors mm-hmm in the house
then that bill goes on to something
called the consensus calendar and well
you gotta solve
they gotta solve for whoever is the
branding guy at the problem solvers
caucus the consensus calendar so I think
that person's marked pen yeah so so and
then the good luck goose enters the
chamber and the Grigg law coos comes in
and it lathes
it lays the egg of bipartisanship and
then that egg is cracked and then they
feast upon the egg of going lot left or
right but forward so the goes so
anything with 290 co-sponsors gets on
the consensus calendar and then the
speaker must pick one item from the
consensus calendar per session to hold a
vote on this is real here's the thing so
it's got these and then there's a
sorting hat all right and it identifies
your Patronus is that right no what's up
what's the thing that the sorting hat is
how you get your house three points for
Hufflepuff I don't know the real day but
just so you know the math we're gonna
end up with two hundred thirty five
votes Democrats because it looks like we
just won TJ Cox's race that's number
forty can I just admit that I'm a little
I'm a little bummed that Mia love loss
just cuz we have such a majority at this
point that I wanted Trump to look stupid
on that one but I'm glad we want it love
it was willing to trade a House seat to
be able to dunk on Trump for attacking
Mia love I just thought no no I wouldn't
be doing the dunking Mia love would just
be around and be this great thing I've
been loving like I guess my death was
greatly exaggerated all that stuff
would've been so fun I'll take the vote
oh yeah so we have we're gonna have to
235 votes in the house they have two
hundred can have any fun anymore eat
every house vote so in order for
something to get on the consensus
calendar you would need then all 200
Republicans in the House to agree on
something and then you'd need to peel
off ninety Democrats and if the
Republicans can do that yes then they
can force a vote on something in the
house even if Pelosi just or not they
can't force a vote they have to they can
force something on to the consensus
calendar so Nancy Pelosi has got to be
sitting there thinking I'm not losing
ninety demic
that's on anything yeah there's only 48
members of the so-called problem-solvers
caucus so is only 24 of them that are
Democrats
so right right you're talking about
having to peel off a bunch of people and
I think what 32 Democrats voted against
Pelosi in the first vote for her to
become Speaker so you're talking about a
fact that you know you're talking about
trying to get a bunch of Democrats
I forgot the nut is it 290 you have to
talk about getting 50 you're talking
about getting 58 Democrats to vote to
screw Pelosi who just voted for her for
Speaker and haven't been part of any of
this sort of couple yeah so anyway
that's that and the rest of the rules we
won't go through them all now but
they're all pretty minor you know
process changes that won't really hurt
Democrats or I mean maybe at the margin
in committees I mean it's it really is
an effort for these problem
he's problem solvers who they solve the
problem all right which is they'll get
the press release that they wanted
problem solved all right okay moving out
of Washington we have a question from
Kara about GM with the GM shutdowns and
layoffs do you think that those Trump
voters will wake up and stop voting
against their own self-interest I would
say two things one it's a game of inches
I think that over time look we just we
just saw a bunch of people who voted who
may have voted for Trump either stay
home or vote for Democrats in these
House races
no one's story is going to make a
difference but I do think whether it's a
trade war whether it's jobs going
overseas whether it's tax cuts for the
rich all of this kind of takes the bloom
off the Rose with Trump which is a very
positive thing the second thing I would
just say is and I think it's a big part
of the case what we're making 2020 is
anything I'd say about this idea of
interests and people voting against
their own interests I would really just
and I've made I've said that too in the
past and I know it's a shorthand but I
would say the question we should always
ask is not why are people voting against
their own interest and this the other
and ask ourselves why have people valued
things outside of their economic
interests so much that they're willing
to privilege those issues over issues of
their sort
rather mutter concern whether they are
wrong about the economic issues or not
they've clearly chosen to privilege a
set of issues that are different because
that I think is ultimately more
constructive yeah I totally heard that I
think the question is why do they
believe it's not in their interest yeah
why do they believe was in their
interest to vote for Trump and not in
their interest to vote for a Democrat
and what can Democrats do who were
running for office
what can all of us do to persuade them
otherwise I think Democrats have to make
this an issue you see sherrod Brown out
there is doing a fantastic job about
this he's been hitting the GM stuff for
a long time you know it's a there's an
Ohio connection there but I think this
is going to be a big issue look I think
a lot of these folks in 2016 thought
that and obviously you can fault them
for thinking this but they believed that
Trump would look out for their interests
they believe the Trump would bring these
jobs back you can you know for whatever
reason they did now in 2020 there will
be four years four years later and if a
lot of these GM style announcements
happen and people don't see jobs coming
back and and in fact see jobs leaving
then yes some of those voters are get a
bowl again a lot of them art a lot of
them are Trump fans and nothing is gonna
change their mind but on the margins as
we saw in this election in 2018 on the
margins there are absolutely people who
voted for Trump in 16 who voted Democrat
in 18 and those people are absolutely
gettable for Democrats in 2020 and this
kind of thing GM leaving and then what
people watching their communities sort
of like fall apart and Donald Trump do
nothing about it that's the thing that
will actually get them to vote for
Democrats in 2020 the people who are
already shown that they're willing to
break off from Trump I'd also just add
to that it's not just about it's not
just about showing people that Trump is
not in their economic interests based on
the way that he's governed the way the
promisee hasn't kept one thing we should
also be answering for is why do people
not believe Democrats who said this at
the beginning right why was it that
there were so many people who doubted
what Democrats said about jobs Democrats
said about trade Democrats said about
Midwestern economic issues that made it
possible for people to believe Trump and
disbelieve the Democratic may
stream and I think there are the good
news is I think there is a kind of I
think we've internalized I don't think
we've done it enough but I think people
understand that there really did need to
be a change in how we talked about
economic issues going into 2020 and I
think you see a lot of potential 20 20
Democrats kind of sort of thinking about
that out loud yeah alright another
question that's been in the news a lot
lately climate change how can we stop
climate change from being I think you
might say how do we stop climate change
well it's a big it's a it's a sticky
wicket sorry go on
yeah how do we stop it from being a
left-right issue left / right also how
do we stop the culture of equating what
experts like scientists and health
professionals think on an issue to what
some random person or celebrity thinks
for example the anti-vaxxer movement
Trump saying he doesn't believe the
findings of scientists stuff like that
he's interesting like I think there's a
way to stop it from becoming a
left-right issue
you see evangelicals out there talking
about the dangers of climate change
businesses talking about it it's not as
much the ideology I don't know how we
stop it from being a Democrat Republican
issue and not a Democrat Republican
issue a entire world includes the
Republicans including conservative
parties in other conservative parties
right this is not a partisan issue all
of it is there is one party in one
country on the planet yeah that does not
believe in climate change and that is
the Republican Party in the United
States and I'm just sorry and just add
to that by the way a party that has even
as the science has become more and more
clear has actually moved to the right on
this issue right you know we currently
have a climate to annoying Republican
who's backed by a lot of climate dying
members in Congress you know there was a
client there was a Republican but there
was a bipartisan climate bill during the
2000s W Bush was getting pushed more and
more on this issue like he was terrible
on this issue terrible on this issue but
like not as bad as current Republicans
right yeah no but I think I think so
it's gonna be impossible to sort of pull
these Republican politicians away from
their viewpoint but I think when we're
going out and talking to voters and
we're
to some conservative voters some
moderate voters I think you know first
of all we're now seeing the effects of
climate change all around us so we need
to talk about those more I think we need
to talk about a lot of these people
think okay yeah maybe it's happening but
if we do something about it
won't it destroy the economy I think we
need to talk more about how no in fact
there's plenty of economic opportunities
out there and we're transitioning our
economy and the report that just came
out from the National Climate Assessment
that actually not doing anything about
climate change will cause terrible
effects across our economy right did the
equivalent of a you know a Great
Depression and so I think we have to
show people a path and I think you know
one of the better aspects of the green
new deal that a lot of Democrats are
proposing are look we can be honest that
there are there this is a tough
transition to a clean energy economy and
there are certain sectors of the economy
where there won't be those jobs anymore
if we transition and we have to have
something to say to those people who
might lose their jobs that like we're
going to support you there's gonna be a
federal job guarantee you're gonna be
able to do this it's gonna be training
there's going to be benefits yeah right
like we have to be able to support with
we willing to support the transition to
a clean energy economy particularly for
the sectors of the economy that may be
hurt during the transition yeah I think
that's right I also think I do think
that I think a jobs guarantee and the
job gains and the jobs people can get I
think is so much more important I think
Democrats been talking about job
training for a very long time and it
rings pretty hollow to people so I I
sort of am whenever I hear someone a
politician talk about job training I
just think I don't buy it nobody's
buying it people have heard it for too
long they heard it on trade for so long
federal job guarantee with a guaranteed
minimum wage tells you even if for some
reason your job goes away because we're
transitioning to a clean energy economy
there will be a guaranteed job with a
good living wage for you waiting yeah I
think that's right I also I also think
one thing we need to stop doing is
thinking that this is about persuasion
it isn't every you know we had David
Roberts from Fox on policy of America I
guess yesterday and you know he's been
following this is one of the best
reporters on this issue and basically I
think you know these climate reports
come out and they're so terrible but
they actually they aren't there to
persuade
anybody because if you if you weren't
persuaded by the IPCC report in October
you're not going to be persuaded by the
National Climate Assessment in November
so I think that it's more of an
organizing challenge than it is about a
persuasion challenge trying to reach
people trying to convince Republicans
you know there's the Upton Sinclair line
you can't convince somebody of something
their livelihood depends on not
believing there's a massive propaganda
campaign that that exists right now to
try to make sure we do nothing on
Climate pointing that out countering
that fighting that and every way we can
I think is the most important thing we
can do because it's not a left-right
issue because people sincerely disagree
is a left-right issue because there is a
concerted effort to destroy our
democracy all right we're moving to 2020
next this question is how do we rumble
up support for potential 2020 candidates
to generate an engaged electorate
similar to how Obama did in 2008 so
here's what you do first in a sort of
kiln of American hope you make a
once-in-a-generation political figure I
think that um lose today is good I do I
do not want to set that bar no I think
it killed nothing all right sorry go on
there's two reasons that Obama won in
2008 one kills he was it two main
reasons one of the idea was a
once-in-a-generation political candidate
talent but the other was there and and
it's something that we identified early
maybe you guys did not identify it as
much that when I was on the Hillary
campaign there was a hunger for change
for something completely different some
completely new John who seemed to
forgotten that strength plus experience
equals change and what Obama identified
was that it was not just change from
eight years of George Bush but it was
changed from everything they'd been
going on in Washington that was not only
a message about Hillary but about who
would become his Vice President Biden
Dodd the rest of the career that had
been in Washington for a long time so
anyway I do think that we're gonna the
2020 is a change election right 2018 was
basically a change election but 2020 is
gonna be even more so so so much of the
energy around whoever the nominee is in
2020 will be around the idea that people
are desperate for change
from what they have been seeing for
Donald Trump for the last four years so
that energy will be there the question
then is what candidate best represents
change I would also point out that in
the last you last dozen years every two
years we've had an election most of them
have been change elections yeah and it
does tell you something about why
someone if you you step back far enough
you say well hold on a second how could
someone like Trump emerge well if an
election after election people are
voting for the other there keep trying
to get something new they keep trying to
get something no and they continuously
feel like they're not getting it it's
why the door opens for someone like
Trump and I think it's a good reminder
to anyone considering running for
president that if you sound like people
who run for president before you're
making a mistake whether it's whether
it's trying to sound like Barack Obama
or sounding too much like a typical
politician in Washington it's just not
going to work yeah cuz the question for
all these 2020 candidates is not only
how can you be different than Trump and
how can you because almost everyone
running is going to be extremely
different than Donald Trump right the
question is what was it about the
Democratic Party that people also don't
like man that doesn't necessarily lead
you just I don't in fact I don't think
it leads you at all to some like oh I
should be more moderate or centrist it
could also be I should be further left
than the Democratic Party has been it
should be it could be I think the
Democratic Party's too in bed with
special interest whatever it may be or I
think Democrats all sound the same and
they all sound like they've been in
Washington for too long whatever it may
be I think every 2020 candidate should
think to themselves okay mostly people
want to get rid of Trump and get rid of
Republicans but what is it about there
what is it out there that make people
not quite in love with Democrats that's
a nice way to put out quite in love now
how we close this deal that we haven't
been able to close at all
yeah I would just also say that this is
I am right now much more interested in
Democrats all of them the three or 400
considering running for president like
to like open the sails and don't think
very big be willing to say unexpected
things try to say things in a way that
that that maybe might be risky because
that's not the way
rats have talked in the past like take
those chances now because to me like we
there's plenty of time to figure out
who's best to spar with Donald Trump on
a debate stage like what I'm interested
right now is who is answering this
deeper question what what is it that
made it possible for someone like Donald
Trump to emerge what was so what was so
off about where Democrats were you know
we can argue about Hillary Clinton all
day but it's more than that what is what
is it that made the Democratic brand so
flawed that there were enough people in
America willing to pull the lever for
someone like Donald Trump and I don't
think any excuse is worth making there
plenty of reasonable objections that
have nothing to do with democratic
policies but I would like the I would
like people to be thinking about that
purely on a policy level right now
because that's the time this is the time
for that cool we have some rapid-fire
questions let's do it out this one is
from devour cupcake great named after
the midterm election how do you all feel
was there a blue wave yes there was
a blue wave hey John hey John this is
getting into another question the next
question how does a female sheep eye how
does a female sheep at an Indonesian
resort greet visitors are you it's a
Bali you wave but John but John
how would that sheep bleat a Hello from
a British toilet but it's a BA loo wave
but John yeah what would happen if that
wastewater runoff from the loo caused a
red tide well you'd have an algae bloom
wave to Travis right these for you
toughen I just want to try this Ravis
Helwig one of just a great comedy writer
all-around great guy for writing so many
of these blue wave here it is he brings
that great vibe from like you know we
got Travis from the capital steps and he
brings that great kind of love of show
with a love of politics it puts them
together and I think that's great and he
doesn't go along for this whole
weird left Twitter thing like he doesn't
honestly I have shown him some pretty
great Twitter feeds and he just it's
right over his head he's sort of a
classics guy yeah it's a blue wave to
blue when we won't forty seats forty
seats best best performance since
Watergate best performance by either
party in like modern history 63 million
votes we could be at the end of 63
million votes for Democrats when all is
said and done which is about the same
number of votes that Donald Trump
received in his presidential election
what is it 7-7 pickups on governorship
that's right
we made up for we lost a thousand seats
locally over eight years we made of a
third of it back in one election we
passed Medicaid expansion in Utah Idaho
one other place abrasca Nebraska raised
the minimum wage in Arkansas and
Missouri protected we gave we re
enfranchise felons in Florida fixed a
bunch of in a bunch of balcony
smoking weed in Michigan is me so much
we not gonna be able to see it's gonna
be a cloud of marijuana smoke as you
look down and tried to see the beloved
Wolverines facing off against the
Spartans there you go
dogmatic voter registration also that
for the Spartans and the Wolverines
Wolverines and Spartans you know they
may not agree on the field but they come
haha but they come together and they
vote on the field to gather we just had
the Mississippi election we're done with
the Senate races the Republicans started
off with 52 seats right after Donald
Trump won and now they have 53 I'd also
pointed out about 10 targets they had 10
states where Donald Trump won by a lot
and they went to a couple they only get
like four of them we held on in Montana
which was a tough luck love to eat
sweets I'd also say - you know Mike SP
may have lost to that racist lady but
the but the fact that like we just had a
competitive election in Mississippi yeah
you know like she did what she would she
underperform underperform
I mean it was look at six foot six point
victory as of right now but thanks but
you know in one of the reddest states in
the country
so is that it we got you I was blue
waving what do you call it when a bunch
of Michigan fans get together and
celebrate in their Stadium a go blue
wave that was from Elijah I don't like
what other people do my bits yeah we got
a few more this one's from Janice why do
you guys cuss so much really your
mothers must be appalled
my mother is appalled and every time I
swear she brings it up she said I get
that you do it once in a while during
the podcast because you're just talking
and it just happens she really doesn't
like when quick and media tweets swear
words when they end up on Facebook when
they end up on the Twitter feed so I'm
I'm actually trying to call I shot
cussing it is Elijah I'm I think it's
fine if it's motivated I think it's a
good thing too are we over using them is
it not natural we're out you know I
found myself over Thanksgiving I was
like with my mother and all of a sudden
I like dropped an f-bomb like maybe I am
cursing too much at work I think that
might be I'm trying I'm gonna try to cut
back a little bit alright rapid-fire
question from me I'm wondering are you
team hot duck or big cow or do you not
know what I'm talking about I only know
what you're talking about in terms of
the big house I thought what's a hot dog
a hot dog is Ty's lack thing you guys
are saying it but why did tiny choose
that because it's the hot dog what's a
hot dog Oh God for someone who's on the
internet so much you really I'm trying
to just read the name they did surgery
on a great Oh God
and that's the lives
