ever since the casting was announced
that you would be playing Timon which is
nathan lanes roll famously I've just
thought there is no way Billy isn't a
Nathan Lane superfan there's knitting
I'm gonna say that that's like got to be
exactly your rent yeah I mean it it's so
surreal to me because I knew Nathan Lane
I grew up in New York City big Broadway
fan my parents loved Broadway I saw this
landmark revival of Guys and Dolls with
Nathan Lane that's my favorite and that
soundtrack I'm listening to of course
that is a perfect revival Nathan Lane
faith Prince
Walter Bobby I saw it was the first time
I saw Nathan Lane live this is way
before Lion King before birdcage he was
just a New York theater actor he didn't
even win the Tony for that he lost a
Gregory Hines r.i.p also wonderful sure
but nathan blew my mind I've seen him
live on stage so many times and then of
course birdcage and everything else but
he's genius right he really is and he is
who I wanted to be when I was growing up
I didn't think about movies
I thought about theater I just wanted to
do musicals I went to Northwestern I was
a musical theater major and if you asked
me who do you want to be I would say I
don't know Nathan Lane and so yeah oh
yeah I'm a musical theater kid that's
what I like and so to be doing Nathan's
role is I mean it's it's honestly now
his most iconic role you know in a way
yeah to a certain generation yeah and so
it's shocking it's bizarre it's
terrifying you can't really do it better
than he did it you can just do it your
way
right you know and I will say one thing
that helps with that is that my energy
with Seth Rogen is very different just
naturally than what Nathan Lane and
Ernie so Bella's energy was they were
both coming out of that production of
Guys and Dolls when they did the Lion
King or any Sabella was in that
production and they had this very
vaudvillian broadway musical theatre
borscht belt style
which here and there Seth and I borrow
from but we don't lean into that yes
much and also that the style of
animation that this movie is it's so
much more for lack of a better word
realistic that that tone wouldn't really
match the animation almost if that makes
sense
mm-hmm and so that helped inform what we
do too and help me create something that
was distinct I hope from what Nathan did
while also nodding to a little bit of
what he did which people loved sure yeah
a down to earth exactly the most
grounded Shimon you've ever seen
hakuna matata the most grounded hakuna
matata
[Music]
