during this primary we're pinning
presidential candidates down on the
issues that matter to me most in a
segment we call queen for a day governor
Inslee has graciously agreed to be the
fifth candidate to face the gauntlet
are you ready governor I'm ready to
bring it on job on day one do you pledge
to eliminate daylight savings and never
let the American people see dark before
5:00 p.m. again I pledge if elected
president United States nobody will lose
an hour of sleep under any circumstances
next question you said your comfort food
as M&Ms was Mars wrong to phase out the
tan mm and replace it with the blue M&M
in the 1990s I'm afraid I am a total fan
of green M&Ms and they're all
circumstances I will tell you that so
dodging the question the correct answer
is getting rid of the tan M&M and
replacing it with a blue nm was a sign
of the decadence that might lead to
cultural decline we see right now that
was the crate says right here that's the
correct follow-up does a person who
picks out all the MMS in a communal bowl
of trail mix deserve a trial by jury or
should we send them immediately to a
firing squad I've a limited the death
penalty otherwise I would execute that
fair enough fair enough principled which
do you think is a greater threat to
humanity global climate change or
live-action Disney remakes where the
animate the lions have sexual chemistry
but can't get them express emotion in
their faces I would say anything that
allows polar bears to express themselves
is a positive development in human
civilization good answer
should the audience at the Pantages
Theatre be less judgy when I refused to
participate in a standing ovation
because I did not think the touring cast
of Mamma Mia deserved
John I think in the read the third
remake of Mamma Mia I just hope you have
a starring role that's all I can say
listen we're always ready to be a gay
best friend as a native satellite would
you declare Frasier the official sitcom
of the United States or is Frasier
deserving of an even greater honor
I think Fraser should have a Nobel Peace
Prize how about that I'm just with it
finally honestly they've gotten it more
wrong before uh one of the greatest
questions I don't know whether this year
Nobel Peace Prize and I can announce it
right now because there's not gonna be
any question about it will be Greta
Thunderbird young woman from Sweden
who's ignited the world against climate
change that's good who's sailing to
America to participate in our September
global climate change of men so she
might make more progress if she flew one
of the greatest questions facing our
nation divides us to our very core are
people who think it's wrong to recline
your seat on an airplane the kind of
soft silly decadent decadent posturing
liberals who open the door to Trump I
have eliminated definitely in the state
of Washington except for those who
recline their seat
[Applause]
[Music]
controversial why do they put the button
there if you're not supposed to use it
next question fast and furious presents
Hobbes and Shaw has a runtime of two
hours and 16 minutes should all
filmmakers need federal approval to go
over two hours or just Quentin Tarantino
I don't know but it has anybody seen
that happened one day in Hollywood is
this a good movie should I go tonight
that's what I want to know okay we're
going thank you very much John I'm going
on I gotta tell ya it's spoiler for
later in the show recommend you can
build 10,000 affordable housing units on
the land of one major theme park two
just you have to destroy Harry Potter
world Star Wars Galaxies edge or Pandora
the world of Avatar which one's got a go
I am a politician of conviction I vote
against the Iraq war another failure
I vote it again and for the assault
weapon bill I voted against the repeal
of glass-steagall and I think Harry
Potter should be eliminated
[Applause]
holy just it's a reminder that
yours this is that the man on stage here
did lose a house seat for supporting gun
control so still showing the same
political judgement final question in 25
years we failed to stop climate change
what weapon will you use to fight off
the roving bandits coming to steal the
water and the small pioneer town we
established are you an ax man or a bat
with nails sticking out of it kind of
guy I'm a friend of John Lovett that's
all we need in America elect him his
friend president of states go to jay
Inslee calm send in a buck and keep me
on the debate stage for climate change
thank you very much what a pivot guys
give it up for governor jay Inslee
[Applause]
[Music]
