I'm John Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer I'm
Tommy Vitor all right guys we had
another big debate last night last night
in Houston the ten highest polling
Democratic candidates appeared on the
same stage at the same time in a debate
that included Joe Biden Elizabeth Warren
Bernie Sanders Kamala Harris Pete Buddha
Judge Andrew yang Cory Booker Federal
Roarke Amy Klobuchar and Houlihan Castro
it was the first time that Biden and
Warren were on stage together which some
people thought was gonna lead to
fireworks but with a few exceptions that
we're gonna talk about I would argue
that it's probably the least combative
debate so far what do you guys think
yeah and I think there's a reason for
that which were two reasons for it the
first is I think everyone felt terrible
in the last debate when everyone fought
each other in the hangar last couple
months everyone fought each other and
Barack Obama would seem like a bad idea
but also everyone on stage last night
has already qualified for the next
debate so there is no need to light
yourself on fire to get from 1% to 2% or
get another 30,000 online donors so they
could play it a little safer despite
there not being a need to do so fire I
mean right like it's it was surprising
to me
in the earlier debates how nasty it got
this early because generally you kind of
want to be seen as nice through the Iowa
caucuses because of the way the
political process works there and it's I
think notable that one of the big
moments everyone's talking about this
morning is who Liam Castro's exchange
with Joe Biden because it was seen as
particularly negative yeah it we'll talk
about that a bit but it stood out
because I do think you could count up
the number of times in the opening
statements and then throughout the
debate that candidate said look there's
so much more that unites us than divides
us and how many times they all praised
Barack Obama it was almost a bit of an
overcorrection
if we're really very obvious what they
were doing but I was happy about it I
was happy about it so it did start with
a 30 minute mini debate on health care
again where Biden criticized Warren and
Sanders for the cost of Medicare for all
and was joined this time by Amy
Klobuchar and P Budaj edge
let's hear a clip
I think we should have a debate on
health care I think I know that the
senator says she's for Bernie well I'm
for Barack I think the Obamacare worked
I think the way in us too we add to it
replace everything has been cut at a
public option guarantee that everyone
will be able to have affordable
assurance number one number two I think
we should be in a position of taking a
look at what costs are my plan for
health care costs a lot of money it
costs seven hundred forty billion
dollars it doesn't cost $30 so did this
health care discussion break any new
ground did it move the ball forward does
it seem to you guys like we're going and
it's like a cul-de-sac every time we get
into this it was it was a little
different this time because it became a
conversation between Biden Bernie those
with Warren and in previous debates
there's been some moderate off in the
wings who has led this debate whether it
was John Delaney or Michael Bennett or
someone else and so at least this with a
conversation between Biden Warren and
sorry this comes between Biden Warren
and Bernie Sanders and Biden was leading
the charge for his plan and being the
one delivering the criticism of Medicare
for all as opposed to what's happened
the past which is sort of this less
relevant figure sort of getting their
ass kicked by Warren or Bernie what did
you think yeah look as an on health care
wonk at this table it did feel a little
redundant to me and sometimes hard to
follow and I do wonder how much people
at home are able to follow it it was
interesting to hear one of the lead
candidates top candidates make the case
against Medicare for all for the first
time I think maybe some points were
scored Bernie also made an important
point I thought about health care
coverage generally which is this idea
that under some of the other plans that
are Medicare for all that you can
actually keep your private insurance if
you like it that's not really true
because employers have the chance to
change your insurance at any time right
so that's a it's a broader critique of
the private health care system that was
interesting I saw and heard some Bernie
for folks expressed frustration that
Elizabeth Warren didn't more force
please stand up for medicare-for-all
writ large I don't know if that's a
small anecdote or the beginning of a
schism but I was notable to me I didn't
I didn't notice that I thought she was
pretty well I thought she was pretty
aggressive in her defensive
medicare-for-all I think her and Bernie
both make good points like you said
Bernie about how you could lose your
doctor under some of these other plans
and and Warren talking about who no one
really loves their insurance company
which is different than saying no one
loves their plan Yeah right was she very
pointedly did not say that because
polling shows that some people do like
their plan I think it is pretty safe to
say that no one loves their insurance
company I mean yeah and she said we know
what they love is you love your doctor
you love your physical therapist you
love your nurse the hospital you go to
and under Medicare for all you would be
able to keep all of that and choose all
of that which is very true I think we're
biden sort of opened up some questions
around the issue of cost which we have
we've been so stuck on this get rid of
private insurance eliminated kick people
off whatever what that whatever that
means but the cost we haven't really
talked about a lot and I think you know
Biden tried to point out at least you
know Bernie's been honest about raising
taxes on the middle class to fund his
plan those with Warren has not been
willing to say that and then she talked
once again about and she is unwilling to
talk about that but she was she says is
over all costs for families will go down
which is true which is true but that
still people are gonna die most families
and people are going to get a higher tax
bill and again if your employer pays a
lot of your premiums and then they stop
doing that because you have there's a
government-run plan do you notice that
savings I think is an open question
Warren has made it a big part of her
strategy to reject the premise of
questions or ask from a Republican or
conservative point of view yeah sort of
call that out and I think 95 percent of
the time that is an incredibly effective
strategy more Democrats need to do that
and most of these questions are coming
from a conservative point of view they
are written in prospective Republican
talking points in a general election but
I think on this issue it is good this is
going to be asked in every debate coming
forward if she is the nominee is going
to be the question
and it is hard for her especially her
purses her brand has become very
authentic honest policy walk to look
like she is not answering this question
over time because as you point out taxes
will go up but in most people and she is
right about the right way to frame the
question yes but this is how the
question is being asked and eventually I
think it's gonna get challenging cuz
there are going to be some people as
there are in every policy every policy
there are winners and losers
medicare-for-all has way more winners
and losers but there are going to be
some people whose taxes go up at a
higher rate then their insurance costs
or the Dutch are good there are people
whose taxes go up a lot more then they
will save in healthcare costs because
they are not sick or they don't go the
doctor very often or they don't there
they're not interacting with the
healthcare system such great and that is
a fact and if it Elizabeth Warren as
president or Bernie Sanders president
anyone who's gonna push her Medicare for
all as president getting there without
having an honest discussion about the
losers and what a small percentage of
people they are
it makes putting that law into place
much harder yeah we learned that the
hard way
yeah the only other thing I'd say on
this is I don't know that the Medicare
for all candidates have yet made an
argument as to why a plan like a
Medicare for America plan like better
O'Rourke's a common law Harris's plan
where you still have a choice of private
insurance at the end if you want it are
bad
you know they've made a pretty good case
of why doing nothing is bad but you know
leaving the ACA as it is is bad but I
don't know if I you know I think they've
said well you don't get as much
efficiency out of the system
it's it's more costly overall if we
still have insurance companies in the
mix and that is true but I don't know if
efficiency is the best argument to
people who may still want that choice
and I think they probably next time
around have to do a better job saying no
no comas plan or betters plan or some of
these plans that get close to Medicare
for all but don't quite get there are
just are risky and bad it's really it's
it's a an argument against the concept
of private insurance and a system where
money can be pulled out of the health
care system in the form of profits by
corporations that's a that's a really
fundamental critique that I think
requires people to step back and
think bigger about the health care
system writ large and not necessarily
about their lives their premiums for its
really seem meaningful yeah that's right
do we make one more point on Medicare
from yeah which is a point John you have
made privately not publicly but it's the
ability and we're about to find out how
closely people in this podcast but is
Biden's argument that Elizabeth Warren
is with Bernie and he is with Barack is
fundamentally flawed oh thank you I
would like oh I think this art I did
make this argument publicly I said said
this to Ryan Lizza who asked about this
last night for his piece so yeah who and
he said I'm with Barak and and Elizabeth
Warren's with Bernie I was waiting for a
Lizabeth Warren to respond actually
there is one person last year who said
that Medicare for all is a good idea
that person is Barack Obama so the idea
that by saying that you want to add to
the Affordable Care Act by going all the
way to Medicare for all is somehow
scrapping the Affordable Care Act and
like tarnishing Barack Obama's legacy is
something that Barack Obama himself does
not believe yet as much for many many
years and his said as well in twenty
eight twenty eighteen was the first time
he came out for Medicare for way before
that I said if I could start from
scratch I would have gone for the
single-payer system but that we didn't
start from scratch we started with the
the pre-aca system right built on it
yeah but yeah he was he was he was he
went out further than he ever has in
that in the midterm campaigns and said
Medicare for all is a good idea it makes
me very uncomfortable that whether you
were for Medicare for all Medicare for
America or the ACA with public option is
somehow a test of your support for
Obama's legacy and I think that is it
just that is a
cheapens the conversation and I think
it's frankly unfair to Brock Obama
because it shouldn't he should not use a
false or incorrect view or an incorrect
presumption of his position to divide
the party plenty of actual policy
differences between those plans to argue
over plenty so the most contentious
moment of the night Tom you mentioned
earlier came when Julian Castro
criticized Joe Biden's health care plan
for not
matically enrolling everyone who's
uninsured in a Medicare like program
let's take a listen Barack Obama's
vision was not to leave 10 million
people uncovered he wanted every single
person in this country covered my plan
would do that your plan would you do not
have to buy in they do not have to buy
you just said that you just said that
two minutes ago you just said two
minutes ago that they would have to buy
it you said they would have to buy it to
buy in if the Pala fire you are you
forgetting what you said is Mattox gonna
be in for what you said just two minutes
ago I mean I can't believe that you said
two minutes ago that they had to buy in
and now you're saying they don't have to
buy you're forgetting that huh that was
fun
so the clip started with Castro but I
just we should just put out there what
Biden said before that clip started
early on as he's describing his plan he
said quote anyone who can't afford it
gets automatically enrolled in the
Medicare type option we have that it's
true that is about his plan his plan
basically says if you qualify for
Medicaid but you don't get medicaid
because you're in one of the states that
didn't expand you will automatically be
enrolled in a premium free Medicare
program free and then by later set if
you lose your job you can automatically
buy into this plan right so if you are a
higher income but you lose your job you
can then buy into his public option it
is not automatic enrollment and it is
not necessarily free those for some
people whose their jobs it may be free
if you qualify under a certain income
level so that's what was said so on one
hand you can understand that Castro
heard him say the word buy but what I
think is was sort of I guess unfair
about this is Biden goes back and it's
clearly saying no no I was talking about
people who qualify for Medicaid they get
automatically enrolled you were talking
about your poor grandmother and I was
saying she would be automatically
enrolled and as Biden saying that Castro
just keeps yelling over him and saying
you forgot you forgot you forgot so you
know I don't think it says big
the deal on either side as everyone said
but it's still it struck me as a bit
unfair candidates go into debates with a
couple of moments or zingers or whatever
that they want to land yeah and it seems
and I'd like to see report on this but
it seemed from watching this that Castro
went in this debate looking for an
opportunity to question Biden's capacity
to sort of push on the open door of the
conversation about Biden's age and his
gaffes that has been happening on
Twitter and the media in the early
States and he went and did that I think
this was an unfair we can have a
conversation about whether that
conversation is in bounds and a
Democratic primary non democratic debate
stage this was a poor place to land it
and I think it were down did poorly to
Castro Ben if it did I don't think it
worked for Castro in the in the context
of this debate and may hurt him in the
long run tell me what did you think yeah
so you know mayor Pete sort of sweeps in
later in this conversation it's like
this is why everyone hates watching
these debates that everyone hates
politics and Castro responded this is
what debates are for and he's right
debates are for figuring out the nuances
of policy holding people accountable for
past statements and and arguing but if
you come off like you are being
condescending to a man who was the vice
president United States for eight years
I think it's it's not gonna read well to
people and I think that's the reaction
you're seeing you know he kind of like
had like a hey wolf or brinly you forget
your meds kind of vibe and that's I
think it's human nature to see someone
do that and to think hey you're kind of
being a jerk now that said long-term
what Castro's comment did and Cory
Booker addressed this on CNN later an
inmate sort of a similar comment about
Biden's mental acuity this could give
reporters a news hook to cover this
discussion more and to talk about
Biden's age more and ultimately it could
hurt Biden now I think a discussion
about age is perfectly legitimate I do
think we should talk about I agree
people's fitness for the job I agree too
old for it if you're too young for it
it's part you know it's relevant I you
know I saw a bunch of people on Twitter
this morning saying like oh what is this
about being mean to poor Joe Biden and
he's gonna have to take this in the
general election if he's
running against Trump and Trump's gonna
be mean to him and like you know people
should be able to question the
front-runner yes of course of course all
that is true no one thinks the total
chump is gonna right run some kind of a
nice honest campaign against Joe Biden
you're so cynical
you're really who thinks that right and
of course people should be able to
criticize Joe Biden , Harrison the first
debate went pretty hard at Joe Biden and
was almost universally praised for it
and went up in the polls
afterwards and I think it was a
completely inbounds critique of Joe
Biden I think in the second debate Cory
Booker a lot of people we including us
said he had the best debate and he went
after Biden I think in a very fair way I
mean Bernie went after Biden in several
debates on his vote for the Iraq war and
it's a perfectly legitimate policy
conversation that should be raised and
should be discussed as special and
Biden's presenting himself as a person
with the best experience and judgment on
foreign policy but there's also the you
know style points aspect of politics and
if you kind of seem like a jerk people
are gonna think you're a jerk and I
think to that end in the first debate I
think was the first debate when Eric's
wawel started like yelling about passing
the torch
he got roundly criticized for that and
and people said it was going too far and
I think they were right there too it did
seem pretty silly it's it's not about
like the legitimacy of should you attack
the front-runner how dare you attacked
you know Joe Biden he's a vice president
although it's not about that it's like
does your critique of the other
candidate a ring true and and be seem
like it's coming from a fair place or
does it seem like it was choreographed
scripted calculated you know and look
what we know is Castro's people told
reporters ahead of the debate our
candidate is going to go after someone
at this debate but we're not gonna tell
you who why do we do like a clue style
murder mystery we criticize Biden's
campaign for this too because they they
said oh we're gonna go after and what
they didn't do it we're gonna go after
Elizabeth Warren's record on like
businesses that she worked with or
something like that and they Telegraph
that attack again like whether it's
Biden doing it calves were doing or
anyone doing it telegraphing who you're
going to attack before the debate leaves
you open to be criticized for
that attack seeming phony just the way
it is okay so the next big moment in the
debate came in response to a question on
gun safety let's listen to the answer
given by better work you know the
critics call this confiscation are you
proposing taking away their guns and how
would this work I am if it's a weapon
that was designed to kill people the
high impact high-velocity round when it
hits your body shreds everything inside
of your body because it was designed to
do that so that you would bleed to death
on a battlefield and not be able to get
up and kill one of our soldiers when we
see that being used against children and
in odessa i met the mother of a 15 year
old girl who was shot by an ar-15 and
that mother watched her bleed to death
over the course of an hour because so
many other people were shot by that
ar-15 in odessa in midland there weren't
enough ambulances to get to them in time
hell yes we're gonna take your ar-15
your ak-47
it seems to me like that might have been
the best moment of the debate last night
well I don't know what you guys thought
I thought so I mean this it was
passionate it was powerful it came from
a place of real emotion and the audience
was responding because it was bold and
in responding to too much Democratic
caution on guns now the people on that
stage many of them have been more
aggressive and more progressive on
dealing with guns than most people in
the Democratic Party but it was just a
few days ago that the Democrats in the
house decided they were not going to
vote on an assault weapons ban because
they thought it was bad politics and I
couldn't pass yeah and the here's the
thing that is I think so important about
what Beto said and I think kollene
Castro and Cory Booker and others who
have gone further on things like guns
like gun licensing registration also
deserve credit for but is it doesn't
matter what your position is the
NRA is going to say you're you're coming
for their guns they said it about Barack
Obama twice we didn't take guns right
they said Hillary Clinton they said
about every Democrat who's ever
run and there is we've been arguing this
for a very long time picking a position
of caution to try to appease the NRA or
the pro-gun crowd is it certain loser
because they will assign a position to
you that it's not yours so pick the
boldest position they can get the
response from the people in that
audience last night inspire people right
don't do this out of boldness not out of
fear yeah I mean look campaigning should
change you as a person and as a
candidate right and clearly what
happened in El Paso struck that I was
community in himself and his family
deeply and it's been credibly personal
and the thing that made that answer
really powerful was the way built and
you could tell he was getting actually
emotional thinking about the mother of
this young kid who bled out because she
was shot by any ar-15 and so yeah I
think all of us like me included are
sick of politicians who sound afraid of
the NRA I appreciated his moral clarity
it was also interesting that Beto got a
bunch of praise from rivals on that
stage for his handling of what happened
in El Paso in the way he was there for
the community so you can probably
interpret that as them thinking he's no
longer a threat and trying to be
thanks to him but I think it probably
read to people watching at home as a
credit to his leadership so it was a
very good moment for better work I think
it reminded people why they liked him in
the Senate gave me I also think that
sometimes when you take a pretty bold
aggressive position not always but
sometimes it turns out that most people
agree with you
so it wasn't just the people who who
clapped in that audience last night or
activists or people on Twitter but the
Washington Post last week pulled a
mandatory buyback of assault weapons and
it pulled at 52% support yeah in the
broader public and I think look we found
similar results in our Wisconsin poll
even with you know gun licensing which
Cory Booker has been out front on is
also popular like you find out all these
things are more popular than we've been
led to believe by pundits and more
cautious Democrats when you actually
pull them it's not true for all issues
but it happen so this is no way but the
whole dumb fight about whether we should
talk to dictators of that brief yes and
like that was something Obama said the
entire establishment told him you was a
naive idiot and then the entire country
said actually where would that guy yeah
one last thing about what Beto did which
I think is interesting is it's one of
and there were a few other times but
it's one of the rare moments in these
debates where a moment outlast the
debate that's not about conflict with
another candidate like I think Beto
showed last night that you can have a
really memorable moment by expressing
anger on behalf of people and not just
anger at another candidate yeah and look
I think we're going to talk about this
but I think commonly did that a few
times last night too by focusing on
Trump a lot and speaking directly to
Trump in her opening statement and
showed that okay you can we can not
fight our other candidates on stage but
still seem really powerful emotional
effective by sort of talking about what
unites Democrats and going after Donald
Trump so I thought that was good well
that's been one of the the bad lessons
learned from the first debate was Kamala
Harris his attack on Biden which I
thought was very fair yeah and in fact
an incredibly well-executed and
effective but it led to a temporary
surge in her
and the lesson then was the best way to
get into the top tier because it
appeared that she moved into that top
tier was to take a shot at someone else
yeah and then that second debate
everyone tried to do what Kamala Harris
did and people are in and sort of the
lesson from that debate was that's not
the right strategy Julian Castro who
actually made this debate stage by going
after better or work in the first debate
is now believes that that is his path to
getting higher than 2% the polls because
he was the tenth qualifier on that he
was the last one on the stage yeah and
also to the other person the other
candidate who really gets this even
though he's gone after Biden in the past
as well his cory booker who might be
like one of the most consistent good
debaters of all the candidates but all
the times that people have said that
cory booker's had a good performance
it's been because he's spoken positively
and and you know it's not because he
just goes after other people he's he
makes a pretty positive case he's able
to be a happy warrior at all times and
tell stories about real people in this
community and do it with a smile and i
just i think it comes off really well
can i challenge the i'd really said
booker is good at debates okay yeah i
think right now booker is basically
playing the role that biden did in 2008
so if you guys remember those debates
not really 37 of them and we hated all
of them but you asked me who was on
stage with Barack Obama Hillary Clinton
I'll tell you like Joe Biden Chris Dodd
and I can't remember Mike Ravel but so
it was like in those debates it was a
little bit like last night in that there
were these there was Biden I'm sorry
there was Obama Clinton Edwards were the
three by far leaders in the race and
they were always fighting each other and
mostly Obama Hillary and Edwards were
sort of coming in against both of them
but Biden was always the happy warrior
and he always had good lines and he
attacked bush and he would attack the
Republicans it's where he said Rudy
Giuliani was an out of urban 9/11 oh
yeah and people always left that debate
loving Joe Biden but they didn't leave
that debate thinking Joe Biden should be
their choice for president yeah and I
think the challenge for Booker right now
it does DP though he's going for
but is I think Booker is smart he is
passionate he is very good on sage he is
a happy warrior but it is not clear to
me what strategic objective to advance
his candidacy he is accomplishing as he
does that I I think we could make the
same argument about I think I think
there's four people in this category to
me Booker Beto Klobuchar and Buddha jej
who I think of all and I think it's for
all four of them last night turned in
very good debate performances and
afterwards I was wondering okay but what
is it that's gonna help you break into
that top-tier because I also think you
can argue when you talk with us later or
now that the sort of understudy crowd
may have over performed the top three
frontrunners last night just in last
night's debate those four candidates I
mentioned and I think Connell Harris
turned in a pretty solid debate as well
it's kind of hard to figure out where to
put her yeah right she's sort of between
like by two points right yeah but so I
think you can make make his that all of
them made a pretty good had a pretty
good debate but I wonder sort of where
that leaves them and how they actually
break in it yeah that's a good point I
mean look Booker didn't speak for the
first 40 minutes so it's it's like it's
hard to say oh he had a great debate but
then at the end he got this goofy
question about the Amazon and veganism
and he didn't take the bait on it and
then actually became the only candidate
on stage to talk about Afghanistan and
how we need to take care of veterans
when they come back so I was like oh
that was smart and it was thoughtful and
it was noticed in the veterans community
now to your point then will this help
them become the nominee I have no idea
there's no indication that it has to
date I think if a DC was on with us
right now his campaign manager he would
say their plan is to organize organize
that get hot later and they're just kind
of laying that groundwork but you know
we'll see like I can look at that field
I can say I know exactly what amy
klobuchar was trying to do yes and she
was like we can have a conversation
about how effective she wasn't doing it
but she was making a moderate
electability case she was picking a lane
and she was running in it I think I know
what Pete wanted to do not sure it was
accomplished but he wanted to continue
to be the young moderate alternative to
the three people the top of the stage if
you think Warren and Bernie are
far-left to win and you think Biden is
too old or damaged to win Pete is your
guy
yeah Beto was very specifically trying
to recapture the magic of his Senate
race which is about being an
inspirational movement candidate they
can't get people fired up and is willing
to say things that other politicians
well sort of call out the of
politics like that like what drove him
you know made him a national celebrity
was that answer on Colin Kaepernick in
the Senate race this was a similar thing
the Booker one is a mystery to me
yeah that's fair yeah it's I almost
think he's trying to be like the like an
electable progressive alternative to the
top three a little bit I don't know it's
I think that they he's got his message
right I think that they think that a
long term a hopeful optimistic message
will break through be what people want
in the face of the Trump horribleness
maybe that's right maybe it's wrong and
their argument is that Booker has been
delivering that message for his whole
life but not just part of this campaign
so he's got sort of a long record
attached I think that's what they're
going forward and breaking news Shaun
Livingston is retiring I know I saw that
okay we can make sure that's that's like
a great opportunity for the crooked
media version of 30 30 30 for 30 sports
documentary podcasts I think you guys
should really take up like I'm an Dan
walk down the hall talk to Sara guys
okay let's talk about my other personal
favorite answer of the night which also
came during the gun safety section from
Elizabeth Warren we have a Congress that
is folded to the gun industry and unless
we're willing to address that head-on
and rolling back the filibuster we're
not going to get anything done on guns I
was in the United States Senate 34
senators said let's do background checks
let's get rid of the salt weapons and
with 54 senators it failed because of
the filibuster until we attack the
systemic problems we can't get done
reform in this country we've got to go
straight against the industry and we've
got to change Congress so it doesn't
just work the wealthy and well-connected
so it works for the people now
Burnie was also asked about the
filibuster as a follow up and had a
different response but you support
ending the filibuster no but what I
would support absolutely is passing
major legislation the gun legislation
the people here are talking about
medicare-for-all climate change
legislation that saves the planet I will
not wait for 60 votes to make that
happen
and you can do it in a variety of ways
you can do that through Budget
Reconciliation law you have a vice
president who will in fact tell the
Senate what is appropriate and what is
not what is in order and what is not
okay so what's going on with Bernie here
and the filibuster can anyone figure
this out I pressed him on it I pressed
him on it when he was here he gave me
the same answer about budget
reconciliations what if you want to call
it and having his vice president
basically just overrule the
parliamentarian in the Senate to get
whatever you want passed it pretty much
seems like an elimination of the
filibuster in everything but name it's
so confusing for a guy who hates the
system and wants to tear it down and you
know like shows the power of the being
in the Senate just be in favor of
getting rid of get it all so poor Bernie
he sounded so sick yeah suck so badly to
go into a three-hour debate with barely
having your voice he didn't have his
voice but he had energy like you didn't
you know it was hard to listen to yeah
Bernie's answer is nonsensical like like
let's try it if you try to separate the
substance from what he said on stage
most of Medicare for all can be passed
using Budget Reconciliation which is a
50 vote a measure that allows you to
only requires 50 votes it is very
limited in what can be included in a
Budget Reconciliation measure things
that have to do with the budget right
basically and that's very arcane and
that is how we passed the Affordable
Care Act there are parts of the law that
we wish we could have done that we
couldn't do because of budget
reconciliation rules so I don't know
specifically what falls in and what
falls out of Bernie's plan via Budget
Reconciliation but you
would go down that path the green New
Deal is a very different deal
so what Bernie's arguing is that when we
were trying to pass the ACA and couldn't
pass some elements through Budget
Reconciliation is that we should have
had Vice President Biden at the time
just overruled because he's the
president of the Senate the vice
president's president the Senate when
your party's in control that he should
have just gone to the Senate and when
the parliamentarian said no you can't
pass that through reconciliation Biden
could have just said overruled by this
by the Senate President and then it just
would have moved forward which I we can
test that out if you can do that but to
me the only difference between that and
completely eliminating the filibuster is
Bernie's basically trying to say when a
Democrat is in the has the presidency
and the Senate they should be able to
pass whatever they want with 51 votes
but if Democrats at President and the
Republicans control the senator there's
a Republican but then we keep the
filibuster because then maybe they won't
do the same thing yeah it's crazy it's
got a bit of a banana republic vibe I
also think there is a very important
argument that can be made in support of
abolishing the filibuster we are a
democracy we shouldn't the majority
should get to pick our policies and
having a policy at lakes let's say not
just a minority of senators but a tiny
majority of the American people because
the geographic distribution in the
Senate where Wyoming has as much power
as California that fund is a measure
that undermines American democracy and
you can make an argument against that it
is an argument that I think will sell
with the American people to Lao the
Democrats who push for fill for
abolishing the filibuster cannon should
brand themselves as the people who push
for democracy we want to make our
democracy where everyone's voice counts
and Republicans are against that when
you get into a vice president overruling
a parliamentarian I don't know
understand how you explain that to
people there's another point which is
some of the arguments when people yell
at us for talking about a filibuster is
it's not up to the President to the SEC
which is true very true now it's not
gonna happen if the president's not for
it because the presents gonna have to
lobby a lot of senators who are very
skeptical about this many of them are on
stage last night but if you think
senators are skeptical about the idea of
overrule of getting rid of the
filibuster which would be in a change in
Senate rules but in an aboveboard one
how do you think they're gonna feel
out just completely perverting the
budget reconciliation process by Fiat
from the vice president's office like
doesn't seem like that's gonna sell with
you don't do this joe Manchin a Chris
Coons look last thing I'll say is you
know bunch of people when I was excited
about last night tweeting at me as they
usually do like what happens when Mitch
McConnell and a Republican president get
rid of the filibuster yeah I understand
the risks there are absolutely risks to
eliminating the filibuster but I will
tell you with near 100% certainty that
there is no time in the next 10 years
where Democrats will have 60 votes in
the Senate look at the states look at
the map look at who's up it will not
happen you can get to 52 53 54 55 in the
best case scenarios there is no path to
60 votes at least in the next decade
perhaps until there's another political
realignment and all the parties change
place and demographic whatever no it's
just not going to happen so if you're
comfortable with the fact that Democrats
will never be able to pass another piece
of progressive legislation or even
moderately progressive legislation again
because you're worried what Mitch
McConnell will do if he gets rid of the
filibuster then like that's acceptable
but just know we will never be able to
pass anything ever it's the only way
this why it was so important I think
that Elizabeth Warren brought this up in
the gun control conversation because the
only way that we are gonna have real
serious control things like assault
weapons bans or buyback or the New Deal
or Medicare for all or or if you pay for
teachers or any of this stuff the only
path to 60 votes is aintry game becomes
president orders everyone to leave the
coasts they move inland and now we got a
lot of Californians living in Idaho
sweet well now you've piqued my interest
um there was also a big discussion on
trade which shockingly was the only time
that anything about the economy was
mentioned at all let's listen to Amy
Klobuchar taking Dan's advice here what
we've got right now though George it's
not a focus tariffs on steel what he has
done here he has assessees tariffs on
our allies he has put us in the middle
of this trade war and he is treating our
farmers and our workers like poker chips
in one of his bankrupt casinos and if we
are not careful he is going to bankrupt
this country one forecast recently says
that it has already cost us 300,000
all right there is soybeans that are
mounting up in bins all over the Midwest
in my state of Minnesota and in Iowa so
what I think we need to do is to go back
to the negotiating table that's what I
would do I wouldn't have put all these
tariffs in place and I wouldn't have had
a trade policy where on August 1st he
announces he's gonna have tariffs on 300
billion dollars of goods on August 13th
he cuts it in half a week later he says
he's going to reduce taxes the day after
that he says he's gonna do it the
leaders of the world are watching this
and it undermines our strength as a
nation and yes we want fair trade but we
must work with the rest of the world and
he has made a mockery of focused trade
policy which i think means enforcement
like we've done in northern minnesota
passing bills getting President Obama to
do more on that so that our workers can
benefit so we are importing exporting
goods and making sure that is a
competitive policy where our goal is
that we are making things inventing
things and exporting to the world he is
defeating that goal secretary Katherine
I had my notes Klobuchar won the fight
for primary drop in 300k figure I wish
she had stopped after the soybeans but
it really went quite long after that
quit while you're ahead but it was
pretty good at the start yeah that trade
question led to a variety of interesting
but different answers almost nobody what
said yes I would get rid of the tariffs
immediately actually I think Julian
Castro came the closest and I thought he
I know we've been critical of his
exchange with Vice President Biden I
thought he had a pretty good answer in
China he talked about human rights
talked about negotiating away the
tariffs and then he also talked about
the weekers in China which is it just
showed a grasp of like the the issue
warren used this question i thought the
most effective leaders were to get to
her broader economic worldview which is
that trade policy has been written and
for and benefitting corporations for
decades and that we need to have strong
allies and we need to have used trade to
get better global standards for workers
not the things we're currently
negotiating which is
like things we need like respect for
intellectual property but things that
are gonna benefit corporations only look
I think one of the reasons that Warren
Sanders and Biden are in the lead even
though they have at least born Sanders
vs. Biden have very different ideologies
and philosophies on this is that all of
them have a pretty solid economic
message or at least they talk about the
economy a lot and I don't know and like
I said I thought club cars at least the
first half of grants are there was quite
good went on a little long but it was
quite good I don't know that anyone
really made strong economic arguments
last night or strong economic case and I
was also just shocked that trade was the
only question about the economy when the
economy may be headed towards recession
incomes haven't gone up wages are
stagnant like what's going on here and
it seems like an oversight they have for
the ABC moderating staff yeah the what I
like you know we made the mention of a
Amy Klobuchar are saying 300,000 I had
yelled as loud as I could on Twitter
that Democrats needed if Deborah if no
Democrat cannot mention that fact that
Donald Trump's own incompetence led to
the loss of 300,000 jobs I was gonna
throw my phone through the TV it's very
fortunate didn't happen because I hope
which are saved you a phone a phone I'm
due for an upgrade the new iPhone is not
coming out for a while it would have
been very problematic I also missed her
saying it because I was so busy yelling
about no one saying it in the group
thread that I only noticed knew it
because every person who has ever worked
for Amy Klobuchar we did those people I
say congratulations a good job I support
you
to quote Janet small-town oh the system
worked but there is a larger point here
which is income with Harris did this
very well in the conversation on health
care but is let's not forget Donald
Trump's president he is terrible
there are millions of people watching a
debate we should use it as an
opportunity to deliver a negative
message to get about Trump like some of
the ones we tested it was cousin that
works really well like on trade for
instance don''t trade is this mass
of weakness for Trump both his
incompetence the execution of the trade
world with China but also that he's full
of on it that he ran as this free
trader who was right now as we speak
working with Wall Street and the big
drug companies to try to pass a new
NAFTA that helps corporations and hurts
workers and no one said that no one said
that he wants to unilaterally cut taxes
for wealthy investors last night no one
said that he's thinking of cutting
Social Security and Medicaid in his
budget and Medicare as well no one
talked about that either no one talked
about his first big tax cut that
completely failed like Pete baited sort
of about his general failure to
negotiate with the Chinese right and
then he pivoted to a conversation about
Trump just not showing up to a climate
change meeting at the g7 in our global
absence so yeah people took this
question to a bunch of interesting
places yeah Pete also swerved out of his
Lane to mention Mike Pence's very long
and profitable for Trump commute and our
kudos so happy that PETA
somewhat because that was a couple other
issues that weren't brought up at all
like Trump's corruption was not bright I
mean it was worth or entites about
corruption all the time so that's
wonderful but specifically calling out
instances of Trump being corrupt which
there are plenty especially the last
couple weeks side from Pete saying that
and I'm so glad he did didn't hear that
a lot we also know from our polling is
 devastating to Trump well the
exact voters needs to win the election
and no one mentioned impeachment which
is surprising given that it's a
Democratic primary you think that almost
everyone well it's hard to know whether
we're in an inquiry third rail also not
a single question about reproductive
rights women's issues just sort of it's
huge over as if the Republican Party all
across the south and the Midwest is not
trying to ban abortion into force the
Supreme Court to try to overturn roe v
wade right now one would think
that would be a huge issue to talk about
and you just mentioned the Supreme Court
still hasn't been a question about the
Supreme Court what kind of Justice is
view would nominate let me like huge
huge it do you support court
reform it is sort of like we keep going
to these all these debates we keep going
having these like cul-de-sacs of around
these like same issues i'm same debate
very sick of the medicare-for-all versus
I don't think it's helping anyone make a
choice at this point we had it three
times and you know Tommy I'm sure you
noticed like people say oh well here's a
couple foreign policy questions but like
foreign policy is like half the world's
issues thank you sort of treat it like
we treated in the State of the Union
fifty to sixty five here's your one
question on Afghanistan which Joe Biden
used to definitely pivot to this Iraq
war perfectly we should talk about that
yeah look I mean I can all complain
about this on pot save the world please
subscribe and download but you know like
look Afghanistan was good the question
about Venezuela and Latin America was
interesting and kind of hadn't been
asked before but yeah I mean there was
major news out of Israel this week's
Bibi Netanyahu was saying he was gonna
annex settlements in the West Bank that
whole Iran deal thing sort of still a
problem the North Korea diplomacy is
going to sastra say wrong so yeah I
would love to have seen some time for
that so since there were only ten
candidates on stage I figured we just go
sort of one by one here at the end to
talk about how they all did let's go
back to Joe Biden who we started with
and obviously there's a lot of
commentary today on his exchange with
Castro but I actually thought his more
problematic answer was it started it was
in response to a question about the
legacy of slavery and what he would do
to sort of help overcome America's
legacy of slavery we bring social
workers into homes and pairs to help
them deal with how to raise their
children it's not that they'll want to
help they don't want they don't know
quite what to do play the radio make
sure the television the excuse me make
sure you have the record player on at
night the phone make sure the kids hear
words a kid coming from a very poor
school or have a very poor background
will hear for
words fewer spoken by the time they get
there I'm gonna go like the rest of them
do twice over okay so what we didn't
play for you is that answer goes on to a
conversation about Venezuela and Biden's
support for stabilizing the northern
triangle countries I believe during the
Obama administration so how we got there
I couldn't tell you either
there must be going back to the first
part of the answer there must be some
social science that says that young
economically disadvantaged kids don't
hear enough words and it limits their
reading comprehension or both it's
something called the word gap I know
this because Hillary Clinton used to
talk about the time like one thing I
remember from Hillary Clinton but you
can't just kind of like spout that out
without the context and expect anyone to
know what you're talking about
well this is why Hallie is raising Kyla
on keep it so I he's some spicy trivia a
lot of words in there though I did a
bunch of googling this morning to try to
find this because the takes were run
sort of the takes were all about sort of
Biden like stumbling through this answer
but I was like what is he referring to
and I found a Vox explainer about his
education plan thank you guys yes so his
plan also calls for more mental health
care in schools and expanding resources
for families including home visiting by
nurses for parents of newborns in the
creation of quote community schools and
low-income areas that are for social
services doctors and other health and
this is the community schools idea is
supported by a lot of different groups
and activists stuff like that so it's
not like it's it's a horrible thing but
he it's on Joe Biden to explain that
correctly and not to just sort of like
go I mean he just he just sort of fell
apart during that answer and I don't
like I don't know I think it does raise
questions of like I mean whether you
want to talk about age or whether you
just want to talk about like it I don't
necessarily think it has to do with age
because you know Bernie Sanders was up
there and didn't stumble through answers
like that and you know Elizabeth Warren
is around 70 years old and like bounces
around up there like she's 40 so I don't
book or criticized Biden along similar
lines as Castro in a post debate CNN
interview but then he later
characterized at he said no this isn't
like an age thing this is something I've
noticed and wondered about
for a long time I can this guy carry the
ball over the finish line was the point
and I think they're trying to make you
know it's an electability argument as
much as a fitness for the job argument
if you were sitting in Biden's war room
last night you've probably felt amazing
about the first half of the debate he
was very strong on health care he was
energetic he seemed in control it like
that's a question that you've been
answering right it is does he have the
energy and the acuity to debate Donald
Trump like that's been the subtext of
all the conversations it's the converse
it's what Castro brought to the debate
stage in that question and Cory Booker
did in an interview afterwards and the
first half that debate I think he
clearly passed that test second half of
the debate not so much sort of a sort of
a 90 minute debate guy in a three-hour
debate world and look I we know the
people on Biden's team there's no way in
that debate war room when he gave that
answer that we just heard
then everyone thought that was a good
answer or that everyone thought that was
okay
I know the people were bringing their
head in their heads in their hands for
that answer I just I mean I don't know
for sure but I can just I would bet it I
would read it because it wasn't good I
also think that this conversation is
related to the fact that Biden's
campaign has lean so heavily on the
electability argument when you make that
be and it's not even just that he is the
most electable in this cut like Biden
doesn't have an electability argument
like a navy club a char or a better or
were cast where he can his a proven
record of winning at or Steve Bullock
yeah presuming he's still in the race
who doesn't have the he doesn't have a
record of winning in red states or
battleground states he's from Delaware
it's very blue
but he's arguing that he is the safe
alternative to beating Trump he is our
bet Conal quote best bet and when you
lean so heavily on that as opposed to
what you would do in the job or why
you're the most experienced or able
person to do the job these questions
rise to the surface much faster because
they then become a question of does he
have the capacity to beat Trump I also
think when you watched him during that
answer and then he goes on and starts he
says I'm gonna I'm gonna keep talking
because all everyone else gets to keep
talking and then he goes back to Venice
for some weird reason you didn't think
that made sense what you know what it
said to me because he seemed a little
angry and I think that the there's a
little danger with the Biden campaign
right right now a feeling a little
aggrieved that they're getting so much
 from people and you saw that in the
Ryan Lizza piece in Politico how they
said you know that media hates us and
it's all a bunch of - Ryan Lizza
mentions I don't know right so you know
the online left and the people on
Twitter don't represent the Democratic
electorate and they're all attacking us
for everything you know and look I get
some of the critique that the Biden team
makes of the press and Twitter I happen
to agree with I understand why they're
upset but also like it's it's getting
them to a point where they're becoming
angry and they're reacting and anger and
I think that's part of what Biden's
answer was about like he was pretty ups
he thought he was about to get
challenged on race again and because he
was he started getting his dander up and
was like a little annoyed by it and it
didn't it just doesn't work for them
being aggrieved about this does not work
the subtext of the venezuela the
northern triangle money part of his
answer was these clowns think they can
deal with venezuela
I've met with Madeira I've gotten on his
funding and he took us on this journey
that was impossible to follow that's
unless you really knew his record but
that's a better journey for him to be on
than the one his campaign is currently
on the Venezuela to experience well okay
so let's talk about this a rock answer
he got later he asked about of the rock
war vote he first took it to Afghanistan
where he talked about how he opposed the
surge in Afghanistan he sort of Wade's
into a oblique critique of Coin strategy
versus counterterrorism strategy which
is something I only understand because I
said in 16,000 hours of Situation Room
meetings in 2009 when we debated this
then he referred to Afghanistan really
being three countries which I think is
referring to the tribal areas between
Afghanistan Pakistan everyone else
thought he was talking about
partitioning Iraq who knows that we went
back to Iraq where he tried to argue
that his Iraq war vote was intended to
give Bush leverage for more inspections
and it feels about 16 years too late for
me to relitigate that vote was about I
feel like that didn't work so well for
John Kerry and then the answer concluded
with analysis about the Shia and the
Kurds not coming together to fight
against Isis and like it was just a
 mess and then Bernie comes in
and says I never trusted bush I opposed
the war what were you thinking if your
judgment and experience
foreign policies the reason people
should vote for you you were wrong about
this fundamental point which is
something Barack Obama did to
devastating effect against Hillary
Clinton so it's just it's the convoluted
miss is a problem in and of itself
because I think it you're like where's
this guy going but then even when you
unpack the substance of these arguments
I don't think they're politically
beneficial and I will just say like Joe
Biden has had moments and someone just
mentioned this went during the oh eight
debates where he was the happy warrior
when and he certainly was that against
Paul Ryan in the 2012 vice presidential
debate and Sarah Palin in oh wait right
he was a great debater who's happy oh
right he's a happy warrior he did great
but he's also had moments and this is
why I don't know if the age thing is the
right critique because I think for years
and years and years going back 10 20
years Biden has had a lot of these
moments where he just tie it's like
sanitise and and you just mentioned John
Kerry I was on the Kerry camp and I
watched John Kerry do this same thing
like they're so in the weeds on their
policies and their positions they talk
sometimes like they're on the Senate
floor and they're going in all these
different directions and it's hard to
follow and it doesn't necessarily have
to do they just do with like having been
in the Senate for a long time what is
what do you conclude from that though I
conclude that it's it's something that
worries me about Joe Biden's candidacy
that I've talked about before and I and
I think it's not like necessarily fatal
because as I just said and we just
talked about in the first half of debate
Joe Biden can be an energetic happy
warrior and he can do that but he can
also fall into what we just saw at the
end of last night's debate and I think
against Trump that's worrisome yes
you know it's not it's not like
something he definitely can't overcome
but it's it's a little worrisome but
like this to me and everyone has things
that are worrisome about the that I
imagine when they're on stage next to
trump I really it's not just a Biden
thing but I think what you said dan is
right because if your whole thing is
about is on electability and that seems
maybe a little shaky because of her
performance and then you know you need
something else to fall back on Joe Biden
himself is doing this to service it's
not his staff but you were not gonna
convince people that he is not older
like right rocky mist really hasn't been
in politics forever so take those two
things and make them a strength don't
like don't lean it entirely on beating
Trump Biden should be arguing that he
has the experience the proven record in
the relationships to undo the damage
that Trump has done more effectively
more official than anyone else on that
stage yeah you know that cuz you've seen
him do it over decades you saw him do it
in the Senate you saw him do it working
with Barack Obama I've made mistakes
I've evolved over time on certain things
I'm not perfect but I've been there and
I've been in the fight yeah just like
you I love my grandma phone my LP I'm
gonna bring back wax yeah let's do my
deejay on the weekends the record player
okay let's talk about Komal Harris what
do we what are thoughts on Conway
Harris's performance I thought it was
pretty solid yeah good I like I said I
really like that she took on Trump and
and did a lot of like we have a lot of
differences but what unites us is
stronger and we should be talking about
Donald Trump when he's on health care I
thought that was a a good strategy for
her yeah she got a tough question about
criminal justice reform and her record
on it via that the question was
essentially why didn't you use the power
you had as the California Attorney
General to fight for some of the things
that you were opposed to at the time but
now supporting I thought she handled
that pretty well there were a couple
times where a little bit of a cam line
came out like the hey Joe instead of
saying no we can't let's just say yes we
can I kind of grown a Wizard of Oz thing
that oh yeah let's let's get the bottom
line is this Donald Trump in office on
trade policy you know he reminds me of
that that guy in The Wizard of Oz you
know when you pull back the curtain it's
a really small dude
I mean the wizard okay I'm not even
gonna take the bait
that was funny the George thing at the
end was genuinely funny yeah there was a
couple bad jokes there like amy
klobuchar are talking about at the fit
the beginning houston we have a problem
is yeah unforgivable
I mean Harris's folks were previewing
that she was gonna try to bring people
together that was kind of a lane that
she would fill it was not nostalgia for
the past like like Biden that it wasn't
you know fights on the left like Bernie
and Warren were making that she was more
of a I guess a centrist they probably
hate that word but I don't know if she
succeeded at that but it was interesting
that they told reporters that that's
their path for it it's for comma Harris
it's still the still fundamental
question is for her she does the best
argument against Trump by far it is
clear it is crisp it is passionate you
can imagine her delivering on the debate
stage the other half of that equation is
still lacking why her right it's like I
think last night was a very very good
performance I think to become we almost
hold her to a higher standard because we
treat her as one of the top yeah we
treat later though
we think of her as one of the
frontrunners because I do believe that
she has the clearest path to the nuts to
the nomination if she can take off of
anyone in this field and I think she has
the ability to do it
most of those candidates on the stage
don't have a great answer to the why me
including some of the frontrunners yeah
but that like that is like if she can
nail that piece if she can do like
Warren has a great why her and kinda
pretends Trump is the president which is
a problem
Kamla Harris has a great anti Trump and
a little lacking on the why her if you
could like maybe the perfect candidate
together I agree with that any other
thoughts about Pete I do Pete hit very
good moments his closed was incredibly
powerful and it is although yeah that
was really really good when he talked
about coming out I thought it was
outstanding it and I think under
appreciated for
the historic nature of his candidacy I
think the fact that you're a very
presidential candidate who made the
debate stage who is in like I hate tears
but he is a legitimate contender for the
Democratic nomination is on stage
telling proudly telling his coming-out
story in a honest way like that is truly
an amazing thing that no one would have
expected a few years ago or maybe even
last year and like that should be like I
think like that should be discussing I
think he did that incredibly powerfully
things always pretty good I am like but
I think like it's harder than ever to
break out with pretty good in a field
this big with three you know people seen
as frontrunners that are soaking up a
lot of the oxygen and you know I think
he's going to need I don't know they're
spending a lot of money in Iowa they're
investing infrastructure they're gonna
go up on TV like maybe that will get him
over that sort of hump that gets you
another look from other voters but it
remains to be seen it's also very
possible that he's doing much better
than we think because we haven't seen a
quality Iowa poll in months it's weird
we could see an Iowa poll I probably in
the next month they could show him in
third or in double digits and these
national polls that are what we use to
judge people's success and failure are a
irrelevant and be a lagging indicator of
what is happening in the actual states
that matter so that there is that
possibility
um Klobuchar are we talked about you
know I think she I think she was the
first time in a debate that she really
made the case for herself but she's had
good moments and other debates but you
sort of saw what her strategy was she
made the case I thought it was that she
did pretty well I thought the the story
she told him the clothes oh yeah when
she had her daughter and was kicked out
of the hospital after 24 hours and that
fight to get at least 48 hours for
pregnant women the 48 hour hospital
stays for pregnant women was what
inspired her to get into public service
I'd never heard her tell that's me more
and maybe that's my fault but I thought
it was incredibly powerful and it spoke
to her values and and why she was in
public service to begin with it was
really well done that sound you hear is
me crying because Tommy didn't listen to
my interview with Amy Klobuchar on this
podcast of course I did
cory booker we started talking about him
too you know what happens where does he
go from here I think you're you know
what you said Tommy to you know a DCO
and all the folks on his campaign
they've just been organizing like crazy
in Iowa and they sort of keep seeing
probably more than we're all seeing from
here which is promising for him
Andrew yang we didn't talk about Andrew
Danny we always get in trouble with the
yang yang for not talking about Andrew
yang so let's do it
what are we like he's a he's a funny guy
he comes off as likable I think that the
freedom dividend is his core policy
proposal it's a universal basic income
plan we've seen polling that suggests
universal basic income polls horribly
and I'm not totally sure how announcing
that you're giving away a hundred twenty
grand pretty people across the country
is gonna play but hey man
credit to Andrew yang for like being
focused on the one thing that he really
wants to put forward and being creative
if you're looking for something
different then Andrew yang is that Lane
everyone else on that stage is some of
trying to be different but I mean
they're just they're alike like
obviously Bernie Sanders is a very
different politician than a Joe Biden
but he's someone who has been a
politician in our consciousness for the
last four years basically people to
judge incredibly different back on the
air politician but he talks like a
politician yeah a very smart and
articulate one who also speaks Norwegian
but he speaks like a politician right
yeah so there are nine politicians on
that stage and there's Andrew yang and
he there is a there's obviously a lane
for that because he was not only end
with hooli and Castro in Amy Klobuchar
in better or work he was hitting a lot
closer to Joe Biden and those guys were
and that like we can't and they have a
beef with the media which is legitimate
which is sometimes all those other cants
you just mentioned are treated as like
the next here and Andrew yang is left
out of that but he's in many polls ahead
of them
yep he also has an online community of
people that are supporting his candidate
their candidate in really smart ways and
like whenever there's a debate night
Andrew yang is trending on Twitter and
there are means going around like he's
communicating with people where they are
thanks to his campaign but also thanks
to this organization that just helped
him from the outset when I was doing my
book tour in 2018
before anyone else's in the race
everywhere I went
someone asked me what Andrew yang that's
yes and whenever I go to I was just at a
college campus doing something last week
and the kids in the class were there a
lot of yang why do yang gang in my class
and so he has like he has built the
community he's nurtured it and like he
shouldn't be like I think it's a it's a
it's a bridge to get to the nomination
but it's a powerful immigration story
that he told him that close about his
father ya know that farmer and you know
on the floor and coming over here noting
his MBA takes
he's an MBA fan which I appreciate his
MBA takes our garbage his take something
a picture he thinks he thinks Carmela
was not washed which is the wrong answer
I do enjoy his very dry deadpan sense of
humor funny he's really funny in like in
a sort of modern way when a politician
way in a real human way yeah when he was
in the office I interviewed him and the
poor guy was so sick yeah that's
horrible cold but he still had a sense
of humor and was funny and was nice to
everybody he's like he's just a good
person
Castro we talked about a bunch look i
there were moments last night you know
castro told some you know his his
clothes was very good and we told his
personal story i thought you know at one
point he sort of turned to Beto and
praised him on the el paso shooting and
then gave a really strong answer on guns
like there are there's versions of Huli
and Castro that I like very much and I
respect how bold and aggressive he's
been on a lot of policies in this race
but I do think like going into multiple
debates now thinking that if I just
attack someone a lot that will get me
that will boost me in the polls and I'm
going to Telegraph these attacks I just
don't think it's gonna work for him yeah
I mean his challenges that people are
gonna probably remember one thing about
him from that debate and it's that Biden
exchange but he did have a good moment
that you just referenced and where he
was talking about how Latinos were
targeted by this shooter in El Paso and
he talked about his policing and
criminal justice reform plans which are
thoughtful and substantive and have gone
further than others so yeah
the thing that's so interesting about
Castro's candidacy is it's important
remember what brought him on the
national stage
it was his keynote speech to the 2012
convention which was a hopeful
optimistic story about America it's
actually the closest version of anyone
is done of Obama's 2004
yoky mansion speech
everyone has tried it Cory Booker tried
in 2016 everyone's done it and club cash
was the only wanted to know that and he
took that and F in the Obama
administration he deserves tremendous
credit for having really aggressive
progressive policies on a lot of issues
yes the immigration issue his police
reform plan is incredibly important his
chrome addresses plan all of those
things were good and I think he would be
better served in being the hopeful
optimistic candidate for politician that
he has been for much of his career
rather than someone who's go walking
onto the debate stage looking to deck
someone and there is a lot to be there's
nothing wrong with anger in the Trump
era but I think there is a different you
have to understand between anger and
righteous anger and I think what we saw
from Beto on the guns was righteous
anger and what we saw from bed after I
pass it was righteous anger and being
angry about what Trump is doing to
America Kamla Harris has done that quite
well in many debates as well is good
being angry at other Democrats I think
is different has a different impact in a
field where all those people are well
liked by the people vote errs you need
yep to win the nomination um speaking a
little angry Bernie Sanders he seemed he
had moments last night where like I
thought Bernie was really effective in
the second debate last night and you
know he was sick you can tell he wasn't
feeling well but the the sort of the
yelling was a little a sort of women it
was a little too much last night for me
I think that was probably voice related
yeah but it might have been it might
have been like he's still I think he is
very compelling like when he he's he is
authentic we've seen this authenticity
for a few years now but when he's like
I'm the one who wrote the damn bill like
it's it works and I don't think he did
himself any damage last night not at all
it was like it was pretty status quo
from Bernie I mean look I he's
consistent when I when I interviewed him
here he was charming and funny and
compelling like Bernie also has a gear
that is you know I think very compelling
and I don't know that he has always
shown that in debates but he has that
gear Warren I think it was like a for me
Warren was like a pretty solid great
performance she's but the the the
challenge for her now is because
always so good to really stand out
she must have to like kick it into
another gear I don't know that she's
sort of stood out last night but that
she was good I think she accomplished
everything she wanted to accomplish and
I like I hate to do like who won the
debate right that's stupid but I think
she walked out of that debate stronger
than she walked in yeah because this was
enough there's no one no one laid a
glove on her really try it is the
strangest thing in the world that
Elizabeth Warren is the person standing
between every other kid on that stage
and their chance at Joe Biden and no one
attacks her and even Biden his attack he
his did not go after her like there was
a debate like it like I don't consider
that debate about whether you pay for
your Medicare or Medicare fraud plan or
whether buy it like that that's not an
attack that's an actual substantive
debate about different plans but they're
like everyone it's like Bernie and camel
loves staff fight all the time
Biden's fights with everyone holding
cash or fights with everyone no one
fights Elizabeth Warren and most Ben
Smith and Ruby Cramer BuzzFeed have this
piece this morning that's about how
Elizabeth Warren is the center of
gravity in the primary and I think
that's really true and she's driving the
conversation she's driving evil
strategies and people are legitimately
afraid of engaging with her and it's and
I don't fully understand
I think it's fear that they're gonna
lose the exchange not some sort of
strategic gambit that makes any sense
yeah I also don't think she's really
struggled with a single question from
the moderators either like that's true
last night the most the trickiest one
was on Afghanistan when she got pressed
on whether she'd bring the troops home
without a peace deal if that unraveled
the country and she she pivoted to a
strong answer about a need for allies
and she made an argument of how she was
sitting in Afghanistan with John McCain
and asking generals about what winning
looks like and no one can define it for
her and she's like she can make a case
for nearly everything in a way that is
just thoughtful and it plays to her
strengths I don't know yeah maybe that's
why they're not attacking her I think
the biggest question for her going
forward is to date she has succeeded
she's the only candidate who has
actually moved up in the polls by any
real measurement went from 0 to 5 but
everything else is basically the same
and she went from she moved in a second
place and she did that by running a camp
where she had no fear of losing mmm she
ran without you know no risk aversion
right the question is as you get closer
to the frontrunner status do you lose
that risk aversion right and alright do
you get more cautious as you get closer
to the White House and I think that test
is going to come for her because at some
point she may not be second in the polls
she may be first in some of these early
state polls and then how does she
respond when there's more scrutiny more
attacks more pressure and how does she
broaden her coalition to eat into
Biden's lead and Bernie's lead in some
ways with non-college educated white
voters and black voters which you know
you cannot win the Democratic nomination
by being the toast of every college
educated white liberal what happened to
someone previewing it they were going to
attack her about her work for
corporations but the by was buying that
you never never did it yeah Biden's got
a large constellation of advisor so it's
hard to know when it's an anonymous
thing like that whether that was a plan
link or just yeah verbal diarrhea from
someone and who can't make the morning
conference call also though like look no
criticism of I but if most senators from
Delaware are probably not going to be
the one to like carry the water on here
you're doing work for corporate
interests given that your lovely state
is still mesial seriously last candidate
better orc look he had this wonderful
moment you know his campaign is saying
they had sort of the best fundraising of
the quarter last night and there are
some focus groups where people said that
they liked them and they you know they
that they were switching their vote to
him from being undecided a lot of
pundits said he won like where does he
go from here because he like a lot of
the other candidates it's stuck around
between 2 & 5 percent in some of these
polls where do you go from here if
you're better I believe there's one
candidate there's an opportunity for one
can two emerges the generational opera
generational alternative to the three
frontrunner who were all 70 years of age
and up and that per like for a long time
we thought that person was going to be
Kamala Harris or people did I think Beto
put himself in that conversation too
that alternative last night and if he
can keep doing what he did last night
and combine that with the most
compelling electability story I think of
anyone to make in the field if you can
be the person who you don't want to
choose between your head and your heart
you can have both
you can have an inspirational kandi who
can also win if he can nail that piece
with sort of the passion and boldness of
last night that he's got a shot to be in
that conversation have a chance to do
that even after El Paso that uh
completely upended his campaign and he
started doing things that no
presidential candidate would ever do
like go to a gun show or go to States
like I believe Arkansas which are just
you know not in the in the early state
process and he was pretty clear like
look I'm not gonna eat a corn dog on a
stick and going to the State Fair when
this shit's happening people getting
murdered well now he kind of has to get
back in the game in Iowa the steak fry
is a week from tomorrow the Harkin the
Dow it's called the Polk County steak
fry I think he speaks first
they ditched Harkins name well Harkin
kind of stopped doing it and then a
bunch of Polk County Young Dems and
activists resuscitated the thing and now
it's like big and great again but you
know there's me ten thousand Democrats
in a field
chow and steaks listen to candidates
Beto is first can he build on this
momentum and get another look from
people who basically wrote him off after
his campaign stumbled hard out of the
gate after he wasn't in the national
conversation after his fundraising kind
of trailed off like I there is a window
to get another look from those people
there Iowans are terrified of Trump
winning they want someone who was gonna
take it to him
I think there's time but you know you
gotta capitalize on this momentum I
think he needs to broaden the his
message on guns to every other issues
and to make a larger case like there was
there was a kernel of this in his
opening statement when he said you know
I realized two things one you talked
about El Paso and Trump and racism and
he said two
I think he said something like our
politics is too broken and too small and
too petty and too corrupt to sort of
deal with a challenge like this and I
think you make that argument about every
issue and you keep pounding that then
you start having an argument cuz I do
think that Beto has the same challenge
that Kamala has that Pete has which is
on paper on their resumes who
they are where they're from what they've
done like you know it makes a good
argument for their candidacies but I
don't think any of the three of them
have fully articulated that vision and
where they fit into that vision and
where they fit into this moment and why
them and why not everyone else and I
sort of look at the three I put Cory
Booker in that category too even though
he's got a pretty consistent message
about radical love I you know all of
them haven't quite nailed what that
positive messages and how it
distinguishes them from the top three
candidates and I sort of think that's
their challenge and you know they have
like you said Tommy they have some time
to do it but they're sort of not much
clock's ticking not much at some point
we've got very long hair but we should
have a conversation about the fact that
the three frontrunners in the Democratic
primary or all the people who started
with the highest name ID what that says
about politics what says about the age
of celebrity what it says about media
and the inability to break through or is
this about 20-something candidates
running for president yeah it might be
it might be a simpler simpler
explanation than we think it's just it's
a lot of people and one last
thing if you weren't on that stage last
night
except you know Tom Styer who's coming
back for a debate number two I would
really seriously think about staying in
the race like I don't whether you should
say it like I I just every every
candidate can do what they want sort of
but like if you if you start missing you
missed one debate if you missed the
second debate in October you gotta start
asking yourself like what am i what am I
still doing what are my chances here I
mean it's sort of an existential
question like are you in the race I mean
serious no I know that's what I'm saying
like it's just you know it's tell me you
don't so fill out paperwork to leave
right here just like you're there
sometimes the market decides whether
you're in or you're out
you just get to stop raising money which
would be wonderful yeah that's true okay
that's that's our those are our takes on
debate number three and we will talk to
you guys next week
bye everyone bye
you
