now it's time for okay stop you know
works roll equip and the panel could say
okay stop at any point to comment Rudy
Giuliani
your favorite mayor ever and your
favorite mayor to run for president Rudy
went on Fox News to discuss how he
himself did some investigating in
Ukraine and discovered something
nefarious about one Joe Biden let's take
a look the reality is this has nothing
to do with the election of 2020 the
election of 2020 is a long time for them
and if I wanted a medal in that election
which I don't I could have held this for
a year and dropped it right before I
know he's been hanging out with Trump a
lot we're not gonna pretend we don't see
this town he's got black hair he didn't
have that before he's using he's using
the Stephen Miller hairspray here's the
thing it's I think that on there I think
that's cool Rudy is going through
something alright he's going through
something personally he's going through
something politically and honestly if
that new face color and new hair color
is the thing that gets him on that date
that lands him a little bit of comfort
and happiness that stops him from being
a roving lunatic for the worst president
history maybe the dye is worthless I'm
gonna stay tuned to find out the reality
is I came about this by accident
investigating a Ukrainian collusion with
Democrats okay stop Giuliani has never
discovered anything perfect the idea
that he just happened to be in Ukraine
my nose bit minding his own business
eating uh is some is this malfeasance hi
I just came to Kiev to relax little R&R
and I discovered that Joe Biden is a
criminal to affect the election and also
to help create the false narrative
against the president and over the next
three to four months you're going to
find out all
about that including the corruption the
webpage that doesn't this sound like the
worst podcast that's about I'm saying I
don't care to listen to Rudy Giuliani
for the debate it's a fake crime podcast
from Sarah Koenig you'll never believe
what didn't happen and the corruption
that went on with Papadopoulos Andales
is set up today all part of one large
conspiracy that has about two or three
parts to it you're also gonna find I
think that some of the skilled
memorandum was written in the Ukraine
after all Steele didn't go to Russia for
nine years how could he have written a
memorandum about Russia if he hadn't
been there for nine years okay so how
the Internet Giuliani about the internet
I don't know what he's referring to but
it it's somehow on the same universes
the P tape yeah call me okay okay it is
insane for me to feel like this woman on
 Fox News needs someone to step
in so that she could be heard advocate
on your behalf let her speak for
intelligence information no cuz I'm not
a spy I don't know who this is may never
know but that was cool
when call me sign that affidavit using
the steel dossier which he didn't bother
to verify which if you read it reads
like a porn novel okay so that one
doesn't phrasing I would just say how do
you know and what the is a Pournami
yeah I got a supermarket where they
later was nineteen twenty five like once
you know you don't have to you don't
have to picture it anymore
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
