she came she saw she harassed Glynco on
the red carpet
Louis Vuitton I did can I tell you
something about doing red carpet rubber
touch at the Oscars
you'll just be whatever reading an ad
into the camera and then you turn your
left and Glenn closes there and you're
just supposed to compose a quick poem to
introduce her it was very daunting you
really seemed like you cared about
Walmart I've got that vibe oh please I
love a discount cd-rom game you actually
looked very lovely Ferragamo suit indeed
indeed and to be honest every a listy
person I talked to I mean I guess it's
the Oscars they're primed for this
really brought it like I have no
opinions about Bradley Cooper as a
celebrity really but then you talk to
him and he was smart insightful I don't
know I was sort of impressed with
everybody really what's weird is I like
Bradley Cooper a lot and I feel like we
haven't gotten any of the things I love
about Bradley Cooper in the Oscar yeah
yeah but all about gaga and he's been
very muted cuz he's been trying to seem
like I'm serious director like I
remember an old interview where he was
on a French radio show just talking in
French oh yeah he's so sexy doing it and
he speaks it fluently and I'm like where
was that Bradley like weren't you being
fun you know we had the whole 99 people
in a room thing from Gaga and her you
know like giving you emotion at every
single award show well he got
nothing yeah and I was just like maybe
you should be fun instead of just
sitting there it was actually a pleasure
to bust his chops in a way like when we
were standing around it was right before
everybody was walking into the theater
and I just said to him you know as
people are still screaming for gaga I
was like is it weird that this is maybe
the last night of your life you'll just
hear people yelling gasps Gaga out of
nowhere and he was and he laughed at
that and I could tell he realized at
that moment wow this is the you know the
last moment I'm a little monster
adjacent I think he wasn't particularly
ready for the level of fandom of being
adjacent to a pop star yeah like that's
a that's a totally different thing you
can star in lovely like Jennifer
Lawrence has those her game fans or Amy
Adams has like the enchanters exactly
you know those the junebugs
exactly season 5 episode 5 of Buffy
Earth is life people six of season five
don't drag me okay but you're right but
yeah it was a totally different
experience and I think that really the
volume of his personality tried to
account for that yes there had been a
different actress it could the campaign
could have been like oh you know like I
found this actress and it was just like
we had a great time on that set and
everything and and the conversation
weirdly would have been how how skewed a
star is born was twelve hand towards men
it would have been like oh wow he found
this actress like he directed this movie
but because Gaga's so larger than life
it really just felt like I probably do
voters too like she just stepped on the
set and did everything herself
and I mean hilariously the choice before
Gaga was Beyonce so he did himself a
favor when it comes to the level of
fandom at him but it was Bradley Cooper
would not have been ready for Beyonce
fans all the show it's getting to the
Oscars it wit host was and it was
surprisingly good well what's
interesting about we kind of touched on
this before the thing about not having a
host is you don't have to indulge any
schtick
you know you don't have to dial into a
host trying something new and while I
you know have historically like certain
host to not have a host takes nothing
away from the thing you love about the
Oscars for Les and harassed twenty
people and asked them if they liked
green room
we didn't have a segment like that thank
God you know right and they always tend
to go too long and all those things yeah
and it was perfect having Maya Amy and
Tina up there I music yes doing some fun
comedy which is what we need and I will
say though before we really get into the
show
Josh Gumbel men on Twitter brought up a
very good point the show relies so
heavily on like a comedian to be the
host or someone to open up the show and
it really doesn't respect comedy the
Oscars it is you know they don't a
comedians they don't really nominate
comedies for awards no you get like a
nominee like Melissa McCarthy and
bridesmaids once every five years
it's the solemn self-righteousness
against comedy which is really
interesting because these are the
comedians that are the most versatile
like there's there's no instance where
you see important dramatic actor goes
does comedy and kills it yeah or above
expectation and we're like good for you
cash that check but the the richness of
talent that the company community gives
to dramatic film is above and beyond and
it's just the lack of disrespect it's
kind of wild at this point yeah no I
mean I mean not to get into this
conversation but it makes that's what
makes Merrill so blue rare is like if
you throw her into a Broadcom be like
she-devil she still can whereas like
something like Steve Carell moving
outward to drama is a little bit more
commonplace yes it's like a comedian has
to do that because event notoriously the
Coen brothers who the Oscars love they
ignore the out of them when they do
a comedy right yeah no there's no Burn
After Reading nomination there's no
which is their best movie fight me
interesting
I'm thinking about it I think it fits
perfectly yes yeah I mean Brad Pitt in a
bike short any day all Brad Pitt is
amazing
Frances deserved an award for that movie
Frances is one of those people who is
actually good in movies you forget she's
like moonrise kingdom I don't think of
as a Frances McDormand movie but she is
fabulous in it yeah
the show
Baskar Zi listen let's just group of won
best picture well first of all let's
just say that before green book 1 we had
the unforgettable moment of the breasts
Actress category where they read all the
nominees and I said to the people around
me
I really cannot handle watching Glenn
Lewis if that's what happens and I
literally was thinking 85% chance Glenn
wins and of course no shade towards
Allah did you think was Olivia I did
because people love that performance
it's an amazing performance and again
love her I mean peep show Olivia Colman
is a legend more people should know her
I'm sorry we put her in that Murder on
the Orient Express that was so bad but I
tried to watch that on Delta and passed
out woke up and asked my friend Sam what
happened he was right you don't know
it's bad yeah but Glen was dressed to
win in that Meryl Iron Lady gold it was
it was exactly Meryl the same color yes
and and and just like it was it was
Oscar gold it wasn't any other gold it
wasn't champagne it was Oscar gold and
she was giving so many interviews she
was instagramming her head off her days
and by the way she has not instagrams
since all I know is about she was she
was voting behind Billy Porter please
check it out let's take a moment to
discuss that dress so Billy Porter was
dressed in this like kind of looked like
a gown from the favorite like Jane Eyre
Jane okay
yes well it was it was a no Maj - Hector
extravaganza is recently passed and it
was a Christian Siriano dress and it was
beautiful look like he was in a year
play Moliere is exactly right you've got
it right
Tartuffe on his tart tuffet yes but ok
so glad loss and so I'm already the gay
men around me and I emitted a shriek
that only Carly Rae Jepsen fans can hear
sure sure it was that pitch and just
Glenn's face when she lost was just so
specific and also it's so painful for
two reasons one she's in this
the wife about like someone not getting
their Jew all right the allegory is all
there secondly she once again lost to
somebody who was there on her first
nomination not that Olivia Colman isn't
a badass or whatever but truly the
nominations are stacking up like like
precarious Jenga blocks at this point
with Glenn Close who's now at 7
nominations and just we all love her
wild though because RiRi and I watched
it together and we literally like I
rubbed it into we excited re all parties
like I said I guess I had been rooting
for Glenn in a sense of like yes I would
love for her to have an Oscar exactly
but I didn't like the wife the wife
wasn't a good movie and the favorite is
so good and it was just like seeing
Olivia Wed it was it was so exciting to
me and that's the kind of upset you
wanted to and I think what was so I mean
I love I love the favorite I think the
story was facing I think those three
women all of them could talk me at any
point that was what was upsetting me
about the idea of Glenn winning for this
particular movie is that she has made a
career out of vibrant extraordinary
performances of being like aloud and
pulsing and amazing and they're gonna
award her and she deserves an Oscar no
one's denying that but they've decided
that the role where she is silent the
whole time is the time where now you're
worthy that kind of pisses me I
understand that a little bit though I
will say in Dangerous Liaisons she is
giving a lot of content contemptuous
stairs etc but she also gets way more of
one liners and that means Rufio the the
end just tearing apart that is the
original just look yourself in the
mirror like where are you where what
have you done and also I deserve this
she deserves that and also by the way
what's crazy is you could argue in
Dangerous Liaisons she invented the
favorite kind of you know exactly saucy
area drama with a lot of conniving
qualities in it okay in 83 she was
nominated Best Supporting Actor act
world according to GARP yep Jessica
Lange won right
first yes
well mind you I think Lesley Ann Warren
should have won that year upset okay uh
84 The Big Chill yeah she lost to Linda
wonderful performance it's a little bit
of a sticky win because she plays a male
character and I think that's what people
were rooting for but Linda hunt was
great
85 the natural she lost the Peggy
Ashcroft one of the great actresses of
all time I don't hate that either yes
but I've never watched the Passage to
India no I love Judy Davis though Judy
Davis also doesn't like her own
performance in that movie so oh well see
ah here is the one that hits me the
hardest yeah 88 fatal attraction I
 love Sharon moonstruck know me
too
she is transcendent yeah but by the way
this I want to say this is the first
time seven but it's the ceremony in 88
she was yeah
88 though with dangerous liaison she
loses to Jodie Foster and the accused
which I find it very dated move doesn't
hold it makes it just doesn't work and I
love Kelly McGillis moving on if we had
just given Glenn the Oscar then then
this was later when Jodie one for since
the Lambs that would have been even more
of a triumph I'm sorry Jodie Foster
doesn't need two Oscars
she doesn't especially she's just gonna
go up there and ramble on about how we
should stay out of her business right
yeah and then make maverick which was
Albert Nobbs versus the Iron Lady
two bad movies I would say by a hair
Albert Nobbs is better than I think
we're late Albert Nobbs the movie is
better than that was Vilas Oscar yes she
was also against Rooney Mara and
Michelle Williams
I'm never gonna vote for Viola Davis
getting an Oscar to play the maid I just
can't to help Ike I can't I can't it
hurts me the help hurt me and I rise I
know they gave it to Octavia and and her
punishment was being in green book viola
didn't win that she got rid of it
whereas Octavia ended up on red band
society right but by the way there is
merit to giving someone an Oscar for
elevating a movie that is bad
as merrill did with the Iron Lady yeah
she made she made that the costume
meanest and the the stick of her a woman
losing getting older and losing her
faculties actually moving and actually
feel grounded and that is why she is my
number one queen yes but Albert Nobbs
that was also really hard loss for glad
because I feel she were she's working so
hard yeah that was one of those were
just like I put this together I got my
own packaging fee right I don't
understand she has a hook-up at Men's
Wearhouse who got her the outfit herself
like she was doing it it just it didn't
come together and we also weren't ready
for that type of story to get like if it
was today and she was doing that at her
age and with her gravitas there's no way
she would have been denied it it's just
the amount of people that Glenn has lost
to in her time I'm not even talking
about the Oscars she lost she lost a
globe to Madonna twice she lost it for
101 dalmatians Madonna on for Evita air
band and a song writing for Albert dogs
that is how much she's right Oscar guys
Oscars were like man Madonna won first
song called masterpiece which is not
only among her worst songs it is among
the worst nouns I can think of the worst
lyrics I once made a video mashup of
Madonna's masterpiece to hope Brady from
days of our lives being turned into
princess Gina the art thief oh that's
this happens a lot this is actually very
common gay behavior yeah anyway so by
the way so okay so Glen loses otherwise
there were some great wins yes Ruth eat
Carter's win for costume design no cards
matched her dress
I cried she's beautiful I interviewed
her before the ceremony - she is
spectacular it's worth noting that this
year the production design win for Black
Panther and Ruth Carter for costumes are
the first black women to win Oscars in
non acting categories since 1984 when
Irene
one for Flashdance and by the way that's
it there are no more black female
winners and non-acting kept the triple
date y'all also the first time more than
one black woman won an Oscar yeah oh my
god so yeah there we go and their work
stands on its its own merits its it Ruth
got her start uh I love she faked Spike
Lee so much of the night was about
people thinking Spike Lee just like a
person who's been ignored by the Oscars
and it's just shows you how much the
black community does for each other and
has been here and been has been here
right there was a very dumb article in
the National Review for white people
um about how they were like no stars
like this one never like who doesn't
Regina King is I was like right
I'm like America has grown up with
Regina King you know and it's like we've
grown up with Samuel L and Spike Lee and
roof talked about how spike gave her her
start in school days and 88 and she has
been there making movies and TV shows
for decades it's just such a she um she
was doing a hash tag like 28 days of
costume design during Black History
Month on Twitter just talking about
things that she designed over the years
and she did the pilot for Seinfeld and
she just talked about how it was so much
fun going over to Jerry's apartment and
just like looking through his clothes
and like figuring out what would work
for him I'm like oh my god white people
and give her an award when she literally
jumped off the costumes on the way to
show on TV I think it starts from
friends I'm picturing I'm looking at
like a flannel and being like this is a
serial Eaters flannel yes yes it's I
mean it's amazing I think there was a
recent interview with her where she says
she wanted me remember as a keeper of
the culture which is exactly true
it's she has been doing this impeccably
for
over 20 years and and what is a costume
designer but keeper of the culture the
the studious nature of her approach to
all of this and looking at the different
rabbits I'm looking at the different
tribes of Africa for this particular
movie is astonishing and girl like come
through like can you be my stitch fix
just black women giving Marvel
their first Oscar wins ever so I you are
welcome
because Hannah Beach ler was the woman
who won for production designs first
woman to win for best production design
for black woman
the she was up against our in Ruth sorry
Ruth Carter was up against Sandy Powell
who was nominated for two different
movies that costumes for Mary Poppins
returns and the favorite that was the
third time that woman has been nominated
twice in a year she's like the period
drama queen she won for the young
Victoria she went for the aviator and
Shakespeare in Love and she herself in
her last Oscars features like we need to
reward reward more than just period
dramas and so I think even by her
blessing this is a triumph that's
wonderful
people get nominated twice at the same
year is wild Steven Soderbergh right
yeah and then they were like we're not
gonna nominate you again we've seen
enough saturated shots but Magic Mike
should have been nominated sure I mean
it was just like a piece like a very
important thing gave me a piece yeah let
me just say green book now the nine of
the 2000 guys book I really did not
think it was gonna win I didn't either
what you have belief in those people
when Roma is getting that much attention
how could you vote against that again
it's not there are a couple bizarre
factors at play here one is just the
fact that green book as I've said before
is not critically well reviewed there's
the fact that the other movies in the
category which actually seem like black
people contributed to them especially if
they were about you know race issues
that are contemporary or civil rights or
whatever yes the the fact that it lost
to those
is so strange the fact that like Spike
Lee had this come up year and that black
Klansmen didn't get it it's just such a
bummer I truly think the end of the
night and that my girl Julia Roberts had
to read it was very very sad because
listen Julia Roberts was up there and I
was like Julia Roberts loves alright she
was waiting for my leading mama she was
waiting for someone for blood pass her
to come up she was like if I can't get
up on Denzel tonight she was like we
could do Pelican brief to where I'm you
know having a relationship with Denzel
maybe scooped out and now they can
actually be intimate on the screen just
like longing glances through through
phones right and that shot where there's
an explosion and she actually didn't
know in real life had they were going to
explode something and so her reaction is
real it's a really crazy time but anyway
so that was very depressing however we
get to say that Spike Lee is an Oscar
winner and not only does he thank
several times by everybody throughout
the night he was dressed like a swank
purple mr. McFeely from mr. Rogers
neighborhood you guys I loved all his
reactions during the show he is very
like he was ready to be camera someone
said he should be the new Jack Nichols
then put him front row at every Oscars
and just let him react brilliant also
it's it's telling that he was dressed
basically as a tribute to Prince because
he was giving you that level of giftable
side all night yes when green book won
that march of white people to the stage
it was just like oh here's such this
like fun diverse Oscars and then it was
like here's a stark reminder that this
is what Hollywood actually is hey you
know you can't make movies or anything
without them Mindy Kaling just inked
like a overall deal with Warner Brothers
and she was like I used to think hard
work could get you anywhere but she was
like then I realized no you need people
to actually give you a chance to do
something and those people are those
white men on stage yeah it was it was
blindingly over well
to see that group walk up there and it
was also a movie about race yes like
made by all of them and it's like
cleaner soap there's not one of them a
9/11 racist who said that he saw
Muslim people celebrating the other one
Peter Farrelly whose story came out
about him flashing his penis yeah uh
what didn't really come out the story
was an interview in like Playboy him in
the 90s because that was just a funny
could do then and it's just like the
family have done surely not being
involved with the production not being
and Don Shurley not being thanked by the
producers yeah it's that was what was so
infuriated me about the whole March of
whites was the fact that the
screenwriter has his next movie is
called that's amore about a man who
works at a pizza shop and meets a woman
named patty amore look I already saw
that movie with Emma Roberts set in
Canada I know it's gonna happen what I
really was so white it's a white or
simply resistible was so crazy to me was
that they were so self righteously proud
of themselves for making themselves the
center of a story about black struggle
and perseverance this is actually a
story about after shirley and and black
people being amazing and culturally
revolutionary and music and risking
their lives to share that music with
this country so that they it can be
stolen but we can't we could not have
done this movie without viggo mortensen
that him all aside it is just please
stop congratulating yourselves for
refusing to let black people be the
center of their own story right it's
same it's like i remember peter farrelly
used to give interviews about how like
they were doing a lot for you know the
disabled community in a lot of their old
comedies just because they had disabled
characters and i'm like they were always
the butt of jokes or had like semen
flying at that oh right you know well
also this is what's so kind of
confounding about this night as we've
said it's a triumph for diversity in
certain ways you know we have multiple
black women winning awards whatever but
i
feeling people are Michelle we say in
the middle of the country lumping in
green books win with this triumph like
that it is that it is all that this is a
part of the win for diversity like no no
think about it for a little bit longer
who is that movie for really and who
shouldn't have been for and who should
have been involved so it's I hope remain
critical about that and finally I guess
there's like at least building me
arrives he didn't win although I think I
have to understand rami malek it's we
need to replace him he first of all he
won and then splashed champagne all over
the people engraving the Oscars did you
see that video oh I'm like shaking it
out it was like sorry if you're gonna
get wet you know by the way that those
are rented tuxes too so they have to
return that stuff yeah are you gonna
return it back to Men's Wearhouse and be
like so probably mallet cop this wet if
you said we don't have a discount for
that so confuse how he fell apparently
fell off the stage as well and he was
wearing the huge teeth though they
bounced him back up Bohemian Rhapsody
one for editing and that movie has the
shittiest editing I have seen online of
just a seed where it looked like nobody
was on set at the same time there were
what five thousand they're like all of
these are going to be singles and we're
gonna cut every fourth it's gonna be
great guys I got it and you know just
like that movie too you know with the
whitewashing of the queerness of Freddie
Mercury and really just the implication
that being gay leads to AIDS right the
one seat of his gayness it's like oh
you've got AIDS now it's just like it's
just been a bad year for representation
also it's nuanced representation yeah
it's it's just interesting that that one
the editing Oscar when it is definitely
the one Best Picture nominee that was
too long definitely you know yes and
Romo was nine hundred hours so you know
Bohemian Rhapsody was long final Oscar
thoughts
I'm deeply happy for Regina King too
deeply happy for Ruth Carter I continue
to say the Oscars are really
it's rewarding for those of us who like
seeing our emotional responses to film
reflected and acknowledgement in in
ceremony and after all the that
we were worried was gonna happen at the
show
I honestly green because I felt very
fulfilled from these Oscars yes movie
and it was it was it was efficiently
done and I'm glad there was lots of push
back and we got all those technical
categories back on the live telecast so
I thought there was a lot to celebrate
imagine if Ruth had been given that
award during a coke I think at the end
of the day they happened and it's over
and I think that's I'm sad that's how I
feel about it but there was so much
indecision running up to it so I didn't
really there was no anticipation or
happiness going to it I'm just happy it
was it a mess and I am ecstatic that
more black women are are being
acknowledged for their achievements and
additions to culture and also I just
want to mention racial vices red dress
she looked like a Parisian dominatrix
yeah I was saying that Rachel vice
always looks like she's thinking I'm
pleased and quite moved I'm going to
block the first person who starts
talking about 2020 Oscar predictions
that's right not our time but also
Oscars if you want someone like the rock
or someone really famous to host book
them now because a list celebrities book
 one two years in advance do it now
we'll be right back
you
