welcome back to pod save the world this
is a very special day for me a very
special episode because I have in studio
Ben Rhodes who you all know and love and
Dan Shapiro who this feels like a
situation room reunion for thus because
Dan was senior director for the Middle
East in North Africa at the White House
then he was dispatched to be the US
ambassador to Israel now he still lives
in Tel Aviv or he's a distinguished
visiting fellow it Israel's Institute
for national security studies at Tel
Aviv University Dan welcome to Los
Angeles welcome to the show it's great
to see you it's great to be here
congratulations on everything you guys
have done here in cricked media yeah you
know it's as I told them this was our
shot at a resolute desk and he was he's
like look good first cut you can do
better yeah you can do better but uh Dan
looks the same that he did in 2008 oh
yeah your your age but it's
distinguished gray its salt-and-pepper
as the visiting distinguished grades um
so it's great to be back with you guys
in and not being asked to manage some
like crisis your time with Obama had
such a wild trajectory you did policy
not reach on the Oh a campaign then you
ran the Middle East account from the NSC
in the White House then he went over to
Israel to be our US ambassador and like
you were a celebrity you were beloved
you spoke the language people people you
know wanted to hear from you um what was
the transition like for you leaving the
sad cocoon of the NSC and going to the
embassy well when we knew we were going
to have a new ambassador in the summer
of 2011 and we had a you know very good
career ambassador there it was during a
period when President Obama was
encountering some of his disagreements
with Prime Minister Netanyahu over
Israeli settlements and maybe partly by
our own doing we didn't do a lot of
outreach to the Israeli public so they
could hear from Obama in his own voice
and really understand you know what he
was trying to do and what his
commitments were and the idea arose
within the White House eventually the
president agreed with it that having
somebody who of course had a good
relationship with him and really knew
his policies from the inside had already
worked with and had a good relationship
with Netanyahu but as him
importantly had the familiarity with
Israeli society and culture and the
people and Hebrew knowledge which I
which I speak to really be his voice in
Israel was a was a big part of why he
asked me to take on that role so the
biggest change for me was stepping out
from the sort of behind-the-scenes role
that an NSC staffer makes a plays to
being a public figure
did you miss pushing paper up to this
suite which is where the National
Security Advisor sat and then getting it
marked up and sent back to you I didn't
I like being my own boss yeah having
like a staff they tell you when you're
in the Ambassador training course at the
State Department that you know this is a
platform and you will have staff and you
will have an institution and you will
have a budget and you can decide how to
spend your time and where to put your
focus so I put a lot of my focus into
speaking with the Israeli public
traveling around the country meeting
with Israelis who are very diverse in
all their different communities all over
the country getting to know them
listening to them speaking of them in
Hebrew doing media social media which of
course was still sort of new for
ambassadors at that time and so yeah
that was it was a big change
having been a congressional staffer and
then an NSC staff or that
behind-the-scenes role but it didn't
take too long to feel pretty comfortable
that I was the voice that he wanted me
to be in to the Israeli public it was
cool to watch you and Mike McFaul like
leave the NSC and take these huge public
roles and do such a great job and very
easy relations yeah really challenging
so there's a question for both of you
you alluded to some of this worked in
and minute ago I mean Obama spent a lot
of time pushing to jumpstart the Middle
East peace process and you know
incentives were offered to the Israelis
to the Palestinians pressure was put on
the Israelis and Palestinians in 2010 he
hosted this huge summit at the White
House with the leaders of the PA the
Israelis Jordanians Egyptians and the
process failed do you think it was a
mistake to invest all that time and and
why do either of you think that
ultimately those efforts just didn't
work out well I don't think it was a
mistake and it was something that
President Obama committed to when he was
running for president and for all the
right reasons he argued we as the United
States have a strong close connection
with Israel we have our own
wrists in Israel's security we have
moral commitments to Israel as the
fulfillment of the the Jewish homeland
or the Jewish state in the Jewish
homeland and those are all things we
should advance and promote and protect
and part of that not in any way
inconsistent with that is helping Israel
and its conflict with the Palestinians
which also can achieve legitimate
Palestinian aspirations for statehood in
a two-state solution and so it was the
right thing to do he did it really on
the second day he was president he
appointed George Mitchell as a special
envoy and then what you just described
sort of unfolded in retrospect and I'm
you know evaluating it and writing about
it now didn't get my book published as
fast as Ben did but gotta get first
out-of-date it in retrospect we were
dealing with two leaders who completely
mistrusted each other who Obama yeah
Netanyahu and a boss ah who were sort of
playing for the the failure and the a
blame game that would follow the failure
who both faced in fairness to them very
very difficult domestic politics of
publics who had sort of oriented toward
despair that this isn't possible there
isn't a partner on the other side
Israeli saying you know we gave away
land in Gaza and we got Hamas with
rockets and we get bus bombs and
Palestinians feeling like this was an
occupation without end and settlements
expanding and so it didn't work we can
all say that it didn't work in the first
term with Mitchell it didn't work in the
second term with Kerry do I regret that
we tried no I don't regret the respect
Dan I you know when I had to reflect on
this in my book you know to give the
shorthand summary right 2011 we tried
direct talks that collapses start 2010
we tried direct talks that collapses
2011 we tried to put out some US
principles on territory and security
that's rejected 2012 we basically took
these really positions trying to block
action at the UN then 13/14 Kerry tries
his effort that fails I can look back
and say that at key junctures the
Palestinians made decisions to not move
forward so in 2010 knew they were
holding out for another settlement
freeze to keep talks going 2011 they did
not embrace our principles
2012 they're trying to go to the UN to
get recognition and then in 2013-14 they
did not embrace carries terms of
reference that said with with the very
important caveat that you know the
Palestinians didn't take the leap you
know Israel in many ways is the stronger
party in the negotiation and one of the
things that I took away is in my view
Netanyahu is not interested in a
two-state solution and he said he was
and after he became prime minister in
2009 but at every juncture in 2010 2011
12 13 14 when it got to a pivotal moment
he would always pull back and now you
know we've seen him make statements that
seem to suggest that he's publicly now
no longer for three state solution so I
mean is there any way around the fact
that whatever we were gonna do if you
don't have an Israeli prime minister who
supports the the outcome of a two-state
solution which I do think Abbas does
even though he hasn't had the the the
leadership the will perhaps a political
skill and the courage to take a leap for
peace do you think we ever had a partner
in Israel in Prime Minister Netanyahu
for peace you know I think he went
through a bit of a intellectual
transformation he had said you know for
years as part of his pillar he published
books against the creation of a
Palestinian state and then he did give
the speech in 2009 where he said yeah
first time and the firstly cooed prime
minister to ever say he was for a
two-state solution he said a Jewish
state that demilitarized Palestinian
state that recognized as the Jewish
state which are in my mind legitimate
caveats to that and that was the basis
on which we operated I and I say that I
think there was an intellectual
transformation there not only based on
the speech but on based on some of the
private conversations we were having
with him at that time his his seemingly
new understanding of the imperative for
Israel for its future as a Jewish and
democratic state and even for its
security of eventual separation from the
Palestinians so you know I give the
credit for what I think was an effort to
explore it
of course it wasn't it wasn't a perfect
laboratory to test it either because of
some of the weakness of the Palestinian
leadership that you alluded to was
unclear they were ever going to tell the
hard truth to their people that would be
necessary and you know then when it he
also always tried to search for the gold
in political paths to sort of not have
to make the ultimate concessions until
near the very end so that he could
survive the political blowback he would
face from his own political supporters
and that's probably almost impossible
you know he's one of his predecessors
arielle sharone blew up the Likud Party
in order to do the withdrawal from Gaza
and created a centrist party and
Netanyahu's just sort of not that not
that character he wanted to try to do it
from within his own political base you
know I don't think I think what
President Obama said when the Kerry
talks collapsed in 2014 is still
relevant and and I think describes it
accurately we we found that both leaders
couldn't take certain key decisions that
they needed to in order to advance from
talks into an agreement for different
reasons for mistrust for domestic
constraints for you know maybe
ideological reasons as well and and of
course now he leads and now leads a much
more right-wing government than he did
at the time and I think with the
collapse of the talks and it's clear
Abbas is now at the end of his career
he's not going to be the partner any
Israeli leader would work with he's sort
of fallen back into the embrace of his
old views and his old old political
leanings which you say is how he kind of
articulates it now is saying well I'm
there's not gonna be a Palestinian state
on my watch he says that openly now yeah
so I mean we're all waiting with bated
breath to see what Jared Kushner's
secret Middle East peace plan cooks up
I'm sure it'll be brilliant and well
thought through and well executed but
allow me to ask a even more cynical
question which was I think for a long
time like there's there's a reason on
the merits to get to a two-state
solution which is to help the
Palestinian people got homeland and a
state to solve sort of intra Israel
issues but there was also a sense that
regionally the failure to resolve the
Middle East peace process was this major
irritant with a whole bunch of other
Gulf states as well like the Saudis and
others Egyptians um I wonder if that's
true anymore right I mean we had Trump
moved the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to
Jerusalem and there was not really a
huge uprising or no one seemed to care
Trump
cut off a whole bunch of aides to
Palestinian refugees there hasn't been
some uproar in the Arab world I mean do
you think that it's still this critical
piece of diplomacy that we should
prioritize over all these other things
we could be doing look I'm not even sure
in our time it was the key to solving
all kinds of regional crises and of
course how many other crises erupted
Yemen and Libya and Syria that really
had nothing to do with the
israeli-palestinian issue and even if
we'd had a two-state solution we would
still be dealing with all those crises I
do think it is also it is true as you
alluded to that most of these are Arab
states particularly the moderate Gulf
states don't really care that much about
the Palestinian issue and they
prioritize the security alignment they
have with Israel over threats common
threats they face from Iran and from the
Sunni extremists of the region and so
they're not that exercised about things
like the move of the embassy to
Jerusalem or the Palestine aid situation
and it's very clear there's a strategic
partnership and it's mostly under the
table but increasingly out in the open
that Israel and the Gulf states are see
each other as partners there's still a
pretty low ceiling on what can be
achieved in the way of normalization if
you're going to talk about open
relations embassies trade tourism the
kinds of things that would really
reshape the region and show that Israel
is fully integrated in the region my
guess is most of those Arab regimes even
if they don't care so much about the
Palestinians aren't going to take the
political risk of the blowback from
their own populations or the propaganda
value it would give to Iran who could
say they're the the holders of the
Palestinian flame when the Arabs have
thrown them under the bus to go as far
as to really normalize and open with
public relations with Israel well so I
mean back at the u.s. I think
traditionally support for Israel has
been pretty bipartisan I'm wondering if
you think that that might change because
you know Netanyahu was very vocal about
his criticisms Obama
both on settlement policy and then you
know much more vocally on the Iran deal
he spoke before a joint session of
Congress without checking with the White
House which is not the coolest thing to
do and then he has since fully embraced
the Trump agenda that you know most of
the Trump policies is there any concern
in Israel about fully embracing the
Republican Party and potentially
decreasing support for Israel among
Democrats there is some I get that
question a lot when I give speeches in
Israel a lot of Israelis will ask me are
we losing the support of Democrats are
we losing the support of young
progressives and we're losing the
support of younger American Jews I get
that verse some version of that question
all the time and you know I remember
when President Obama was reacting to the
Prime Minister's decision to give that
speech in Congress one of the main
concerns he raised was this really cuts
into the heart of the bipartisan nature
of the US as a relationship and it
creates a partisan divide it did on the
Iran issue maybe even to the president's
benefit and yeah being able to get get
the Congress to sustain it and then of
course Trump becomes an accelerant of
all of those trends and and the the
extreme Israeli embrace of Trump
probably as well my argument to them is
look you can see some or maybe erosion
and there are new voices in the party
and new voices of among young
progressives who may not have the same
historical associations with Israel and
may be less sympathetic and I frankly
take on my shoulders and people like me
the need to educate our own camp that
you can have disagreements with Israeli
policy but we should sort of separate
that from do we support Israel's
security do we support its legitimacy
and I think it's possible that it's
possible to do both what I ask from
these Raley's is you know try not to
make it harder for me and so if there's
apparently no commitment toward a
two-state solution even trying to keep
it alive
for some later negotiation when there's
different leaders if there's expansion
of settlements in ways that would make
two states impossible or if there's an
embrace of Trump that seems to be
insensitive to the vulnerabilities that
so many Americans feel about his
presidency you know and you can always
expect them to understand that they're
going to try to have the best possible
relationship with the president United
States but
if you treat them as kind of a messianic
figure even if just because you agree
with some of the things he's done that's
gonna alienate the what fifty percent of
the country that thinks he's uniquely
dangerous in American history so there
there's a balance there that I'm not
sure there's property in improper motive
this is where you been yeah that's a lot
of progressive groups and potential 2020
candidates yeah I think there's a lot of
dimensions to this one is you know Dan
you're right I mean I remember I used to
have as part of my job for a
year-and-a-half meeting with House
Democrats including the entire you know
community of Jewish Democrats in the
house to try to educate them out there
on deal and hopefully secure their
support and when Netanyahu gave his
speech to Congress it was a single best
thing for that effort because people
said to me you know what now this just
looks partisan you know I was
uncomfortable being in a different
position than these really Prime
Minister a lot of Democrats had kind of
come up in their political careers and
just kind of took it as a given that
whoever there's really Prime Minister
was they were generally comfortable
siding with that Israeli prime minister
on matters related to Israel's security
whether it's Palestinians are wrong but
that was such a partisan effort by
Netanyahu that they could they could say
and believe you know wasn't a cover for
them they actually believed it that that
this is just someone who's basically
acting as an extension of the Republican
Party or vice versa and I do think
that's dangerous for Israel's security
in long run it and it takes a few
dimensions you know one is right now
Netanyahu is getting kind of his wish
list right the the embassy moves to
Jerusalem there's no heat on settlement
expansion Ron deals Ron deal was
cancelled but I mean what happens two
three four years from now when you know
the situation with the Palestinians is
even more dire and that probably invites
more international attention on it or
there's a new you know Democratic
administration that is not going to be
fully in line with these views or the
Iranian nuclear program has restarted
because we've lost the constraints of
the deal I think right now it looks like
two parties that are in kind of a sugar
high together the Republican Party in
the coudé party but they're what the
long-term consequences are of not
resolving these problems
they were in a nuclear program with a
Palestinian shoe I think can still blow
back on them I think in the United
States there's a couple of risks you
know one I just want to ask you about
before you get to the kind of younger
progressive movement and BDS which I
think it's important for us to talk
about you know Dan I myself I won't take
the opportunity having you here to say
how strange it is to me that you know
I've taken certain positions certainly
on the Iran deal but I had to be the
public voice of the abstention on the UN
Security Council resolution for those
who don't know at the end of the Obon
administration we abstained on a
resolution that essentially condemned
Israeli expansion of Israeli settlements
it also addressed Palestinian incitement
but the blowback on this was extreme and
you know I was called everything in the
book and and chiefly I was called an
anti-semite and and I wonder what you
thought you know it was almost like you
know the target of cyber bullying you
know I felt like I had a parade of of
Camp Road Netanyahu pro-trump people
just just trying to grind my reputation
down and turn me into some anti-israel
anti-semite figure and I wonder what do
you think the is there a risk of that I
mean that this kind of scorched earth
approach to people with with different
views doesn't that risk over time
creating these fissures you know where
you have people in the Democratic Party
who just support a two-state solution
and if you're gonna tar someone as
anti-israel anti-semite just because you
occasionally take positions it differ
from the Israeli government what does
that do over time to the the bonds that
you know that have to exist in both
parties so again this is really where
President Obama was coming from at the
time of the speech in the Iran deal he
said look this relationship has to be
able to be sustained through changes of
government and changes of administration
and party on both countries and that's
historically been the case and there
have historically been strong Democratic
and Republican administrations and
majorities in Congress and Likud and and
labor led governments in Israel that
kept the
foundations of the of the relationship
moving forward if you get a kind of
single party identification from one
country to the other
when the pendulum inevitably swings we
know it does in American politics
Israeli politics is a different story
maybe but there's it started to swing
just this past November I mean people
will come in and you know they may
remember that they were treated as if
their views which are not anti-israel
there may disagree with certain Israeli
policies but we're we're not welcomed so
I I think it's wise to maintain that
sense of proportion I think it's wise
for the Israeli government to sustain
close ties with Democrats out of power
of course now with the new majority
coming into the house and and - and and
and to treat to understand there's such
a thing as being a supportive critic or
a critical supporter and that's that's
you know the views of people who
criticize Israeli settlement expansion
and of course that shouldn't be done in
isolation you've got to take account for
a Palestinian responsibility as well but
those are views shared by many many
Israelis the Iran deal may not have been
popular with Israel but there were in
Israel but there were a lot of Israelis
including a lot of Israeli security
experts who understood the value of it
or at least didn't want to see it
cancelled once it was in place so these
are not views that should be treated as
classified
anyway as unfriendly or anti-israel but
they are views that you know should be
given the legitimacy of being part of a
camp of supporters of Israel's security
its legitimacy the us-israel
relationship and the effort to try to
end the conflict with the Palestinians
yeah yeah it's interesting
yesterday I interviewed congresswoman
elect Ilan Omar from Minnesota who she
supports the boycott divestment and
sanctions or BDS movement also
interestingly her incoming colleague
where she did two Libas announced that
she's gonna lead a delegation of new
members to the West Bank and not go on
the traditional a pocket AIPAC sponsored
trip to Israel during the August recess
which is actually a big deal in part
because that trip is seen as influential
but it's often as you know led by
leadership like Steny Hoyer or or Kevin
McCarthy and so it's good Paul
take for you inside your caucus to go in
this and some feel may be pressured to
go or think it's important to go so I
was hoping you could explain what the
BDS movement is and why you think it's a
bad strategy or bad movement and I also
wonder if you think that there's the
potential for a major shift in sentiment
in terms of us Israeli policy in
Congress specifically yeah I don't see a
major shift I mean there are some new
voices and there are at least a couple
people who have articulated some support
for BDS I think they'll be in a tiny
minority of members of the new majority
who will take that view I do oppose
boycotts and divestment of sanctions
against Israel I think those are the
wrong strategies I think they're unfair
in many cases not everybody but there
are people who adhere to those tactics
who I think fall into anti-semitic
attitudes and and sort of deal ahjumma's
ation not just of Israeli policy or
disagreement with Israeli policy but
actually fully Israeli existence and I
think those are things that we as a
party and me personally as an American I
think we should we should oppose so
that's that's again falls on the
shoulders of people in the party like me
to make that argument to younger
American voters younger Democrats who
don't know all of the history don't know
all of the reasons for Israel's
existence its legitimacy the tragedies
of Jewish history when there were
statelessness for many centuries and the
return to a homeland which by the way
President Obama spoke so movingly about
including in the speech that you know
Ben and I worked on together that he he
made when he visited Israel in 2013 that
those are important principles that we
shouldn't lose sight of and you can
maintain fully those principles and also
be fully committed to the very
legitimate aspirations Palestinians hold
for statehood for self-determination and
when necessary be critical of the
Israeli contribution to the stalemate
that's prevented that from happening
while I think also being realistic about
Palestinian contributions to that
stalemate now you know the question of
who goes on what trip I think is is sort
of not that important I think a
congressional travel is really important
you would host all these people I must
have hosted several
hundred members of Congress while I was
ambassador some on APEC trip some on J
Street strips some on trips just under
the congressional authority something on
their own the important thing is to get
out of Washington is to go to the places
where you are going to need to cast
votes or you're going to cast votes on
policy issues that affect those
questions talk to the people on all
sides talk to the Israeli military
commanders talk to the full diversity of
Israeli political opinion talk to
Palestinians this is something that we
did and President Obama always did when
he would get out there and you know I
have to say in you know AIPAC has has
really made a commitment to try to do
this in a bipartisan way they do that
trip with a Republican version and a
Democratic version and you know their
brand is you know it's a big tent and
you can be in that tent of supporters of
the relationship but also supporters of
two states and even even a critic of
certain policies but you know Jay Street
takes a somewhat different approach but
I think it's all valid and it's all it's
all worthwhile to go I hope that those
members who say they're not going to go
on those trips and they want to go and
talk to Palestine to the West Bank which
is a great thing to do we'll also take
the time to talk to Israelis and hear
their experiences and try to understand
how it looks from their perspective you
know a couple of things I want to prove
on the the tactics of opposition to BDS
because you know I think we would all
you believe that going the full route of
BDS against Israel does bleed into D
legitimization as you say I think
tactically a couple of recent
developments I think raise interesting
questions though one is Airbnb just
decided to not list any more Israeli
settlements so basically if you're going
to the West Bank
Airbnb will no longer say we're going to
list properties in Israeli settlements
in the West Bank it's a way of
registering concerned about Israeli
settlements and the reaction to that it
was largely negative I think from people
who opposed BDS Minh accentual II
treated that as BDS I think there's
another argument and J Street has made
this argument that by essentially saying
that some effort to delist
Bertie's and Israeli settlements by
saying that's the same thing that's
tantamount to beed yes you're actually
painting too broad a brush because
people should be able to express some
form of opposition to continued Israeli
settlement construction I'm curious what
you think about you know two angles of
this one is what do you think about the
Airbnb decision but secondly do you have
concerns that by equating Airbnb
decision with the broader BDS movement
that suddenly you're creating too big
attempt overbeat yes you know in other
words if you're not allowing people the
outlet to express some opposition to
settlements you might normalize
essentially somebody affiliating with
BDS if you see what I mean yeah you know
I don't know that I would have I'm not
sure I understood the logic of a company
like Airbnb wading into these political
waters so I I'm not sure that was the
you know the smartest thing for them to
do obviously anybody who doesn't feel
comfortable going to those properties
and renting them you know doesn't need
to and can sort of express their
opposition to Israeli settlement
expansion in that way on the flip side
the criticism of the company is somehow
anti-semitic I thought was rather
overheated I mean this is a company that
courses has 20,000 rentals all over the
state of Israel and and many Israelis
who are very you know proud participants
in that in that enterprise so yeah again
I'm not sure what as a corporate
strategy is the right thing to do I look
I I think it's it's more than legitimate
to be critical of Israeli settlement
construction and then you know for those
who feel they need to express that and
how they engage there I think that's
that's that's that's not the same as D
legitimizing Israel through those yeah
the the core the BDS movement which
really has a series of principles that
when you walk through them ultimately
lead to having no no Israel whatsoever
but I also think you know in the same
way President Obama always preached
engagement with people you disagree with
to learn from them to try to convince
them to have that dialogue I think you
know sometimes people who live in
settlements or they're advocates are
sort
of treated as some sort of untouchable
outcasts and they shouldn't be when I
was ambassador I didn't travel to those
parts of the West Bank it wasn't part of
my portfolio but I made time to spend in
conversation with settlement leaders
their advocates their representatives in
the Knesset because I felt it was
critically important that they hear
directly from us why we had concerns and
for us to hear from them and by the way
their settlements and settlements there
are some settlements which even in
President Obama's articulation of his
principles which were the of the
territorial outcomes inside of and
mutually agreed swaps the swaps were
about taking in large Israeli
communities near the border and
compensating the Palestinians with land
elsewhere so you know knowing those
nuances and getting down into those
weeds I think is important and prevents
you from these broad brush statements
that D legitimize entire peoples or
entire populations and there's a bill
that may make its way through Congress
even in the next couple weeks an anti
BDS piece of legislation that I think
some of the critics of that the more I
guess far-reaching version of the bill
would say the bill defines settlements
as part of Israel in a way that the US
hasn't before because it essentially
said it treats BDS efforts or you know
efforts to divest from or list products
made in Israeli settlements the same way
as in Israel so it's the same question
here of you know do you think that in in
passing legislation which you know
expresses view the United States
government has real legal ramifications
in real teeth there should be a
differentiation between settlements and
what is Israel proper you know I'm not
mistaken there was legislation along
those lines that even passed in the
final year of the abomination yeah I've
already kind of tripped over that line
yeah this goes a little farther this may
go a little further look I I don't know
the specifics of the legislation I think
you know there are some distinctions
here and you know allowing people to
express their opposition is something
that is part of our tradition of free
speech and yeah
and equal rights of a political thought
I think you know as a strong opponent of
boycotts of Israel I want to make sure
we yeah we make clear to anybody who
would advocate such a thing that they're
doing that in opposition to the policy
of the United States but the policy
United States can also be to oppose
settlement expansion and that can be
part of that that policy is I guess the
last question this set of issues is what
do you say to the person who says look
we keep saying we're against settlements
we keep saying we're for two-state
solution and nothing changes in fact all
that's changing is they're building more
settlements they're taking more
Palestinian land more Palestinians are
being displaced the possibility of a
two-state solution is getting out of
reach the Israeli government is now
publicly saying that's not going to
happen on their watch at what point do
you shift from just engagement to some
form of pressure right and there's lots
of different kinds of pressure there's
you know BDS is the extreme version
again I think we run couple with that
but then you had the UN Security Council
resolutions kind of thing we passed
there's you know various types of US
assistance it could be withheld you know
how do you defend as I guess a situation
where these really governors not
responding to the United States
expressions of concern about settlement
growth and the viability of a two-state
solution and yet you know it's very
difficult in our politics to apply
pressure in Israel at what point do you
have to consider applying some pressure
do you think that that's just kind of
not on the table when it relates to the
u.s. Israel really look multiple
administration's have imposed some forms
of pressure George HW Bush who just
passed away had a big fight with Prime
Minister Shamir over providing loan
guarantees to help finance the housing
of new immigrants because of Israeli
settlement construction but the Clinton
and Bush jr. administration's had
different approaches but often found
themselves criticizing and even in
places like the UN Israeli some
construction of course the Obama
administration we had our well known
arguments over it's legitimate for the
United States separate country our
interests which are very much
overlapping but not identical to Israel
to articulate when we have a
disagreement I think we need to be
realistic about what moves opinion in
Israeli politics sometimes that pressure
is easy to jujitsu against it was
against Obama in a way that only
hardened attitudes we also as I said
earlier have to be fully aware that
there's a Palestinian actor here and
when you have a Palestinian leadership
that seems able and willing to tell hard
truth to their people and take risks
that I don't think we've seen so far
from President Abbas that that might be
a much more effective way of getting
Israeli public to tell their own leaders
we should show new flexibility so there
are a lot of different elements here but
the United States can be a close and
strong ally to Israel and also express
our disagreements and sometimes that
will even take some forms of pressure
yeah Dan I know you just recently flew
from Tel Aviv to the US and not seen CNN
on all day every day for the last two
years but you might have heard that
President Trump is in a little bit of
legal jeopardy he might have it has
jumped the pond
he has might have made some mistakes but
he is not the only one for the third
time this year the Israeli police have
recommended that Prime Minister
Netanyahu be charged with taking bribes
fraud and breach of trust most recently
he was accused of performing favors for
a media conglomerate in exchange for
good coverage President Trump if you're
listening crooked media is open to that
kind of deal Dan how big a threat are
these charges for Bibi and is it like
all-consuming in Israel the way that
Muller stuff is for us it's not that
all-consuming but it's a significant
story it's also a very long running
story their system moves very slowly so
these investigations have been going on
for years as you mentioned this is the
third in a series of recommendations
from the police that he be indicted for
bribery and this one is the most serious
the one you referenced about the alleged
exchanges with the immediate company and
the the foregone conclusion among most
observers and illegal and in the
political world and Israel is that he
will be indicted at some point in 2019
Wow the Attorney General has to make
that decision
the police recommendations don't
determine that they turn
who he appointed but is considered the
Matt Whittaker no he's considered a very
serious very thoughtful parallels are
weird there are some weird parallels but
then if he's if the Attorney General
decides to indict him he has to have a
hearing and then there's a long long
legal process that follows it could last
many months even even years
meantime 2019 is also an election year
in Israel the election has to be in
November but it could be earlier if the
coalition dissolves or if the Prime
Minister decides to move it up and so he
could be running for re-election either
under indictment or with this indictment
bearing down on him and yes but most
observers would tell you he's probably
going to win regardless of whether he's
indicted or not he retains a certain
aura which he's cultivated very
successfully of indispensability
that there is nobody else who can manage
all the different security challenges
Israel faces from Syria and Iran and
Hamas and Hezbollah and Putin and Trump
and all the crazy things that that he
has to deal with
he's marginalized a lot of the
competition within his own party pushed
people out or cut them down to size and
the opposition figures have not yet
emerged seemingly strong enough to to
displace him so you know that's a real
unknown could he be reelected and then
have to go through some legal process
and with the court allow him to stay in
office or with the public or with his
coalition partners allow him to stay in
office as an indicted prime minister
Israeli law is sort of unclear on those
points so there are some parallels there
also some very idiosyncratic aspects to
this to the Israeli system and what a
mess it's it's quite it is a quite a sow
problem there's I mean the other
parallels you hear about from some
critics of Netanyahu is that there have
been democratic flat backsliding that
you know there's there's intimidation of
the media or there's kind of
consolidation in the media around kind
of you know Israeli versions of Fox News
for Netanyahu there's some risks to
civil society how real is that as
someone who lives there is on the ground
I mean how much of that is just you know
there's there's different political
perspectives in Israel or how much is
there been some you know noticeable
shift in terms of the media landscape
the civil society landscape them
a landscape that has some of the same
type of authoritarian tendencies we're
seeing here
you know the Trump would like to if he
had his way you know I mean you can
sometimes hear those voices but I think
the impact on it has been quite limited
you know very periodically a sort of
extreme piece of legislation is proposed
in the Knesset and you know we've if you
look at our Congress sometimes you see
some really Looney stuff to get
introduced there and also in a similar
way if it ever passes it's watered down
to almost symbolic stuff and much of it
never passes at all and if you look at
other democracies that are under some
kind of stress to their institutions
Hungary or Poland or some of the other
Eastern European countries other gizmos
in that category it's very vibrant the
debate is freewheeling nobody holds back
if they're a critic of of Netanyahu or
their critic of the his coalition there
may be people who would like to try to
stifle debate around that but the they
haven't really been successful the
courts are still very independent and
you know eventually over time you know
elections this kind of consequence is a
as you know Trump can appoint Kavanagh
Republican COO prime ministers will
avoid appoint judges and so that may
have that shift but to say Israeli
democracy is under some kind of real
threat I think would be a very very
exaggerated statement let me ask you
guys about an entirely different mess
the New York Times the New York Times
ran a piece about Jared Kushner and his
bizarrely cozy relationship with the
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
apparently they text they're on a
first-name basis they whatsapp Jared
helps him cover up his international
murders so that's sort of how we got to
know each other it's a typical friend
stuff when you read that piece you know
wearing your hat as a former senior
director for the Middle East in North
Africa as former deputy national
security visor did it make you cringe me
what did you think about just freelance
boy secretary of state in the West Wing
banging around with the Saudi accountant
I know wasn't surprising to me and Dan I
don't know if you heard these things but
back in 2017 when I just left government
I started to hear this you know what you
would hear is that Jared had been giving
these accounts and that the Saudis and
Emiratis in particular had made a
full-court press to essentially build
these relationships with Jared and Mahon
bin Salman in particular from Saudi
Arabia Mohammed bin Zayed from the UAE
and his ambassador in Washington you
know they were socializing they were
kind of counseling him here's which and
you know about the Middle East oh by the
way maybe we can discuss some real
estate deals on the side and it was
clear that they took advantage of the
fact that there was this guy Jared who
was kind of a blank slate yeah really
you know naive in the ways of the world
no experience dealing in international
diplomacy and you know essentially Jared
went all-in with them and that shaped
his perspective on all these things and
you saw that I think manifested in
Trump's first visit to Saudi Arabia that
Jared played a key role in you saw that
as we've discussed on this pod Tommy in
the u.s. completely deferring to the
Saudi position in taking the prime
minister of Lebanon hostage and Riyadh
and locking up members of MBS his own
family in the Ritz in the war in Yemen
most tragically and now manifests in the
khashoggi thing and oftentimes in those
disputes Jared was out of step with the
State Department so on the dispute with
Qatar where Saudi Arabia basically tried
to expel Qatar from the Gulf cooperative
Council and and isolate them you know
Rex Tillerson was trying to negotiate
some resolution and Jared was saying no
no we're all in with the Saudis right so
I think that that article sums up what
has been evident for two years which is
the Saudis and the Emiratis ran a very
effective influence operation on Jared
Kushner from the first day you know he
came in to the White House and I think
the questions they need to be answered
or is there a financial component to
that were they side dealing on real
estate transactions or prospective
transactions to get him on board because
it's very obvious to anybody he's paying
attention that there's something very
strange about the way in which this
white house is continuing to act as a
defense attorney for someone who just
murdered a journalist and you can
understand why the Saudis would find
this to be a very
familiar yes all right arrangements I
live down the hall so a crown prince of
the UAE runs a test I see sort of a
counterpart you know an individual with
a unique access to the leader who can
kind of make decisions that cut through
the bureaucracy or bypass the
bureaucracy completely and so that's the
that's their system that's not really
our system how are supposed to supposed
to work so I was an NSC alumnus you know
it's kind of horrifying the the NSC
exists to take in the different
perspectives of all the different
agencies users government which will
include security and diplomacy and
economics and other strategic questions
pool those of those perspectives give
the president options and the president
you know isn't going to be governed just
by the views of one family member when
he makes those decisions and and and so
what the result was of course it did
give the Saudis a blank slate and they
took advantage of it on all of these
very impulsive moves with Lebanon Qatar
Yemen and so forth which of an obviously
culminating in cash oh geez murder so I
think I said Lindsey Graham say that
business as usual with the Saudis should
be over until we pressure King Salman to
name a new Crown Prince do you think
that's a smart course of action a
feasible one I don't think we should
expect that we're gonna be able to
dictate who the ruler of Saudi Arabia is
that's you know we've never been very
good at regime change public business
it's just it's it doesn't work and and
so I think we should be realistic you
know I'm I'm in the camp of people who
think we we do need a reliable Saudi
partner we need it for our own interests
we need it because we have a common
threat that we're trying to deal with
from Iran and we need it because of the
role they play in energy markets and we
need it because of the role they could
play to facilitate a greater progress on
israeli-palestinian peace so we need one
we don't have one right now we don't
have a reliable Saudi partner because
NBS is so headstrong and so impulsive
and there seemed to be no constraints on
its behavior so you know there are
certainly opportunities now to use the
leverage we have and we have more
leverage in this relationship than they
do
- sit down some guide Rock guidelines
and say you know these are expectations
we have about how Saudi Arabia will
behave in the region about us not being
surprised by various initiatives and you
know in the end if they decide NBS is
going to be their ruler but can operate
within those guidelines you know he's
not going to get the the blood stain out
of his hand but you know we may just
have to in the way we sometimes have to
deal with unsavory people conduct that
relationship but if he can't respect
those guidelines then obviously this
relationship is gonna go into a bit of a
tailspin yeah I mean I I guess I thought
we we had a little more agency we don't
have to perpetrate regime change or a
coup I I think we do have to remember
that MBS has been destabilizing right
it's not been the natural course of
events that he would a seed to this
position he was named deputy Crown
Prince not Crown Prince he took
advantage of the fact that frankly his
father is not well his health is very
poor and and he's essentially been
ousting his critics he he out stood the
person Mohammed knife who was in line
ahead of him he out stood a lot of other
family members from Saudi positions of
power and he was you know already facing
I think a rural family that was
uncomfortable with this move to one man
one rule I think what Trump did is throw
him a lifeline because essentially you
haven't said Arabia a family that has
generally governed on consensus you know
there's always a king but you know the
family has to kind of get together and
agree on things and I think MBS was very
vulnerable after the khashoggi murder -
the family getting together and saying
you know what
like this guy's gotten way too far out
of his skis and we need to do something
about this
and so I I do think Trump threw him a
lifeline I think you know so it's not as
simple as if you know we can say you
must get another ruler but I do think if
we sanctioned MBS right and and said
we're gonna suspend you know arm sales
of Saudi Arabia and and and started to
show that there's a cost to his brand of
rule I think that the likelihood that
the family might have gotten together
and said you know what we might need to
to kind of figure out how to pull the
levers and and put this back in a box I
think that was certainly possible in
Trump you know instead has reham
and so I think that was a bit of a
missed opportunity to say you know what
this guy is not leading you guys in the
right place and that's gonna have
consequences on our relationship with
you yeah imagine we said your yacht
can't float off the South of France
anymore with Jared on it yeah Jared oh
yeah that my moves you have this vision
of like a wolf of wallstreet kind of
scene with Jared and NBS you know with
some like billion-dollar painting on the
yeah they're shooting fireworks Saturday
yeah kind of grotesque I mean they're
they're been these you know rumors of
these visits jared has taken to be on
mbss yacht and and actually just that
that image is kind of revolting these
two guys who you know think that you
know one of whom is you know was 29 when
he ceded to this petition a few years
ago yes and the other room was you know
kind of a you know a sky and of a New
York real estate family thinking that
the day alone should be able to make
these decisions about you know whole
fates of Nations is kind of a that's
part of the problem dilettante Prince's
bachelor party yeah something yeah last
question I have for you guys I don't you
anymore I mean it's what like seven
eight years past the Arab Spring Syria
is in very tough shape Egypt is a mess
Libya is a mess like wondering what and
I'm not saying that this was the result
of US policies I'm sure they're things
we could isn't better for sure but
knowing what we know now I mean what
role do you think the u.s. can or should
play in trying to help these countries
put themselves back together so I you
know we've talked about this a bit Tommy
I mean I you know I do think
fundamentally we have to recognize that
what began in the Arab Spring you know
there's a generational sorting that's
gonna take place inside of these
countries that quick relatively simple
transitions to democracy were not
possible in places it didn't have
institutions in civil society places
like Libya where that had been hollowed
out that have deep unresolved questions
about the role of Islam and politics
that have sectarian differences in
conflicts so I do think it's going to
take a long time for this to play out
and and what we tried to do in the
second Obama administration is try to
minimize the humanitarian harm that
would come from these transitions to try
to do what we could for our own interest
in for the interests of these countries
to take out the most extremist violent
entities like Isis and to try to
continue to throw lifelines to people
who are trying to move in the right
direction either people in government
trying to do the right thing or people
in civil society so that the u.s. is
playing some role for time and
minimizing the you know the security and
humanitarian fallout of these
transitions and trying to find ways to
empower more positive actors in these
countries I personally think that we
have to have a tremendous amount of
humility about it I mean one of our
other former colleagues Phil Gordon had
a pretty famous quote that I'm not gonna
get exactly right but essentially we
invaded an occupied Iraq and ended up
being a disaster we did regime change in
Libya with a light you know footprint
and was a disaster and we didn't go into
sarin as a disaster the point being that
we sometimes think we have more agency
than we do you know that if we'd moved
you know the rook to a certain place in
the chessboard these countries would be
different I personally think we had to
have a tremendous amount of humility
about our capacity to orchestrate events
inside of these countries we can affect
their decision-making we can affect you
know our interest and you know whether
Ron develops a nuclear weapon but the
the our capacity to shape what
government emerges I mean this is what
part of gets me about the the current
Iran strategy the notion that some mix
of sanctions and rhetoric is going to
somehow lead to this new Iranian
government I mean there's no way in fact
I think if we somehow did squeeze Iran
to a regime change point though the
worst people would take over there you
know so again my main takeaway is having
humility about what can be accomplished
that doesn't mean you don't care and you
don't try but it means that you know you
probably don't overreach and make
mistakes of intervention and that you
just find entry points to try to move
things in a better direction yeah I
certainly and shared the lesson of
humility from our
experiences with those changes in the
Arab world at certain 2011 and you can
definitely say there are things we could
have done differently and could've done
better but you also have to you know
balance that against the cost and part
of this is the residue or the long-term
price we paid for Iraq which went so
poorly there may have been a time when a
certain kind of intervention in Syria
would have been appropriate and we might
have been able to save lives but we also
might have been pulled into something of
very long and very deep and it was very
clear that the American people and the
Congress you know we're not on board for
that
so we maybe had some limited options
because of that but even then it's not
clear you know where where that would
have led we our ability to shape the
outcomes of these societal
transformations I agree with Ben is it's
quite limited and then there are cases
where we really have to balance
different interests Egypt is a great
example where we're clearly dealing with
now a very repressive Sisi government
more repressive in some ways even than
the Mubarak government was before the
Arab Spring and civil society is being
pushed underground and any even peaceful
voices of opposition are being stifled
probably it's going to be a powder keg
and it's and sowing the seeds for the
next explosion the next resolution so we
need to be a voice in a critic and and
try to empower those elements of civil
society but all that said at the same
time Egypt remains a security partner
it's a security partner for the United
States against Isis it's a security
partner of Israel against Hamas and
maintaining the peace treaty with Israel
and so figuring out how to balance when
we have an interest for with working
with a regime that is far from ideal but
trying to do what we can to give life
lines and give support to two other
elements of that society without
empowering the the radicals that's a
very tough challenge for any any
national security professional yeah damn
right Dan it is great to have you in LA
love to be here yeah we're hoping we're
gonna ask that you move here and set it
back to Washington how you decide to
return the climb it's a lot more like
Israel so it's tempting there you go Ben
Dan thank you both for you guys talking
and see you next week great to be ya
thanks
you
