welcome to pod save America live we're
taking your questions yo we got John
Lovett here we got Priyanka is on the
couch today looking she's got a blanket
yeah
Travis is over there for some reason
he's not the I'm Raziel good good good
perfect Trevor
on camera no my driver should be seen
and not heard okay just a pretty face
Wow should take some questions
sure okay let's start it off with the
Muller report Before we jump into the
questions yeah
who is that I don't know I just wanted
to ask you really quickly before we jump
into the questions if you can set the
scene for us maybe lay a little
groundwork for people tuning in and
might need a little bit of refresher of
where exactly we're at not me I know
everything but like the people that
people yeah they're people on Sunday uh
Robert Muller deliver oh no he delivered
on Friday on Friday robert muller
delivered his long-awaited report on
Russian interference with our elections
and whether there were any links or
coordination with members of the Trump
campaign or Trump administration also
whether there was obstruction of justice
committed by the president that was what
the investigation was supposed to be
about he delivered his final report to
the Attorney General William Bar on
Sunday bar decided that he was going to
release to Congress a summary of
Muller's report in there in the summary
he said he quoted from a fragment of a
sentence in molars report that said
there is no conspiracy or coordination
those are legal terms between Trump's
campaign and any Russian government
actors and then quoted from another part
of the report and said that Robert
Muller did not conclude the Trump had
committed obstruction of justice but
also will not exonerate him from such a
crime and that he decided
that he couldn't actually make a final
decision on whether Trump should be
charged with obstruction of justice and
then Barr told us he decided to make
that decision on his own with Deputy
Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and they
have decided that Trump should not be
charged with obstruction of justice
since then we have heard nothing we have
seen no Mollie report we don't know what
else is in there we don't even know how
many pages it is we don't have any pages
it is we don't know what evidence Muller
found for obstruction which clearly
there is a lot of evidence on
obstruction because bar tells us that in
the report and we don't know what else
Muller found on possible links between
the Trump campaign and Russia because
all he said was whatever they were doing
together it didn't rise to the level of
a chargeable offense right so the the we
know that Muller concluded that he was
not going to pursue collusion it seems
like what Muller did was say there's a
lot of evidence here around obstruction
I'm gonna leave it up to Congress we
don't know that we don't know that yeah
well we know that he didn't want to draw
conclusions right but we don't know we
know what we still don't know is did he
say in the report I leave it up to
Congress did he say in the report I
leave it up to the Attorney General or
did he say neither well it's not I would
say it's unlikely to me that he said I
leave it up to the Attorney General
because it is baraa phrased it very
carefully in his letter and he doesn't
say he in he doesn't say the report
asked me to make a determination he says
because of the report sure doesn't make
a determination
I shall agree yeah so really I think
it's quite strange to imagine that
Robert Mahler spent this this to you
know 48 months coming to a decision to
lay out the evidence without a
conclusion in the hopes that the
Attorney General would then take 48
hours to draw the conclusion I agree
with that I will very hard to believe I
will also say that if he said in the
report I do leave this up to Congress it
would be very unusual for Bart to try to
hide that fact and then just say he's
gonna do it on his own knowing that it's
gonna come out and the fact that we
haven't heard anything from Muller and
his team like it seems most likely that
Muller just laid out the evidence and
then said for some reason I can't make a
determination right and it's unclear
whether or not Muller is surprised that
Barr stepped in in the 40
our window between we knowing that the
report exists and finding out anything
inside of it to just make the
determination with rod Rosen Stein it's
very strange how that is the strangest
part of this whole thing very so can the
house subpoena the entire report and if
they can why is this even an argument
they should be able to they should be
able to try I so what has happened in
the house so far is six committee
chairmen in the house that all have some
sort of jurisdiction over a different
part of this report intelligence
judicial all that kind of stuff the six
chairmen wrote to bar and said we want
this full report by April 2nd if they do
not get the report by April 2nd which is
Monday then they can subpoena the report
at that stage either bar says okay he's
willing he goes along with the subpoena
and gives them a report or he fights it
and then it goes to court got it
okay so Laura wants to know how do we
pressure Nadler chef and Pelosi not to
rest until they get the entire Mullen
report can't how about yeah I mean they
just I think I think that there has been
on every issue related to investigations
there's been this kind of 30,000 foot
view conversation which is what is the
best way to engage with the Trump
administration is it to create the
appearance of reasonableness by offering
them a chance to do the right thing
giving them time to do the right thing
before you go to the subpoenas right
that's what we've seen it a few
different stages and that's we've kind
of seen now with what Nadler has been
doing or or do you just of what you or
do you just skip this or do you not
recognize the value of that because you
see more value in just jumping to the
ultimate conclusion which is the Trump
administration is not going to cooperate
they're not going to treat this
seriously you need to go to subpoenas
you need to do that thing faster and I
think that that debate is still ongoing
and what Barr originally said is I will
release this whole report what I have to
do first is the law tells me that I can
withhold any information in the report
that is related to grand jury testimony
because that is supposed to be secret or
anything that is related to ongoing
investigations that are still happen
which there's some stuff in that in the
report
so that so bar is saying that once he
read acts all of that he will provide
the report now even with that in mind it
still seems like bars should be able to
brief the heads of the different
committees in the house on the full
report even the parts that involve grand
jury proceedings and ongoing
investigations because you know some of
these members of Congress especially
people like Adam Schiff and the Intel
committee have top-secret clearance they
should be able to see any kind of
classified information and you know so
you should they should be able to get a
secret briefing on the full report and
then they should be able to make the
determination whether a lot of this
stuff should come out or not because
what we don't want is for bar to like
there was a report in The New York Times
yesterday that said bars thinking of
handing a summary of the full report no
the summary is not gonna do it because
we and that same they loved it was
saying about the page numbers - like a
summary allows them to say oh here's a
summary of that but like you don't know
how many pages have been excluded from
the Moller report which is why the whole
thing needs to come out but I think I
think everyone should absolutely put the
pressure on House Democrats Senate
Democrats everyone else right now
they're saying well just give up you
know give until April 2nd because that's
when they said they would do it and then
we'll you know we'll go nuts and we'll
really fight for it but put the pressure
on now I'll summarize
let's see I'll summarize Godfather Part
2 it's a story of a working dad trying
to have it all feel like you got a good
sense of that film I don't yeah also one
other point I think I haven't you know
summaries summaries they're uh you know
they're a form of content yeah
and they haven't sometimes we summarize
the news you know history is you didn't
read the New York's history is a summary
and it's you know written by the winners
as they say you know the summary is
written by the winners the point I was
gonna make the real famine was only that
if you actually even look at the the
version where bar is doing these kinds
of reactions you say all right so he's
going to remove the part
it's that are related to ongoing
criminal investigations so the
Republican position so far has been look
what we know is Muller isn't doing any
more indictments
there's no collusion and obstruction
Barr saying no obstruction it's not a
not a prosecutable offense so let's all
move on meanwhile of course Muller is
investigation has produced dozens and
dozens of charges against a bunch of
different people a bunch of plea
agreements a bunch of people going to
jail and a bunch of ancillary
investigations that have been thrown off
by the Romano report in New York in
Virginia that may lead to other kind of
ongoing state prosecutions as well so if
bars gonna go through this thing and
remove the part related to ongoing
criminal investigations again we may end
up with a report where we can wave their
hands and say look there's nothing here
there's nothing here of course the
crimes that are ongoing the the
prosecution of crimes that are ongoing
not being part of the record is just
going to be another case of Republicans
declaring victory before anyone has the
facts all right so how do Democrats
Cass is asking how do you Democrats
balance wanting the full report and just
Russia stuff in general but not wanting
to seem obsessed with it to the
detriment of other issues including
stuff that's coming up in 2020 this line
of questioning is driving me completely
nuts and it's been you know a media
narrative from since the moment that
Barr released the summary I think this
is very easy like the 20/20 candidates
are out there talking about the issues
they're out there talking about health
care or talking about the economy
talking about things that are on
people's minds as they should we have
you know 63 candidates who are Fanning
across the country talking about all the
issues that matter also there's plenty
of hours in the day for House Democrats
and Senate Democrats to talk about those
issues as well to push forward
legislation but that doesn't mean the
people can't walk and chew gum at the
same time the house also has a
constitutional obligation to provide
oversight and to provide a check and
balance against the Trump administration
we are talking about maybe the most one
of the most important investigations of
our lifetime we were attacked by a
foreign
hostile regime our elections were
attacked by a hostile regime that was
very very important and the president
united states may have obstructed
justice why did he obstruct justice
we don't know maybe because he didn't
want robert muller to find any other
crimes like the fact that he paid hush
money in violation of campaign finance
laws maybe that's why he didn't want
obstruct laws but anyway the president
may have obstructed justice we were
attacked by Russia in our election like
we need to find out what happened this
is important maybe it's not very
politically useful maybe it's not gonna
move any votes maybe no one's gonna give
a at all but like if you care about
those things it seems like we should
know about them it seems like we should
have a full accounting of what happened
we paid for this investigation actually
Paul Manafort papers yeah what they
seized from Paul Manafort the amount of
money they the government seized from
Paul metaphor it paid for the entire
investigation
you would think Republicans would be
more respectful of Rabab malas work
given that he is a thriving small
business owner you know it was
pay-as-you-go
no deficit the month more well or the
full investigation didn't add to the
turn to profit okay before we move on
from this Sergio has a question about
how this has been handled by media
outlets he says most media outlets I
follow completely botched an opportunity
to criticize bar for releasing his own
bias conclusions to the unreleased
Miller report how do we combat this type
of irresponsible reporting that seemed
to cease the notion that Trump is
exonerated you take this first because
I'm gonna flip over the table you know
look how do you fix the media so I think
so I think it's you at the server's say
look let's talk about what actually
played out I think you've seen a mixed
bag I happened to be flying to record on
Monday I watched a bunch of cable news
and my honest view of what I saw on
cable news so I actually watch fox I
watch CNN I watch MSNBC Fox was insane
it was truly like it's like it was it
was you it was like britt hume was gonna
lead a group of protesters to march on
the New York Times building they were
like you'd think that Donald Trump just
marked like just landed on Normandy
and was like like climbing the wall at
Ponte hawk-like whatever like you
thought you'd think that like this was
the greatest day in the history of
Donald Trump's presidency Beach when you
when you went to CNN MSNBC I actually
think it was a bit more circumspect I I
think that there was a mix there was a
mix of people cooking at the politics
and the politics analysis was very
frustrating because it was very much
about how good this was for Trump and of
course in a environment of endless
punditry when people are saying this
news is good for Trump that is the thing
that's good for Trump the people saying
it's good for Trump because there's no
time in which you actually discuss the
substance you just talk about how it
plays and if it's playing well what's
playing well it's a there was no
substance there's four pages from Bilbao
and there's four pages from built bar
now I would say the actual conversations
on television were I think a bit more
curious cuz I think everybody was a bit
caught off guard by the conclusions bar
drew and some of the open questions we
had some of these we talked about on pot
save America on Monday why were there so
many lies why was there so many
connections between the Trump
administration Russia Trump acolytes
and Russian cutouts why do we not know
more about that what's in the report
what's just bar providing analysis and
what's actually something that we will
learn but yeah I mean it was frustrating
think there were some especially
frustrating analysis pieces in the
papers but you know I think the one
thing I would say about the media is
it's always good to remember that we
fall for what conservatives say
sometimes too and come to believe that
the media is our friend or our ally and
it's not it's just not they have a job
to do and part of what they view their
job as is seeming even-handed and they
will lent they will take opportunities
like this to prove their bona fides as
nonpartisan even if that means going
above and beyond the facts to give
credit to Trump and credit to
Republicans and their positions Donald
Trump set the bar at collusion which has
never been a legal term but basically
set the bar at unless they find a legal
conspiracy that you know me and my team
committed a crime by working closely
with Russians to help sabotage our
democracy then
everything else is fine and that was
Donald Trump standard that was never
anyone else's standard that wasn't most
Democrat standard that wasn't most of
the reporter standard the worth the
report what reporters have tried to do
is uncover the facts surrounding this
investigation and reporters at the New
York Times at the Washington Post
at CNN at BuzzFeed and a whole bunch of
other outlets did a fantastic job doing
that and you can probably count on one
hand the number of mistakes that they
made factual mistakes over the course of
that investigation and most of those
Corrections have already been made and
yeah if there are some hashtag resistant
pundits who got you know ahead of their
skis on a few cable panels whatever who
the cares like that happened but
the actual networks themselves and the
news players themselves did exactly what
they should have which is follow the
facts and for us I don't know how many
times we have said on the pod if we
never hear from Robert Muller again
Donald Trump has still committed all of
this wrong do it all of this
presidential misconduct he did all these
bad things he's been implicated in a
federal crime by federal prosecutors in
the hush-money case right like there's
so much wrongdoing around here like from
from me like I wasn't surprised there
wasn't a conspiracy charge against
Donald Trump I was the only surprise I
had was I sort of thought Don junior was
gonna get himself into some trouble he
didn't but beyond that nothing has
really surprised me that much yeah I
think that's conspiracies a high bar we
were very we were actually yeah we
talked about it a lot that like you know
I think that there was an expectation
for some like Muller deus ex machina
that he would come in and lay all this
stuff yeah we want to make fun of it
yeah we would talk about it all the time
like we need to be prepared for the fact
that Robert Muller is not coming to save
us that he is not gonna bring the
answers and one thing we also said from
the beginning is Robert Muller as
investigating crimes not the truth right
he's not invested he's not his job is to
find out if crimes were committed it's
our job to find out what happened even
for things that don't rise to the level
of crime so I think and he may have done
a lot of that himself as well we just
don't know it's on the report we don't
know what is important I think this if
you want like to me the greatest sin of
what happened over the weekend in terms
of how we talked about this and and how
we're still talking about this
is there's two of them one is there are
a lot of people declaring victory over
ace over a version of Democrats that
either only exists on the margins or
doesn't exist at all yeah Twitter some
Twitter grifters were like robert muller
American Hero you know this is the guy
that's gonna save us he's going to get
all the crimes there were people you
know but but for the most part like in
Congress people like that that were
responsible for investigating Donald
Trump people like Adam Schiff people
like Nadler people like Nancy Pelosi
nobody was out there saying molars gonna
do this for us molars gonna have all the
answers they said we'll wait for molars
work to be done but they weren't relying
on it they were doing their own
investigations so that was like I think
sin number one and then the other big
sin is again this idea of Mullah about
taking bars word on the mullah report
meaning that Muller hasn't found any
truly despicable behavior and we just
don't know we don't know how politically
important them even now we do not know
how politically important the mullah
report is going to be we just don't know
yeah all right before we switch gears
move on to a new topic the people have
asked Lovett to summarize a few other
films okay
first they want to see you summarize
taken a a story of a divorced dad who
just wants to take his daughter to
chuck-e-cheese star wars trilogy a farm
boy discovers that he's really good at
video games Florida Project
one of the best movies of the decade
shame on the Academy infinity war we got
three out of the four Chris's is that
right we hold on is that right get Evans
Pratt Pratt and Hemsworth yeah three out
of four Wow three out of four Chris's
can't be wrong Zoolander is it good
Ocean's eleven
a bunch of bros go to a casino yeah a
bunch of robberies okay if you don't
like the person who owns the property
amazing thank you we can move on all
right column is asking what your
thoughts are on the recent news of Trump
officials pushing for all of Obamacare
to be struck down what can we expect
yeah this one so what happened here is
there was a lawsuit against the
Affordable Care Act in Texas and
basically this lawsuit says that because
Congress decided to nullify the
individual mandate and say that you know
no one has to buy health insurance
anymore this happened in the last
Congress then the entire Affordable Care
Act should be held unconstitutional and
a Texas judge said sure this is the sort
of you should conservative judge intent
you just add like it's it's such a it's
it's I don't even know how necessary to
fully understand the logic it is very
convoluted so one of the things that's
part of this is that Chief Justice
Roberts upheld Obamacare on the basis
that that theme that that that it was a
tax right that the mandate the mandate
was a tax through the taxing power and
because the mandate has now been
cancelled
therefore his defense doesn't apply but
it barely makes sense all you need to
know is conservative scholars liberal
scholars legal scholars all over the
spectrum looked at the ruling in the
Texas case and said this is
absurd it's absurd
the Justice Department the tradition
what the Justice Department is is the
federal government as the lawyer for the
federal government when you're in court
you're supposed to defend the laws that
have been passed by Congress even if you
don't agree with them so even if it's a
Republican ministration and the law was
passed by Democrats you're the Justice
Department you're supposed to defend the
law that are on the books because you're
the executive branch the executive
branch is supposed to you know
faithfully execute the laws that's what
it says the Trump administrations
Justice Department in that case said
we're actually going to step in and say
we're not defending the fact that the
individual man
going down should invalidate that part
of the law right and they had already
said like they're not defending the
individual mandate but they did they did
say when the case was first ruled that
they while they're not gonna defend the
individual mandate anymore they would
defend all of the Affordable Care Act
well couple days ago in like a
two-sentence memo they said actually now
we're not going to defend the Affordable
Care Act at all we think the whole thing
is unconstitutional and we're not gonna
defend it against any lawsuit that may
come against the Affordable Care Act the
Department of Justice is just stepping
back and saying we're not defending the
law legally we don't know what this
means right legally this means that
whether it's the lawsuit that happened
in Texas is it works its way through the
appeals process or future lawsuits it
means that the just that that for the
plaintiffs who are going to you know
bring these lawsuits on the defendants
side the federal government is not going
to be one of those defendants and it's
just gonna have to be like state
attorneys general or other people who
defend the law because the the
government's not part of it so that
might hurt the chances of the law they
might hurt hurt the chances for the ACA
politically what this means is the Trump
administration has gone on record saying
they want the elimination of the for the
Affordable Care Act that they no no no
no they want a replacement doin anything
else that when we go to the to the polls
in 2020 and we cast our votes we should
know that Donald Trump and his
administration if they get another four
years will do everything they can
legally and politically to destroy the
Affordable Care Act that means 20
million people who have health insurance
lose their health insurance that means
every single person in America with the
pre-existing condition would once again
go back to being denied their coverage
because they have a pre-existing
condition young people can't stay on
their parent's insurance anymore all of
this stuff is just wiped away so this is
a fairly unpopular correct very
unpopular so so unpopular that Kevin
McCarthy the Republican leader a parent
or reportedly called the White House
right and said why are you doing this
yeah it's pretty clear they lost a bunch
of House seats over health care it's a
big part of how Democrats can win
elections it's also like as always it's
not it's obviously like a terrible
policy decision and it
politically toxic but they're not even
doing the work necessary to mitigate
what would make it toxic so Donald Trump
says yeah we're gonna get it we're gonna
get it thrown out and we're gonna
replace it with something beautiful
you're gonna love it
but even Republicans have to admit now
because they just went through this
process they don't have a replacement
they do not like they have been saying
but they said repeal in a place for a
decade under Obama and in the two years
after they repealed it 50 times or so uh
when Barack Obama was president we went
through the whole fight where McCain
saved the Affordable Care Act but one of
the reasons they got to the point where
even John McCain could step in to to
prevent repeal that's what they were
trying to do is after at long last is
just get something through without a
replacement because there simply is no
coherent health care policy on the right
that they have rally behind there just
is no answer and it's actually it's
something we've talked about before but
it speaks to the difference between the
Democratic Party and the Republican
Party right now you know I've said this
before but it's you know the Democratic
Party is not as good cannot go to
campaigning but it understands what it
wants to do when it governs and the
Republican Party knows how to campaign
but it doesn't know how to govern and so
they vilified the Affordable Care Act
talk about some more fist replacement
when push comes to shove politically
they don't have the the consensus
necessary to actually do good policy and
so whenever they get out in front of
this issue what they're left with is the
truth which is what they would do is
repeal it and not replace it and hurt
millions and millions of people it's
actually a very similar story to what
happened when they when a bunch of
Republican attorneys general supported
by Republican governors tried to pursue
a legal case to throw it out previously
it's part of the reason Scott Walker is
no longer governor of Wisconsin
they claim all they want that oh I have
all these good policies I'd pursue I
have all these good versions of health
care but they don't actually have a
there's no Republican health care plan
there's no Republican census unlike the
Democratic Party which has rallied
behind something between a public option
and Medicare for all they just don't
have answers to these questions and so
why we should keep asking them so is
this something that do we know if we
should be afraid of this at this point
or is this just something that's like
very alarming we should be afraid of
this to the extent that you know we have
a judicial system where at the same time
lawsuits like this are happening Mitch
McConnell is confirming more and more
federal
judges that are extreme right-wing
unqualified judges and the more the
judicial system gets filled with these
judges the higher the chance that one of
these lawsuits is going to end up in
front of some judges not just on the
federal on the you know a federal judge
but an appeals court judge a circuit
court judge or all the way up to the
Supreme Court that finally says like
yeah well throw out the whole law it
also shows that the Trump administration
is going to stop at nothing whether
through legal recourse or through
administrative action to gut the
Affordable Care Act whether its death by
a thousand cuts whether it's overturning
the whole thing they want this thing to
go down and the only way to protect it
is to vote Republicans out of office and
vote Donald Trump out of office that's
it yeah and it speaks to the importance
of the Senate that the the the success
Mitch McConnell has had a confirming
judges and will continue to have for the
next two years is it's gonna have we're
losing this fight right now we really
are they're they're confirming dozens
and dozens of justices I think as of
right now I think it's fully a fifth of
appellate court judges already on the
bench have been appointed by Donald
Trump you know and he hasn't even they
haven't really done reach down into the
district court yet so I mean they are
having a tremendous amount of success
the vast majority of federal court
decisions are not made by what I what
what what you had a slip that sounded
like something else we're just doing
Sheldon what I say Elijah heard it oh
they're having a ton of sex guys but
yeah the vast majority of decisions made
at the federal level in the court system
are not made by the Supreme Court that's
all alright shut up Travis you don't
have a microphone what do you
even in here for that's what I've been
asking this whole time unbelievable all
right we're switching gears the green
New Deal you had this vote yesterday in
the Senate the people want to know what
do you guys think about Senate Democrats
voting present on the green New Deal and
does the Senate voting down the green
New Deal resolution mean that it can
never be brought up again I think it's
great they all voted president because
it was a stunt by Mitch McConnell AOC
said as much to who you know the author
of the green New Deal she's like yeah
when Mitch McConnell wanted to put them
on record
some sort of political stunt that he can
run on and truthfully the green New Deal
is a resolution it doesn't have like all
of the policy details when it comes time
to actually flesh out legislation that
could pass that represents what the
green New Deal is talking about then
yeah then Democrats shouldn't vote
president then they should vote yes or
no but the way this is gonna go is no
one's passing any green new deal for the
next two years at least
we need the presidency back we need to
send it back before we can even start
talking about a green new deal because
Republicans certainly don't want to do
that and then at that point you know we
have to have Democrats working with any
Republicans who believe in climate
change just not many probably working
just amongst themselves to say okay
what's the best legislative package that
we can pass here and then we we sit Joe
Manchin down all right and we bring in a
witch and that witch will use her powers
or his powers it's 2019 men can be
witches and really kind of sit him down
and use I've been watching a lot of Game
of Thrones and really sort of like use
like the old languages to really
convince him on the issue and the truth
is it is not just Joe Manchin we got 43
present votes and from Democrats or no
votes right and yeah and the four no
votes so over the for now it was Doug
Jones
Kyrsten Sinema joe Manchin and angus
King that's a good one and well and so
we have some work to do and and making
sure that we when we have power if we
have power to make sure that we have a
grand new deal that can at least pass
the Democratic caucus and for those
people who say well can't we just vote
out those Democrats well no because
they're in pretty conservative states
and you're not gonna get more liberal
Democrats probably than those four in
those states and so we have to persuade
them we have to persuade them that the
goals of the green your deal in the
legislation that we've put forward are
the right ones and that's gonna take
some work so but I'll sleep on the which
option don't sleep on the which option
but to the other question yeah it can be
brought up again and hopefully it will
be brought up again
by the democratic majority leader in
2021
another option Mission Impossible masks
we get Ethan Hunt we get them in a Joe
Manchin situation all right so we're
gonna go further with that one but okay
grateful this next question comes from
Diana she says I think a lot of people
are feeling a little helpless right now
with the Parkland suicides the awful new
budget Republicans trying to gut
Obamacare there's a bunch of bad things
going on the released non release of the
Mulla reports how do we keep up momentum
and keep moving forward without losing
hope
where and how should be focused our
energy right now you know it's a it's a
good question I also think it's um
partially it's a timing thing you know
like we just you know that the 2018
midterms one of the most consequential
elections we've ever had were
four-and-a-half months ago five and a
half months ago they just had nine years
ago ten years ago we just had one of the
most important victories I would say in
our lifetimes taking the house back you
know winning some of these Senate seats
that people thought we would lose
winning a bunch of State Legislative
seats so I would say I think it's fair
to feel beaten down by the news recently
but I'd keep in mind that this is a long
game like it is early 2019 we were the
beginning of a Democratic primary in
which we have Democrats out there
talking about in a really big
substantive policy debate about the
future of the party that's been
generally quite positive in terms of the
level of debate and the way the
candidates are engaging with one another
or not engaging with one another yeah
like I think it's fair to say that if
you were hoping for more from the Moller
report you might be disappointed
especially with the way Barr framed it
but again you know we won in 2018 we
didn't have a model report then so and
then on you know on issues like guns
it's really tragic what's happening
right and and it's a reminder to that
even beyond the deaths that caught that
are caused by guns anion suicides gun
murders these mass shootings is the
ricochet and the ripple effect they have
for communities but another sign is just
a bad that things can change we're
having the first gun hearings in a
decade because Democrats wonder how
we're having we're starting to have the
conversation we're starting to take
power back so yes I think that this is a
particularly grueling period because the
election is far away and Trump seems to
once again be acting as though he is
skating without consequence but this was
always gonna be a long fight and this is
a period of time where I think we're
furthest away from where are we we have
our strength as voters and that's okay
but you know go for a walk outside
check out I'm gonna go see I want to see
us I want to see what happens with this
Chris Evans movie what's it called
Avengers and uh you know that that's
that's my advice yeah I think take a
step back from the news if you want to
donate there's plenty of options and go
to vote save America comm slash unify
and donate to the eventual Democratic
nominee or if you picked your favorite
already donate to that person's campaign
there are House candidates we need to
protect the house and they're probably
and I said this on the pot the other day
there's probably 16 House Democrats who
are in a toss-up category right now who
could use your support because the
Republicans are going to be coming after
them we're gonna have elections in 2019
we might be able to flip the Virginia
legislature there's gonna be some other
elections also check out what your
friends at indivisible are doing check
out what our friends at move on or doing
check out our friends at flippable right
there's all these organizations that are
both trying to elect people on local and
state levels and are also trying to
influence policy and legislation go to a
March go to you know like there's
there's plenty of activities and
organizing that we can do right now and
I would say like focus on that and focus
on that energy because spending too much
time watching the news on Twitter on
cable and and with all the bad news
there you know it can wear you down and
this is also a marathon not a sprint
right like it is we have a long time
until the 2020 elections and so everyone
should sort of save up a lot of their
energy and and there's gonna be 50
million new cycles between now and that
so whatever seems bad now it's probably
won't seem as bad 48 hours from that you
know sometimes I think about the fact
that the Tyrannosaurus Rex
lived closer to us in time and the
Tyrannosaurus Rex live to the
Triceratops no think about that that's
so crazy
think about that taken edibles before
the lice
no no no the edible I'm taking is called
life it's alright next next question is
about this emerging consensus that
Democrats shouldn't focus on Trump in
2020 Nick notes that Trump's approval
rating regularly hovers around 40% of
course policy and message or vital but
our Dems overlearning the last min of
2016 why shouldn't you exploit having an
unpopular opponent it's an excellent
question and I've thought about that a
lot myself there's a good question I
think there's a I think there's a
balance that you got a strike right like
I think making it all about Donald Trump
is it's not great because a lot of
people know how they feel about Donald
Trump but elections are choices right
and these twenty twenty candidates
whoever it may be is gonna run against
this guy and you have to tell people if
you elect him this is what you will get
if you elect me this is what you'll get
right like the elections are a choice so
if you if you just go out there and say
hey I'm the Democratic nominee and
here's my bold progressive policy
platform and vote for me and that's it
then that's not you haven't done the job
right you actually have to say there is
a choice in this election about where
this country is headed and one Road with
Donald Trump will lead you in this
direction and the other Road will leader
in this direction and so you have to
frame the choice and I do think you know
it isn't I think what Democrats should
do is not just make it about Trump's
behavior the things he says his
personality right like that's definitely
get you so far but there's plenty of
policies now that he's put in place or
that he's proposed that you can run
against the health care the Affordable
Care thing was a great example also a
great example that his education
secretary sees it fits to eliminate the
Special Olympics funding that's
something that I'm sure a lot of people
in this country don't like and if you
look through Trump's proposed budget
there's an Emmy
different provisions just like that that
you can point to and say this is the
kind of America we're gonna get if we
have four more years of Donald Trump and
I think in that sense it is important to
talk about him yeah I mean I also think
to I think to the point of 2016 you know
this idea that oh that was it was a
referendum on Trump and it didn't work
first of all Hillary Clinton spent a lot
of time talking about a lot of other
things what gets covered what got
covered in that time was Trump it was
the Trump show and he was entirely
prospective they didn't have governed he
was it was entertainment it was it was a
it was a train wreck and everybody was
gawking at it that said I think one
other one other facet of 2016 and I
think it's worth keeping in mind and
just remembering this is anyone's
conversation is when people were when
people were reminded of why they didn't
like Trump they agreed Trump's approval
rating drops when their can when people
are continuously confronted by Trump's
cars when he fades a bit is when he goes
back up to 40 if the Access Hollywood
tape or the the gold star family
incident had happened closer to the
election Hillary Clinton would be
president right now despite all the
interference and other things that and a
vote depression that made it close so I
think that's worth remembering to this
next question Elijah and I both really
like so I'm really interested to see
what you guys have to say christina is
asking what policy proposal from the
2020 candidates do you think is the most
innovative and unique and then which
policy proposal do you think is the most
necessary or would do the most good my
vote for the most unique and interesting
is Elizabeth Warren's proposal to allow
workers to elect 40 percent of the seats
on any company's corporate board because
I think if you're going to give a voice
to workers and make sure that they have
a say in making decisions from
outsourcing to CEO pay to compensation
to benefits then actually having a board
that's comprised of representatives that
people who work in the company as
opposed to some rich people that the CEO
knows that's going to make a huge
difference and it's a fairly radical
proposal but it also seems
very democratic yeah that's my that's my
vote for the most unique I was it that's
smart I would say again look we've
chatted for but Elizabeth Warren is
leading the policy discussion I would
say the most necessary and I think the
most important right now is there are
the candidates that are thinking about
systemic power and balance in our
economy and to that end again
it's Elizabeth Warren talking about
corporate consolidation and monopoly
amongst text tech companies and
elsewhere Cory Booker has also talked
about this so a lot of them have but I
look my personal view is you know I
think there's a lot of hand-wringing
about economic inequality and a lot of
policymaking
that's down river of the problem you
know trying to raise them in wages the
right thing to do trying to rebalance
our tax code so that it reflects the
fact that wealthy people are doing far
better than everybody else is the right
thing to do but both of those are ways
of addressing the outcome of what our
economy produces and who it produces for
and I think policies that get at the
entrenched and growing power of
corporations and how they've been
abusing I mean how they've been using
and abusing that power in our political
system against workers and against
consumers is the most important question
for any candidate and what they'll do to
take on that power to me is the most
important question and and again to that
end it's min Elizabeth Warren Lee and
Bernie Sanders but but in terms of new
policies I think it's Elizabeth Warren I
would say that the most necessary like a
if if I were president the first bill
that I would put on the floor is a
package of reforms and this is basically
what the House passed first that's
Democratic House pass first and I think
Warren's talked about doing this first
as well and I think almost every
candidate has talked about being for
this but automatic voter registration a
new Voting Rights Act ending
gerrymandering giving DC voting rights
and letting the people of Puerto Rico
decide what they want to do and they
better pick statehood but it's
time to time to sound a pick I think
that statehood I think we if we once we
have power right there's only so many
priorities that you can pass right away
before you get to the next midterms and
I think expanding and strengthening vote
rights and democratic power is gonna be
most small D democratic power is gonna
be most important for for democracy and
for our party like I just think we need
to make sure that the more people that
can vote the better split California in
half that's four Democratic senators
merge some of those so merge some states
yeah okay get those mergers going that's
him
get some state consolidation Collin sent
in he doesn't quite agree with you but I
would love to hear what you guys have to
say about what he thinks he says while
other issues are important isn't
responding to and dealing with climate
change the only issue that should matter
in 2020 shouldn't Democrats just hammer
Republicans on this at all times the
other issues might be deck chairs on the
Titanic if we don't solve this what do
you what do you say i that i think that
that's a great question i think that i
think the favorite question or a good
question i think it's as it truly I
think it I think I think that the
question I think it's a great question I
don't think excellent I don't think it's
good I think it's great you know climate
change is an existential threat it's one
that is incredibly urgent and to your
point it does swamp right if we fail to
address climate change none of these
other issues will matter in the long run
that's absolutely true but the issue can
be the most important while also
recognizing that that climate change has
to be part of what we do because it's
not the only thing that's gonna drive
out votes and you know but think about
the two things we just talked about
taking on corporate power and fixing our
democracy those are two things that will
make working on climate change more
possible one of the greatest obstacles
to doing anything on climate change is
the Koch brothers Network and the and
the hundreds of millions of dollars they
sink into electing candidates who did
not be existing the existence of climate
change one of the greatest obstacles to
fighting climate change is the fact that
vote suppression in key races has cost
us House seats it has cost us a state
legislative seats it has cost us set a
it has cost us the presidency perhaps in
terms of vote suppression so you know I
think you're right it is the great you
know moral and policy challenge of our
time maybe of all time that doesn't mean
it has to be the only thing we
talk about because addressing climate
change look climate change is a problem
that exists to challenge like the very
nature of like a human society itself
the the fact that it requires action on
all parts of fact that the harm is
diffuse and takes a long time to see the
fact that it requires us coming together
in a global way to address it all of
this makes it one of the toughest
problems we've ever had to face even if
the United States didn't have a
rearguard action of nihilus who deny the
science that the rest of the world has
accepted so you're right on the policy
but in terms of the politics there's a
lot we have to do to address climate
change
I'll just only tell thanks buddy all
right
this next one is I think directive - you
love it EU announced it end - daylight
saving time have you gotten any other
2020 candidates on the record about this
issue love it.you asked Gillibrand but
that's all
this person has heard I like all you
candidates and I hate changing my clocks
twice a year for no damn reason can I
use that issue as my litmus test um I
would not advise to use it as your limit
test in part because right now you'd
have to vote for Marco Rubio so because
he has been in Trump and Trump's well oh
no some want to get rid of it right well
he doesn't he I don't know what Trump's
position is he tweeted about it uh well
I I just I think Trump is probably in
the group of people that confuse
daylight savings time and in daylight
savings time with keeping Standard Time
as opposed to what smart good thinking
people want to do which is end daylight
savings time by permanently shifting to
daylight savings time and just calling
that time so let me let me take it apart
it should not be a litmus test sadly we
have bigger fish to fry
I will ask every single candidate in
front of me this question and I do
believe it is something that should
happen and I think it should be part of
an effort to get school to start later
across the country and it's funny
because it seems like a small thing but
in part because kids can't vote it's not
making school start later for kids
across the country is probably one of
the best things we can do for kids and
it's a really good thing we can do for
families so it seems like a small issue
but one of the objections to ending
daylight savings time and keeping
daylight savings time permanently is
what
about the times the kids have to go to
school and that's just stop that's a
small look we are not we are not an
agrarian society like we used to be and
I'm sympathetic to the farmers however
the issue the biggest issue is school
start times start school later permanent
daylight savings time yang's for it I
think I think Yang's on board we got
yang
we got Rubio that's a coalition
Coalition of the Willing the Coalition
of the Willing all right John this one
next one's pretty sure in honor of going
to Boston in a few weeks the world wants
to know what's your regular Dunkin
Donuts order and will you be getting it
there this guy I'm just gonna it's just
gonna feed all the tweets it is a large
french vanilla what am i hey where we
going para I can't do the accent Paris
large french vanilla skim milk that's it
no sweetener though because that would
be too much sweet the French vanilla is
sweet I know those skim milk is
disgusting shame on you for getting some
milk no skim milk skim milk is terrible
it is terrible it is not good for you
it's not healthier it doesn't taste
better it is stupid
skim milk is a vengeful scam from the
low-fat era of the food pyramid
it's got a go it's got a go stop putting
skim milk in your coffee it's not a diet
food all right it's basically just carb
water hey I made it out of there hey
Megan cheese in an English muffin -
that's a breakfast
oh that's parts fine what's it like
sharing an office I'm just wondering
it's every day is a new joy all right
Cara wants to know what's your favorite
ad copy to read her personal favorite
was love it's reading a butcher box but
if you have a different one please share
look I think two of the funniest moments
we've ever had reading adds one of them
was the butcher box ad the other was
when we switched flower delivery
companies and I discovered it in real
times we've always loved we always loved
100 flowers they've always been our
flower delivery service of choice and
we've always been at war with Eastasia
Tommy John always has some great ads yep
clip Lovitz had some fun with clip you
understand quips you can also use it as
a toothbrush there you go that's it and
of course the cash of course the cash of
course the cash at the cash shop ketchup
has taken on a life of its own I will
say it's a character it's the cash the
cash yeah it has it has a story arc okay
they we're taking the cash out for our
friends become enemies as a scripted
series coming soon acquittee we love the
cash cow the cow has been with us from
the very beginning and we raise a lot of
money with the cash up to some sweet
alright slip stitch wants to know if
your dogs do any tricks
Leo plays catch like no other done well
I can Rick throat I can throw a tennis
ball and he will jump up catch it in his
mouth
wherever he is yes it's very impressive
he's very athletic are they in here
Leo's with Emily today oh yes she's
already done it anyway see pundit she
must not be in here whoa what's she
doing is she's not hearing hunnit hunnit
sometimes needs her own time alright man
have any tricks um she has trained me at
night it's been described as our we
argue at night and it's when she barks
at me until I give her a treat so I her
trick is training me to give her treats
that is she's manipulative pundit yeah
love it okay Madison wants to know or
she says love it I visited Williams I'm
still quite confused about Mountain day
why does this exist Mountain day the
mountains the mountains we greet them
with a song uh I don't need you to I
don't need you know the mountain I don't
need a few I don't need you to know the
Mountain day song for me to quote the
Mountain day song that's it that's what
I know that's what I retain so Mountain
date Williams there's basically a Friday
everybody takes it off and they climb to
the top of a mountain that is the point
it's a it's the journey not the
destination and honestly if you don't
understand it maybe Williams not for you
maybe you don't want to go to the
number-one liberal arts school in the
country with that are those amherst nope
it's not with a you know
it's a great place full of great people
Wesley I think it's Wesley um no it's
not and look if you are considering
liberal arts colleges I would consider
Williams cool all right last question
founder lobster rolls yes or no or me
absolutely who's an older lobster roll
what kind of joyless okay Oh a live fish
monger I'll be getting one from legal
seafoods when I get the bus you know
what that's a Boston thing like
gonna you know you're in Boston with the
selling point for your fish is that it's
not illegal to service is that what the
point what is legal why is it illegal
seafood what what is it what okay sorry
and what's the deal and what's the deal
with that what what's the deal what's
the deal what's the deal what's the deal
what's the deal join us next week where
I'll take more of your questions always
a good time always a good time catch you
uh catch you at 1 o'clock Pacific
Daylight Time
you
