anyway we've all known that Bryan Singer
was trashed for like a minute but
recently the Atlantic published a piece
written by Alex French and Maximilian
Potter who write for Esquire by the way
it was a piece that was supposed to
appear in Esquire but then it got nixed
by Esquire execs and ended up in the
Atlantic the piece is called nobody is
going to believe you and it talks about
Bryan Singer sexual misconduct for the
past 20 years and it has interviews with
some new alleged victims of his so
basically he's back in the news this is
a long reported story sort of like when
the Harvey Weinstein piece rolled out
and now people are all of a sudden like
Oh Bryan Singer's horrible yeah yeah
his GLAAD nomination Bohemian Rhapsody
is glad nomination was rescinded he is
he I mean it's interesting that it took
this long into the me to kind of moment
because Bryan Singer like when you're
when Harvey Weinstein happened and
immediately everyone is like okay Louie
CK his neck like you had a list but word
Bank who you knew exactly who we're
gonna be next and like Evan Rachel Wood
I remember tweeted wins Bryan Singer
yeah so Bryan Singer was like one of the
first ones and it's been what like two
years now or a year and a half like a
while for this to kind of in I don't
know if it's because of Bohemian
Rhapsody or we just had a bunch of
people to get through but before we get
to anything well part of it too is I
feel like pieces come out about Moran
singer all the time and no one really
does anything about it I I mean I
remember living through when he was
being sued and it turns out that like
the charges ended up being dropped and
so we sort of all just collectively
didn't do anything with it because he's
also not consistently in the press the
way that a lot of other famous in that
same way that name recognition isn't
quite there with brands like you
Woody Allen well you've definitely seen
a Bryan Singer movie but you may not
have realized it was a Bryan Singer
movie thing also happens to you when you
move to LA in our game man I moved here
like ten years ago and I feel like I
mean these people are obviously still
around but you always hear like oh my
god I used to be at Bryan Singer's
parties and it's never with an air of
like and you should have been there it
was it was always an air of like what
was I doing there what was that
you know so it's it's he's there's an
air of spookiness around him just anyway
like you were the pool party Elm Street
right slashed left and right I used to
work this is horrifying
I used to work at the coffee bean in
West Hollywood
how very Perez Hilton of you that's
where Houston do all his a blog that's
what I know that's my iconic Coffee Bean
imagery go ahead yeah my nemesis who I
don't think about and yet he constantly
tweets at me I walked in like two years
ago he's a mess yeah but I haven't
worked at that coffee bean Brian singer
loves coming into the coffee being on
Santa Monica Boulevard to have
quote-unquote business meetings it would
just be him and like three twinks
ordering coffees I think he loved a
vanilla Frappuccino whatever those
 things yeah Brad I think it's
got frappe there's yeah like I don't
remember anymore
yeah but yeah he was there at least like
twice a week well your boo has not
responded to this well right yeah
so now came on this board who I like
when I was like what see you in there uh
to my Romney incarcerated he had some
bad responses he number matters never
been responsive to the new Bryan Singer
allegations he said that he wasn't aware
of the allegations against singer when
he took on the project and in a
statement to the LA Times he said as far
as I knew I was considered before Bryan
was even attached I think that the
allegations and things were believe it
or not honestly something I was not
aware of and that is what it is
who knows what happens with that but I
think somehow we've found a way to
persevere through everything that was
thrown our way I just want to say that
the phrase it is what it is used to
upset me a little bit and every time I
hear it it escalates and now I'm at like
a borderline trauma place with it is
what it is it's all so crazy to look at
the Bryan Singer stuff as a difficulty
thrown your way the difficulties for the
victims of Bryan Singer nothing
difficult we were able to persevere you
had not being a persevere through we
know that they allegedly had a
confrontational relationship throughout
the filming of Bohemian Rhapsody which
makes it even weirder that he doesn't
want to like speak out about him like
obviously he's just some on the set
which pissed you off so why aren't you
being vocal about it why are you you
know yeah maintaining this is it's
obviously you know cuz he wants to win
the Oscar right also it's very strange
that they had confrontations because in
most ways Bohemian Rhapsody is a
by-the-book biopic you know like what
could you possibly be fighting about
like I don't oh I mean I think Romney's
statements were bad mostly because
they're just dumb and we don't believe
you like you need more people clearly
but really Queen like by all accounts
the band had so much control over this
film like an unbelievable amount of
control in every aspect of the film and
they're who I really want to ask about
Bryan Singer because rami malek had a
dumb responses especially it's like it's
been we've had like a full year now for
you to know that you're gonna be asked
about these things until I come up with
something coherent to say but Queen
presumably signed off on the director
very much so and we could have nixed a
director if they didn't like him and no
one's asking them like why did you all
settle on brains that is kind of gross
in retrospect the idea that one they
made this documentary that one they make
this film this biopic which sort of you
know whitewashes Freddie Mercury's queer
history
and the director that's chosen for it is
someone who you know write attacks gay
men yes well also it also makes me
wonder if they picked him to sort of
smooth over the criticism that they were
getting even before this film was made
that they would do that that they would
whitewash clear heads like oh let's just
pick a gauge or a crack who cares
assault allegations in his past right
right
so that then then they picked that
director and then they don't really have
to go into it in the film because you
know it's sort of and there is gayness
in the movie but this isn't my quote I
think our friend crush like her actually
said this which was they treat his
gayness like a bug not a feature you
know a lot of people said the movie was
downright homophobic I don't know if I
would go that far but it is I understand
what they're coming from my real
question to is for glad glad said that
Bohemian Rhapsody who's no longer up for
a GLAAD Media Award why was it up for
one in the first place
every single person in glad knows
everything about Bryan Singer I've heard
about it yeah I think the other thing
too like anytime I look at the GLAAD
it's like they're a bunch of award shows
where you're like the parameters for
getting nominated seem a little unclear
and with glad it's like not all of the
movies are like quote-unquote moot or
like movies about gay people's like it's
just like that actor is gay although he
plays a straight person in the film so
we're nominating I'm like what is the
what how are we choosing these films
yeah what is the orbit of gayness yeah
why it makes sense to me they're the MTV
Movie Awards of gay Awards they just
want a celebrity to show up so Pete they
get photos because I feel like sometimes
it's just movies with people who are
like you know have supported gay
marriage nominate them for a GLAAD media
well like it it doesn't seem to make
sense
I'm surprised Pete David said wasn't
nominated for those two lines and is
like girl or whatever he says no he
doesn't say girl he's like I'm I'm gay
could you believe it he probably would
have if he was still with areata Retton
see there you go they would have been
like you're nominated Pete we loved how
you portrayed this gay man may
sure you bring ponytail right they would
nominate him for video of the year
somehow at the VMAs
anyway bride Sager is still working on
an upcoming project is Red Sonja by the
way and that kills me because if you've
seen the original Red Sonja with
Brigitte Nielsen arguably the most
Danish person who ever lived that is a
movie worth remaking because it's a cool
superhero ish person in just a wretched
movie yeah you know it looks like
everything was built out of like jo-ann
fabrics material it looks bad it's
definitely something that deserves to be
remade and certainly not from him I mean
Red Sonja is also a he assault survivor
it's just gross all around and it's
supposed to be this female empowerment
movie you could tell that the producer
of the film avi Lerner was obviously
looking for something that could
capitalize on Wonder Woman but you know
Wonder Woman was made by patty Jenkins
and she is not been running around West
Hollywood having sex parties so there's
a difference here I one thing that is
interesting with a brand singer thing is
I wonder the extent to which now we need
one of these huge splashy expose stories
because this one was kind of like you
know the Atlantic isn't The Washington
Post or the New York Times or you know
New York magazine the New York or
anything like that and it's see because
Bryan Singer is not the only one who's
like slinking by where we all know
things about him and he's slinking by
he's one of the bigger names but it's
like is that what it takes now that we
you have like Ronan literally has to
write the story for anyone to care
because this this should have been like
oh look at this long story
detailing all of these things that have
happened and then it has to mention
Ronan right now please take care of it
and then it has to be an expose written
right now it feels like you know there
have been previous reports about Bryan
Singer but we need a new official one
already yeah but I mean that was like
the Louie CK thing like every
knew about louis c.k but we were it was
up waiting and waiting for the New York
Times story to drop so that we can all
like now we have something to talk about
her now it's like you know it focuses
the collective rage or whatever it is
dried semen was all over what I've
already won so that begs the question of
how much do you need to be confronted
with for people to start having this
conversation and what sort of creates
these Twitter conversations because is
that what sort of cancels someone
because also over the weekend there was
Sundance that snowy little bright Film
Festival where people love to go to 50
cent Hawks vitaminwater I haven't been
since 2009 is that still going on there
was a Michael Jackson documentary that
came out called leaving Neverland and it
sounds like Michael Jackson is over
after this like John basically it's a
two-part series about two individuals
who accused Jackson of sexual abuse it
premiered last Friday and we haven't
seen it and most of the general public
hasn't seen it but it started trending
it sounds because this is a big
documentary and especially right after
surviving our telly I feel like people
are like okay now we got to have this
conversation well the hard thing about
this one too is like Michael Jackson is
dead
like it I actually think that and you
know and I don't think this is a good
thing but I think he liked his legacy is
going to come out of this kind of okay
like I think I don't think you're gonna
stop hearing his music anything part of
it is because he's dead where you you
know you can't put him on trial you can
put Harvey Weinstein's on trial you can
you can ask these people to explain
themselves but like because he's gone
people who don't want to accept that
this happened it's an it's an easier
argument to make which it's like we
really haven't heard his side we really
haven't heard what you know heard him
explain him leave it to me to not quote
um mr. Kardashian but we're gonna get
out what he was ranting before he was
like you go cancel it
the vinci you know i mean this is a big
words like you go anywhere you hear
Michael Jackson music yeah permeated our
culture so much and it's not like you
can sort of do the like the mute r.kelly
movement is about you know stopping him
from continuing to profit off of his
crimes and the behavior that he's had
for decades yeah this is sort of like
what how are you stopping Michael
Jackson's bag right poor people already
don't really want to cancel these dudes
like you see that with our like there's
a bunch of people who were defending our
Kelly and who don't you know not even
just our Kelly like all of these men and
it's you've already seen them making
comebacks so many of these dudes like I
said like a year ago like they are going
to be back so you already have so many
people who don't want to you don't want
to like make the effort to say like okay
this is really some we're not
tolerating and so if they're not gonna
do it with our Kelly or they're not
gonna do it with Bryan Singer they sure
as aren't gonna do it we're Michael
Jackson who arguably has the craziest
fans of all time I think number one
course the fit the Michael Jackson fans
who are online right now defending him
are the original stance the barbs look
like Little Orphan Annie Yeah right
completely benign myself they might be
among the dumbest because guys he's
Michael Jackson gave a hundred thousand
statements about how he was innocent and
everybody was coming to get him and you
 knew it was not true
you knew he was bullshitting and
it's uh it's wild to just I think
because he's dead there also won't be
this excavation of maybe the people
close to him and people who worked with
him like if he was still alive we'd be
like okay what's going on with the
record label with my god with the people
who are in his videos I mean it's not
that I ever want to say that people are
responsible for anyone else and
certainly not making
responsible for any of this but it is
wild that that would ever ask Janet
about this no and it's just sort of like
an unspoken thing that like don't bring
this up with Janet Jackson right but
also if you can get an interview with
her like something miraculous has
already occurred right she she
what's weirdest even if she's been doing
press and had her comeback tour it seems
like she appears somewhere and then it's
whisked away to an island she whispers
thank you and to her into a small mic
strapped to her face and then leaves yes
yeah anaesthetic I assume it was bought
the documentary so leaving Neverland is
going to be airing on HBO which means
that everybody can see that alright
here's the new season of Game of Thrones
also a documentary about Michael Jackson
being an abuser also questioned in that
big Quincy Jones interview from whatever
almost a year ago or whatever did they
go into it with him at all
I don't recall I feel like he mostly was
like yeah the Beatles they can't play
music Quincy Jones too is like you know
him fully like one it was like thriller
era so one it was before he got very I
mean like I don't obviously we don't
know what he was doing an entire time
but it was like before he got super
weird
mm-hm and it was like such a musical
relationship you know what I mean like I
feel like people like the I wouldn't ask
when see Johnson yeah though he also did
bad so that was that's the end of the
80s to true yeah but I think that's I
think bad was like the beginning of
Kara's right I feel like the other just
weird thing about the Michael Jackson
stuff is it's not like a Bryan Singer
thing where his career started sort of
with you know those allegations on the
set of apt pupil you know like we've
known that he has been preying on people
for his entire career it seems like and
Michael I feel like we all grew up
watching his music and you know some of
us were very young during like the Bad
era but we saw him transform into
whatever was going on right and
all of the stories that have come out
there really there haven't been any that
I've seen that have been like when he
was making thriller you know he was
doing this right it was like it's later
in his career whenever life actually
happened yes yeah when yes when he built
never win and it seems like it was his
mental state van and everything else
going on with him and so it's I feel
like that's part of why people have been
able to well it's also like you know
there was no TMZ like like he was able
to keep it secret it's like someone like
Sean Penn you know I mean was like it's
hard to find the extent of like things
that we all know that he's done but
because you could call a newspaper and
be like don't publish that and they
wouldn't do it so the Michael Jackson
stuff is like you can kind of believe
that people had no Jake I don't know
what he's doing in Neverland Madonna
Madonna alleges that nothing happened
with her and Sean Penn but people who
say that they remember yeah that's a we
were to chosen Tory about when they
allegedly got into a fight that doesn't
exist anymore
like I remember reporters when we're
trying to dig up that story particularly
Kate Arthur at BuzzFeed and it just
doesn't exist anymore it is crazy that
we at one point actually really depended
on tabloids because they were also so
sensationalized that you could
reasonably just disavow a lot of the
crazy headlines to like because they
were always saying like Liz Taylor about
to die I guess what she didn't die till
like 20 years later you know
meanwhile then you got all the news from
like Michael Jackson from there too
so it was a case of like how right are
are they obligated to be and how right
are they you know well I'm sure we will
be talking about the documentary when it
comes out and we'll see where things go
from there
you
