and all right welcome back to pod save
the world
this is Tommy Vitor been roads and roads
in the studio in the studio as always
been
holy hell there's a lot going on there's
a lot going on this is like on so we're
gonna start with some updates out of
Venezuela and Libya then we want to talk
about an armed and dangerous beluga
whale found in the North Sea
then Trump is reportedly planning to
designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a
terrorist organization there's some good
news out of Spain there's the ongoing
disaster that is Gitmo and then finally
the Washington Post lists lie calls in
from Beirut to discuss the emergence of
a new video from Isis chief Abu Bakr
al-baghdadi so buckle up world√µs we got
a lot of shadow that's a lot so let's
start with Venezuela because there's
some really scary updates happening
today opposition leaders / you know
maybe president whatever you want to
call him one Guido appeared in an event
on a military base today with a bunch of
soldiers and he called on citizens to
rise up against Maduro that led to a
series of protests and armed clashes and
a bunch of places across the country
including in Maduro as presidential
palace there's some really you know
scary videos on Twitter where you can
see Maduro x' goons like literally
driving over protesters you can see huge
crowds running from gunfire
interestingly another opposition leader
named Leopoldo Lopez who'd been house
arrest for a long time appeared beside
Guido
so anyway been this is getting pretty
dicey it's it's scary yeah and you know
I think it's another one of these times
where we have to step back and consider
really there's kind of two questions
Tommy there's this question of
essentially you know who would you like
to see emerge and how would you like to
see Venezuela governed and get out of
this hole and I think we can all feel
like Maduro has failed that as well in
people that Maduro doesn't have the
interest of the Venezuelan people at
heart toll does not have democratic
legitimacy governs and authoritarian
ways clearly is willing to utilize
violence as necessary to hold them in
power and and yet at the same time the
second question is well what do you do
about that and and I continue to be
worried that everything that
that this administration is doing from
Donald Trump to Mike Pence to Elliott
Abrams in John Bolton
to Colonel Minh Colonel Ruby addicted to
private Rubio are just making the
situation worse for the Venezuelan
people and the your policy should be
about making things better not worse and
again they've tried the recognition the
opposition they tried to do the broad
sanctions to tank the economy they've
tried to force in foreign assistance and
now they're clearly trying some play to
more overtly appeal to the military to
come to glider which hasn't happened yet
and and at every one of those turns
things have gotten worse not better
and the situation's got more polarized
and the question is both can you
dislodge Maduro this way or not and in
this far they have not been able to in
the military stuck by him and he's
actually been able to essentially play
the card that this is a foreign directed
you know coup against me and then also
like even if you do get him out like how
do you put this place back together when
you've polarized the society so much and
again both the tactics that they're
using and the people who were in charge
I mean I to have LED brooms the guy who
was responsible for these policies that
led to the massacre of civilians in
Central America who was responsible for
a regime change policy in Iraq to put
him in charge of your regime change
policy in Venezuela sends a message
about how we look at this and and who we
trust to do this and and I'm just
worried that whether you think Maduro
should be gone or not this is not an
approach that is helping the Venezuelan
people yeah and the personnel thing you
mentioned is no small piece of this it's
not Dexter Filkins has a great profile
out of john bolton in the new yorker
this week and he's talking to Bolton
about why he suddenly cares about Latin
America because it's not really his
specialty and he talks about how there's
now Russians in Venezuela and he's
talking about Cuban influence I mean the
only surprise was they didn't talk about
the Soviet Union is such a Cold War
ya mentality and like lost in all of
this conversation about the political
dynamic and the violence is that the
Venezuelan people are suffering I
imagine
situation has gotten exponentially worse
than the last several months yeah
but I personally haven't seen any
significant humanitarian steps taken to
help them of you know and if you made
the whole if you go back to kind of pre
recognition on quiet oh if you made the
whole push of the policy focused on
finding ways to improve the life of the
Venezuelan people new dress humanitarian
crisis while finding some way to try to
negotiate some transition to a different
government I just think we'd be in a
better place now you know I can't
guarantee that that you dislodge Maduro
but this is breaking the country apart
and and like even if you know we you
know if you got Elliott Abrams flying
down on military jets caring foreign aid
and God knows what else yeah those
military jets are carrying we've seen
that people like Elliott Abrams are
willing to use covert authorities to try
to sponsor coos and and like you know
that's number one failing thus far and
the Cubans and Maduro and all these in
the Russians are pretty good at playing
this game they're pretty good at at the
kind of life-or-death struggle so they
could hold on and then and then then
where are we at the same time again even
if you sponsor the coup that Elliott
Abrams may be trying to sponsor or even
if you don't think it's a coup because
of the constitutional hook for but of
guardo to be in power this place is
gonna be broken to pieces and you're
gonna have kind of civil violence if not
a civil war because Maduro is arming all
these people and I just I think we
really need to be scrutinizing more
whether this constant escalation makes
sense and I honestly believe that the
Trump administration has been pushing
wide out to do all these steps you know
that we're the strongest power in the
hemisphere and and we're pushing them
and we're raising their expectations I
mean Mike Pence you know tweeting today
we are with you what does that mean or
does that mean we're gonna invade I mean
what it you know so the Venezuelan
opposition is getting their expectations
raised you know and I'll put ourselves
on the hook here because it reminds me a
bit of Syria where you know we call for
Assad to go we recognize the opposition
they get their hopes up you know we're
providing them some support and we we're
not we didn't remove our Saud ourselves
in this
looks eerily similar to that situation
and and I worried that it's just gonna
get worse for the the people in the
middle of it yeah well people i mean
look in it next topic is another country
that was broken apart by the
international community that the u.s. is
now making worse which is libya so and
just one more thing please the russia
piece the Cuba policy they've taken is
basically just inviting Russia back into
Cuba right I'll give you like one
example like that they need to rebuild
the airport in Havana
the Cubans do and they think we're
trending towards doing that with a
European company but now like because of
the way our sanctions are making this
more complicated for Western companies
like the probably go to Russian company
you know the Russians and the Chinese
are undeniably going to gain much more
influence in Cuba because of what
they're doing and removing the US
opening
so if Bolton says he's worried about
Russian influence in Latin America he's
inviting Putin into Cuba 90 miles from
Florida because he's shutting the u.s.
out so their policies are stupid on top
of everything else they like they don't
even achieve the objectives that they
set out for them no no so so we talked
about Libya like two weeks ago yeah I
don't want to dig in for a minute
because you literally predicted this Ben
um actually yeah there's a still those
go back and check the record yeah you
did like Trump inserted himself into and
the u.s. into the middle of a civil war
in Libya and so to catch you guys up
there's a Libyan warlord named Khalifa
Haftar who is attacking Libya's capital
Tripoli half tar was part of Gaddafi's
army in the 60s and 70s and became a
senior guy in the 80s until he turned
against Gaddafi and an unsuccessful coup
attempt so the CIA basically extracted
him from that situation and his guys and
half stars lived in Northern Virginia
interestingly close to Langley the CIA
headquarters for about twenty years with
no discernible source of income or job
until returning to Libya sometime in
2015 I believe so
not at our best right exactly yeah so
starting with that I mean you were in
government when heft are.what back and
made his return and there's a great New
Yorker piece I think by John Lee
Anderson from that time what did you
make of out are we
were worried about him at the time
because you know he he kind of went back
to cleanse Benghazi the eternal you know
the word that has many different
meanings of of Islamic militants but
totally kind of extrajudicial II it
wasn't through any Libyan government
governing structure it was just a guy
basically going and try to mobilize
essentially his own militia to go in and
take out these Islamists now his
principal sponsors in this effort were
Egypt Saudi Arabia and the UAE so that
the typical cast of characters
supporting kind of the authoritarian
blend of politics in the Middle East and
and we were worried about this and we
were always trying to focus with the UN
and the Europeans on building out from
Tripoli the capital of Libya you know
the authority of the Libyan government
which you know huffed ours had this kind
of complicated relationship what I said
on the pot a couple weeks ago is you
know there was a policy that the United
States government had to oppose half dar
taking his militia and essentially
trying to conquer Tripoli and conquer
the country because the UN supports the
governing authority in Tripoli after has
a divisive figure he's seen as
potentially another Qaddafi just you
know another authoritarian just like CC
replaced Mubarak you could have huffed
ours the new Qaddafi and the US
government's position was to support the
United Nations and to support the you
know government in Tripoli and to oppose
Hoffner coming in and and essentially
escalating a civil war in the country
and what I said on the pot I think is
that I hope Trump doesn't pay attention
to this yeah because it does he's gonna
upsetting the hot tar and what happened
is by all reports Sisi the Egyptian
strongman comes to the White House and
he says Trump hey you should really be
back in half dar you know he's our guy
in Libya and then Mohammed bin Zayed the
leader of the UAE calls Trump insists
yeah you should be calling and backing
huffed our Trump calls huffed are right
the zone government his own State
Department calls a warlord like this is
crazy imagine calling down the sit room
like hey get me that Libyan warlord on
the way this is one of these things that
like if we weren't living in
authoritarian dystopia should be a much
bigger story because you're the
president's Tate's calling a warlord
that his own State Department
has urged not to do something and
pledging his support and this is so
 crazy that the United States was
backing a UN Security Council resolution
that was a in opposition to Hrothgar and
in support of the Libyan government and
now he's telling his own government to
do a 180 and veto that resolution and we
are essentially sponsoring a warlord
who's trying to conquer the country
because Donald Trump's
paymaster's in the Gulf and in Egypt
the dictators that he cares more about
than the Europeans you think we these
Democratic allies in Europe who put a
lot of time and money in Libya we got
the United Nations all saying this is
bad this could escalate an already
difficult situation this could
precipitate civil war or a full
dictatorship and Donald Trump looks at
that and says okay I better call the
Saudis and Emiratis and forget which
side to be and now he's on the side of
the world and we should say even Lindsey
Graham has gone public with his concern
about Trump's called a half tar in the
last three weeks the situation has
descended into chaos hundreds have died
tens of thousands have been forced out
of their homes because Hoffa are
probably told Trump oh I'm just gonna
fight the terrorists right yeah I mean
the other thing Donald Trump is the
easiest you know info op victim in
history because the other thing that
apparently happened when Sisi the
president of Egypt was in DC was he
asked Trump to designate the Muslim
Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist
organization so that would be a huge
deal it would mean sanctions on
companies that do business and one of
the with one of the biggest Islamist
parties in the region I mean wasn't that
long ago in 2012 Mohamed Morsi won
Egypt's presidential election as the
Muslim Brotherhood candidate no surprise
the man who led a coup against him
general Sisi is the one pushing Trump to
designate the MB as a terrorist
organization so I mean fact can you give
a quick overview of like what is the
Muslim Brotherhood and what do you think
the ramifications of this decision would
be so you know the Muslim Brotherhood is
a kind of Pan Islamic group right so
they're there in many different
countries
and in many different countries they are
the largest opposition group to some of
the dictatorships photography
right and and look I I do not sign on to
I don't ascribe to the views of the
Muslim Brotherhood despite what your
like Tom will say but you know because
they are some of their views are you can
veer into kind of undemocratic you know
0 some views of politics not respect for
minority religions but it's a very
picture so like in Tunisia the Muslim
Brotherhood is in the government right
the not a party and has actually acted
very responsibly in not seeking to take
over power and making agreements to the
secular parties and supporting the
transition to democracy in Egypt
obviously there was they were removed
from power and there was this crackdown
but the point is is that number one
they're not a terrorist organization I
mean they're they're just these guys
have been trying to make them the same
thing as al-qaeda and they're not
they're Islamist yes but but there's a
if you can't draw a distinction between
al-qaeda the Muslim Brotherhood you are
painting tens of millions of Muslims as
terrorists you know there there's broad
popular support for the Muslim
Brotherhood in a lot of these countries
and if we're saying we treat you the
same way we treat al-qaeda right I mean
mom and worsley one with like 52% yeah
we're essentially terrorized and like
turning into terrorists a lot of people
who are not and and and frankly in in a
sick way incentivizing them to say well
if you're seeing a Segway you know maybe
rule Attica radicalize the other thing
that we're doing is we are giving carte
blanche to the potential violent
crackdown on these movements in these
different countries and again whatever
you think the most mother the tactics
you know the whether it's the mass
executions and crucifixions that we saw
in Saudi Arabia the killing of hundreds
of protesters in Egypt you know dude do
we want to essentially be validating an
authoritarian worldview that that treats
people who you know are with some of
these Islamist parties all as terrorists
and just giving a blank check for
whatever repression they want to engage
in that to is is is is deeply
counterproductive and by the way
aligning the United States with the
worst forms of repression in the Middle
East
which in the long run is not the way to
fight terrorism right I mean that's the
thread that links huffed are in this MB
designation everything else right is it
these strong men tactics and the strong
men authoritarians we've supported in
the past have led to more terrorism not
less and we need to learn that lesson
and if you look at what we are currently
associated with and I'll be the first to
acknowledge that Tom administration
wrestled with and got things right and
wrong and the context the Arab Spring
but if you look at what we're currently
associated with under Trump a warned
Yemen that has put millions of lives at
risk right this this brutal escalation
of the potential civil war in Libya
crackdowns against even nonviolent
Islamists in whatever Middle Eastern
country that has a Muslim Brotherhood
presence you know this is this isn't
going to have long-term repercussions
for our security it's going to make the
potential long-term care strat worse not
better and the only reason Trump is
doing this is a mix of his domestic
politics of that's demonized Muslims and
his fealty to these dictators in the
Gulf and in Egypt and it's just I
astonishing and it's one II think we had
to step back and not normalize Trump
that this guy will literally not take
the advice of like an angle a miracle or
an Emmanuel macron or Justin Trudeau on
anything but if it's a dictator who's
telling what to do he's like oh yeah
we're there we're all in and and that's
not a way in which the u.s. president
has ever operated in the history of our
country we've had yeah we've had bad
trade offs at times and but to just
uniformly pick the side of autocrats
over allies like this and and to kind of
just toss human rights overboard it's
also ironic we're talking about this
right after talk about Venezuela mm-hmm
because what that does it do to our
credibility and Laden we're sitting
there in Latin America we're talking
about democracy while we're backing a
warlord in Libya and and like crackdowns
across the Middle East it seems a little
bit cynical yeah I'll take your point
there okay when we come back we are
gonna talk about a Russian military
equipped beluga whale stick around we
really are we're actually gonna talk
about that
okay all right then this is my favorite
sword look at the way live the picture I
love the whale it's so cute fishermen in
Norway spotted a bill a beluga whale a
baby beluga wearing a russian-made
harness that had been mounted I guess
for a GoPro camera yeah marine experts
think is probably trained by the Russian
military they've been known to use
beluga whales I think they put out an ad
one time for dolphins for naval missions
I'm not kidding here so first let's
wildly speculate on what this beluga
whale might be doing and then I think
there is a more serious point and
reminder that Norway Sweden Finland they
deal with basically a constant Russian
military or naval presence and
harassment from submarines in your
stockholm or or what have you I guess
now whales but I mean so the experts in
this piece think that they might I just
use them for reconnaissance surveillance
to help divers to find equipment like
have you ever heard anything like this
before I mean in like a Bond movie yeah
or like a satire of a Bond movie and
look this is a pretty cute guy he's a
happy little you know baby I know
that's stupid harness off his head so
let's just posit that the little girls
are cute who's so cute
great ones at the Chicago Aquarium by
the way but but I will say that what
we've seen is that you know you know the
Russians are willing to use just about
anything and I actually think that part
of this and look I don't know I can't
get ahead of whatever FSB officers strap
the camera but like some of this
is like they want to surveil all these
you know coastlines and where they're
naval assets right NATO but some of this
is trolling yeah there's like it
may just be like yeah we're gonna send
some belugas out there with some GoPros
just to remind you guys that like we're
up in your you know but like like
where are we in 2019 like we
good the Russians interfere in our
election and in like a Russian asset in
the White House and a beluga whale like
coming up to Norway like we got to get
our together I will never work in
government again I'll never have access
to intelligence again if someone could
just leak to me what
Russians are doing with the belugas I
will be super interested I mean that to
the Russians not the Americans listening
because that would be illegal
he was reportedly affectionate you just
wanted the hardness of the pad you know
I get phenome of fish how about um okay
some good news got good news yeah blue
good things cuts both ways yeah you know
I do love whales um so the New York
Times they have a headline right now up
on their side that says Spain's election
gives a lift to the left and a warning
to the far right so they just had a big
election I guess 76% of the country
turned out which is amazing literally
would solve all our problems here in the
US if we could do that a far-right
anti-immigrant party called Vox
gained some seats in parliament so
that's bad but their emergence also
mobilized the moderate left so it does
seem like big picture this is a good
data point and gives us some hope that
we can stop these far-right populist
party yeah yeah we're on a roll man I
mean the world owes in Spain yeah like
represented I mean I was i we talked
about this after I was in Spain people
were freaked out about Vox and Steve ban
and was down there see ban and
worshipping like you know another big
win for Steve Bannon here got his ass
kicked in Spain because essentially what
happened is the center-right party said
that they would not make a coalition
with the senator left party with the
Socialists they would with Vox and so
every started think oh my God we're
gonna end up with a coalition that has
these kind of Spanish Nazis in power and
and you know really hardline
anti-immigrant
wanted to take away the autonomy for all
Spain's different regions so kind of
nationalist view of politics and instead
of succumbing to that wave Spanish
voters turned out and much higher
numbers and usual to reject that and to
give a big victory to the left of center
and and I think it does show that people
are being mobilized in opposition to
these far-right movements and that that
senator left politicians can tap into
that energy in win elections and we've
now seen this and talked about on this
pod you know these glimmers of hope you
know in Turkey in the local elections in
in Slovakia where a dynamic woman who
rejected populism was elected now in
Spain a major European country rejecting
far
I think we are seeing voters look
squarely at the danger of this far-right
politics look squarely into the the
racist heart of Steve Henin's worldview
and the toxic mix of anti-immigrant anti
Europe nationalist brand of politics and
reject it and if we carry this forward
through our election and and some of the
other European elections coming up we
can we can be back this tide so I think
this is really good news out of Spain a
place where by the way that whether
there are lot of problems about
unemployment there's this potential you
know the conflict over Catalonia and
whether they break away or not and that
the fact that even with all these
problems like a that the environment was
ripe for a right-wing populist party to
exploit it when given the choice Spanish
voters rejected it I think that says
that you can beat these people anywhere
that's really good
okay so Carol Rosenberg is this
fantastic reporter who has been covering
Gitmo for I think since it was created
she's a big feature in the New York
Times this week about how the Pentagon
seventeen years after opening Gitmo is
now planning for the prisoners there to
essentially grow old and die there
they're there they're planning for like
palliative care end-of-life care yeah um
so but I mean the Military Commissions
process that's allegedly supposed to be
happening there are still a disaster the
trials are barely proceeding it costs
hundreds of millions of dollars to keep
the facility open I mean I know that
there are some truly heinous awful
people in Gitmo that deserve to die in
the jail but it is hard to think of a
bigger waste of money than get mo and
it's hard to think of a more complete
failure to uphold the standards of
justice that we claim to believe in as
Americans than the process and what we
see happening in this facility yeah I
mean this disappeared
you know when Obama left because yeah
because you know Trump said he was gonna
keep it open but the absurd Gitmo does
stand for something it stands for the
complete moral and strategic failure of
the United States after 9/11 that we
open up this legal black hole where we
really brutally tortured people
and then barack obama everybody kind of
figures it out even john mccain's for
closing Gitmo and the 2008 campaign
Barack Obama comes in and because he
wants to close it Congress says no we
won't allow you to move any of these
people to the United States I want
there's like 40 guys left in Gitmo
it costs I think the estimate is 10
million dollars a year to keep each one
of them there that seems like a good use
of money a you know hundreds of millions
of dollars have been requested to
upgrade this prison to literally be
building hospice care down there they've
been asked for plans that that project
out to when Gitmo detainees will be 96
years old down there yeah I mean this is
that this pace of the trial yeah this is
like a window into a country that that
just got something really wrong this is
like Kafka esque dystopian hell it
really isn't and there's another article
if people want to kind of get more angry
The New Yorker had an article by Ben tau
a couple weeks ago I like a week ago
called Guantanamo is darkest secret and
it's about this guy that we kept there
that we just and it details the torture
I mean just the brutal cruel physical
torture psychological torture
you know abuse sleep deprivation
heavy-metal music blasting constantly
you know force feeding trashing the
Quran women undressing you know route
you know to make him feel bad and it
turns out that this guy didn't do
anything like he had the wrong or we we
were wrong about him he wasn't the
terrorist guy and now he's released and
he's living in Mauritius you know and so
some of these people were the wrong
people yeah I mean you know everybody
says you know the caveat that they're
bad guys down there and there's some
terrible guys like Elijah Muhammad who
was responsible for 9/11 attacks but we
just this also details the a lot of
people ended up in Gitmo we went to
Afghanistan and we're like hey if
there's an al Qaeda guy we'll pay you a
bunch of money and so a bunch of people
were like sure I'll finger you know this
guy and so a lot of these people who
ended up there we're there because
somebody in Afghanistan one of the
payoff from us when we went in and and
now you know I'll get all the incoming
from the
dangerous people are there the dangerous
ones we can put in the prison in
the United States and by the way some of
these guys are old and sick it's they're
not gonna bust out this is not gonna be
like escaped from Alcatraz with the 80
year old jihadis like digging a
tunnel oh the five Taliban guys we sent
back as part of the Bowe Bergdahl deal
that was treated like they were Rambo is
gonna be back on the battlefield are now
negotiating a peace agreement which is
you know like to your point this is
complicated there's some very bad people
that I don't think we had ever justifies
torture but ever ever and here's the
honest truth like the Bush
administration the Obama administration
and I assume the Trump administration
has released people who are more
dangerous than most of people in Gitmo
when we ended the war in Iraq when we
closed Bagram like people we picked up
on the battlefield had to be released
right like if somebody is a terrorist
mastermind then you should be able to
convicted and put them away for life
in a in a supermax prison the United
States which by the way at this point
today is far worse place to be then then
Gitmo because we're not obviously Obama
ended all the tactics I talked about all
the torture why on earth we are spending
hundreds of millions of dollars to keep
open a symbol for the Americas torture
of people after 9/11 just because people
like Lindsey Graham didn't want
Barack Obama to have an achievement it
says something really disgusting about
our politics it's a common sense I mean
it is the most infuriating 180 I've ever
seen in the Democratic Party let's not
agree duck these people in
Congress who just duck and cover you
know I don't you know I'm gonna vote to
prevent Obama from having the the
capacity because I can then go tell
people I'm tough on terrorism like
what's so tough about like paying ten
million dollars a year to have some
geriatric case down in Cuba instead of
in a supermax prison there that's not
tough that's stupid right and
and and we're like somewhere we've
talked ourselves into this this insanity
here it is no no it's it's it's one of
it's also one of the places where I feel
like they're reporting on it is abandon
all care all common sense as well
Erol Rosenberg is a different completely
different she's been on this beat
forever but the Washington conventional
wisdom on Gitmo being some horrible
political decision was just ridiculous
it was it was a symbol it was helping
al-qaeda recruit and should have been
shut yeah um last thing I want to read
for you so Dexter Filkins great reporter
of The New Yorker has this long piece on
John Bolton that came out this week
that's pretty interesting just want to
read you a passage from that the Trump
administration has persistently spoken
out against Iran but it has also made
scattershot efforts at diplomacy a
senior Iranian official told me that in
2017 Trump sent eight requests to meet
with the Iranian president Hassan
rouhani quote trump invited president
rouhani to dinner the official told me
rouhani is one dinner away from getting
the North Korea treatment and yet both
this is the enemies in the peace it
requires read this yet that that's come
on nope though and there's even more
details about additional contacts your
business so what is he gonna get a
 couples massage the supreme
leader while is that it like what like
these guys this is here's the thing
here's a bigger dinner they these people
think you're stupid
yes they think you're dumb yeah like
they think that they can simultaneously
just stack up sanctions talk about how
much tougher they are than Obama
what will having no impact on it but
then Trump's ego is stroked when there's
a lot of TV cameras when he meets with
like like dictators like Kim jung-un and
and so he's gonna like sit there with
rouhani and say he's making peace at the
same time that they're sanctioning him
so that they can tell slices of voters
across the United States that that
they're sanctioning I'm gonna tougher
than Obama and he can call up his his
you know account manager in Saudi Arabia
Mohammed Salman and like this is none of
this is unlevel this is none of it is on
the level and I'd say I hope he I hope
everyone he takes a dinner it would be
great I got filleted by the right-wing
troll farms for three years
referring to Hassan rouhani's a moderate
right now imagine if I invited into
 dinner eight times like what
they'd be doing like we'd have you know
a parade of you know control of the
trolls from free beacon and Breitbart
coming into the studio right now to like
point iPhone cameras at me and be like
how come you invited Hassan rouhani to
dinner no some Brotherhood mark dimwits
would poison you yeah yeah you know and
then a bunch of earnest democratic blob
types you'd be like well of course we
much get must tougher on Hassan Rowhani
blah blah blah blah blah but maybe the
Iranians okay but then like
Donald Trump is gonna like sit there and
have like takeout Chinese with the guy
at the you know I'm so I'm so glad you
I'm so glad you hadn't read that uh man
that's all I got for the show this will
play us out I mean you guys have seen
Blues and they're smiling on they look
like they're smiling happy you guys seem
finding dory I mean like was that was
destiny in dory like a Russian
like this constrains the viewing habits
that I have with my daughter who's
watched finding dory 77 times I now now
we know that actually the way in which
destiny was able to take the truck down
and Dory is cuz she was Russian trained
when we come back Washington Post bureau
chief but when we come back Washington
bureau bureau chief Liz lot
