welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod John
Lovett interviews John Legend who's
releasing a mini documentary series
around his new song features the stories
of activists and community leaders john
was just in the office he was wearing a
suit which is the first suit that's ever
been worn and crooked media it's great
interviews check it out that was my real
test for mayor Pete was whether he was
going to show up with a tie on and the
fact that he did me and she's got a real
shot in this election that is a good
test so we get a lot of news to cover
from the latest investigations into the
president and his goons to the DNC's
rejection of Fox News has offered a host
a debate to the announcement of several
Democrats that they won't be running for
president also Alyssa's book is out so
here's the thing it's on sale go buy it
it is fantastic you will not be
disappointed yes we are asking you as
friends of the pod to do yourself a
favor and buy this book it's really good
Alyssa is great we should support people
like Alyssa who put themselves out there
in the most authentic ways possible it's
full of great advice you will laugh your
ass off you will be smarter it's
basically like those of you who are
Porsche enough to be very close friends
Alyssa like we are you get to experience
that the pages of this book that's right
that's right that's well put
also your weekly reminder that this
content can also be a video experience
lucky you check us out and subscribe at
youtube.com slash crooked media make
Elisha happy all right let's get to the
news this week House Judiciary Chairman
Jerry Nadler launched a massive
investigation into Donald Trump by
requesting documents from more than 80
people or entities in Trump's orbit
including the Trump Organization and
foundation Trump's inaugural committee
the Kushner company's Trump's 2016
campaign and transition teams his
cabinet his legal team and his family
they've also laid the groundwork to
obtain Trump's tax returns in the letter
seeking documents from these people and
organizations Nadler wrote that his
committee is looking into quote a number
of actions that threaten our nation's
long-standing commitment to the rule of
law including allegations of obstruction
of justice public
and other abuses of power Trump tweeted
this week that the Democrats
investigating him and his administration
are quote stone cold crazy 81 letters
sent to innocent people to harass them
they won't get anything done for our
country and quote Dan which areas of
these investigations are most
interesting to you and do you think as
some have suggested that Nadler is
building a case for impeachment here is
all of them do I have to pick along my
favorite cross you do not have to pick
but for the purposes of conversation we
figured I am personally most interested
in the inauguration because there is
this amazing fact that Trump spent a
massive amount of money and an
incredible amount of money was spent at
his own hotel and absurdly overpriced
rates for an inauguration that was
attended by as you may remember not as
many people a Sean Spicer would like us
to believe so you know we spent a lot of
time and there's been a lot of you know
basically every investigative reporter
in America and the world has been
digging into a lot of these other areas
of inquiry but the and feels like the
inauguration is one where there was a
lot for us to learn and a lot for
Congress to learn through these requests
yeah the I would say the political
staffer in me the the former
communications staffer is most
interested in all of the areas that
involve potential corruption by Donald
Trump his family his businesses etc
because I do think one of the most
powerful arguments against Trump in 2020
will be this man enriched himself in
office while your wages didn't move well
you couldn't afford your health care and
yet Donald Trump just kept making
himself richer and richer by breaking
the law so I think that is very fruitful
territory for the Democrats to explore
the part of me that's just honestly
curious about what the has happened
in the 2016 election and and after that
is interested in you know they've tried
to subpoena or they're trying to look
into the conversations between Trump and
Putin remember there were no us
interpreters
in some of them and we there was no NSC
staffers there's no White House staff
there was just Trump and Putin chatting
it up I think there's like one
interpreter on the US side for some of
the conversations so trying to get those
conversations is very interesting and
and yeah and and the money-laundering
too as well as you know Adam Schiff
keeps saying that he thinks that there's
a potential that Russia was laundering
money through the Trump Organization and
that sort of been a rumor that we've
heard from the very beginning when all
of a sudden a guy who called himself the
king of debt because he would always
borrow to buy buildings was all the
sudden taking large cash payments from
oligarchs in Russia that there might be
something suspicious about that perhaps
perhaps tan so yeah those are the ones
you know I don't know if those move the
needle electoral II but I'm certainly
curious to find out what the hell
happened there what do you think about
the impeachment question you asked
whether he's building the case I mean
you know yeah I didn't understand that
when I was first casually looking at
these stories and then when I really dug
in last night now I get it
because you know focusing specifically
on and these are Nadler words abuse of
power and obstruction you know those are
the areas that Clinton and Nixon were
both well Clinton was impeached by the
house Nixon at least they drew up the
articles of impeachment and then he
resigned
those are there's precedent in the past
for presidents being impeached for those
abuses abuses of power and office Hey
obstruction of justice yep
so you're for some reason you're
breaking up kidding maybe no and I have
like a lot of bars of my cell phone do
you think maybe they can call back and
we can try that again cool Wow
Wow I just I just said this to Emily
last night that's so funny hey hey
alright any salad you want the better
that's better okay I'm just gonna do
over my so we'll end in the Edit with
you asking what do you think about
Nadler what do you thing about the
impeachment question okay I think the
people who say he's laying the
groundwork for impeachment have a good
point when you look at the language that
now they're used
he talked he's focusing on abuse of
power
obstruction these are the same areas
that caused Congress to draw articles of
impeachment for both Nixon and Bill
Clinton so there's a precedent there of
Congress attempting to impeach a
president over these high crimes and
misdemeanors and so it does seem like by
lumping them all together now they're
sort of laying out you know what what
he's looking into he's also said that he
believes the president has committed
obstruction of justice that he believes
the president has been implicated in
crimes you know at the same time meddler
has also said I want to do this
carefully I think that in order to make
the case for impeachment and bring
charges of impeachment in the house we
have to convince not only our own side
but some Republicans that this is a
worthwhile endeavor which seems like
 wishful thinking to me but you
know I guess that's what you have to say
what do you think yeah I think that's
right I think it also says a lot about
where we are you know two plus years
into the Trump administration that the
mere fact that Congress is doing in its
most basic constitutional duty of
oversight is frames in the question of
whether it's a path to impeachment right
this is you know Axios this morning had
a like series of conversations with
reporter so they sort of something to
stop this to be basically everything the
Trump has been involved in all the
things that now there's asked for
documents about what the Judiciary
Committee other committees are looking
at represents one of the three greatest
political scandals in American history
along with compete with Nixon and
Watergate and then the Teapot Dome
scandal so it sort of shows the gravity
of this that Trump it seems very much
like Trump is create has committed
offenses it's fall into the political
definition of impeachment but you need
to prove those things you need to be
able to make a case but they're also
just doing their basic duty to ask
questions and hold hearings on what the
administration is doing it just happens
to be one of the primary activities of
this administration is crime adjacent
activities and so therefore oversight
tends to get into the entire
conversation yeah well that leads to my
next question I mean what do you think
of nethers approach here you know
there's been some concern criticism that
sending so many requests on so many
different issues at once could feed into
Trump's witch-hunt do you have
any concern about this no and like yes
like can you sit around and you feed her
criticism for weeks on end about like
would it be smarter to do them one at a
time and do a drip drip drip or what if
you did them Monday what if you
requested documents about crimes on
Mondays Wednesdays and Fridays and
ultimately any of that matters for two
reasons
we are both over assuming how closely
the American public is going to say this
election pays attention to the
correspondents habits and Jared Nadler
and we are also somehow thinking that if
now there were to approach this
differently Trump to take a different
response and that is simply not the case
trumpets and cornets a witch-hunt before
there is any oversight really is gonna
call it presidential grassman under all
scenarios and so this is fine I don't
think I don't know that it's better than
another approach but it's totally fine
and if we're worrying about the cadence
of correspondents related to potential
presidential crimes were worrying about
the wrong thing I mean also now there's
initial request is metier
that was it sorry nethers initial
request is for material that was already
provided to other congressional
committees or federal investigators he's
not doing a ton of real digging just yet
so the idea that he sent out you know 80
letters or letters to 80 people and
entities just for information that's
already been handed over is not like
he's you know bringing out the subpoena
canon just yet and also like like you
said like there have been a lot of
 crimes and potential crimes this
has been the most corrupt administration
potentially in history like and the only
the only reason it's odd to people that
suddenly Congress is doing so much
oversight is because Republicans not
only didn't zero oversight over the last
two years they did everything they can
they use their positions to protect
Trump at all costs so yeah of course
he's doing some oversight now yeah it's
just worth noting is you think about the
scope of this which is what higher
requires a response like this which is
that trumps business his foundation
his campaign his inauguration his
transition and his administration are
all under a criminal investigation from
multiple entities and so there was a lot
of work to do and also I think would
make one other point there's no time
like the present
sorry let's write again there's no time
like the present it is the first week of
March there we are there are only so
many days in a Congress and let's get
going here I will also say it is not
like Democrats are just picking
controversies you know sorry it's not
like Democrats are picking controversies
at random here like this is not some
partisan witch hunt when all of these
investigations are happening because
federal prosecutors nonpartisan
independent some of them probably fairly
conservative in the FBI prosecutors and
FBI agents have found potential
wrongdoing and potential criminality in
all of these areas the inaugural
committee the the Trump business the
every Kushner's companies all of it all
of it started because of law enforcement
none of it happened because Democrats
said oh we're gonna go on a fishing
expedition right like it didn't start in
any kind of partisan way whatsoever
there's just this problem of viewing the
job of getting to the bottom of
presidential imbues of power
presidential corruption and presidential
criminality through this political lens
of how does this affect a subset of
voters in the suburbs outside of
Cleveland right it's just it's just a
dumb way of looking at it but it's the
only filter by which the press can do it
but if we are going to apply a political
filter than this what is the greater
risk for Democrats put aside
responsibility constitutional
responsibility to the American democracy
to the general congressional oversight
what is the bigger political risk for
Democrats is it overreach in
investigating Trump too hard or under
reach in not investigating enough it is
almost certainly the latter if Democrats
were to run campaigns all up and down
the ballot all across the country
argument if they were going to be a
check on the corruption of the Trump
administration in Washington and they
were going to be a co-equal branch you
did investigation and then they did not
do that that would have massive
political effects much more so than how
many people Gerry dabble request
correspondence from on a single day
right and just from a political
perspective too we know from the last
two years that when the news is about
Donald Trump when it's about what Donald
Trump has done wrong potential crimes
anything else that you know Democrats do
better and Trump does worse right like
this is going to be and you know we'll
be talking about this throughout this
whole episode like this is going to be a
race in a campaign about how to keep
Donald Trump's
wrongdoing criminality whatever in the
news more than Trump and the Republicans
can keep Democrats in the news that's
what this is about for the next two
years
and so these investigations because
Trump actually has committed about doing
according to federal prosecutors you
know that's that's what this is about so
one person who wasn't included in the
document request is Ivanka Trump and
then we found out from CNN this week
that her father personally pressured
former chief of staff John Kelly and
former White House Counsel Don Magan to
grant her a top secret security
clearance against their recommendations
and the recommendations of other White
House and
national security officials when they
refused Trump's request Trump granted
the security clearance himself this
comes only a week after the New York
Times reported that Trump did the same
exact thing for Ivanka's husband Jared
Kushner dan based on our experience with
security clearances in the White House
how big of a deal is this
it's a giant deal is he in this a huge
deal now I may let's stipulate for the
purposes of fairness which we try to
aspire to here but is that dumb Trump
really has the power to do that like
that is a presidential power to grant to
classify things and classify things to
grant security clearances migrants to
area viruses but it isn't it is I can't
tell you how unusual it is not only just
for the president I take themselves to
get involved but for political folks at
the White House to come anywhere near a
conversation that happens with career
officials in the White House security
office in the intelligence community
depending on the level of security
clearance you would never touch it for
just for the very appearance eight now
it also suggests that there is something
I don't know what it could be but
something that is very alarming in
Ivanka Trump's background investigation
that would that would cause them to
recommend no on this question and that I
think is something that is a very worthy
that is a very worthy field of inquiry
for Congress to find out what that was
like what was it that said we are not
going to give a senior advisor to the
president and the presidential daughter
security said that that person is too
big a risk to have access to the
nation's most important and most closely
held secrets like so what is that is it
that she why don't some reforms like we
know Jared Kushner did on multiple
occasions did are their ties to
foreigners that she did not disclose are
their relationships that are with
security risks that we need to be aware
of like what what was it it is a huge
question I don't know that we'll ever
know the answer to if I I'm willing to
bet that someone and someone in Congress
probably on atom ships committee is
trying hard as hell to find out yeah and
the other thing we know is that she lied
about this right I mean she was asked in
an interview
you know I think a year ago or a long
time ago did you did your father have
anything to do with you getting a
security clearance and she said
absolutely not
so as usual there was something done
wrong by someone in the Trump orbit or
Trump and then they lied about it which
has basically been the pattern since the
very beginning Politico reported last
night that House Democrats are wary of
targeting Trump's children in these
investigations they're worried about the
quote optics of going after Ivanka Don
jr. and Eric I mean what should they be
the worst part of the piece is like if
you read through the piece sort of at
the bottom it's like basically they're
they're okay
potentially investigating Ivanka because
she does work in the White House but so
that but they're a little more worried
about the children who aren't working in
the White House so it's like no one's
going after Eric because Eric doesn't
really matter
no one's going after Tiffany I was going
after Baron so are they the Democrats
think that the people gonna be worried
about them going after a universally
sympathetic figure Don jr. like what all
right
people what are we doing first let's
separate Tiffany and Baron from the
adult children who run who run the
business and run his business or any
Bank escape decided to work in the White
House that was a choice she made she
decided and once you decide that then
you are is open to all the
responsibilities the risks of being a
high-level government staff or as anyone
else and so you know there's no there's
no presidential daughter exemption to
government oversight or criminal
investigation I'm sorry that it's not
how it works
check it Don jr. and Eric frankly are
running a business that Trump has
refused to divest from a business it is
very clearly profiting an absurdly high
and most likely unconstitutional level
from the president from Donald Trump's
position as president say it's the fact
that foreign governments who want to
influence Trump are going and buying of
renting up I'm sorry are going up in
renting blocks of rooms at his hotel the
fact that when t-mobile was involved to
be involved in a very important
discussion they all of a sudden start
spending a lot of money at the Trump
and so of course if they were to have
separated them chumpits temper yourself
in this business and they got about
other things and yet maybe there'll be
an asset issue but they are running a
business that seems to at least only
from the outside in looking to be part
of a major presidential corruption
scandal so yes they should be
investigated no we should not worry
about it that is an absurd thing to
worry about Don jr. is ensnared in
multiple federal investigation what what
are we doing Don jr. held a meeting with
Russian intelligence where he sent
emails about it and then when asked by
the New York Times he released a
statement dictated by his father lying
about the purpose of that meeting
repeatedly like it is one like we can't
you can if you were to decide you're not
going to ask a Don jr. in a bunk and
then you might as well pack up go home
do you not really do anything and that's
it's just sometimes I think we Democrat
politicians generally Democrats most
particularly exist in some world of like
pundit concerned Mad Libs like yes when
it when we're talking about Jenna and
Barbara Bush for Sasha and Malia Obama
or Chelsea Clinton or I think in this
case Baron or Tiffany Trump who have no
involved there were children bearing a
child
Tiffany older but has no involvement in
what's happening yes the presidential
children should be protected from public
scrutiny and congressional investigation
sir but once she decides you work in the
White House or run a business that
profits from the presidency you are not
in the Internet and there's not a
political risk to it it is made it's
like let's just think about this for two
 seconds people before we decide
to spout off our concerns to Politico
think like we said this last week about
Democrats are just having an inner
monologue having dinner my wife talked
to my Democrat before you call the
political reporter and just Express a
stupid can fear in the back of your mind
what is going on in the hill like what I
guess it's been going on for the last
 three decades but it's like
don't open your mouths when the
political reporter and the Washington
Post report the New York Times protocol
you stopped communications directors
stop your bosses from saying this
to reporters in the hallways just stop
you can still be nice to them you can
still answer their questioning it's
great a lot the members of Congress
answer questions
perfect don't have to just ruminate Oh
dream of let me tell you things I tell
ya I have unhelpful to the cause it also
gets you no brownie points with
reporters you're not like this much
closer to making some sort of political
power list because you decided to
express some deep-seated concern about
potential political blowback to
investigating the senior advisor to the
president come on people I have an
optics concern who should I talk to
should I talk to my staff should I talk
to my colleagues should I know you know
what I'll dial up Politico that's a
great way to express my office concerns
about politics what the people so
in response to the announcement of these
new congressional investigations Trump
called mailers requests quote the
greatest overreach in the history of our
country instead of doing infrastructure
instead of doing health care they want
to play games how effective do you think
the Trump Republican response about
presidential harassment is and do you
think there's any risk of Democratic
overreach here I know that we are not
that worried about the concerns
expressed about you know Ned lers
approach here to sending all the letters
but is there anything the Democrats
could do that we would be worried about
in terms of overreach I think that there
is we shouldn't be sorry we shouldn't be
too dismissive of there being at least
some power in Trump's message that
Democrats are so focused on
investigating Trump that they're not
doing the things that the American
people care about yeah right that if
they were not so obsessed with Trump
then maybe we would have an
infrastructure bill or we can pass
another tax cut to the middle class or I
don't know something else that Trump
cares about that there could be the like
which is a very that's a very small
slice of the Venn diagram but that is an
argument that has worked in the past
it's the argument that Bill Clinton used
in 1996 it's the argument he used to
come back from sort of political defeat
it's what he used to fight back against
Ken Starr and impeachment in the late
90s so there is I mean there's precedent
for this working but I don't think that
should change what Democrats do right we
have to engage the argument we should
just run away from it and like as long
as we stay focused
on very legitimate why has it been
Quarry around criminality and corruption
and abuse of power then we'll be fine if
we start doing which I can't imagine
would ever happen sort of the sort of
crazy stuff that Republicans did in the
90s where they were convinced that a
dense foster who was a Clinton
administration attorney who killed
himself had been killed in a murder
killed in some sort of plot to cover up
the Whitewater scandal and where you had
the person who currently has Elijah
Cummings job as the head of a Oversight
Committee firing a gun into a watermelon
to try to prove that it was not a
self-inflicted gunshot look we start
doing that crazy which is not going
to happen so it's sort of like worrying
about snow in the summer it's not a real
concern but as long as we stay focused
on the things that matter to people and
the things that are obvious air
obviously legitimate minded inquiry that
I and we should not be worried about
this yeah I mean I think that Democrats
have to take great care to always
connect these investigations to people's
lives why why is this investigation
matter to your life right so it's like
we can talk all about security
clearances and it seems very distant to
people but the reason that this is a
problem is because Trump is jeopardizing
our national security he's allowing
potentially and his staff for allowing
potentially foreign powers that are
hostile towards us to have leverage over
US government officials that could
damage our national security the reason
we care about corruption is because
Trump is wasting taxpayer dollars he's
enriching himself and his friends at
your expense and he's not doing anything
for you but he's making off okay right
so like I do think that we have to
really make sure we are drawing direct
lines from these investigations to
people's lives and what matters to
people I so I think and there's a danger
of it's not overreach right there's just
a danger of sort of looking like you're
focused on getting Trump and not looking
like you're focused on you know
defending protecting and advocating on
behalf of the American people so I do
think there's like a messaging challenge
but I don't think I think you're right
like that doesn't that shouldn't stop
Democrats from doing their
responsibilities to you know conduct
oversight which is what they
promised to do in the 2018 elections and
won because of it at least in part
that's a good point so on that note the
New York Times ran a story on Wednesday
that talks about quote a month of
stumbles four Democratic leaders and it
basically talks about how the House
Democrats have had a hard time breaking
through lately
last week they passed a gun control bill
no one really noticed this week they're
passing a voting rights and ethics
reform bill no one's really talking
about it they almost sent a resolution
to the Senate to end our military
involvement in Yemen but the Republicans
turned it into an anti Semitism
resolution everyone is arguing with each
other today still about Elon Omar's
comments they're supposed to be a vote
on the floor of the House today for
another resolution condemning
anti-semitism and hate bigotry in all
its forms it's it's been quite a mess
this week what can Democrats do to not
only get back on message but to stay on
message in the future break through the
news cycle with their message and stick
together at least in public this is not
a problem that is unique to the Trump
era or even this particular month it is
almost always impossible to get
extensive coverage for legislation
passed by a house by one body at
Congress in the minority when the
Republicans in Congress and when from
2011 to 2015 had the house but not the
Senate Obama was president they passed
 all the time
they were just constantly passing
terrible bills and we actually wanted
them to get more attention because they
were so odious and unpopular but no one
noticed no one cared the press really
only will cover things that they think
have a chance of becoming a law in that
way and so like it's not surprising that
even though this passage of gun safety
legislation for the first time in a very
long time it's a very big deal and
showed you know how far the the ball has
moved on the politics of gun control
laws but the fact that it hasn't moved
far enough means it's going to get a
little attention not enough and so we're
just this is not a
it's not particularly solved the
problems I do kind of want to
disentangle like sort of a couple
different things like there's three
questions in there like how can we get
more attention from the things that we
did right how can we stay on message and
then how do we stop fighting with each
other so on the first one
like I laid out the problem there I do
think that we can be more creative right
the New York Times the TV the cable TV
stations the Washington Post are not
going to give sufficient the coverage we
need to the stuff that the Democratic
House is doing other than Russia
investigation oversight stuff so just
the passage of legislation so we have to
think that there are better or better
more expensive ways to communicate then
simply just holding a press conference
with a Capitol press corps and then
expect them to carry that message to the
voters take care so that means local
press from members of Congress which I'm
sure many of them are doing it means
thinking about alternative media methods
or how where can you reach people who
you know care about this issue and are
interested in you don't have to go
through a cynical press filter than what
our sense of specific ways to do it who
were the voices on social media who else
influencers who am i following that you
can get get them to amplify that so you
just have to think creative did you have
to work more you have to think more
creatively and work harder you've ever
had before in the past to get this
message out and even then it's very very
hard second how do we get on message is
related to your third question of how do
we stop fighting with each other and I
think the big thing there is there's
gonna be disagreements in our caucus as
there should be because and I think
we're healthier because we don't all
believe the same thing it's not a bunch
of you know Fox News Fox News and old
ottoman times who are funded by the Koch
brothers like theirs we are a party that
has AOC and you know more conservative
members who won in very red districts
like that that's who we are and if we're
going to have majorities then we're
gonna have to have diversity of opinion
that's a fact but I think we we should
try to have our disagreements not allow
the resolution for disagreements to be
dictated by bad faith criticism from
Republicans
right so this dispute between Johann
Omar and a number of other members in
the Caucasus is has spilled out in
getting a ton of attention and in part
the response to the Democrats have put
forward is think the way that they're
approaching this I think is based on
this naive belief if they are to pass
this congressional resolution 24 hours
before they're supposed to pass their
most important signature piece of
legislation the HR 1 the electoral
reform and democracy bill that somehow
if they do that then the right in Trump
will stop accusing all Democrats
anti-semitism and that is naive and
wrongheaded and we have to think instead
of trying to satisfy a group of bad
faith critics and cynical pundits and
reporters we should think about how to
turn the subject back to Trump yeah
watching this play out and you know Ben
and Tommy talked about this on pot save
the world and they really dug into it so
I encourage everyone to go listen to
that episode and we're not going to sort
of rehash everything here but watching
this episode unfold this week and just
sort of last day after day after day
made me think like we are going to be
dealing with more of these episodes
between now and 2020 a lot more I mean
yeah I said Josh barro tweeted this
morning like because the government's
gonna get nothing done Trump's not gonna
get anything done it's divided
government like these controversies will
take up a disproportionate share of the
media coverage between now and the 2020
election and I think that is exactly
right and I don't know that Democrats
have figured out a way to sort of handle
these controversies or at least like
downplay them or move past them in sort
of an efficient way right like I don't
see why everyone could have just like
you're right
Republicans are always gonna launch bad
faith attacks like we should not respond
based on what they say but we should
respond based on what we believe and I
feel like every member can do that on
their own without then also attacking
every other member or talking about it I
mean there's it was this story in The
Washington Post is basically the same is
the New York Times story about like you
know it's a Democrats and disarray story
and at one point they have reporting
from inside the caucus meeting and jan
Schakowsky just yelled to everyone she's
a
congresswoman from Illinois she just
yell to everyone stop tweeting everyone
stop tweeting which is you know that's
the associates or never tweet but it
does seem like once these controversies
erupted then everyone feels like they
need to have their takes like everyone's
a pundit now whether you're an actual
pundit or a voter or a member of
Congress everyone's just kind of like
take take opinion opinion and suddenly
we're like drowning and takes in
opinions on this controversy about
anti-semitism you know because of you
know one sentence from Ilhan Omar it's
like you know two weeks ago not even two
weeks ago the government found a white
supremacist white nationalist who had
stalked an unbelievable amount of ammo
weapons and we had a kill list of
prominent Democrats prominent media
figures and like there wasn't a day's
worth of discussion about that I didn't
see any statements from any of the
presidential candidates I didn't see it
talked about a lot on the news I didn't
see anything about it this person was
going to commit mass murder on a
unfathomable scale okay and we didn't
talk about it there's and it's just one
person out of many when there's been
like a rise of right-wing anti-semitic
you know white nationalist groups over
the last couple years something we're
not talking about but these
controversies you know Ilhan Omar makes
a statement and suddenly it's like we're
on like day six day seven of this like
what and every presidential candidate is
releasing a statement now everyone's
weighing in we got resolutions on the
floor like what are we doing it like
it's it's really important not to be
dismissive like there's a lot of bad
state critique era from trunk from you
know Trump very Nazis are very fine
people from Jim Jordan who tweeted Tom
Snyder's name with a dollar sign like
six minutes ago Kevin McCarthy who at
the end of the election accused
Bloomberg Soros and steyr of I'm sorry
things I guess and Kevin McCarthy who
accused Bloomberg and Soros and trying
to buy the election at the end but there
are you know there are people who are
concerned about what was said in good
faith
yeah well Judah may concern yes and
like we're not trying to be dismissive
of those and those should be dealt with
but the problem is when you're trying to
satisfy the bad faith arguments right I
thought Brian's piece on crooked this
morning that I think we both tweeted out
miserly worth to read about how you
handle these things where you can handle
business within your own house and
family without conceding the argument to
the other side who are have been
amplifying in anti submitted courses for
a very long time and trying to benefit
from anti some politically anti-semitic
sentiment in this country and very
explicit in very dangerous ways yeah I
mean to me this is all about proportion
right like you know Ellen Omar's a
member of Congress and she should be
more careful and how she phrases her
critique of Israel which is entirely
legitimate if she wants her critique
Israel if she wants a critique AIPAC if
she wants to critique our policy towards
Israel how policy works that is all very
legitimate she didn't get attacked for
it but you have to be careful when you
when you're a member of Congress to make
sure that you are not you know saying
things that could be construed as
anti-semitic by you know people
operating in good faith not the bad
people right like but that is that that
should be viewed as an ice for what it
is which is an isolated incident of
someone saying something they shouldn't
have said you know and then we can all
move on like the fact that it has
reached the point we're putting
resolutions on the House floor and we're
talking about for seven days is absurd
and there has got to be a way for us to
handle controversies in a good-faith way
and move past them as a party and remind
people that in you know less than two
years now we are going to be facing an
election where Donald Trump is on the
ballot and the only way that he can win
again is if his opposition isn't unified
that is it if the opposition is unified
if we're all there together for all
standing there together and we all get
to the polls he is going to lose if not
if we are divided if we are arguing with
each other if we are focusing on these
mini controversies every day between now
and November he is gonna have another
four years in office that is what we're
dealing with right now and I think it's
like it would be worthwhile for everyone
sort of take a step back and focus on
that I think there's one other takeaway
from this vid applies to 2020 which is
this is certainly the fault of what was
originally said and that how it's been
handled within the Democratic caucus
over the last six days six days plus ten
years which is how long it's felt but it
also speaks to a larger challenge for
our Democratic nominee which is in a
social media digital ad powered press
world these are the things the stories
and the content that generates outrage
on both sides are the most financially
valuable to news organizations so there
is an economic bias towards stories like
this or even if the Democrats had
handled this perfectly this would have
been a disproportionately large story
because it generates outrage and
engagement and therefore generates more
traffic generates more ad dollars so it
has doubled and tripled down upon and so
this we've talked about this before
maybe this speaks to the need of whoever
our Democratic nominee is to have the
capacity to to communicate to the
American people outside of the
traditional media ecosystem but doesn't
mean that person should not do engage
with social media and they should but
should be able to find other ways to
talk to the public whether it's through
social media through digital advertising
through other means but if the only way
in which you're gonna get your message
out is through cable TV the New York
Times political etc we are going to be
having a conversation the Trump wants us
to have because he benefits there is a
structural advantage to Trump's message
in the outrage fuelled online press
system and so if we can move outside of
that we will be able to tell serve the
American people that is told on our
terms not on the terms dictated by Trump
tweaks all right speaking of the outrage
machine let's move on to one of our
favorite topics Fox News this week Jane
Mayer wrote a blockbuster story in The
New Yorker about the symbiotic
relationship between the network and
Donald Trump the article laid out in
detail how Fox has evolved into a
propaganda arm of the White House to the
point where former Fox president bill
shine is now the White House deputy G
of staff while still making literally
millions of dollars in severance
payments from his former employer where
he was accused of covering up sexual
harassment among the news er parts in
Mayer's piece Trump was tipped off to
questions in one of Fox's presidential
debates in 2015 by Fox executives a Fox
reporter had the stormy Daniels story
before the 2016 election but executives
killed it and then demoted her Trump
ordered his former economic adviser Gary
Cohn to push the Justice Department to
block the AT&T time warner merger to
punish CNN and benefit Fox and Trump has
told people that he assigns loyalty
scores to Fox his on-air personalities
on a scale from 1 to 10 Sean Hannity of
course gets a 10 Bret Baier gets a 6 and
Steve Doocy host of Fox & Friends
he gets 12 10 he gets a 12 out of 10 dan
what did you think of the story and will
it change the way anyone thinks of Fox
News well I thought the story was
incredible
none of it like the general thrust of
the story not surprises we have known
this for a very long time that Fox is a
Republican propaganda machine
masquerading as a news organization to
get access to our airwaves why Jane
Mayer who is a American media treasurer
who was one of our best reporters did
found the proof points that prove this
and after reading that story on Monday I
thought to myself well this is it this
isn't just like a bunch of democratic
hacks like ourselves for instance
tweeting about how bad Fox's this isn't
Brock Obama complaining about it's not
Media Matters presenting actual facts
and proof to people but because they're
funded from the West it will be
dismissed
this is Jane Mayer one of the most
respected reporters in all of the world
showing that journalism is not done at
Fox as it has commonly thought up the
fact like they sat on a major scoop to
help their chosen Canada that's not Sean
Hannity that's not Tucker Carlson that's
not Laura Ingraham that's not the white
Nationals variety hours John mother
calls it that's the news division right
yep brett-brett bear who is held up for
some unknown reason all these
reporters I think because these Apple
guy goes cocktail parties is some
hallmark of journalism gets a sixth on a
loyalty scale from crazy united states
and i thought to myself well this is it
it's finally happened it's been you know
we haven't seen that transition and how
people how the broader world thinks on
fox for a while and jane mayer
essentially oh no damn Chuck but John I
was wrong I was very well oh no this is
this piece comes out Monday on Wednesday
the Democratic National Committee
announces that Fox News will not be one
of the media outlets hosting a 2020
Democratic primary debate
chairman Tom Perez said in a statement
to the Washington Post the quote recent
reporting in The New Yorker on the
inappropriate relationship between
President Trump his administration and
Fox News has led me to conclude that the
network is not in a position to host a
fair and neutral debate for our
candidates no
Trump is already in response threatened
to not appear in debates in the general
election that are held on other networks
which hey at the general
election
no one Network hosts the debates their
broadcast everywhere so your only option
is to drop out of the debates if you
want so anyway I see Tom's statement I
see the Democratic National Committee's
decision I'm like yeah obviously
obviously we're not gonna have Fox News
host a primary debate for the Democratic
Party
they haven't hosted one in like ten
years or something
they look 2,000 at for more than 16 okay
so almost 15 years that's gone by now
since Fox News has hosted a primary
debate I don't know why the Democratic
Party was considering offering them to
host one in the first place if we hadn't
for the last 15 years but anyway I
thought it was pretty common sense that
we wouldn't have a network whose
business model is based on spreading
disinformation and whipping up outrage
and xenophobia and racism among Donald
Trump's base I thought it was pretty
common sense that we wouldn't say well
we only have so many debates to offer
host for and yeah we're not going to
have Fox be one of those hosts because
there's a ton of other media
organizations out there and
activist organizations and different
groups who could ask our candidates very
tough but fair and illuminating
questions so that our voters can decide
who they want is their nominee seems
pretty normal that FoxNews wouldn't be
one of those places but Dan I would have
been mistaken because then we see
journalist Jonathan Allen we saw it from
Zeke Miller from the AP saw it from all
kinds of other a put Jack Schaeffer in
Politico saying what are Democrats so
afraid of why are they afraid of tough
questions from Fox News this seems like
a huge mistake for Democrats this is
going to play into you know Trump's
worst instincts and he's going to attack
the press more because of this he's
gonna attack the good outlets more and
all this and I am just I don't
know man I I thought that this far into
the Trump administration this far after
2016 this far into Fox News transforming
from a conservative outlet to one that
is basically just pumping disinformation
into the ether and really hurting our
democracy as a result I would have
thought that journalists good
journalists who do good work would have
understood what this is all about and I
am clearly mistaken and I don't know why
it is mind-boggling I have been raging
like a lunatic for two days now and
what's just like let's separate a few
things here right one is this argument
that somehow Democrats are boarding
tough questions the implication of that
yes they are saying that is that okay
tapper from CNN so I think ask the
toughest questions probably of anyone in
journalism obsessed in both parties is
somehow not as good a question there as
Shep Smith or Chris Wallace that Lester
Holt or Gayle King or some of these
other people are not going to ask that
that's a question that's insane
that is a stupid way to think
about it and you would think before you
tweet you would understand that in
defending facts you're insulting the
rest of the journalists by using that
argument
check it there's this argument that
somehow this is in doing so Democrats
are hurting journalism and we are giving
Aidan
to Trump's argument that there was
thickness okay that is stupid Democrats
are not stopping Cox from doing their
job
Fox reporters are going to be invited to
cover the debates I'm going to bet that
actually even get to set up their camera
positions and they'll probably can have
their set there and do all the other
things they get to do they get to report
on the debate the Democratic Party
decided it was not going to allow Fox
News to make a lot of money off of their
debate and since I don't know maybe Fox
would spread the racist f sorry Fox read
the incredibly offensive conspiracy
theory about Seth rich a slain being
slain DNC staff in the 2016 election
that they that Roger Ailes gave the
questions to Trump that that Fox News
executives work at the White House
that's Trump advisers work at Fox and
they decided they were not going to
reward that behavior like fact also is
it I'm sorry Democrats aren't are also
not giving a debate to Breitbart is that
somehow offensive and for all of you
people who were just screaming about
what a problem this is I don't hear one
single one of you that knew John Allen
not you anyone else complaining when the
Republicans held nine debates in 2016
and did not give a single one to MSNBC
were they afraid to take the questions
of Rachel Maddow
no one says well oh they're like this is
bad for journalists and the Republicans
onto MSNBC it is so stupid and
what what these reporters are doing is
first tweeting without thinking and to
trying to virtue signal to their
Republican sources that they're somehow
both sides friendly journalists like it
is just it is embarrassing because Fox
does more damage and professional
journals in the dust and Democrats
they're the you turn on Fox all they do
is take legitimate reporting from
serious news organizations in the in the
middle but also in the left and the
right and this missing and call it fake
news and they they have perpetuated this
myth that mainstream news organizations
are in cahoots with Democrats they had
could they have done this and
defend them is to have just a lack of
self-preservation for your industry it
is so frustrating and I could scream
about this for hours I mean it may
frankly well and it's like honestly
don't just ask us you know we're a bunch
of Liberal Democratic activists like
it's not just Democrats to understand
what is wrong with Fox News like ask
John Weaver former you know he's a
Republican staffer Jennifer Rubin was in
John Mayer's piece talking about this
she was a conservative commentator Greta
Van Susteren who was on Fox News was
talking about in Jane Mayer's are like
everyone on both sides pretty much gets
what's going on at Fox News
I think reporters view Fox News as like
oh that's the conservative media outlet
and there may have been a time when Fox
News first started that it was in fact a
conservative media outlet that had
conservative viewpoints on it that time
has long passed there is nothing
conservative about Fox Razak now we're
not some Fox News right now it is not
you know it's not sorry there's no
conservative ideology coming out of Fox
News what it is is it's disinformation
every day Fox News through the opinion
part of the network and by the way a lot
of the news part of the network
including some of the guests they have
on will say that Hillary Clinton is a
criminal that robert muller and the and
a so-called deep state are engaged in a
coup against the president that we
shouldn't trust that you know the
american law enforcement officials are
after Donald Trump that there's a
 invasion at our southern border
lie after lie after lie
that are designed to scare people that
are designed to make people angry and
that could Beck incites hate it could
incite violence it is a very dangerous
institution right now and they are doing
this eyes wide open this is what they
want to do they're covering up stories
for Donald Trump they are only saying
the good things about Donald Trump
they're covering up bad news forum I
mean like this is not this is not a
conservative news organization this is a
propaganda arm of the White House this
is the closest thing we as jane mayer
says this is the closest thing we've
ever had in this country to state-run
television i mean and it's in it is
degrading democracy every single day
that it's on the air by just reading
disinformation and reporters who are
trying to like
uphold the values of a free press and
get at the truth should be particularly
concerned that there's a network out
there that's spreading disinformation
when they're trying to do their jobs
they should be mad about it I don't
understand it's really my bit I'd like
to take another take assign it shut
another part of the urgently for
argument of stupidity we've heard the
last two days one is Howard Democrats
ever gonna win over force if they don't
go on oh right yeah okay now a couple of
things one as far as I know there is
nothing that prohibits Fox viewers from
having remote control to enable them to
change the channel to watch debates on
other channels too when the Republicans
decided not to go on MSNBC after having
lost the popular vote in five of the
last seven elections I don't remember a
bunch of political lags saying well how
the Republicans going to get the MSNBC
viewer like what is what does that mean
why are they scared of taking questions
from Rachel Maddow like no one said that
and here's the other thing Sean Hannity
who has the most-watched program on that
network gets three million butter sorry
gets three million viewers there were a
hundred and twenty eight million voters
in the 2016 election do you think that
three million sean hannity voters or
people remake a difference so we have to
reach voters who live in the towns where
foxes in a mole mosh station absolutely
do we have to reach people who have the
same profile as the three million people
who are watching on Hannity yes do we
have to broaden the reach of the party
to reach into more rule and exurban
areas yes but the idea that the only way
to do that is to offer Fox television
could paint during the Democratic
primary it's so simple-minded that it
blows the mind well there are ways to
reach voters we need without giving
putting a in promoter of legitimacy on
Fox News and giving them more money to
then use to try to destroy democracy in
this country because that is what a
debate is it is a profit-making
enterprise for
and news network yeah and the Democratic
National Committee made the exact right
decision in frankly this whole
conversation is stupid because even if
they had given them a debate it wouldn't
have happened because a number of
Democrats would have decided not to go
to a debate they didn't want to do
exactly what we just said and we know
this because that's what happened in
2008 when the devil he must admit he
gave Hawks a debate then it was reported
that Roger Ailes
would refer to Barack Obama as Obama bin
Laden and we decided to cancel the
couple Democrats had to cancel debate
and they made that happen so we've had
we have wasted all of our times and
decided to be many reporters have
decided to reveal something to the
country and just how inside the bubble
and simple-minded they are it's very
frustrating if yet if you are a voter
who only gets your news from Fox News
it's your only source of news you are
not voting Democrat if you are one of
the voters who gets your news from Fox
but also many other outlets then you are
potentially a democratic voter but in
that case you can find the debate on any
of the other news channels that you
watch it's really that simple there are
Democrats independents who watch Fox
News for sure but those people who are
watching Fox News are also exposed to a
whole bunch of other media if they are
actually up for grabs voters when you
are ensconced in the Fox News bubble and
that is the only thing that you watch
we're probably not getting your vote and
we all have relatives we have friends we
have family members who have fallen into
this trap
and we've unlike and this wife a lot of
people are outraged like I we I have
seen what Fox News has done to people in
my life that have changed their
political persuasion because of the
disinformation that has pumped out of
that network it is a cancer on democracy
all right let's talk about 2020 this was
the week where a bunch of people decided
not to run for president a former
attorney General Eric Holder wrote in an
op-ed in the Washington Post on Monday
that he'll remain focused on his work to
fight partisan gerrymandering Oregon
Senator Jeff Merkley who's quite
progressive announced on Tuesday that
he'll focus on running for your election
re-election to the Senate in former New
York City Michael I'm sorry and former
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg
and that's this week that he'll be
spending his time and money over the
next two years to fighting Trump's
reelection and
fighting climate change meanwhile
Hillary Clinton reiterated this week
that she won't be a candidate in 2020
paving the way for a nasty Trump tweet
and a Clinton response tweet that
included a Mean Girls gift because we're
all living in 2016 forever and also as
we were recording breaking news sherrod
Brown senator sherrod Brown from Ohio
has also decided that he will not be
running for president so yeah have I
just I know when when we when we lost
you for a second and we had to call you
back
Michael Michael let me know and of
course my wife was texting me too
because she used to work for sherrod
what's what's your take on all these
announcements that that they're not
running for president
because that's the normal thing that
happens usually there's a large group of
potential candidates people who have who
are thinking about it possibly who
thought they would do it one day in
their life or who are sort of talked
about as good candidates and most of
them end up not running and if you do we
just had the opposite problem where
everyone who any one thought might ever
possibly run was getting in the race and
yeah in some ways not running is a
harder decision than deciding to run and
because you really are sort of in some
ways closing off a path to yourself then
it takes a lot of self-awareness both of
your political situation maybe your
family situation etc to decide that the
odds are too long the sacrifice too
great for to do it and I think so you
know actually you know I mean kudos
these people for making the decision I
am a little disappointed I will say that
sherrod Brown is not running we know we
haven't seen much shirt a lot star cast
you you know you obviously know him for
a very long time I thought he would have
added an interesting I thought he was
someone who like there was there were
some people who have a very very low
likelihood of winning and people who
have a shot I think sure it would have
had more of a shot than potentially the
other folks we discussed ya know I think
look Jerry Brown has near impeccable
forget progressive credentials and as a
very progressive senator won Ohio
multiple times a state that has been
slipping away from Democrats and you
know we got crushed in Ohio in 20
and Sherrod still won and he won not by
just you know emphasizing populist
economics only in sort of ignoring
social and cultural issues he won is a
proud progressive across the spectrum
and I think there's a lesson in and how
shared one for other Democrats and
shared with someone on the trail as he
was on his dignity of work tour who you
know he's like here's my view of
Medicare for all I think we should lower
the age to 55 and I should we should
take it one step at a time and I think
that's what can get passed and I'm not
gonna just take a position because I
think that's the position you're
supposed to take to appease you know
certain activists I'm gonna do what I
think is right because I'm focused on
trying to you know help improve people's
lives and that's that's what it is if
you like that great if you don't like
that that's fine
and whether you agree with that or not
like good for him for for saying
something like that you know and for
enforced anding strong on what he
believes yeah I mean the race is
probably a little bit lesser for not
having sure its perspective in there but
as soon as we have a nominee I'm pretty
positive that Sharon is moving the top
of most people's vice presidential
potential vice presidential nominee list
yeah how big of a deal do you think it
is that Bloomberg is going all-in to
beat Trump since he has since he's a man
of means who's not was not yeah I think
that's our jobs wanted to call people
who when he did he people of means but
either way so good I look
Bloomberg has become one of the most
important players in progressive in
democratic politics you know he played a
very important role in helping Democrats
in great success in 2018 he has done
tremendous amount on climate and on
pushing gun safety legislation both
trying to elect candidates who fight for
gun safety legislation and pushing
things at the state and local level and
he's surrounded by a lot of smart people
and if he's I think what he has talked
about doing
so have a real impact and helps like I
would love to live in a world where all
campaigns are either publicly financed
or fund and did the grassroots with
contributions under like five hundred
dollars I think what we don't live that
way and in this election differently
2016 which we forget is that all the
Republican billionaires out the
presidential election last time mmm and
now flush with giant tax cuts from Paul
Ryan and Donald Trump they are going to
be massive players and so the Democrat
is going to get swamped and money so it
doesn't mean they're gonna lose money if
not everything but they're gonna get
swamped and it's Bloomberg is out there
strategically deploying resources in
smart ways and it's going to be very
helpful and so I am grateful that he
they even though he decided not to run
he's not sitting on the sidelines yeah I
mean 100 million dollars in 2018 is is
not nothing that's what he spent to help
elect Democrats so good for Bloomberg
for doing that and again not just
politics to like you know he his beyond
coal campaign helped retire like half
the coal-fired power plants in this
country he wants to get rid of all of
them in the next couple years he wants
to make sure that we are you know 100
percent renewable energy clean energy
economy so good for him I'm glad he's
I'm glad he's still in the fight finally
you and I have talked in the past about
how the concept of electability has
basically lost all its meaning well
there's a excellent BuzzFeed piece this
week by Molly Hensley Clancy titled
Democratic voters want electability but
that doesn't mean they want a centrist
for president in the piece she writes
quote the vast majority of Democratic
voters aren't thinking about
electability in terms of ideology
geography or electoral margin according
to interviews with more than 50
Democratic voters in early primary
States far from tying electability to
centrism a mark or moderation voter said
they cared about rhetoric personality
energy and momentum when deciding if a
candidate could win many others said
they were looking primarily for someone
who spoke specifically to the concerns
of working-class people some wanted a
fighter who could parry Trump's rhetoric
just two out of the 50 said they were
looking for a political moderate so Dan
these voters are largely separating
electability from ideology which is
something that no political pundit has
ever done
is that do you think that's
representative of how most voters think
I I think like issue point electability
is this term that means nothing because
no one knows what it means and you only
I can't it's only elected look they win
and so it's like what a reverse
engineered thing where John Kerry was
not electable but Brock Obama was
Hillary Clinton was out like the bull
the Donald Trump was but we have no idea
what exactly that means and it okay it
does not take into consideration context
it does not take into consideration the
larger electoral forces or the economy
or anything else it like we will say
this 1,000 times three now and 2020 is
that most voters are not ideological
yeah most electable Democrat Democrat
and frankly the most electable we try to
get the most electable Democrat and one
of the most electable people in modern
American history is Barack Hussein Obama
and anti-war Democrats in the South Asia
Chicago via Hawaii in Indonesia with a
father from Kenya right like that is not
there's no model where that suggests
that's the most electable candidate and
so the ability of to inspire people and
that's it while at the same time seeing
seeming inclusive and honest and decent
is how you win elections and that's what
that's what our most electable candidate
will be it will not necessarily be what
we know where they fall on some sort of
ideological spectrum as dictated by a
group of people of blue checkmarks on
Twitter and it's not to say that each of
these candidates doesn't need to come up
with an argument for why they are the
most electable candidate against Donald
Trump and and and Obama did that he had
an electability argument 2008 remember
you know he would say like my opponent
in the general election won't be able to
say that I was for the war in Iraq right
like I will have that difference so he
he basically said he was electable
because he would offer a contrast
between himself and the Republican
nominee by saying he was the only
Democrat who was against the war he also
said like you know my opponent won't be
able to say that I took lobbyist money
or PAC money because Obama was unique
and and swearing off lobbyists money
back in 2008 and so there's different
ways to present your argument for being
the most electable candidate that's not
like oh you know I can go after MA
at centrist voters which is which is
sort of the stereotype you know right
electability is not a reason in of
itself to run for president like the
candidates who know neither themselves
is the most electable lose because if
you don't stand for anything other than
winning then you're gonna be a terrible
candidate because you have to stand for
something then look if you are people I
am NOT arguing that voters should pick
try to pick the most electable candidate
they should pick the candidate that
inspires them though they inspire them
through their life story their
personality their policy positions their
their speeches whatever it if a
candidate you feel the most strongly
about and someone you should do in the
hope is that we will pick we would like
the candidate who comes out will be the
most electable Democrat whether that
person will kill one up to be Trump is a
question that remains open but if you
can't go through the very long and
complicated process of winning the
nomination then you're not the most
electable candidate right yeah like just
you didn't run a good enough campaign to
win and therefore you're not just if you
didn't intend to win the primary you're
not gonna skip into in the general I
mean but and so I think that the lesson
from this is one we have to stop putting
DC pundit based or Twitter based views
on the voters who will decide the
election right Twitter is not a poll
Twitter something I'm kind of primary
Twitter is not America and the things
that the Democratic voters care about
are going to be different than the
things that make up the conversations in
DC or make up the conversations on
player and we should allow research and
anecdotes I'm certainly check it we
should allow research and what voters
tell us to guide that conversation not
what we want that conversation to say
based on our previous experience or the
Oh where we hang out underline yeah I
mean it was an interesting question you
know given the predictions about
electability are often wrong and they're
almost always created with you know
racial and gender stereotypes right like
Oh a white man is it's gonna be more
electable right like this there's all
this out there about
electability
but how should Democratic voters think
about picking the right person to run
against Trump know
when you interview a lot of these voters
they say I just want someone who can be
Trump but also what that means to each
individual voter is quite different
right and it's also but I always find
that poll question I think I've ran
about destroy that coalition that poll
question to be stupid we know which is
obviously you want someone who can be
Trump like that's table stakes like
what's the point of like no one picks on
you can't be wrong because of what the
 are we doing but you're right how
people interpret what that means is
really different for everyone
yeah so it it is not particularly
instructive of how voters will choose
right just because they want the most
electable candidate mean there's a
certain model of candidate based on
background or policy positions or
appearance or background or whatever
else that will dictate that it just
means that they want to win the election
right I mean I do it's interesting like
in this piece there was someone
there's a guy interviewed who said that
you know he's leaning towards Kamala
Harris and he said she represents
someone who can win
I think her ethnicity and the fact that
she's a woman is a great contrast to the
fellow we have in the office for a lack
of a better way of saying it I think
seeing her across the debate stage from
him will make him pee his pants and I'm
okay with that
okay that was funny but it's like that
is that that man is approaching the race
with electability in mind but his notion
of electability is Kamala Harris offers
the best contrast to Donald Trump so I
do think it's interesting that for like
electability can be important to voters
but what they decide is electable is is
is vastly different across different
kind of people and I do think like as is
if you're concerned about who can
actually be Trump you should think about
like who do I want on the debate stage
with him right
who when Trump attacks and says
something horrible about the person how
are they gonna react how is that person
gonna handle adversity on the campaign
trail right the first time something
something bad happens whether it's from
Donald Trump or something else I mean
for Barack Obama sort of a defining
moment in the o8 race was after the
Reverend Wright tapes came out how did
he respond to that right that was a real
crisis in our campaign and do you
respond to that by you know doing a few
interviews and trying to ignore the
issue and move on and being afraid of it
or do you
what he did which is like you know write
an entire speech about race relations in
America deliver that which is a very
honest sort of gritty speech that he
delivered and I think figuring out as
you're looking at the candidates like
who can really who has that extra gear
when the going gets tough and Donald
Trump attacks and the Republican super
PACs attack or something in their past
comes up or you know whatever might
happen who can really stand up in a way
that is authentic and real and honest
with people and can you know and can
stand up that way like I think that's
that's probably an important
consideration yeah I think what we know
what it takes
mathematically to win the White House
based on the electoral college which is
you have to at the same time excite the
Democratic base and turn out new voters
people who've sat out the process before
inspired them to get involved and
persuade a number of voters who are in
the middle I don't say it mean they're
in the middle in the ideologically I
mean that they were Obama voters in 12
became Trump voters in 16 or were Romney
voters in 12 McCain Clinton 16 you have
to be able to inspire and persuade you
know either or you lose that's right
it's just that is the math electoral
college where you need Pennsylvania
Michigan Wisconsin in some combination
of states to get to 270 this were
popular but election you could actually
choose between those two but it's not
yeah and so I do not know who the
candidates who'll be able to do that
best but you want to find someone who
has been most broadly appearing
inspiring message yeah I mean when I
asked our friend David Plouffe this way
back when when I was doing the
wilderness he said you know you need a
candidate who is gonna inspire young
kids to work 24 hours a day seven days a
week because they're so inspired by this
person and that person can still compete
anywhere talk to anyone go to places
that you know Democrats might not
usually go and you need someone who can
do both of those things and that's what
he said way back when and you know we'll
see we'll see who can who can measure up
okay when we come back we will have Jon
Lovitz interview with John Legend
you
you
