now it's time for a game called okay
stop a little clip and the panel could
say okay stop at any point to comment
liberals they're snowflakes looking for
safe spaces who need trigger warnings
before anyone challenges their belief
system not like Tucker Carlson who can
deal with being challenged on his
program let's take a listen to one
segment he recently cut from his show
let's watch this very low-quality video
is one of corruption of people being
bribed and of not being you know not
talking about the real issues and what
the family you know what the Murdochs
basically want you to do is to scapegoat
immigrants instead of talking about
decks avoidance so I'm glad you're now
finally raising the issue but that's
what been been happening for the past
couple of years
no I mean it doesn't work okay stop like
no obviously I'm not saying you're like
taking orders I mean but the money comes
from the Murdochs you take the money
then you do with the Murdochs money yeah
the obvious obvious to everybody like
know obviously the Murdochs don't call
you up and say here's your orders you're
part of a very an elaborate latticework
of corruption that starts from the
Murdochs and slowly winds its way down
through a vast system of corporate
influence and money that eventually
lines your pockets and creates an
incentive structure that encourages you
to take certain positions and not others
and one of those positions is to talk
about immigrants instead of talking
about the real cause of the problems of
the American middle class indirectly
obviously
are you sure that there isn't just like
one of those like little receipt things
like at a restaurant that like the
Murdochs type something in and then like
the Fox News headquarters like a ticket
comes up and that's
I'm not sure it's not that direct the
yeah you know it's funny one of the
things in the last couple years is you
know I feel like the the the naive view
is supposed to be like these guys like
there's there's internecine super-secret
cabal plotting crimes inside the White
House then the sophisticated view is
there just dopes trying to make it there
and they're not actually doing that but
then the then the one level up super
sophisticated galaxy brain is like nope
crimes in the oval explicit happening
constantly and like like yeah yeah
that's what it's like when we every time
we see a Don junior email it's like dear
criminal mastermind it's me your friend
Don let's do the crimes today what time
is good for you if you're a cop you have
to tell me you've been part of the Cato
Institute right you're you've been a
senior fellow there for years you've
been you've been taking their dirty
money they're funded by coke
billionaires you know it's true right
it's true right that all the all the
anchors okay so I I love the idea that
Tucker Carlson is back in a studio just
muttering and the only the only thing
that translated
was all the anchors on Fox they're
all millionaires how is this possible
well it's very easy you're just gonna
talk about certain things okay stop I
like that
[Applause]
what wait till he finds it about the
internet yeah Fox doesn't even play
where you are how do you know she
doesn't even go to this school play
where you are it's great that's great
that's it that's the moment you found
out yeah or a millionaire funded by
billionaires and that's the reason why
you're not talking about these issues
come on you jump the bandwagon you're
all like oh I'm against a globalist
elite blah blah blah Dutch guy coming in
here children whose boss what I love
about this is that it's being recorded
from you know Dutch wind I don't know
where that Amsterdam right and so it's
not on his show because when it's edited
you can never hear one of his guests
speaking because he says yelling over
them but here you know it's right here
you can finally hear what one of those
guys say Eddie usually brings on people
who are like aren't smart uh-huh that he
can like yell over and argue with and
that's what is just very funny it's just
it's so funny to get so frustrated on
your own show
[Music]
[Music]
