now it's time for a game called okay
stop flip panel can say okay stop at any
point to comment John Kerry earlier this
week he testified before a House
Committee on climate change when
Kentucky representative Thomas Massie
decided to question John Kerry's
credentials it was wild
it sounds like you're questioning the
credentials of the president's advisors
currently but I don't think we should
question your credentials today isn't it
true you have a science degree from Yale
Bachelor of Arts degree is it a
political science degree yes so how do
you get a rattler of Arts into science
okay stop
[Applause]
[Music]
not not the answer he was looking for
although what was a member of Congress I
also want you all to know something
because we're here in Mountain did a
little digging on this fellow he got a
degree at one of your mid tier schools
here in Boston called with Massachusetts
Institute of Technology this man's a
goddamn scientist mighty grand every
time shame on you
ben Carson hits the national stage I
discover that brain surgery's easier
than I thought it was Howard Schultz
runs for president I discover running
Starbucks is easier than I thought it
was what he did I do it over there at
MIT
well it's liberal arts education then
degree it's a bachelor okay so it's not
really science so I think it's somewhat
appropriate to talk Vietnam veteran John
Kerry wants to serve his country even
more he gets a political science degree
but it's not science
I mean I just look like poor John Kerry
sitting there it was like Vietnam
veteran senator presidential nominee
Secretary of State and now I'm
explaining to this douchebag what a
liberal arts degree is because he
doesn't understand what a Bachelor of
Science is John Kerry has faced down the
Vietcong President Bush now he has come
either I was stupid
yeah there's a college counselor for a
fifth year senior trying to figure out
what the hell he wants to do with his
life with the pseudo science degree is
here pushing pseudoscience okay so
listen I I do think it's fair to call a
political science degree from Yale
pseudoscience like I got to play it
straight all right
I don't like where he goes with it I
don't like his aims I don't like this
guy I'll be honest but but we can tell
the truth about a better BA in political
science if it were as a BA in American
Studies even a little wishy-washy er
than that I think if he had said a BA in
economics we would say that's a dismal
science it's made stuff up political
science is I think something he should
respect as a politician every time he
looks at his campaigns polls that's part
of political science okay our committee
today I want to ask you are you serious
[Applause]
John Kerry's like that's the line I
should have used it that debate that is
the funniest John Kerry has ever been in
his whole life that's the rudest
thing a Boston Brahmin is ever it's also
a pent up are you serious are you
serious since you a swift voted like
it's just like are you serious
is everyone all of you seven
but it's not science you're not quoting
science I'd well you're the science
expert you got the political science
degree we now know that definitively at
no point during the least the past
800,000 years has atmospheric co2 been
as high as it is today
the reason you chose 800,000 years ago
is because for 200 million years before
that was greater than than it is today
and I'm going to survey the further
record yeah but there weren't human
beings I mean there was a different war
folks we didn't help really tripped up
the MIT grad did we're gonna boil alive
on this planet and it's all time we make
preparations yeah no I think it's also
like I don't know this masse fellow and
I don't know what led him to public
office to career of serving his home but
I don't think Massey believes he's a
tool of a large corporate propaganda
effort designed for moments just like
this I believe he is at least in some
way believing he is an angry MIT
scientists again thanks a lot Boston
really crushing it representing
representing a you're saying Cambridge
and fair enough fair enough really is a
whole nother state really is a sore on
evil i up there the but fair like an
entire apparatus of propaganda has been
built over decades to lead to this
moment of john kerry faithfully and
honestly trying to relay science to an
to an engineer who wants no part of it
to a lump of coal come to life ya know
but it's just a reminder too that so
much of this is not about persuasion of
someone like this that there's nothing
john kerry could say in this moment to
persuade this someone to believe the
truth because this entire career his
entire livelihood depends
on making sure his job is to act in
Paris on behalf a come that's 2019 but
there's a there's a broader point here
which is there is a connection between
this gentleman serving in Congress and
asking these questions Donald Trump
being president and Fox News's dominance
on the right is it is created an
incentive for stupidity
right there is there is not an argument
to be made it is to basically act as
dumb as you possibly can and that will
get you plaudits retweets cable spots
from the dumbest people in America who
currently run America right yeah yeah
to 2,000 parts per million if we humans
weren't here because there were all
kinds of geologic events happening on
earth which spewed a geology stop when
we got on the planet mr. chairman oh
this is just an eye a serious
conversation John Kerry putting a big
win on the board and that's okay stop
you
