on the line from Washington DC is
congresswoman Elissa slot Kaneesha ghen
she is a former Assistant Secretary of
Defense and a ce staffer CIA analyst in
a card-carrying member of the freshman
badass caucus OSS flocking thank you so
much for doing the show it is exciting
to have you on like there's just amazing
world of administration alumni who are
now representing us in Congress yeah
thanks for having me it's fun to be here
it's so cool um so congressman you
worked in the Intel community at the
Defense Department and a number of
senior roles including the point person
on Isis and Syria do you have any idea
what trump Syria policy is right now and
and what do you think the impact is of
his flip-flopping on whether or not to
keep troops in their region yeah I mean
I don't know that there's anyone who
feels like they have a firm handle on
what our Syria policy right now
obviously I have major problems with
both process and policy I just I
obviously didn't agree with me
announcing any of this by Twitter and in
the intervening days as we've had Bolton
and others kind of come back and say
well not really we sort of picked that
back it just laid out what we knew which
is that it's just been really difficult
to follow who's the voice here on
foreign policy and then obviously on
substance you know the fight against
Isis is not over we know what happens
when you leave you know cells of
terrorists just doing what they want in
territory that's uncovered and then
honestly something that caught my
attention was John Bolton's comments
from Israel where clearly the Israelis
were very concerned our allies were very
concerned to hear about you know Trump's
announcement of the pullout and Bolton
said you know we're pulling out of the
fight against Isis but we're going to
maintain a presence in Iran I'm sorry in
the pomp to counter the Iranian threat
and you know that certainly got my
attention as someone who's now in
Congress obviously countering the
Iranian threat I'm a big fan of but you
got to come back to Congress and explain
what you're doing and get permission to
stationed troops in a combat zone when
the mission is not al Qaeda or Isis Oh
so we're gonna we're talking war powers
now well I got radio I mean transcript
that I read of John Bolton but he said
we're staying it out Tom you know this
town in southern Syria because it's a
way station for the Iranians to move
things back and forth and there is an
Isis in that town and you know as well
as I do that right now
the military has permission to act
against Al Qaeda and against Isis yeah
and they need to come back to Congress
if they want to prosecute something new
against Iran god it's so great to hear a
member of Congress say that because
Obama Bush to prompt there's not enough
pushback I mean yeah Ben and I were
talking earlier about some of the things
John Bolton was saying were the
conditions for that would have to be met
to get troops out of Syria and it was
basically completely eradicate Isis
which is going to be impossible if you
think we're defeating an idea
protecting the Kurds from the Turks and
then right there's this there's this
overtone of pushing back on Iran in
Syria as part of that mission and you
know in some ways to me it sounded like
a de facto recipe for an indefinite
troop presence but you're right it has
absolutely not been authorized by
Congress or in any law yeah and like I
said I mean I was a Shia analyst at the
CIA I spent a lot of my early career
exposing and and sort of linking Iranian
nefarious activities to some of the bad
things that were happening in the the
shooting against you know US forces in
Iraq so I am by no means sympathetic to
the Iranians and their agenda in the
Middle East but like I just believe
there is a clear distinction as laid out
in the Constitution on the role of
Congress yeah and I know that Congress
has sort of abrogated their
responsibility for you know a long time
basically since 2001 2002 of providing
oversight and as someone who worked at
the Pentagon I just I believe the system
works best when both the executive
branch and the legislative branch
understand what our policy is and it's
there's a clear mandate from both bodies
to be there amen
you
I imagine had to talk to a lot of
foreign counterparts about policy
choices made by administration's talking
to partners in the region about Obama's
plan to combat Isis what do you think
they're thinking right now about their
ability to count on America to stand
with them in this fight or any other
fight like how did they respond to us
just being all over the place yeah I
mean I think obviously particularly our
partners who were fighting with us in
Syria who literally rely on the American
backbone in order to prosecute the fight
against Isis who are the ones who are
going to have attacks in their capitals
probably before we have attacks in our
capitals I think it's just a it is a
betrayal it is to do policy by Twitter
and not properly consult our allies when
they are risking blood and treasure to
be there and you know join us in this
fight I think is it is just a major
break with what an allied relationship
has been since World War two yeah and I
think that what it does also for the
Kurds who were fighting with us in
northern Syria you know the next time
we're trying to engage in the world five
years from now ten years from now and
there's a group who's willing to fight
terrorists and you know you say to them
listen we're gonna help you and support
you
we're the United States of America fight
with us they're gonna say we know what
America does you use us and you fight
you have us fight Isis or you have a
fight a terrorist group and then you
leave us without warning so I think it's
that's really dangerous president
precedents both with allies on the
ground and the coalition countries that
are fighting with us yeah and
unfortunately for the Kurds this
probably feels all too familiar well we
do know that Trump Syria announcement
managed to drive his Secretary of
Defense and head of Isis diplomacy Brett
McGurk out of government so that's not
great I imagine you still have countless
friends at DoD and CIA how worried are
you about morale and attrition and
people just getting fed up and leaving
yeah so I know that morale and OSD
office of Secretary of Defense is pretty
low I think a lot of the folks who are
there are really big believers in
serving their country and they
they're willing to weather a certain
amount of political instability but I
think general mattis was certainly
setting a tone in the Pentagon that
people understood and felt like you know
was a leader that they could believe in
and so his law
I mean his departure is a big loss for
the staff I certainly know a lot of the
younger staff have been departing and I
know because they're looking for jobs
with me and other people here on the
hill and I think we need to think about
what does it mean if a generation of
both young people and some of our most
senior folks are all departing
government now are all saying to
themselves I'd rather you know turn tail
and get out then have to serve here I
mean what is that going to do for the
future of government service 5 10 15
years down the line if we're not growing
that new generation so we'll have major
repair work to do yeah I was really glad
you mentioned War Powers earlier I mean
the president has a lot of latitude to
conduct foreign policy but do you think
that in addition to the War Powers
conversation that this Congress can
provide a meaningful check on Trump when
it comes to foreign policy given all
that he can do under article 2 yeah
listen we built a system where the
president has really expansive powers we
all understand that there are some
significant powers also given to the
Congress they need to exercise them and
I think that it's been a while since
we've been really you know sort of
approaching that oversight role with
vigor I think to be honest with you it's
for a long time been sort of a standard
that maybe Republicans are thought to
care more about defense and national
security than Democrats and I think we
see a real shift going on right now and
I think that a number of us coming in in
the freshman class have eight deep
national security background we plan to
put it to use the president can do a lot
of things but we also have quite a big
spotlight that we can place on things
and that's the fundamental difference
between Congress three months ago in
Congress today is we're able to shine a
spotlight on the things that are
concerning us when it has to do this
with the security and safety of our
troops abroad and you know our mandate
in the world so having hearing calling
people up to testify things that I used
to do under the Obama administration
that's the norm
order and we need to get back to that
yeah you served in Iraq alongside US
soldiers and diplomats your husband I
believe served in the US Army how did it
make you and your family feel when you
saw President Trump send troops to the
border and a naked ly political effort
to drive up fear about immigration right
before an election yeah I mean I think
anytime we're talking about sending US
soldiers Air Force Marines to a mission
that may not be required fun first of
all it just breaks with again our
tradition of being really judicious
about where we send US forces especially
within the United States and then it
also I think breaks face with the
military because it should be that we
are only sending them on missions that
are truly required and I I think as
someone who has a stepdaughter who's a
brand-new army officer my husband was
thirty years in the army my
stepdaughters of position for the VA we
are a service family and and it's part
of the reason I decided to run was I'm
not a political person I haven't been by
training I worked for both Bush and
Obama but the the kinds of things that
are going on now the tone and tenor the
actions that the president are taking it
just feels unbecoming of the country
unbecoming of the military and it just
it's um it's really just my head shaking
yeah it's really frustrating um I know
that you have an incredibly busy day and
I'm grateful for the time so I'll ask
you one final very difficult question
shutting down the government because Ann
Coulter was mean to you good idea or bad
idea obviously if someone who's a
federal worker for 14 years shutting
down the government should be absolutely
a course of last resort we all care
about the border I'm a big believer in
preserving our borders but shutting down
the government because you can't get
what you want instead of engaging in a
real negotiation is just to me again it
breaks with the fundamental
responsibility of the executive and
legislative branch so we went ahead the
house went ahead on our first date and
passed Mitch McConnell's bills to reopen
the government
his funding bills we didn't change a
thing so that we could speak with the
United worst voice that the president
get the government opened then we can
have a real conversation about border
security not just throwing a wall around
but if there's a issue at the border and
I can concede that there are some places
where we need to improve the security
for sure let's talk about it no more
border agents more technology but this
is obviously a political move and to
throw the lives of so many federal
workers and so many missions of the
federal government into doubt is I just
I just again I don't think it's
unbecoming of the White House I mean
just one last question do you do you see
any light at the end of tunnel here on
this shutdown is there any progress
being made that we're not hearing about
you know I think that there is an
interesting conversation going on among
Republican senators right now about what
to do and I know a number of them have
already said okay I'm willing to vote
again for the same bill I approved
before the Mitch McConnell you know
funding bills and I think if a few more
start to do that and you start to have
the numbers you need to pass both the
House and the Senate well then maybe the
conversation starts to change I think
with there's always been a need for
everyone to stand up when something is
not right and when we need to get some
work done not just Democrats and so I
think that there is some progress being
made on that front but you know the
president is making an announcement
tonight and we'll see what comes out of
that but we have designed a system where
the president has a lot of powers and he
can use them so we'll have to see
congresswoman thank you so much for your
time thank you for your service for your
family service and I am so excited to
see what what you do in this class does
on foreign policy and everything else
this thanks so much
you
