it's been a little over a week since the
first democratic debate and a lot has
changed by Sanders saw their numbers go
down Warren Harris and Castro saw their
numbers go up and John Delaney saw
himself on television for the very first
time this got us thinking how do these
moments stack up against some of the
greatest moments in debate history so we
thought we'd let the audience decide in
a game we're calling the first annual
lincoln Chafee memorial debate II Awards
Emily and I will present a category and
then show clips of our nominees and then
need you then you the audience will
decide together who wins are you guys
all ready to play the oh my god he's
right behind her award for for best
physical gaffe a in a 2000 debate Al
Gore suddenly stood up and walked
directly at george w bush it was not
Gore's turn to speak Bush just gave a
little smile at a nod and honestly Gore
looked like a huge loser it was
devastating that's what the question in
this campaign is about it's not only
what's your philosophy and what's your
position on issues but can you get
things done an environmentalist could
physically intimidate a cokehead cowboy
wannabe who's been representing Texas
for several years two more options is
it'd be in 1992 George HW Bush checked
his watch while an audience member was
asking your question it was not ideal
for him but to be fair people and
audiences who asked questions are
without fail tedious morons we have a
question right here yes how has a
national debt that's it that's what a
world where that was a gaffe checking
the time Donald Trump rejects the
existence of time see before a 2016
Republican primary debate ben Carson and
Donald Trump didn't hear their names
called and just sort of stood in the
wings
and Jeb Bush smacked Trump's arm which
was honestly the coolest thing Jeb Bush
has ever done Florida Senator Marco
Rubio
 Governor Jeb Bush you know what
it is I don't even think they didn't
hear their names I think this is the
thing where you get to the top of the
waterslide and then you change your mind
and you're like you guys go ahead okay
so our three options are Al Gore coming
at George W Bush get out style George HW
Bush checking his watch or pin Carson
and Donald Trump just kicking it in the
wings okay do we want Al Gore doing a
lot HW checking his watch where do we
want Ben Carson Donald Trump Gore one
right Gore one that word congratulations
to whoever he is well you're gonna have
to do a recount but it was right there
you'd be mad if I didn't take it
[Music]
