[Applause]
now it's time for a game called okay
stop here's how it works
we'll roll the clip and the panel can
say okay stop at any point to comment
Fox and Friends also known as The View
for fascists is what Donald Trump
ingests every day instead of the daily
presidential briefing that means
everything they say works its way into
Donald Trump's very very cool brain
speaking of what's good for the country
what about Medicare for all this is this
a horrible for the country
you talk about taking health care away
from Americans remember if you like your
document how like I'm not great at math
but I don't know the math you have to do
to come up with the sum that no one gets
health care it's for all it's in the
name I hate this deeper doctor if you
like your plan you can keep your plan
this this Medicare for all is Medicare
for health care for none what happens is
if you have your guy stopped yeah what
what are they talking about
plan through your through your Union
you're a welder you're a teacher and you
have your health care plan to your
teacher plan lose it going going you
have you have a that how can you
just lie like I know it's Fox News but
just like people are just like so here's
how you do it basically takes some time
but I think first first you allow little
bits of deception into the way you think
about the world at over time as you sit
in front of the camera day after day you
don't realize but with each morning as
you more and more adapt the talking
points that come from higher up you
slowly lose the part of yourself that
noticed that there was a difference that
you then create a different version of
yourself there's the version of yourself
that's on camera that's the person who
reads what's in the prompter and then
there's the version of yourself that's
decent and kind and honest in your
personal dealings and increasingly you
view the person you are on camera in
this city in this studio as not you but
the you that's on Fox use the you that's
doing a job that you that make
compromises along the way to be this
person that understands that there's
trade-offs between the money
ultimately you view yourself as being a
good person who makes some compromises
not a compromised person who
occasionally does some good and over
time as you repeatedly violate the basic
tenants of who you are as a person as
you repeatedly undermine your sense of
right and wrong you get further and
further away from even being able to
hear the difference to the point where
you could say literally anything where
you can sit in front of a camera and say
up is down and black is white and Trump
is innocent and shift should be the
shift should be impeach that you can get
yourself to the point where you can say
anything I think that's how it might
happen there's there is ZERO private
insurance and so you know if you've met
ok sorry the black woman in the blonde
wig that they literally put in there to
be another white person that isn't there
like they won't notice will pan quickly
and they just pan real slow and like
these people are looking right at the
camera next to him like we know she's
black
what's going on here Wisconsin we have
BadgerCare it would be a watered-down
BadgerCare so instead of shooting for
the star okay stop don't talk about
badger care on Fox and Friends so he's
trying to say that medicare-for-all
won't be as good as Medicare it'll be a
watered down version of Medicaid badger
badger cares Wisconsin's Medicaid right
so for example governor eavers our new
governor has just proposed expanding
badger care which is the awesome idea
it's a great idea and like Medicaid for
all is a lot better than nothing for all
and it's an idea that is coming out in
various different places and what is he
talking about does he think that like
fox viewers hate badger hair well
everyone loves magic hair so I think
they're trying to so I think it's worth
talking about the actual substance of
what they're doing here because I think
this is what we will increasingly see
and I do think it's worth remembering
they're making the case that will
eventually be made against democratic
priorities and it's gonna be some
version of what they're saying they will
take away the plan that you like and
what you will end up with is worse than
Medicaid which is another way of saying
to their white audience you're gonna end
up with health care for black people
I really think that that is under a lot
of what goes on and out of that well
that but that's there like we don't want
one we want we want what we have not
what not what the states provide to poor
in mine are those to those people I do
think that's part of it and you know
this this notion of what do you what he
said right if you have a union plan
they'll take that away if you have a you
said the Fox News plan they'll take that
away of course obviously the flat Fox
News health care plan is just it's a
witch's Potts and Ann Coulter and
Sebastian Gorka stand around it and say
a trance and actually the liquid changes
colors and once they get enough blood
from from wolves into the pot they ladle
it out and it does make you younger
their plans for people improving the
plans and the coverage they go to the
lowest common denominator and they're
crappy plans for everybody
can we just talk about how this whole
conversation and a lot of us even like
thus including in this room like this
conversation is not happening with
disabled or like differently abled
people that are directly impacted by the
healthcare system right and it's like I
want to hear here's someone that is
disabled or differently abled saying I
want Medicare for all
give me that person right like finds me
that person and that'll be a lot more
persuasive also don't find me a white
person because y'all got privilege I
want to hear that anymore
I'm over it I think what it really comes
down to is Americans are still Americans
we're not socialists we're not
communists we like choice and we like to
have okay so not pro-choice yeah what
choices elaborate you're not letting me
choose what happens to my body though
which I like choice cool cool cool all
right Kara especially because it is so
personal it is so important to everybody
especially those of us with kids or
elderly parents so I think I think
Sean's absolutely ready husband's right
since what does that happen are they
married
[Laughter]
what's going on over there at Fox News I
just want to know what kool-aid they're
drinking or what we they're smoking its
money and they do and they do not smoke
weed
[Music]
