rely what's up youtubers hey I'd never
get to smash smash that like button and
look to your right for some content that
my radicalize you in a variety of ways
yep you're always look Alex Jones right
as Reagan said your is one generation
away from not having any freedom and um
YouTube always two clicks away from
anti-semitism cool we're joining in Tifa
which is okay it's the pot it's a
positive America live stream with
positive America let's stream whoo no
we're not no we're not I'm John Lovett
I'm Tommy Vitor I'm Priyanka
we got Priyanka on the ones and twos you
got Elijah
we got an art we got Maggie we got a
good crew today of Maggie's it bagging
on the couch and our behind the camera
we have some fun things to start out
with first before we get into the
questions we want to give a little shout
out to Sydney rue Sydney brew graduating
with a double major from Florida State
big pot save the world pots of America
fan good lover to leave it wasn't on the
list so you'll rue the day you know
we're help we're saying that's right it
sounds very Cajun a lot of vowels in a
row but uh in all seriousness Congrats
on graduating really exciting and uphill
from here College you'll never miss it
hmm hmm all right well it started with
some questions first up we have from
Christina what should Democrats do to
prevent Republicans in their own states
from copying what's going on in
Wisconsin and Michigan right now and can
we quickly recap for everyone who is
tuning in what is going on in Wisconsin
Michigan
I want to recap yeah I mean the recap is
we what we're seeing in Wisconsin and
Michigan is similar to what we saw
previously in North Carolina which is a
Republican legislature watching as the
Republican governor ship is
transitioning or Republican statewide
offices are transitioning to democratic
hands and using a lame-duck session
after the election to strip down the
powers of the executive branch and
revolve them back to the legislature so
in Wisconsin you've seen
powers from the state attorney the state
attorney general being stripped and
giving back to the legislature you've
seen powers that the governor has given
back to the legislature North Carolina
took a lot of the same steps Michigan
has done that and also has gone even
further and has tried to undo or is in
the process of trying to undo several
ballot measures so they passed a
statewide rate increase to the minimum
wage which included raising the minimum
tip wage which is a very big deal and
the legislature is currently trying to
delay the implementation of the
increased minimum wage and basically
undo the increase for the tipped wage so
these are the kinds of anti-democratic
steps that they're taking in these
states they're also trying to change
voting rules to make it harder for
Democrats to keep the seats that they've
won so they are bastards what can we do
well in the near term legal challenges
mark Elias a great election lawyer it's
going to be suing the out of a lot
of these places so we hope those will be
successful I think unfortunately the the
answer is not a simple or easy one
longer-term is we have to organize early
we have to win elections by bigger
margin sex time and not let these guys
get back in power and keep winning you
know I mean it's it's really that simple
because these problems compound because
Republicans win elections they make it
harder for left-leaning people to vote
they suppress their votes going forward
and then they're more likely to win
again so we got a win we got to organize
we got to start now yeah and one thing
we've also seen a lot of organizing
around what's been happening in
Wisconsin in Michigan which i think is
very good too if you can't win
politically because I mean look they
control the legislature you have the
ability to shame them you know you the
ability to protest them you have to make
them feel some kind of political fear
but if they're not going to be
responsive to that
the election just happened the next
election is two years away or whatever
it is Paul Ryan's courageous stand on
this What did he say I didn't see I
assume it is he said uh I got nothing
for you on that is that really what he's
has been through I've got nothing for
you on that but we've got nothing for
you on that on that
all right from from Wisconsin and
Michigan on to North Carolina now this
one is from Amy Ann she's asking
considering the news coming out of North
Carolina and other widespread problems
that many including myself had with
voting absentee what can be done to make
the absentee voting process more
accessible and safe so that's a great
question we've talked about this a lot
it's different state-by-state some
states have harder rules on absentee
ballots and others sub states require
witnesses that's what we're seeing in
orth Carolina other states make it even
easier some states are entirely
vote-by-mail some states require do you
have an a reason to vote by mail or to
vote absentee
I believe I think it is in Mississippi
where you're required to actually go to
an office and sign something just
straight up poll tax yeah you have to
get like a what's it called me or
someone coming is stamp it a notary
public go to Republic I once went to a
notary public because I was getting a
marriage certificate verified because I
was performing a wedding for two of my
friends and the the woman who was able
to be the notary her online handle was
unicorn songstress
and if you're out there unicorn
songstress I won't hear more of your
beautiful songs about unicorns me too
weddings I don't do weddings I've done a
wedding I'm not like I do weddings hi
haters - I a wedding for Justin and
Steve my two friends and I opened by
saying that Steve and Justin were both
Eagle Scouts they love to kayak they
left a hike they look alike they have so
much in common it's almost as if they're
brothers with benefits and I want you to
know that it didn't work and I haven't
been asked to do another wedding since
the point is in North Carolina in the
ninth district that was a nine hundred
and five vote margin of victory and
there is clear evidence that these
creeps were going and taking advant
abouts from democratic-leaning
individuals and filling them out wrongly
throwing them in the trash doing
whatever I noted the the Charlotte
Observer has said that they should have
another election and just do it do over
you know that would be in a state where
the Republican Party has done some of
the most egregious anti-democratic
things we've seen in the country over
the last several years but you know that
would be a good first step it wasn't an
international organization that fight
that rated North Carolina is no longer
being in democracy yeah cool
I just wanted to show state Elijah yeah
plus Dukes their North Carolina native I
just want to shout out from Maggie she
noted that the girl who asked this
question Emmy Ann actually took a bus
through the night from DC to North
Carolina to vote when your absentee
ballot didn't come through tell me where
we were tweeting back and forth yeah
it's crazy that you had to do that but
it's great that you made the effort yeah
good for you that's that's commitment
yeah good for you we're jumping around
kind of go all the states now we're on
to Georgia this next question is about
Brad raphson's burger and what his win
in the Georgia Secretary of State run
off yesterday means for the state more
broadly and for Stacey Abrams voter
suppression lawsuit it sucks
Stacey's gonna sue Stacey Abrams are
gonna sue them and and try to you know
fix what happened last time but she
didn't get she didn't win we lost
Secretary of State's race and the guy
who won said he's gonna keep making
voter fraud prevention his priority and
keep you know strict enforcement of
voter ID laws and pruning that's the
word they use pruning voter registration
rolls which is just a great way of
saying we're disenfranchising people to
the greatest extent possible especially
if they're african-american and they
live in Democratic strongholds so losing
these elections sucks it's a big problem
you know maybe we all need to think as
Democrats about a series of Secretary of
State races that we focus on one or two
years out and prioritize and fund and
organize around because they have big
consequences and this is a it's a bummer
yeah if we elected a Democratic
Secretary of State they would be doing
more to make sure more more people in
the state of Georgia can vote and now
the best you can hope for is that courts
force their hands but there's not
there's not a person in charge of that
office who
prizes making sure everyone who wants to
talk about you know they hate voting
yeah that is bad I think the one
positive if we can find any from that
situation is that people now at least if
you're paying attention to what was
going on in Georgia you're probably a
little more aware of what the Secretary
of State is capable doing and why it's
important to vote in that election that
is true yeah good spin here's another
one Priyanka alright we're on to foreign
policy now or off of the states this one
is from Madison she asks how important
is the Senate voting on a discharge
petition for a bill stopping aid to
Yemen it's been definitely overshadowed
by other things this week so what is the
bipartisan support on this mean and do
you think the CIA briefing on Khashoggi
changed anything so I think what the
questioner meant was not aid to Yemen
but military assistance to the Saudis to
be used to kill a bunch of people in
Yemen which whatever I think it's a big
deal that that vote happened it's the
result of a few things one senators like
Chris Murphy have been organizing around
this issue for a long time and pushing
to get votes I got 47 forty five votes
something like that last time this time
they got a bunch more it's a big deal
I think it is a response to the Saudis
brazenly murdering a journalists and the
whole world knows about it
Gina Haskell the CIA director finally
briefed the some select members of the
Senate about what happened yesterday
earlier they tried to have Pat Pompeo
and mattis do it to the full Senate and
they were incredibly misleading the CI
director went up and this week and you
know the senators walked out of there
said Mohammed bin Salman was clearly
involved in this there it's as close to
a smoking gun as he'll ever get so I
think that knowledge that clarity is
going to lead to even more voices coming
out against giving the Saudis arms or
treating them as a normal country as
long as Mohammed bin Salman is in charge
so it's a very good thing the civil war
in Yemen is a tragedy it's a
humanitarian disaster we should do
something to stop it it's also a big
 you to Trump you know he's said
like he doesn't care he wants to sell
them arms
Congress has finally stood up to him
interesting that was on this issue yeah
another question we have a request for
updates on what's going on in France
what's going on in France they're a
bunch of protests over a proposed gas
tax by McCrone it bubbled up several
Sundays in a row the last one they were
called the yellow vest protests because
everyone in France apparently has to
wear these keep these vests in their
cars and everyone's wearing them at the
protest and they were you know they got
violent things were burning not in
America though no vest in America in
America you have the freedom to break
down not have a vest and just be put
your hands in God that you don't get hit
by uncle that's what America is all
about no what I want some socialist
French government come in and tell me I
got a I gotta wear safety safety clothes
nope I agree with that
so quick update protest protest protest
several weeks in a row this week
McCallum backed down and said that the
gas tax increase that was planned for
January won't happen for at least six
months so you know it's maybe this will
stop the protests maybe it will embolden
the people who think that they can get
what they want the more violent it gets
broadly it shows how hard is going to be
to get action on climate change because
he was trying to reduce carbon emissions
by putting this tax and play some more
like fart de Triomphe Tommy and now with
that we are back to America grass love
it we have some questions on the Muller
investigation
this one's from Amanda she's asking
about the heavily redacted Flynn
sentencing memo if she says or she's
asking if it's good or bad news for
Trump and Co she's leaning towards bad
because Flynn sang a canary but you guys
are way smarter than me she says I don't
think we know that I would say this it's
probably not a good sign for the people
under investigation when the special
counsel says this guy that did a lot of
crimes we're actually not gonna send him
to jail for very long because he told us
so much and the stuff he told us is so
sensitive we can't tell you what it is
there's been a lot of speculation about
what Michael Flynn
what the Michael Flynn document will
tell us we don't know no one no one
outside of a very select group of people
actually knows because it was redacted I
don't think it's really that valuable to
speculate but I would agree that it is
very bad news I think I think that
everything that Robert Muller has been
doing in the past few weeks has been
very carefully designed to protect him
legally to protect him politically and
slowly build towards the outcome that he
wants and we don't even know what that
outcome is and you know there but there
have been very few things you could
count on in the past two years one of
them is that James Comey is never gonna
 figure it out and the other is
that Robert Muller knows more than us
and has been incredibly sophisticated in
his managing of this to the point where
not one time you cannot point to a
public mistake or a public misstep that
has made that investigation less likely
to succeed he has been against
incredible odds against a president
trying to undermine the Department of
Justice against the president stretching
the bounds of the law obstructing
justice on Twitter intimidating
witnesses tampering with the
investigation in public and in private
so that's pretty extraordinary and let's
see where it goes I like the line in the
document that said his early cooperation
was particularly valuable because he was
one of the few people with long-term and
first-hand insight into the subject of
the investigation so if I read that and
I was Rudy Giuliani drunk at dinner
somewhere I would not be happy it's also
interesting we what we know Flynn got in
trouble for was lying about calling the
Russian ambassador the United States at
the time that seems like something that
you could probably sort out in one
interview with Muller and his team we
know he sat for 1919 interviews that's a
lot of talking about a lot of
I feel pretty good about it I'm excited
can't wait for season 2 no no Elijah we
will not speculate wildly alright
yesterday in the Atlantic there was a
piece by believed his name is John
Dingle Dingle John Dingle John Dingle
yes he the longest-serving or was the
longest-serving member of Congress and
he wrote a piece called I serve in
Congress longer than anyone here's how
to fix it so Cassandra is asking based
on that for you guys to discuss whether
or not the Senate should be abolished
oh I I haven't read the John Dingle
piece but to that question should the
Senate be abolished my honest view is
that whatever your opinions on the
anti-democratic Senate whatever your
views on the ways it's progress
over time whether it's today whether
it's on climate change whether it's on
the civil rights movement it is a
question that doesn't have a lot of
value it's never going to happen
and the Senate has always been
anti-democratic it's actually been you
know in terms of the the proportion of
you know 25 percent of the country and
75 percent of the country have roughly
been electing the same number of
senators since the very beginning we
made the Senate more democratic when we
stopped allowing state legislatures to
choose senators which i think was a good
thing that was a very long time ago
the problem we have with the Senate is
not that it's anti-democratic the
problem we have with the Senate is that
it's anti-democratic in a way that hurts
Democrats we do have a fundamental
problem we have a problem electing
Democrats in rural states and smaller
states that is not intractable that is
not as big or as long-term a problem as
pundits would make you think John tester
represents the state of Montana in
Montana
we just passed Medicaid expansion in
Utah Nebraska and I want to say another
state like that and at West Missouri
passed a bill to protect unions Arkansas
raise the minimum wage measure Michigan
raise the minimum wage we just want
three out of the forces for
congressional seats in Iowa the problem
of the Senate being anti-democratic will
be solved the problem of electing
Democrats in rural states can be solved
and I think that is the question worth
asking not a question about whether or
not the Senate should be abolished
because honestly it's it's tilting at
windmills it's a waste of time the
proposal he had in the op-ed that I
think is desperately needed is public
financing of Elections to get money out
of politics and that will be a huge lift
- you'll have to overturn Citizens
United pass a law whatever but we should
that's something you start a public
movement around because God if we didn't
have to worry about the Koch brothers
dumping 100 million or you know we're
cheerlead Mike Bloomberg dumping a
hundred million dollars to help
Democrats win but that's not a good
thing long-term for our democracy on
either side so you know you get money
out of politics that's what I would do
good answer this one is another question
that is kind of centered around money
this has been Coty's has come up a few
times this week about interns this one
is particularly for can is asking about
thoughts on congresswoman elect aoc
paying her interns $15 an hour good pay
your interns yeah I think it's great I
think it's really important to pay
interns if you internships are unpaid
then they become a privilege for those
who have connections those who can be
bankrolled by their parents those who
have relatives well distributed in
cosmopolitan places so that they can
take on cool jobs you know and it's
actually honestly it's I think sometimes
this is cast as you know the rich versus
everybody else but actually this is a
case where it really is about people
without the buffer that comes with being
even upper middle class or just above
that that if you're if you're if your
parents are struggling to make ends meet
they do not have the buffer to give you
the money for a security deposit just
the little basic things that a lot of
kids that get to do internships in DC
currently have not that they're not
gonna have to make money not even that
they might even have to get a waiter job
you know a job after work or something
just to make ends meet but just the
little bit of cash you need when you're
taking on a product taking on an
internship that doesn't pay you so it's
really really important it's actually
really important in media to that
that's a place where you see a lot of
unpaid internships and you see a lot of
opportunities that then go to people who
went to the right colleges whose parents
have connections and so if you want to
talk about the pipeline problem about
about why there aren't why why a lot of
people say it's so hard to find people
outside of the tradition the people that
traditionally get all the opportunities
in one of the ways you close that door
really early is by making it impossible
for a whole subset of the population to
break in at the bottom definitely I
think it'll be cool to see who ends up
as our interns now yeah good luck to the
chapel guys and their new internship
this question is for Mike he's asking
everyone in the White House or everyone
who worked in the White House always
says that issues and decisions are
constant and unrelenting the president
is constantly bombarded given this
president's propensity for executive
time what is not getting done uh that is
an impossible answer question to answer
because we just don't know but like the
president is a powerful position can I
go out there on a limb and say that like
the president can hold a meeting hold an
event give a speech that focuses the
attention of a nation on an issue so
take for example the opioid crisis if
Trump spent less time watching Fox and
Friends reruns and tweeting and calling
his buddies - you know begged them to
tell them he's doing better than he is
he could hold a series of speeches on
the opioid crisis and try to move
policies to make it better I mean look
there's a million examples like that
where if his time was well spent he
could be doing things that he's not will
never know like what opportunities are
being missed but you know look he's an
idiot and a terrible president and he's
a racist was bad motives and bad
intentions so like in some ways I'm not
entirely upset that he's now in the Oval
Office like directing things all day
long I'm glad he doesn't understand or
acknowledge some of the power he has but
there are obvious areas where you know
we're with it on stuff yeah I mean you
know I saw there was a story that said
you know 83 million dollars has been
spent so that Donald Trump could call 23
days of his presidency and my home
is that in the next two years we can get
those numbers up I think you can make
one way to think about it as I think you
can maybe bucket you can loosely think
of the job of the presidency in three
things in three ways one is managing
crisis crises that come up which all
present have to do the second is driving
towards policy outcomes that they came
into office to achieve and the third is
making sure the government reflects the
president's values up and down managing
crises is something that this president
doesn't have the aptitude to do so
things are happening beneath him around
him that he's barely a part of you know
we've seen the mismanagement of the
storms
whether it was in Texas or in Puerto
Rico but then you also see that you know
that H that the Department of that like
say on on fire management in California
that even as the president is saying
crazy things the government the federal
government still doing some of the work
that it needs to do to help California
fight those fires the second is driving
towards policy outcomes the President
does have the ability to do that and the
government doesn't do anything unless
you force it to and so whether it's
Paris whether it's the Iran deal whether
it's Dhaka whether it's any issue that
he considers bright with criminal
justice for him right now
right probably gonna die in the Senate
if you had a president there's really
committed to that he would or she would
drive towards that outcome really push
push the bureaucracy push the Congress
think about it every day have a goal
have someone empower people to make sure
that that that even in this in the in
the crash of all the work a president's
to do every day that that president is
thinking about it every day a system
designed to how to to take a policy idea
and make it actually happen that does
not happen which is why he negotiates
toward no end why he'll say he wants to
do something about daca but no never
actually follows through no clear policy
priorities actually being implemented
over time then the third is his vision
and again you know it's just absent so
in in reality right now we are without a
real president actually doing the job of
the presidency it's a tweeter occasional
statement release or occasional crisis
creator but that's about it
that's what I think this one I wish I
had seen this question right after the
intern question but it's a good one I'm
going to ask this one's from Chad he is
asking about a dedicated living area
designated for Congress members where
members could stay
without sleeping in their offices what
do you think about this and also do you
think it's something that could ever
happen you know it's it probably won't
because it would be a little weird to
like live in a dorm although like you
know Chuck Schumer and dick Durbin and
some of these bozos live together
they're not posed as their senators some
of these people live together but it is
true that interns should be paid it is
also true that your average staff
assistant makes like 22 grand a year and
like has to live in Washington DC which
is expensive as hell you have people
working in much more senior positions
that still are not making nearly what
the market could pay them if they were
in the private sector so members of
Congress it would be great if someone
like AOC didn't have to worry about
where she was gonna live because she was
a bartender a few years ago and there's
like there's all these structural ways
that Congress is set up to serve people
who are rich from being able to write a
check to finance your own campaign
entirely or to you know to like not
being able to afford housing in your
district and in Washington DC so I don't
know if a dorm is the answer but we
should pay interns should pay staffers
more we should figure out ways that non
rich people can run and win yeah no I
think that's right you know this is a
there's a proposal I remember sure where
it was might even the Washington Post
man you know it was a it was a long time
Paul Kane I think yeah he's about this
about housing for members of Congress
there's some interesting kind of
specific truth to the argument that says
well you know these are people that need
to have two homes that might be
expensive even if you were to raise
congressional salaries but it's
interesting the paying the interns the
money in politics people not being able
to afford to live in DC they're all
connected and they're all connected to
the accrual of money in very few places
and in very few hands so it's similar to
I think in San Francisco there's a
proposal to create teacher housing right
and it's like well hold on a second
what's the issue here it's that the
teachers can't afford the rent and the
truth is it's like well you can't first
of all no one's raising the salary is
high enough anyway but even if you did
to raise the salaries high enough so
that teachers could live in the
communities that they teach in San
Francisco was almost would require a
huge increase because living in San
Francisco has gotten so expensive
because so much wealth has been
concentrated in so few hands and that's
what you see in New York that's what you
see in DC that's what you see in Los
Angeles that's what you see everywhere
and so I'm there
interested in making sure that people
like AOC can run for Congress but I'm
also interested in a Congress that
thinks about like the upriver causes of
all of these problems which is how huge
amounts of money go to so few people
that they could Sheldon Adelson can hold
a audition and is in his creepy
 parlor to pick who's gonna be
the Republican nominee or the Koch
brothers can seed money to Alec and
other organizations across the country
to say if Republicans win we govern if
Democrats win we govern you have a
solution building a dorm for the right
yeah yeah right that's a good example
yeah I don't think right let's not
siphon off people into dorms let's let's
redistribute some some some resources in
a way that makes more sense I think San
Francisco housing then thank God anyway
pay teachers better - yeah also pay the
teachers more good note this one is from
Julie she is asking not about members of
the house but now what they should be
doing she's wondering if you guys have
opinions on whether the new house should
focus on legislation rather than
investigation or what their priorities
should be both yeah you do both over say
yeah the committee's all hearings and do
oversight and subpoena people and you
know focused attention on issues and we
need to sequence those in a way that
makes sure that you're not distracting
one from another you know going to do
this right make sure people are see
what's happening and they're we're
driving the message we want but then we
should pass a bunch of bills that are
important and send them over the Senate
and make them either take them up or not
or vote them down or whatever it would
be yeah I also think I agree I also
think it's even more of a it's actually
even more of a both answer which is we
need legislate we need legislation we
need to legislate in a way that looks
like investigations and we need to
investigate in ways that produce
legislation so we need to call hearings
to bring forward the people causing a
lot of the problems in the economy
whether it you know that the that I
would like to see Democrats chairing
committees that that bring down some of
the companies that have been you know
publishing our data on the internet or
some of the bad practices from some of
the banks and use that as a way to draw
national attention as they're trying to
legislate on those issues to make it
feel a bit more exciting and actually
show people the problem and then on the
on the investigation side one of things
we need to do is talk
just talk about how we can investigate
Donald Trump but some of the loopholes
that Donald Trump has been able to
exploit over the last two years whether
it's the the ways in which certain bands
on nepotism don't apply to the president
whether it's the ways in which he's been
able to undermine the Justice Department
so that's a kind of thought and if that
Priyanka Wow
all right we're gonna jump into 2020
one last serious question before we get
to the fun ones this one is from Max who
is asking about some Twitter fights he's
been seeing yeah
there have been some Twitter spats
recently between Bernie fans and people
who like other 2020 potentials like Beto
in parentheses do you have any
confidence that heading into the 2020
primary Dems are at all past the Bernie
slash not Bernie split or is it bound to
be a problem again I think it'll be less
of a problem in the real world than on
Twitter and that it's a mistake to think
that Twitter fights between people with
red roses in their names and ones who
don't are widely representative of the
splits within the party I think that in
general we should be arguing about
policy in person in articles online a
lot of this stuff is not policy based in
the moments a lot you see a lot of petty
 because Twitter that's what it
was designed for so you know I think we
will have a primary this year that is
not like last time where it's like two
people basically there's gonna be a
whole bunch of folks the fights will be
vicious and new and probably a little
different than before and you know we're
big enough to stomach that but I
wouldn't sweat this early Twitter
nonsense too much yeah also just you
know the only the greatest trick Trevor
I've ever pulled is convincing that you
can't just not look at it log off
just just you don't need to look at it
sometimes something that people I guess
are looking forward to seeing on Twitter
Libby asks will we ever see Lovett
wearing his Hanukkah romper hmm will we
that is a great question you Tom so so I
I will tell you this is very honest I
recently had a thought which was
I can pull off the romper now you know
cuz i got myself HP already you know and
I was like I think it's romper time and
I couldn't find the romper because I
moved and it's like so it's like you
know I sold a comb to buy the watch and
the hair to buy the watch band you know
Maggie knows I'm talking about Magi but
I will say that between now and December
13th when when we have the next lover
leave it that's not in this studio I
will be looking for the Hanukkah romper
and if I find it and I try it on I think
I pull it off
okay you'll see it but those all have to
happen I feel like we might have to
dispatch some crooked media staff to go
yes my another romper that's also true
that's also true all right this is
another Lovat question from Kara she is
asking not Kara or kara but kara
McKinnon has loved it seen a trailer for
the new horror movie escape room about a
life or death escape room and will he go
see it with Spencer this was the primary
prep John did advance of this I've been
meaning to watch the escape from trailer
I have watched it sounded scary uh I'll
be honest it's not really not really not
really speaking to me as a trailer I
think that it looks very complicated I'm
interested it I am interested in a movie
about a group of people locked in a room
trying to escape I don't know if this is
the movie I also don't know if Spencer
will see with me I have not asked him I
will ask him but that's a I actually now
will propose an escape room escape room
night with Spencer Eric and Brendon and
all because of your question whoa
huge sure this is the last question from
EC Muller hmm you see Muller wondering
what the tour dates are for next year
what can we look forward to we are still
finalizing it as of this morning even
but like once a month probably about
that there's gonna be we're gonna
announce love it or leave it
touring next week we're gonna put out a
bunch of dates we're gonna go to a lot
of cities and then right after that
we're gonna need some positive America
dates but
we're gonna go to some places we've been
to before we're gonna go to a bunch of
places we haven't been to before and and
you know you'll come and see them yeah
what allowed to say what you're excited
about or like one or two oh we love
touring I'm excited about all of them
I wanted to Iowa personally this year
I'm excited about that yeah I'm excited
go back to Chicago cuz uh
uh-huh the pizza I like deep deep deep
deep deep tip I like tip dish pizza
likes pizza I honestly sincerely liked
malort I don't know what I did I really
did and but I also described as fun you
know
there's a version of San Francisco I'm
forgetting the name that's just awful
hey Priyanka one question I saw out
there as people were asking about cop 24
which is the meeting like I think this
weekend where all the diplomats from all
the countries in the Paris climate cords
get back together to try to put those
negotiations back on track and like
hammer out the rules that actually
enforce Paris someone asked what the
deal is with it that's the deal things
are going very badly in terms of climate
emissions are up they were down from
2014 to 2016 now they're back up the
united states has pulled out of paris
obviously we're sending representatives
but we're not giving the money we'd
pledged a couple billion dollars so not
good this is something that we hear
coracoid want to talk about more and
more and more and the Democrats should
be talking about every day on the
campaign trail so that's why I reread it
in the fun questions section where I
know it it doesn't belong no I I I'm
really glad you did
I'm very hopeful that Priyanka has
sourced another question so that we go
out on something a little bit more
positive than we're all gonna die we're
all gonna die because climate change is
a problem uniquely designed to target
humanity's basic and irredeemable flaws
hmm as a species no but look if you were
to try to design a problem say hello
let's come come up with a problem for
problem earth for earth to solve that
test whether or not that that basically
pits the good of people versus the bad
of people their creativity ingenuity
caring and ability to look toward the
future versus their Craven as'
selfishness fear
greed and hate and said pit them against
each other
that's what climate change is and I'm
honestly very excited to see how it
turns out climate change is really our
escape room it is a great place to end
Atami don't forget to smash that like
hey before we drown
ladies subscribe before Hugh scrambled
the higher ground smash that like button
yeah we're done thanks everybody great
stream talk soon
you
