congressman Tim Ryan welcome to pod
state America thanks for having me all
right let's start by giving you an
opportunity to introduce yourself to our
listeners what led you to a career in
politics I played a lot of sports
growing up and I was a quarterback and
kind of always in a leadership position
I was in a fraternity I was the
president of the fraternity looks
familiar in this room and so I came from
a area in Northeast Ohio where a lot of
my friends left the the economy wasn't
doing well and people were leaving they
go to school go to college and leave and
I wanted to do something about it so my
career in politics really started about
downtown redevelopment like what are
what are the next generation what's the
next generation of jobs that are gonna
become available and I can go back to my
first palm card I made and on it was
renovate the Robbins theater and it was
an old theater in the downtown and we
just had no quality of life for young
people so really started from how do we
rebuild this community and so you're
running for president that's a long way
from the palm and you got it when you
got in this race there were you know at
least a dozen other people already in
the race
you had liberals moderates people from
the coast who the Midwest a number of
your colleagues and the House of
Representatives what did you see in the
field that you thought was lacking that
you thought you were uniquely qualified
to bring to this race I think two things
one connect to voters we lost you know
just from the sheer political standpoint
the country's really divided I don't
think most people like that and I think
I can really help pull the country back
together
I know these voters they voted for me
they voted and let some of them voted
for Donald Trump were in a battleground
state and all that the second thing was
I really believe that I understand
deeply because of where I come from the
old economy what's happened you know one
of the biggest
all's I get to my congressional office
is around pensions like just the
insecurity that has come from really a
40-year collapse and a failure for us to
really rebuild I understand that and
through that experience I really studied
and understand I think where we need to
go in the new economy and you know
around electric vehicles around AI
around additive manufacturing I'll just
give you one example in the late 1970s
when Youngstown Sheet & Tube closed my
father-in-law actually worked there the
technology and the steel mills was
pre-world War one steel industry
basically put their head in the sand
they were afraid they didn't want to
change they were still making some money
and then the bottom fell out
I think weren't a very similar position
today you know you hear a lot of stories
and read a lot of stories about
artificial intelligence and job loss and
the future of work and what's the
economy going to look like I think we've
got to make a decision that we are going
to embrace these technologies we're
going to grab them we're going to try to
dominate them and we're going to infuse
them into every industry we possibly can
ramp up productivity and cut the worker
in on the deal I mean the other
alternative we already experienced and
in places like Youngstown we're still
suffering the consequences from the fear
that had everybody's head in the ground
you know we have politicians Democrats
on Paul it's a positive America all the
time who are very good at diagnosing the
challenges that communities like yours
are facing Automation in globalization
etc what we often struggle to get to
elicit from Democrats is an ant is a a
big bold answer to that challenge
what is tim ryan's big idea to deal with
these two forces of automation position
they're going nowhere look what's the
thing we actually do that is very
different than what we are doing now we
create a national industrial policy
around dominating these industries
around dominating electric vehicles
there's one to two million today there's
going to be 30 million by 2030 we need
to dominate that industry and we need to
have I have a bill that creates a chief
manufacturing office
in the United States to just drive this
the president should be driving it this
was frustrates me a lot about the
president he came in he campaigned and
then he didn't do anything
like he got these voters he talked about
steel mills and coal mines he got these
voters some of them to vote for him but
he has no plan and what I would do is
sit down with the big three in the
Department of Energy in the Department
of Transportation god bless you and
venture capital and say how do we
dominate electric vehicles how do we
dominate the batteries how do we
dominate the charging stations how do we
dominate solar how do we dominate wind
how do we dominate AI and put a plan
together I mean this is what China does
it's a little bit easier there obviously
because of their governmental structure
it's actually a lot easier but we have
got to solve this problem because right
now China dominates 40% of the electric
vehicle market they dominate 60% of the
solar panel market so I think an
industrial policy is first and foremost
on the agenda because if we don't get
the economic piece right everything else
is going to be harder to do a lot of the
things you're talking about here whether
it's electric cars solar wind etc is
also part of climate policy in this
country how does your idea here dovetail
with the green New Deal is that
something you support or yeah I mean I
support a green new deal I love the fact
that we're all having this conversation
I mean as a presidential candidate I
can't go into an interview where someone
doesn't ask me about the green New Deal
and I absolutely love it because it is
such a pressing problem I think we've
got to make sure that we do it the right
way I talked about it like I just talked
about like we don't even talk about the
environment there right we do with
Industrial Policy around what wind solar
electric vehicles you know I mean that's
how we I think that's how we make this
argument that this is a job creator for
us we should be leading with this is our
opportunity through a green new deal to
rebuild the middle class that's how we
get there with all of these new new
technologies do I take from that that
for the voters in your district in Ohio
you believe that discussing this in a
climate framework is a net political
negative yeah I mean a lot of people
don't have the luxury of making it six
steps down to I'm really concerned about
the environment I mean they get up and
they're worried about paying their bills
I mean we just had another announcement
we lost the General Motors last shift of
a General Motors facility in my district
that used to have 16,000 workers and we
just lost the last 1,700 about a month
ago and just on Saturday we had a
transportation company Falcon transport
lost 800 jobs they got an email at 8
o'clock on Saturday nights and don't
show up for work those people don't have
the luxury of worrying about sea levels
rising I mean I'm sorry to say it that
way but they don't they have they have
kids in school they have a mortgage that
now they now they lost their job their
health care isn't as good as it should
be and and you know shit's bad for them
right it's real bad and so if we come to
them as a party and we don't first and
foremost acknowledge this struggle that
they are facing today like how am I
gonna pay my mortgage next month like I
maybe I will I mean may is coming up
right so how are we gonna pay it I mean
that's what they're asking themselves
that's scary and and if we don't meet
them where they are on that issue and
have a plan for how we're gonna get out
of this mess then they're not gonna vote
for us is you know Ohio is a state that
Barack Obama won twice yeah close but
pretty decisive victories all day your
district is one of the Democrats have
mostly won but I think Trump wanted it
this time Hillary won it with 51 so
closer than close president obama won at
what 60 right there what has changed you
know as we look at what's happened in
Ohio since 2012
what is led to that change is that a
change in this in Ohio or is the change
in the Democratic Party a little bit of
both I think we got off of the economic
message that just went at people like
war the party to help you with the
problems that I just discussed like were
the ones who are gonna help you with
health care we're the ones are gonna
help you with your job wages and and
president Trump is very skillful I mean
he came into the
Mahoning Valley which is the area I
represent in Northeast Ohio and he said
Bill Clinton passed NAFTA now most of
the job loss today is from automation
but the people who lost their jobs in my
area over the years they literally moved
like factories over the border in Mexico
and started shipping the product back my
cousin Donny had his last act at Delphi
which was a supplier for General Motors
was to unbolt a machine from the factory
floor put it in a box and ship it to
China
I mean workers would leave Warren Ohio
go to Mexico train workers and come back
so when Trump came in and said NAFTA and
her husband passed it that was a very
effective line but the trade thing
speaks to the inequality it speaks to
wage stagnation it speaks to economic
and security trades is now unfortunately
in the country that's what people hear
and Trump came in and stole that message
from Democrats and was very effective
you know that is like we think of it
like in the constant conversations we've
all had about what happened in 2016 how
do we make sure it doesn't happen again
there is this sort of internal debate or
tension around whether it is a message
problem or a policy problem Democrats we
have because Hillary Clinton's policy
economic policies were no different and
even some cases more populist in summer
Barack Obama's in 2012 yet is like what
where do you is that is a Democratic
Party having trouble explaining the
policies it has or does it need new
policies to win back constituents like
yours I think it's both you know I
really do I think it's both I think
people don't trust either party at least
like middle-of-the-road people or
moderate Democrats maybe it is and
independent voters and they didn't trust
Democrats and they didn't trust
Republicans and they saw Trump as an
independent he was using the Republican
Party but he was an independent and he
was talking about raising taxes on rich
people and expanding Medicare and you
know he was gonna do every he had a
populist agenda and so I think people
after years and years and years of
frustration and stagnation they gave him
a shot because they saw him as an
independent he
rich and he had a plane so I mean I mean
maybe he can help us get rich you know
or at least get out of this mess that
we're in and so they gave him a chance
but I think this election is gonna be
about ideas I just I think people are
rightfully cynical and so he you know he
stole those voters so that's why I'm
trying to talk in very specific terms
like I think electric vehicles is a
really specific way to go and you show
people how it's growing it relates to
American manufacturing it's a new
industry I don't you know I will use
this to say this back in my district
like I don't want to get my community
chasing the last best thing and that's
basically what Trump did like I used to
campaign on telling people like when I
was 29 years old like look the steel
mills aren't coming back and if they do
they're not gonna have 20,000 people in
them so we've got to shift our mindset
to get in front of the next wave that's
coming and so now I'm basically applying
that approach to the national effort
here and you look at additive
manufacturing growing you know 3d
printing in fact we landed the first
Center that President Obama put together
or manufacturing Innovation Center round
around additive is in downtown
Youngstown three to five million jobs
are going to be grown in additive
manufacturing in the next ten years
solar and wind grown at 25 to 30% a year
electric vehicles we're gonna make 30
million so how do we position not just
Youngstown or Akron in my district but
how do we position the United States of
America to dominate these industries and
then have incentives in the tax code and
policies and the government to steer
that growth into communities of color
communities that have been left behind
in old coal old steel old Auto old
rubber Gary Indiana I mean you look at
some of these towns they've been wiped
out that's ridiculous in the United
States of America today and when you
look at the fact that 80% of venture
capital goes to three states California
New York and Massachusetts nine percent
less go to women and less than two
percent go to people of color
so our policies need to change so we can
start dry like dominate these in
trees ramp up productivity ramp up
growth and then steer through an
industrial policy the growth to these
communities that did a hell of a lot for
America for a long time when we were
sending money out west to do the central
Arizona Project and get water into the
desert and grow out the West that what
that money was coming from the Akron
rubber industry that was coming from the
Youngstown steel industry that Western
PA coal industry and so how do we have
policies that that steer that growth
back to some of those communities like
how would you incentivize that right
like there's there are reasons that the
venture capital funding is in these
three places right yeah so there needs
to be something that to encourage them
to do that so I guess to question be how
do you incentivize the movement of
investment out of you know the coastal
states into places like Youngstown and
as you'd like this this is all its
industrial policy but also you know what
you're hinting at is a massive
investment right spending of money if
you thought about how much it would cost
to achieve this and how you'd pay for it
or would you pay for yeah well I mean
yeah I mean some point you have to pay
for it I think you do it through the tax
code I think you have you know gallio's
Ray Dalio is writing about this double
bottom line and triple bottom line where
it's not just about your profit but it's
also about some social good so it shifts
the tax code and incentives through
corporate tax and other tax incentives
on how to not just be about shareholders
with your company but be about
stakeholders which is also the
communities it also means the workers
and how do you incentivize that the
opportunity zones which are a component
of the tax bill probably the only really
positive component of the tax bill and
what you create neighborhoods governors
have done tracks in certain cities about
investments and then there's an
opportunity fund where people can put
private investment capital gains into a
fund that can be used in these
opportunities owned so you're actually
trying to get some wealth out of the
hands of you know the concentrated
wealth and the one percent or ten
percent get in into these funds that can
then reinvest in these communities but
we also need a massive
urban martial plan like we have to clean
these communities up they have thousands
and thousands of dilapidated homes in
Youngstown I know we have three or four
thousand in Gary Indiana they have six
thousand like those got to come down
we've got to have a huge making sure we
get high-speed Internet into these
communities we've got to renovate the
downtown's we got to renovate the Robins
theater across the country so that you
create a sense of place you need River
walks you need amphitheaters you need a
big bold vision for how we're going to
redo our communities so that young
people can come back to those
communities so as these tech companies
maybe they do start in Silicon Valley
but we did a thing and I think we need
to figure out how to institutionalize
this in the Department of Commerce Rokon
and I took a busload of venture
capitalists about 13 of them in our
first trip we called the comeback cities
tour and we put him on a bus and we
Bloomberg helped us we did Youngstown
Akron
Detroit Flint and in South Bend we went
over to see mayor Pete this was well you
know a couple years ago we have
innovation happening in these towns we
have entrepreneurship we just don't have
venture capital we don't have the money
that can help ramp this up and so having
a Department of Commerce that's
incentivizing and helping you're trying
to knit the country back together and
what was really interesting about it is
that the venture capitalists were
fascinated with what people were
thinking about and what problems we were
thinking about in Youngstown is opposed
to Mountain View it was a total
different mindset and so they saw it as
an opportunity wait a minute I can be
the first one into the Midwest and and
someone was doing an RV rental like an
RV timeshare right no one in Mountain
View riding around in an RV but someone
said I want to talk to you after you
know I love when the head it's like
Shark Tank you know we're talking you
know it was like that and we did that
we'd went down south and we did that in
South Carolina and and Georgia and North
Carolina we're doing another one we're
gonna limp it's Berg and Columbus and
Youngstown but those are the kind of
innovative ideas we need so you set the
table in these communities with the
investment you incentivize through the
tax code
anything you know I don't have all the
answers I'm gonna sit down with a bunch
of smart people and say how do we do
this I'm the president I'm gonna drive
this frickin thing I'm gonna drive it I
am gonna walk into the Oval Office every
morning and think about the people in
Youngstown Ohio and how do we make it
better for them in the communities like
them so give me the venture capital
community give me you know what and I
think they'll show up to the meeting and
and let's put a plan together on how we
resuscitate these communities there's
sort of a couple different ways of
looking at this right there like a
traditional sort of post Clinton
Democratic policy idea is we're gonna
use the tax code to incentivize behavior
right and that and that's something that
President Obama tried to do a lot and
it's also this mixed results right you
either get unintended consequences or
people would actually do it or
businesses will find ways to both take
advantage of the tax code and still do
what they were gonna do anyway another
option is simply straight New Deal New
Deal style federal investment is that
something you would consider too it was
sort of uh yeah give me your Midwestern
Marshall plan if you will or something
yeah I got a large public works program
or something else to put money in the
pockets not put it directly people's
pockets but to for job prefer to have a
like a surge in quality well-paying jobs
of livable wages in the Midwest yeah yes
well I think you got to do both I mean
we don't I don't think we have the
luxury today of doing one or the other
we literally need to rebuild because of
years of not doing it so we've got you
know you look at combined sewer and and
like these towns they have an EPA
mandate for a billion dollars
like we're they gonna get a billion
dollars and if they raise rates on their
local community users and drive
everybody out of the city so we have got
to go in is the federal level in and I
think rebuild these communities clean
them up as I said Riverwalk amphitheater
or broadband so then you put every town
small midsize town on the menu for
growth and so that's the public side and
in what we have today it's like it's
either all government or free-market
right cut taxes and trickle down or the
centralized government thing the reality
of it is you need public-private
partnerships you need the opportunity
zones you need the
tax code but they're not going to invest
in in in areas that don't have like the
clean pipes to clean the water or parks
or river walks and you know cool places
and cleaning up these rivers so it's got
to be both it just has to be if you talk
about the the challenge of economic and
security for America in Ohio and across
the country where does healthcare fit
into that conversation and how do you
think about the next step
post Affordable Care Act I think we have
to change the entire conversation around
health care and I'll tell you you know
I've been on the Medicare for all bill
since 2007 I tell the new people in
Congress I was on it before was cool
okay so like I think it having an access
to some public option which we tried to
do and in just we could not get it
through the Senate is essential we've
got to have it it's good for
entrepreneurship it's good for
innovation it's a social justice issue
it's it's for the working class we've
got to do that we're having the wrong
conversation though because when you
look at the money we're spending on
health care today we spent two and a
half times as much as every other
industrialized country on health care we
get divorce results now that's stupid I
mean anyway you know easy way to say
that and when you look at the fact that
seventy-five percent of health care
costs today come from chronic diseases
that are largely preventable okay
seventy-five percent of our health care
costs come from chronic diseases that
are largely preventable which means we
need to have a national conversation not
around health care necessarily because
we had take out of pharmaceutical
industries and all that I think we're
all in agreement on that especially in
the Democratic primary we need to have a
national conversation around health and
we need to have a national conversation
around food and agriculture and the
rates of diabetes today we have almost
half the country almost half the adults
in the America and America have either
diabetes or pre-diabetes and type 2
diabetes is actually reversible and
there's companies now that are actually
paying their John Hancock for example
they're running this vitality program
or they actually give their clients 50
bucks to buy healthy food and because
we're seeing results of if you just
change your diet you will reverse your
diabetes and a diabetic cost the
healthcare system 2.3 times as much as a
non diabetic so what do we this is 75%
of our costs we've got to talk about
health and we've got to talk about what
we're feeding our kids in our schools
and we can't be pumping them up with
additive sugar and highly processed food
they're also in the Medicaid program
right so we're paying for them to have
food at school
and I went to a school a few months back
it had chocolate milk and rice krispies
treat for breakfast now I'm from outside
of Youngstown I'm not a prude right I
drink Miller Lite and watch the
Cleveland Browns and I eat chicken wings
but all I'm saying is like 80 percent of
the time we've got to be doing it right
and we certainly shouldn't be pumping
our kids full of additive sugar it was
like 80 grams of sugar it's maybe 60 or
80 grams but a lot of sugar it for this
little precious little kid this is our
kid you know it's not somebody else's
kid it's our kid this is our kid in this
school and we're doing this to him we're
diminishing their cognitive ability
we're setting them on a trajectory to
get diabetes and then we're paying for
that too and then we're gonna pay for
their healthcare when they're on the
Medicaid program because a lot of these
schools and many of these kids are on
the Medicaid program then we're gonna
pay in the healthcare system and you
wonder why the American taxpayer is like
I don't trust any of you people these
systems are all broken and until you fix
them I don't want to pay any more in
taxes because they're all broke and so
that's the conversation we need to have
around health care because that's where
the money is is the challenge in health
care though ultimately that it's a
for-profit industry in this country that
everyone's trying to make money on it
well yeah in in in the system setup is a
disease care system it's a sick care
system it's not a preventative care
system so part of what we have to do
really is is reverse the incentives
today you know the incentives now are if
you get sick
you're taken care of and you get the
doctor we'll get paid and the hospital
get paid and the health insurance
companies will get paid and everybody
gets paid how do we reverse this idea to
incentivize doctors to keep us healthy
how do we incentivize patients like I
was telling about this vitality program
right you start givin patients refunds
and rebates for doing things right you
start giving doctors refunds and rebates
for helping people get healthy
you're gonna begin the shift that system
and that's that's the transformational
the piece of healthcare reform that has
to happen or this whole thing is not
going to work I don't care if it's
single-payer public option individual
care the fee for service out-of-pocket
however you want to say it it's not
gonna work you know literally in 15
years
the average American is going to be
paying more for health care or as much
in health care as they are for their own
salary 15 years you brought up food
policy I know this is a passion of yours
you know when I worked in the White
House President Obama mrs. Obama was
leading on this and we got a lot of
blowback from Republicans and even some
Democrats about efforts to get kids
eating healthier in school calorie
counts on menus yes sodium amount you
know sodium advisories from the FDA yeah
you know you're a lot of that blowback
comes from legislators and people in the
Midwest like how do you sell healthy
eating to your constituents well we
literally stand on Michelle Obama's
shoulders I mean she took the head you
know early on and she was right and I
think the science and the evidence is
bearing it out that she was a way of
ahead of her time and I was there in
Congress watching all this go down and
things have changed I mean that the
science is in industry is changing
people are investing into healthier
foods they're investing into shifting
the market you notice now when you go
into a grocery store you see a lot more
organics that's one example so I think
things things really are shifting the
other tragedy that's happening
was what's happening in rural America I
mean farmers haven't made a profit in
five years and so I think we need to go
there we need to have and I will and
we're gonna have an aggressive campaign
in rural America and say look this
hasn't worked out for you both the old
system around food the the wait the
president handles the tariffs and
everything else these guys are hurting
one of the highest suicide rates in the
country is the American farmer I mean
that is that says it all and so I want
to invite the farmers in to be a part of
the solution and how do we make sure
they can transition out of the old
industrial farming row crops growing
stuff that never really ends up as food
you don't really eat it like 99% of corn
you don't eat now it goes to feed it
goes to high fructose corn syrup same
with soy goes in the soy oil corn corn
or wheat wheat oil in in the products
that we eat that are highly processed
that are making us sick let's invite the
farmers in and tell me you make more
money under me than you are under
President Trump we're gonna help break
the monopoly that is exist now in rural
America
so by inviting them in in teachers are
talking about this I think the American
public now knows more than ever before
and I'm at the Milken Institute here in
LA there are big time donors
philanthropists Milken himself others
CEO of Whole Foods they know this is
where it's going even someone from
Cargill was testifying not testifying
Congress speak right yes she was on a
panel and she was saying that even their
company is really starting to move
because they're seeing the market begin
to move and that's that's significant
this is an issue from hand it's a isn't
it's an issue for a lot of people so I
mean I'm inviting people into this
conversation Tim Ryan for America comm
if you're interested if you think that
this is like the the way we need to go
because we need that outside push that I
don't think mrs. Obama had I want but if
you look out you go on websites go on
Twitter there is a significant amount of
people that are really
energize around the food issue and they
sit out politics because they think
we're so stupid because they're like you
guys are talking about health care and
health care cost I mean no one's talking
about food and I'm giving them an
opportunity to do that I'm gonna go back
to trade policy for a second who's
obviously as you pointed out an issue
that Trump was able to weaponize to win
election is talking about NAFTA what is
a thoughtful progressive trade policy
that Democrats should be running on I
believe having voted against almost
every trade agreement that has been out
there I believe that it is important now
for us to figure out a trade policy
where we can actually start integrating
our economies especially with the
countries in Asia because China is on
the move
they are aggressive they are building
islands in the South China Sea they are
signing long term raw material contracts
in Africa they have a base in Djibouti
now they're building another one they
have this belt road initiative I would
encourage all of your listeners to go
out and really look at what China is
doing I saw map the other day it had a
it had a rail line from North East China
to Rotterdam they're going after it you
know oil and gas the ports in these
countries and so we have got to have a
trade regime where we are really
figuring out how we integrate with
Vietnam with deeper with Japan because
Japan is kind of flirting with with
China now a little bit in some of these
other Pacific Rim countries we have to
figure out how we at the same time
protect the American worker and I think
that if you do this at the same time the
electric vehicle the all the other stuff
we talked about if if we don't have the
American family gaining in wage gaining
in Economic Security we're never going
to pass any trade agreement for anything
and so that's got to be the focus but we
do have to combat China with some of our
economic policies and that's a reality
we have to face when you talk about you
know a trade regime that takes on China
marshalling
other countries like via a countries
like Vietnam that sounds to me a lot
like the trans-pacific partnership that
President Obama was putting together are
you saying that a president Tim Ryan
would try to build on that to get us
back involved like what is that what is
what is different from what Tim Ryan was
do it would president tomorrow would do
than President Barack Obama was doing
well I think we need to make sure that
the labor protections are there we're
going through this now with like the
revamp of NAFTA it's like well we've got
some labor protection protections that
are in there but there's no enforcement
provisions and so I President Tim Ryan
from Youngstown Ohio seem and you know
the epicenter of deindustrialization is
going to make sure that our workers are
taken care of I want to make sure that
the environment is taken care of that we
have balanced policies on those we're
not going to solve the climate change
issue by ourselves so we need to make
sure we have partners and and really set
the standards there the reality is
though if we don't do something like
China is that these countries are
starting to move towards China
economically that's a very very
dangerous proposition so this is gonna
this is going to take a lot of work I
mean it's gonna take a lot of us to get
together and sit down really how do we
figure this thing out and if we don't
China's gonna continue to be on the move
so we got to get it right but if it's
not right for the American worker then
it's not gonna work for us anyway the
other debate that is happening in
Washington is about the mahler report do
you presuming it they I'm sure you've
been through the balla report do you
believe that mended me of law school was
brutal snappy narrative the do you
believe that Donald Trump is committed
in people offenses I do I think he
obstructed justice yeah I do I think on
multiple occasions I mean the most clear
was when the the legal counsel said
whatever you do mr. president don't talk
to Jeff Sessions and the the phrase was
obstruction like we're worried about
obstruction that was the word they use
and two days later he's at mar-a-lago
like hey come on over here I want to
talk to you and it's clear well what do
you say how do you
think the your house Democratic majority
should proceed now I think we're doing
it the right way I think I have a lot of
confidence in Jerry Nadler I've known in
my entire career I have confidence in
Leader Pelosi speaker Pelosi I think we
are going down the right track we have
these hearings to the extent we can have
Moeller testify people from the
administration testify it's got to be
live and and the American people need to
see what's going on that's critically
important because all of these other
testimonies that happen behind the
scenes excuse me and and and so nobody
really kind of knows what's going on and
again you're trying to talk to the
person in Youngstown Ohio who just lost
their job or is dealing with taking
their kids to school and you know it's
like back and forth between divorced
parents I mean the stuff that people go
through they're not really paying
attention so having a real thoughtful
approach of how we get this information
out to the American people I think is
critically important and let's see where
it goes and if we got to go down that
road then we have to but again we know
the Senate's not going to take it up
like there's no way Mitch McConnell's
gonna like take up you know or pass
anyway convict him
and you know I mean we're already
struggling with the subpoenas I mean I
think there's an emerging constitutional
crisis happening here do you think there
is value whether historically or morally
or constitutionally in if Trump
committed in Picchu offenses having a
house in Peacham even if we know that
he's not gonna be removed in the Senate
is that does that is that important to
send a message that conduct like this
will not be allowed to pass or is it a
potentially a waste of time and
resources to do that if you know what
the end results gonna be yeah I mean I
you know I go back and forth to be quite
honest with you you know because we do
topical yeah it's it's really I mean
it's hard because impeachment is a
political decision I mean that's why
it's in Congress so it's political so
weighing the political context for our
party and the election is important and
to see Trump running around in six
months saying
the Senate said I'm exonerated you know
and and and then wasting six months not
talking about what have you done about
General Motors in Northeast Ohio what
have you done about electric vehicles
what have you done about you know
lifting people up in this economy
because he's running around you know
talking about how great the economy is
we need to be talking about how great it
is not for so many people and that would
really derail any message of like he's
not he didn't deliver for you which is
what I'm saying like he did not he made
these promises I heard him
he was in Ohio and he told people not to
sell their house and that was just
months ago and we're losing jobs left
and right now and we will get completely
off of that message and then that worker
in Youngstown that Falcon transport is
gonna say these guys aren't talking
about me it's all this politics and
everything else so I go back and forth
but at this point I'm leaning like let's
let chairman that'll or do his thing
when we think about pulling together a
coalition they can get us to 270 it we
have to do two things right this is just
the pure math of living an electoral
college system is we have to win back
those voters the people who voted for
you and voted for trumpet in 16 people
voted for Barack Obama and voted for
Trump but we also have to engage the
more than for the million Obama voters
who didn't turn out how do you think
about the balance between exciting
progressive Democrats again involved in
the process and winning over you know
so-called moderates in states like Ohio
Michigan Wisconsin Pennsylvania big
aspirational vision for the country you
know the dominating these industries
setting the country right reforming
education focusing on getting healthy
and vibrant in the country like let's go
we are in a competition with China right
now that no one in America is really
talking about it's a centerpiece of what
I talked about but we're not having this
conversation and I'm telling you this is
the dominating politic happening today
is our relationship with our competition
with China
even you know it like that all makes
sense like in a vacuum of this is the
things are gonna come out of my mouth as
a candidate to voters but running
that's not how elections work as you
know and so if you are our Democratic
nominee you're gonna you're saying we
gotta like with the economy go talk to
the economy and Trump is out there he's
probably got a nickname for you and he's
screaming about immigration countries
being invaded by ms-13 howdy
what is your theory for engaging with
Trump to make sure you your message is
not getting lost it's gonna be you a
united country versus a divided country
and I think emotionally right now the
entire country is completely frustrated
with how divided we are and they know
that the president intentionally tries
to divide us that's his goal with
everything he does and it can be you
know LeBron James and Maxine Waters or
John McCain and you know Barbara Bush
it's immigration divided divided divided
divided it has caused so much anxiety in
our country and I want to know what the
national stress level is right now I was
in Iowans some some gentlemen when the
back of the room said I have pts post
trust Trump syndrome he said I were
exhausted out here they are exhausted
with the division and what I'm in a
present is like look yeah you're right
you know what we can have a ten-point
plan on this and a 10-point plan on that
if we're not united with a leader who
actually wants to respect everyone wants
to bring everybody together has won
Trump voters and watched him go to trump
and I've been watching the gridlock my
almost my entire career going back I got
in right after the Iraq war I've seen
this going on and I'm tired of it and so
my pledge is we're gonna come together
as a country we're gonna take the
temperature down we're gonna respect
each other we're gonna care about each
other doesn't mean we're always gonna
agree and we're gonna have fights and
I'm Irish I like the old Irish saying is
this a private fighter can anyone get
into it like I'm down with it I'm down
with the political you know brass
knuckles fine but we've got to come
together
the challenge of unity is it's a two-way
street right Barack Obama ran around the
country in 2008 the very unifying
message he won a massive victory by
modern standards 53% of the vote also
picking up states where Democrats have
not won since in a century and on before
he's even sworn in John Boehner says
he's not gonna work with them on saving
the economy and Mitch McConnell says his
top priority is defeating Barack Obama
how can you as president succeed where
President Obama failed in uniting the
country cuz Trump may be gone he may be
back at mar-a-lago he might be in prison
who knows but Mitch McConnell's very
likely to still be there and all the
forces that created Trump are still
there so how do how do you bridge that
gap or others haven't been able to I
think it's important during the campaign
to actually have key proposals that I'm
talking about and in real action items
that were talking about around electric
vehicles around you know food is
medicine and getting healthy and
changing the incentives around
social-emotional learning in the schools
and and and seeing all the benefits of
how that works of increased test scores
and all of this stuff by actually taking
care of the trauma that our kids are
experiencing every day when we when we
talk in specifics those issues are
crossing party lines like if you if you
look at talking about health that's not
a political that's not like what side of
you want like we're gonna get healthy as
a country and we're going to incentivize
doctors and patients to get rebates and
refunds for getting healthy is that
democrat or republican I mean nobody
knows it sounds smart to me same with
social-emotional learning it's backed
with like by the Brookings Institution
it's backed by the American Enterprise
Institute it has bipartisan support you
talk about helping vets we're doing a
lot around you know trying to heal vets
through alternative treatments like yoga
and meditation and acupuncture
there's Democrats and Republicans I mean
one of my best vets supporters is a
Republican so by campaigning on these
specific issues around the economy is an
electric vehicle is that Democrat
Republican you know I mean we're losing
Auto jobs this is the next generation
coming so point is talk about specifics
I think it's gonna be a lot like 92 in
the sense that you know like Carville
used to say you gotta splain it to them
you know like explain the people what
your specific plan is and then when you
get elected it is a mandate of sorts and
then you know you may have some
advantage not that you're going to pass
the whole agenda but you're gonna have
the the support of the American people
this is obviously a very crowded field
with twenty people running now everyone
from vice-president to mayor to members
of Congress and let's say folks are
listening to this and they're very
interested in what you're saying they
like the your proposals they like your
message and then they discover that up
until a few years ago the leading
Democratic an for president was someone
who define defined themselves as
pro-life and was a member of the NRA
like why should that not give
progressive Democratic voters pause
about Tim Ryan I think progressives are
open-minded they make decisions based on
evidence and experience and my
experience you know I came into Congress
as a Catholic school kid from Northeast
Ohio my position on abortion you know
was something I quite frankly didn't
consider a whole lot I was a pro-life
member I started working with Rosa
Delora who was a pro-choice member I
started working with nayeon trying to
increase access to birth control and
contraception and through that process I
for the first time in my life met women
who had abortions and who had very
complicated circumstances that they went
through and you can see that my position
slowly through committee votes and
everything over the course of my career
started to change and it got to the
point where I just was gonna change and
I wrote an op-ed in the Akron Beacon
Journal and you know it was one of those
things like if you don't trust me on it
like there's nothing I can do but it was
an
an honest evolution because of I met
people and you can talk to like people
in a role now and they will tell you
like Tim was very open-minded we worked
with him really well
we had an honest dialogue even when I
was a pro-life person like we were
trying to figure out how we solve a
problem and they were very open-hearted
and I was open-hearted and things just
kind of went down that direction to
where I couldn't think I did not think
that the government should be between a
woman and her doctor' and the same thing
happened with the NRA in which you know
after watching these terrible school
shootings that it changed me I mean it
just I hope I think it like it affected
everybody in the country and to just
watch the NRA not even wanna try to be a
part of the solution on anything like
they didn't even want to have a
conversation and and that to me was was
offensive I gave all my NRA money back
to the gun control groups and said um
you know I'm done I mean this is saying
again you can see my my votes evolve
slowly over time and my committee where
people try to put riders on bills for
these different things and again it's
like look I mean I all I can tell people
is a progressive is like I met people I
learned things I watched my heart was
affected by what I saw in who I met and
I changed my position knowing that there
would be people saying oh he's just you
know changing his position so we would
you campaign on gun safety proposals
yeah I have I mean I have been I think
it's an important component but I will
say this we talking about
social-emotional learning in the schools
I think we got to start playing offense
I mean yeah of course we need an assault
weapons ban and background check and
Charleston loophole and and all of that
but we need to play offense and when you
look at ninety percent of the kids who
do school shootings
actually come from the school or
actually in the school and 70 percent of
those kids say that they felt bullied
they felt traumatized they felt isolated
and what the social-emotional
programs do is they really try to
connect the kids to each other and build
that support system connect them to the
teacher connect them to the community
and so when the people that evaluated
Sandy Hook they came out with three top
three proposals as to how to prevent
this from ever happening again and it
was the gun control issues it was mental
health and it was social-emotional
learning that's what they discovered can
best prevent this from happening in the
future so let's start playing offense in
America I mean I guess if there's one
theme that I'm really gonna push it's
like why do we sit back and accept this
idea that that we were just surviving
you know we want to thrive we want our
kids to thrive we want our communities
to thrive and let's play offense like we
know social-emotional learning works
let's do it we know that a small tweak
in some of our diet and getting coached
by our doctors and rewarding them that
works let's go let's do it you know we
know yoga and mindfulness and these
things help veterans heal and get off
taken 15 prescription drugs a day what
are we waiting for you know we know
there's gonna be 30 million electric
vehicles we no additives growing at you
know 25 to 30 percent a year what are we
doing every candidate who comes through
positive America here has written a book
and those books are almost all the same
they are they vary in writing ability
and storytelling but there are their
memoirs or their BIOS or an slash
campaign plan it's not policy platforms
you wrote a book long before his
presidential campaign it's not it's very
different than all these other books and
it's about mindfulness which I think
would catch a lot of people by surprise
who've listened to this interview and
toured look at your bio and it's like
Tim Ryan Cleveland Brown chicken wings
Miller Lite and he's writing about yoga
like you know like how you got involved
in that how I became such a passion for
you and like would you be our first a
yogi president yeah probably yeah so I I
told you I went to Catholic school I had
a priest father Crumley who was very
involved in my Catholic school and with
the John F Kennedy
Warren Ohio and he taught me centering
prayer and centering prayer is an old
Catholic meditation technique that the
Catholic monks used a thousand years ago
and I loved it it was like in quiet time
great for your head and all that other
stuff and then I also knew about Phil
Jackson I was a you know athlete growing
up so Phil Jackson the coach of the
Chicago Bulls dating myself right and
it's not it's not LeBron and Kobe it's
like Michael Jordan he Phil Jackson
taught meditation yoga to his players
and they obviously performed that you
know very very high levels and I thought
you know Catholic priests who's like you
know great guy and Phil Jackson my
favorite coach like there's got to be
something here and I did it sent me on a
journey to really explore different
kinds of meditation over the course of
my life and right after President Obama
got elected in o8 I was getting the
point where I was almost burnt out I
mean I had been in Congress now 6 7
years traveling Ohio campaigning with
everybody
we take took in the majority back in no
six and I went on a five-day retreat
right after the election and it was more
and more silence over the course of that
retreat and to the point at the end
there was 36 hours of silence and it was
basically you you try to follow your
breath your mind will go to the past in
the future and you try to get bring it
back to your breath and what happens is
your stress level goes down because
you're thinking about the present moment
as opposed to being anxious about the
past of the future which is all it is
it's dressed like what I say stupid last
week to somebody my wife my kid whatever
and what do I worry about in the future
and so I had a really profound
experience of how powerful the present
moment is and how you can actually
cultivate being in the zone like an old
athlete right I'm thinking like this is
like being in the zone like you can be
in flow and you can actually get your
mind in that state and I'm years and
years away from having never been an
athlete right and I immediately thought
boy these vets coming back could really
use this you know I thought that this
would be great for our healthcare system
because stress is such a killer in
it causes inflammation and inflammation
causes high blood pressure and heart
disease and all this other stuff and in
our school kids like I just thought my
your your focus your concentration level
goes like you can really show it's like
sharpen and a blade you can really
become super sharp which like you see
Tom Brady you see LeBron James you see
Kobe Bryant it's like how did it get
that way I mean they do these practices
so I became a very passionate advocate
for it because it's it's cheap and it's
there's no side effects and it can have
tremendous benefits for people that I
hope people will try it you know I'm not
I don't like really push it down
anybody's throat but I do I do say that
it can be very very beneficial and so I
became a very passionate advocate for it
and I do some hot yoga to all beat up
athlete's body hot yoga makes me feel
good last question you have a choice you
can wit you Tim rank and win the 2020
election or the Cleveland Browns come in
Super Bowl oh my god that is an unfair
totally it would be close but I would
take being president okay run for
reelection okay yeah no it's it's been
great but we're excited about the Browns
this year it's like finally finally we
got some we got some high expectations
now we're keeping them moderated we
don't want to get naughty yeah we're
excited to get you trade for Hubble
flamboyant wide receivers from New York
you might not work out that way yeah
yeah well fortunately they're friends
the Landry and O'Dell are old friends so
hopefully in Baker's just he's like he's
a grinder I mean he's great and he's
like their 7:00 in the morning he's like
going so we're really excited about it
and I'm excited about the opportunity to
be here I'm big fans of you guys and you
know I'm excited about trying to build
something I mean I think people over the
course of this interview can really see
that I'm trying to talk about things
differently I'm trying to change the
conversation you know and definitely
want to invite people to come to Tim
Ryan for america.com and try to you know
be a part of what I think can be a
really big shift in the country and I'm
excited about it congressman Tim Ryan
thank you so much for joining us on pod
save America thanks for having me
appreciate it
you
