I'd save America I'm John Favreau today
on the pod my interview with Stacey
Abrams who's part of a new lawsuit to
uphold voting rights in Georgia we'll
also be talking about the Oval Office
shutdown I'm sorry we'll also be talking
about the Oval Office showdown over the
shutdown the latest in the Trump family
crime syndicate and the politics around
a green new deal also while we're
talking voting rights we should say it's
absolutely worth checking out the new
episode of crooked conversations which
features an interview by DeRay McKesson
with reporter Ari Berman who's been all
over this issues written a lot about
voting rights it's a great interview
check it out also go to crooked comm and
check out the new lover leave it tour
dates love it is going on the road it is
the funniest political show you'll ever
see you should go buy tickets help get
them out of the office it's great check
it out it's a great dinner for us to buy
tickets I don't know about anyone else
yeah Tommy is Tommy just otherwise they
find like six hundred to get before I
show it like Green Bay or something
that's right I think he's going to Radio
City in September's get a DC show all
kinds of great show so go check it out
AC a reminder the deadline for signups
for the Affordable Care Act is December
15th
it is almost here go to healthcare.gov
tell your friends Donald Trump doesn't
want you to know about the fact that you
can buy a very affordable health
insurance plan so piss him off and go
buy one okay let's get to the news in
just eight days the federal government
will run out of money to fund about a
dozen agencies including the Department
of Homeland Security the Department of
Justice and the State Department
Democrats have offered to keep the
government open by passing a continuing
resolution that would simply fund those
agencies at last year's levels but
Donald Trump's threatening to shut down
the government unless he receives five
billion dollars to build a wall this led
to a meeting Tuesday in the Oval Office
between Trump Mike Pence Chuck Schumer
and Nancy Pelosi that ended with the
president taking full ownership of a
Hentschel shut down ranting in front of
a bunch of television cameras and I
believe we have a clip of this that
we'll play now you know what I'll say
yes if we don't get what we want one way
or the other whether it's through you
through a military through anything you
want to call I will shut down the door
no and I agree I am proud to shut down
the government for border security just
because the people of this country don't
want criminals and people that have lots
of problems and drugs pouring into our
country so I will take the mantle I will
be the one to shut it down I'm not going
to blame you for it
the last time you shut it down it didn't
work I will take the mantle of shutting
down first of all I will take the mantle
what the are you talking about Dan
wagon why do you think that this spun
out of control so quickly whoa what did
you what did you think about this this
little interaction in the Oval because
the president is a short-tempered
toddler with no sense of how to be
President or even the issues he cares
most about maybe he threw a temper
tantrum that had a lot more to do with
Michael Cohen Michael Flynn and Bob
Waller than Chuck and Nancy if you will
yeah I mean I guess we should tell
people the way this started is Pelosi
and Schumer thought they were going to
the oval to engage in private
negotiations over the government
shutdown they didn't know that they were
going to be cameras and press there
until they literally walked into the
Oval Office so then it was pretty great
you know they start talking to the press
and Pelosi is like look we're here
because we wanted to negotiate in good
faith to avoid a Trump shutdown and as
soon as she said that you just see Trump
perk up and he's like what did you say
what did you just call it Trump shut
down and from there it was just like all
hell broke loose how do you think that
how do you think that Chuck Schumer and
Nancy Pelosi handled the whole situation
the price of that I have to say I do
respect from for throwing sort of a
surprise press conference in hindsight I
wish to god we had done that
with Boehner and McConnell because good
point America he should see their
combination of evil at idiocy in full
display and so like it it's bad for them
it's not great negotiate a ticket but it
would have been probably a net benefit
for democracy have you done that to your
question Nancy Pelosi dominated the
meeting as she usually does and I've
actually been in a handful of these
meetings over the years when Obama was
president with Nancy Pelosi and the rest
in the bipartisan congressional
leadership and she always crushes them
like she is playing chess and they're
like figuring out where to put the
checkers on the board on a daily basis
and she did it in this meeting she did
great I think there's two ways to look
at how Schumer and Pelosi approaches
there is the optics in the room which
are less consequential but they matter
some yeah and then there is the sort of
longer-term view of how it sets up this
fight if you take the latter part first
they did everything perfectly they
basically went in that meeting and
walked out with Trump claiming accepting
blame for a shutdown that it's not yet
happened and that is exactly what you
want because the politics of a shutdown
are always centered around who is to
blame and in historically it has always
been the congressional leadership when
there was the Republicans when Clinton
was president the Republicans what Obama
was president and then the Democrats in
the very brief you might miss it if you
blinked shutdown of 2018 and here you
have Trump declaring repeatedly that he
is the one shouldn't government down so
then that is a huge win and they stuck
they said I'll set forward within the
meaning and the press afterwards
very reasonable positions and put Trump
in a very is like basically in a box and
so that was very good
in the room you know I it's hard like
Trump makes everyone act like Trump and
when you have Chuck Schumer yelling
North Dakota and Indiana Adam it's not
also is that a great look also another
just
like classic you know example of people
who just can't get out of Washington DC
in their headspace is Chuck Schumer
kicking it off by talking about how
Donald Trump got so many
Pinocchio's from the Washington Bullets
like goat hey sure go take a poll of how
many cuz you like really poor go take a
poll of how many people in the country
know what the a Pinocchio is from
the wash I will say that the claiming
the Washington Post fact checker demerit
system around the around the term Fidel
was very effective because I bet I bet
they don't know like what the Washington
Post fact checker is but I bet they do
know what it means if someone gets four
bit okay it's true and of course as we
all know the Washington Post recently
added an extra level to their rating
system and so now you can get four
Pinocchios but if you continue to tell
that lie you will get what's known as
the bottomless Pinocchio
that's the more clever the whole thing
so torture you should also know that if
you tell the truth and it is a factually
contain you get a quote Geppetto check
marks like this bottom list I am I am
sad they were not more clever about what
a something better than bottomless
bottomless Pinocchio which sounds like
like an add-on to a brunch at an
accurate restaurant I will say to like
it's easy to over-exaggerate that's like
Schumer did fine right I mean like you
said the most important thing is they
both got out of there with the upper
hand in these negotiations and they got
Trump to admit the heat owns the
shutdown no matter what but you're right
like I think Schumer was more easily
baited into sort of Trump's
then Pelosi was and that you know Trump
says well I did win the Senate I won
Indiana and North Dakota and then
Schumer's like it looks at the press
looks out at America and says when the
president's bragging about winning
Indiana and North Dakota you know he's
in trouble and he's kind of like smiling
laughing about and it's like I don't
think this little fight really benefits
everyone
at all but Pelosi was there and she's
just sort of she seemed like because she
was look the most reasonable person in
the room she's telling the president if
you have votes for the wall call the
votes for the wall this is what happens
this is article one we are Congress this
is how we legislate we put out a
position you tell us what's wrong with
the position I mean she just like very
calmly kept laying out the facts of the
case and the facts of negotiation and
and also was able to piss Trump off
without sort of going down to his level
also by the way I think it's funny that
Mike Pence was there the whole time
because he didn't say a word was
watching a tennis match it was bizarre
he's like looking around the Oval Office
thinking like how I replace those drapes
when I'm here always in every situation
looks like he has no idea how he got
there he probably doesn't he sort of
looks like he woke up from a nap like
like oftentimes with our daughter like
she falls asleep in one place and wakes
up in another place and she wakes up
being like I fell asleep in my room why
am i a car right now I feel like that's
not like that she's like one day he was
governor of Indiana and about three
elections they like wakes up from a nap
like in the Oval Office watching some
absurd display from Trump hoping he's
not ensnared in a criminal investigation
so here's the here's the Washington Post
description of the meeting the three
leaders pointed fingers raised their
voices and interrupted one another
repeatedly as they fought over policy
and politics laying bare their
differences for all to see and then the
analysis for some of the DC civility
police was about how this was a preview
of divided government and both sides are
to blame for all the fighting and
shouldn't everyone be throwing back a
cocktail like Ronald Reagan and Tip
O'Neill blah blah blah dan was that your
general take on the situation whoa whoa
is politics pox on both their houses I
had so much to say about that I'm so
glad you brought this up bigger just
super made you mad got an introduction
to the next two years of his life
because yeah in a meeting with the
leader of the House under
Republican leadership he would have
gotten an agreement on this wall and
Paul Ryan probably would have shined his
shoes while we were there ah
so like this is gonna be different
people is not gonna do what you say
she's not gonna say how high would you
tell her to jump
yeah so that is very different but if
you watched Trump throw an absurd temper
tantrum he did not even have the basic
understanding of facts on the his
signature policy initiative on the issue
that he says is the greatest threat to
the country and you watch that and
you're like oh both sides then you were
terrible at your job you should
turn in your pungent card you should
leave town and go write recaps for The
Real Housewives of New York is that it's
the only thing you're qualified to do I
have bad news for you Dan I don't think
they'll be doing that I actually
infinite I hope they don't because I
sometimes enjoyed my Real Housewives
weekend being polluted by dumb pundits
cynical politically test no I mean you
can see even the pundits that didn't go
so far as to say both sides are to blame
here just the the general framing of
this fight is like a preview of divided
government both parties butting heads
and rancor and like you can't you can't
paint a picture of like you know bitter
partisanship and rancor when the
president knighted States is yelling and
lying in the Oval Office and then the
other party is just sort of responding
to his lies and trying to correct the
record like that's not both
sides but this is this I mean I do I do
worry about this for the next two years
is that like the press only has a few
like frames political frames to put
various situations in and right now
they're in the divided government frame
right where one party is in charge of
one house of Congress the other party
has the White House and the other house
of Congress and so therefore
everything's divided government so
everything is going to be seen through
the prism of divided government both
parties bitterly fighting each other all
the time and even though Trump is an
extraordinarily different president and
that he lies and tells conspiracy
theories and doesn't know what the
he's talking
about on anything and as as extreme
right as they come that's still not
going to factor into our analysis it's
just it's it's not great also divided
government is good in this situation
because we had one rule government poor
I'm certainly I said we had one Party
rule government for two years and it was
a cesspool of corruption and
incompetence and this is what Nancy
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer's job is for
the next two years which is stop this
dangerously unfit man from ruining this
country that is their job Nancy Pelosi
seemed very comfortable in that role on
sorry was that Tuesday Tuesday Monday
within that happened Tuesday kids that
seemed very hopeful on that role moans
you stay yeah like do this
getting call out his you don't
do not get make him fight for everything
do not give him what he wants do not
compromise with him dude spit be a check
against this man look if the two parties
are in the Oval Office
arguing over some infrastructure bill
and you know they're like ten billion
apart and they're still fighting and
yelling about the yeah then you can
write about how its divided government
as usual and both parties can't come to
an agreement all the that that's
fine but this isn't that you know this
is like the government could easily be
open here say for five billion dollars
for a wall that nobody wants
except for Donald Trump and his very
shrinking base so there were also a lot
of takes by the way that sounded like
this CNN Headline from crystal is a the
reality TV president just got beat at
his own game
do you find this analysis about reality
TV to be a bit stale at this point I
hate this so much and everyone has been
doing this for four years since Trump
decided to run for president and I
recognize that he is a reality TV star
and it is true that he does view the
world through television and like and
that is an important point it's tiresome
sometimes but he's a weirdo but he does
pick his who cabinet nominees based on
what on how he thinks they would look on
TV no there's no accounting for taste
but he does do that
and he thinks about
pixelmon and that is an important aspect
of a discussion of how Trump thinks
about things but when you compare
everything to reality TV you're one are
just just plowing over used grounds just
over and over again like have a
original thought your life but there was
something more important than that which
is you can call it reality TV and
compare it to reality TV if you have no
skin in the game right if you like it it
understates the stakes for these are for
real people like real things matter here
like this is some of these policy
choices are life or death for people
they are the difference between having
health care not having health care
having be able to enter kippa conscious
and your to the college all of these
things and when you compare it to
reality TV a TV genre whose entire
premise is that it is flux that it is
brain candy and you can enjoy it without
having to deal with the real emotional
stakes of real life or you know or even
more you know complex drama it is the
idea that you can watch it without have
eight without having there be
consequences so when you compare
politics to that it is just as bad a
concurrent Paula Marion politics to
sports all the time you have to
understand and talk about the stakes and
I say this as someone who really enjoys
a lot of reality TV and thinks that
below-deck is one of the best shows on
television right now I saw that tweet
Dan yesterday as a bold tweet about
blood I mean that's got a lot that
really surprised a lot of people and
really
apparently there's a very aggressive
dinner from fools high on Twitter who
were offended by my choice we're gonna
get into that okay so the question now
is where do we go from here Republicans
in the House are planning to vote on a
government funding bill that includes
Trump's five billion dollars for the
wall they may not have the votes
although now some of them are basically
saying well since Pelosi said that we
didn't have the votes now we have to
vote for it just to prove her wrong
because that's the best way to make
policy decisions so if they do if they
do pass this in the house the bill goes
to the Senate where it definitely
doesn't have the 60 votes it needs to
pass so it dies in the Senate and then
if nothing else
and no one else budges the government
will shut down on December 21st at least
we'll partially shut down a bunch of
different agencies will shut down so
question can anything be done to avoid
this and how do you think this ends I
think it is almost I think it's highly
likely there has been to be a shutdown
at some point because there's only so
long you can kick the can down the road
I do think there is a chance that the
then there could be a short-term
extension here too just because people
want to go home for the holidays and
this is constantly old friend Pete Rouse
who look through the clinic or 101st
senator who worked through Obama's chief
of staff in the Senate with what else
with them always used to say when it
comes to the Senate there's nothing
stronger than the snow of jet teams so
when it comes time to go home yeah
people will compromise and so in
Republicans do not even there's a story
in the post today about Republicans are
not super excited about Trump's plan
shut down so you can see a world where
maybe they're like we'll come back and
have have this battle later and it seems
like the Republicans are probably
betting on Trump just forgetting about
it and moving on because I don't think
they want to have this fight in any way
shape or form is the question is whether
Trump and Trump's base will drag them to
the fight there's a chance that we could
see some sort of short-term continuing
resolution and get us to a later date
yeah I mean also when if that happens by
the way and we come back then we'll have
a new Congress we have a new house
Pelosi controls the house the house will
pass the Democratic House will then pass
a continuing resolution to fund the
government at current levels it will go
to the Senate there probably will be the
votes in the Senate to pass what Pelosi
passed which is just funding the
government at current levels that a lot
of people can agree with and then it
goes to trump and so then just Trump
just continued to veto bills bipartisan
bills that came to him from the Senate
in the house from Congress and leave the
government shutdown as a bunch of
federal workers don't get their
paychecks and don't come to work and a
bunch of services for the federal
government just shut down because he
wants his wall I mean I don't
know they
he does how long can he keep that up so
the I guess the there is a plus and a
minus to Trump of kicking this down the
road the the - is that you point out at
the Nancy Pelosi controls the floor come
January so no bill with the wall and it
will ever be brought to the floor of the
house that's the - the plus is also that
Nancy Pelosi controls before and no bill
with the wall in it will come to the
floor of the house in the sense that now
if you want to have a shutdown it is
easier for Trump to have a shutdown in a
time of divided government not at any
time much Republicans control all the
levers which is what would happen yeah
it would be complete control of
Republicans I'm sorry there be complete
Republicans control of government if
they shut down next week and they shut
down a month from now he has a more his
a more ready coil in a democratic house
and then McConnell will be in a weird
position because Nancy Pelosi will pass
Senate resolutions for the cows come
home and the question is will McConnell
take those up or will he refuse to bring
those to the floor and try to force some
sort of negotiation where Trump can get
a fig leaf like that will be yeah you
know where this probably has I don't
think there was no world I think where
he gets his five billion dollars for the
wall or anything similar of the is there
something that he can convince the Magna
base is a victory on the wall and he's
already claiming previously built fence
to be a sign that he has won so and then
he will not be straight he will not be
restrained by credible arguments right
which which might in this scenario be
the positive here he could basically I
mean there's already like 1.3 billion
one point four billion on the table
which is just how much the the DHS D the
Department of mine security would get
for border security in general not for
the wall under our continuing resolution
and so the difference between that and
the five billion he wants for an actual
concrete wall like you could see it end
up somewhere in the middle and the
government stay open and it's still a
 complete waste of money but then
we don't have a government shutdown but
I think like the important point is here
is like Democrats have all the leverage
because like if Trump wants to keep the
shut the government shut down and Pelosi
says yeah well we're trying to open it
by just passing a bill to keep the
government
and open and he's saying no unless he
gets his way I think there's a pretty
strong argument yes it is a stronger
position as a congressional as the
congressional wing has ever been in a
shutdown yeah sure
now so there's also something I just
make interesting about this whole
argument that sort of reveals the game
to everyone about how Trump's can use
politics because Trump takes credit for
everything right he takes credit for the
economy I mean Emily he took credit for
planes not crashing her than the Obama
presidency things like it is a natural
instinct to take credit for everything
and there's a different world where he
could say I am now president look at
look at the statistics on border
apprehension deportations border
crossing all these statistics and say I
solved the problem or I made this huge
progress on the question of undocumented
people coming to this country right I
stopped the caravan like he could just
take credit for that and say he fixed
the problem but instead he needs the
fear of a quote unquote invasion of
brown people coming to the country to
get his base going which is why he needs
to keep having this argument as opposed
to just doing what he does on every
other thing which is take credit whether
he deserves it or not and in almost
every case he doesn't well that yeah
esra climate at this point the other day
is that you know Trump doesn't want the
wall he wants the fight over the wall if
he wanted the wall if he wanted an
actual border security there's a way to
work with Democrats to make sure the
border is secure we do it all the time
we did during the Obama administration
we did it for every administration
proceeding the Obama administration and
where there are holes we can fill them
with more border security we could do
that we can keep the border secure he
doesn't give a about keeping the
border secure he gives a about
making sure that his base is scared of
an invasion like you said and so hey
there's no scenario where he's happy
over this because if he doesn't have
that issue if he can't during an
election year or whenever he wants go
tell people there's an invasion of
immigrants coming into this country then
he doesn't have anything to get his base
excited about a case remember he could
have had the wall a year ago when
Schumer offered him the deal of daca for
wall hunting and he didn't take it
that's right
do you think so he obviously thinks this
is great politics for him do you think
that this is good politics for Trump and
maybe maybe the wall for a shot to hurt
me I'm sorry
maybe demanding the wall and threatening
to shut down the government over it is
not good politics at least you know we
can see that in polls now NPR PBS mayor
has had a poll out yesterday by twenty
one point margin 57% to 36% Americans
think the president should compromise on
the wall to avoid a government shutdown
rather than stand firm and more than
two-thirds do not believe building the
wall should even be an immediate
priority for Congress half don't believe
it should be a priority at all Trump of
course thinks this is good politics do
you think there's a case to be made that
border security in general is good
politics for Trump
it depends on how you view politics and
Trump views politics very differently
than everyone else and I think what is
important to understand is that when you
see a poll that says 2/3 don't like this
and 1/3 loves it Trump sees that
and says I want the 1/3 right his goal
is to keep the 1/3 of voters who love
Trump in love with Trump and because he
needs that he needs that person to fill
the own ravenous hole of insecurities
himself but he also needs it because
that is what protects him from being
tossed overboard by the Republicans who
wish he had never been elected right it
is the thing that protects him in a
Pietschmann trial in the Senate is the
thing that protects him from Republicans
walking away from on every issue and so
like we tend to think about politics of
how do you get to 50.1 right how do you
get to a majority so that you can win
elections shrunk thinks about it in a
short more short-term way which is how
do I keep one third of people fired up
about me and will run through walls for
me and in that sense this is good
politics for him it's not good 2020
politics but it is good politics to get
him to 2020 and I think we have to
understand that he's not insane when he
thinks about this he just thinking about
politics differently it may be a bad
lay a not the right approach if you want
to be reelected but it is based on his
sort of strategic framework he is
achieving what he wants to do and you
and I have spent approximately 30
minutes now and we have barely touched
on the rampant amount of crime news has
come out about Trump and that is also to
his benefit well let's get there then on
that note good segue let's move on to
today's edition of hot tub crime machine
former Trump attorney Michael Cohen was
sentenced to three years in prison on
Wednesday for what Judge William Pauley
called quote a veritable smorgasbord of
criminal conduct including this was the
judge including tax fraud bank fraud and
conspiracy to defraud the United States
by hiding hush money payments to Trump's
mistresses that should have been
disclosed as campaign contributions
payments that by everyone's account
Cohen the prosecutors the judge Trump
himself directed Cohen to make at his
sentencing Cohen said he's been living
quote in a personal and mental
incarceration ever since the day he
started working for trouble to whom he
was blindly loyal Cohen said that he
felt it was his duty to cover up for
Trump's quote dirty deeds dan did we
learn anything new from the sentencing
hearing I don't know that we learned
anything new of consequence but what we
learned what we've been reminded of is
very importantly which is word Donald
Trump not president today he would be
indicted for crimes and likely headed to
the same place Michael Cohen is headed
and that is just such a monumental thing
that it's almost too big to truly atom
in the constraints of actual of how we
think about politics right it is yeah
the president is a criminal and the only
thing that is keeping him from going to
prison is being president and that is
 weird yeah I mean that's that's
one thing we learned that's a big one
Jeanne Rhee who works for Muller in the
special counsel's office also said Cohen
provided quote credible information
regarding any links between a campaign
and a foreign government so that's the
second conspiracy that also Trump might
be
should be possibly indicted for that
we'll maybe find out more from Muller as
the months go on here
meanwhile assistant US attorney nicholas
ruse part of the new york prosecutorial
team from SD NY said the Cohens quote
charges portray a pattern of deception
brazenness and greed and he added most
importantly that these crimes harmed
free in transparent elections and in
committing these crimes Cohen has eroded
faith in the electoral process now as
the prosecutors are saying all this
about Cohen they're also saying that
Trump directed him to commit these
crimes so by association here the idea
is that Trump has undermined faith in
the electoral process and free entry and
undermine free in transparent elections
which i think is probably going to be a
theme of the indictments that come down
here both in the Cohen hush-money case
and the Russia case importantly I mean
the one of the many incredible things
about Muller here in the Special Counsel
investigation is he is weaving together
a very cohesive narrative about trumps
crimes they are not random here they all
go to the central point that Trump and
his campaign and his associates have
undermined our electoral system with
their crimes it's not it's not great and
the other thing that's important by the
way is like this is not everyone should
say this because this is Trump's defense
here this is not Cohen's word against
Trump's the prosecutors would not have
brought this case the judge would not
have accepted this sentencing memo and a
sentencing recommendation if there had
not been hard evidence they know that
Cohen doesn't always tell the truth and
so there is evidence of this too which
is also the more much more incredible
because Trump is just like tweeting up a
storm this morning about like all these
defenses that sort of fall apart on
closer look and I don't think he
realizes or maybe he doesn't doesn't
care that there's evidence here you know
like there is something interesting that
has happened over the last week which is
for the people who have paid close
attention to what is happening it was
been happening related to all of the
various Trump crimes whether it's
related to these payments or Russia or
the various people buying before
Congress or wine the FBI like we have
sort of
known that like there has just been this
lag between what the evidence says and
sort of the general view of depressed in
political world about the legal and
political peril that Trump is in because
of these investigations right yeah I
think up until this past week this or if
you were to put truth serum into a bunch
of DC reporters their sort of view would
be yeah Trump probably did some things
but the campaign and here too dumb to
actually engage in a real criminal
conspiracy and it doesn't really matter
because his base won't care and public
Congress won't do anything and you feel
a little bit maybe it's the rounding the
corner to the 2020 election cycle or
it's just just that all these things
tend to happen slowly and then suddenly
but like in the last week and I think
the Cohen 10z memos like we're the sort
of form of the tipping point since
people are like oh there's a lot of real
criminal alum real credible allegations
against Trump and real very serious
legal jeopardy for everyone involved
here and I think that is different and
that does affect his ability to transact
politics in Washington between now in
the presidential election yeah and and
one more piece of evidence that came out
this week
to that regard prosecutors also
announced on Wednesday that the parent
company of the National Enquirer or
sorry that the parent company of the
National Enquirer is cooperating in
their investigation of the payments that
involved Cohen from the New York Times
quote according to prosecutors American
media company admitted that it's
$150,000 payment in August of 2016 to
Karen McDougal
a former play by a Playboy model who
said she'd had a ten month affair with
Trump had been made in coordination with
the Trump campaign and was intended to
suppress allegations about the candidate
under the agreement with ami dated in
September but previously kept private
federal prosecutors in Manhattan agreed
not to charge the company in return for
its cooperation a.m. eyes chief
executive David pecker provided
testimony as prosecutors investigated
Cohen this year in exchange for immunity
how big of a deal is this this is
actually the biggest deal of the things
we've learned over the last two weeks in
my view yes because what you had like
the 20 argument at Trump
as maid is that the mean put aside the
fact that he lied to the country about
these statements for a very long time
but just in the last week or so he is
shifting his story to say these payments
were not campaign finance related right
so he's essentially saying I made these
payments because I didn't want the
public and my family to know about these
things I had done without regard to the
presidential campaign that was happening
that is essentially as I understand it
the defense that John Edwards used to
get off of to get I'm sorry the defense
john edwards used to avoid criminal
penalties for a very complicated scheme
to pay off the his the woman he had an
affair with and had a child with during
the 2008 presidential campaign but here
you have David Packard one of trumps
best friends you had say that this was
very explicitly done not in coordination
with Trump's personal attorney but with
the term campaign and was done for the
express purpose to use a term of art
these days defrauding the American
people in the election and that is that
is a huge deal and will be if and when
Trump goes to trial either in the Senate
or some other point in time it will this
will be very important I think and by
the way granting Ami and pecker immunity
here is no small thing because the crime
they committed was an illegal corporate
campaign contribution right like again
Trump is allowed to donate as much as he
wants to his own campaign his crime and
Cowen's crime is not disclosing that
contribution it's just it's a violation
of disclosure laws am i's crime here is
well you can't pay a hundred and fifty
thousand dollars if you're a corporation
to influence a campaign like that you
just can't you just can't donate the
it's like an in-kind contribution so to
not prosecute an illegal corporate
campaign contribution means that they
must have that pecker and ami must have
given prosecutors quite a bit here and
they must have gone up the food chain
and that means further implicating Trump
or giving evidence to implicate Trump or
Trump's
in the Trump Organization and that means
one of his kids because Alan Weisberg is
the CFO who's the only other executive
of the Trump Organization has also been
granted immunity by prosecutors that the
Alan Russell work thing is really
important and I wish I'd grown enough
last weekend were talking about one of
the things that mother knows that we
want to know with you what is Allah
bless her birth tell people because he
is he has run the books at this low-rent
criminal syndicate for years and so he
knows everything he's like the let's not
forget that's how all component down is
when it's a count internal everything
has historical precedent that should be
alarming and it is also worth noting
that the that am I and National Enquirer
has been the closet where Trump is then
story his skeletons for a very long time
so there could be a whole host of things
that happened that we don't yet know
about that that prosecutors know about
because of this deal so let's talk about
the question of indictment the former
acting Solicitor General of the United
States neil ceccato
cartel I I think I think that's right
seventy-five versions of it michael says
gotcha
all right the former acting Solicitor
General of the United States Neal Katyal
tweeted on Wednesday that the only
things keeping Trump from criminal
prosecution are the Department of
Justice guidelines that say a sitting
president can't be indicted Neal thinks
that there may be some exceptions to
this rule but he also argues that those
guidelines could ultimately hurt Trump
because quote if indictment is off the
table
impeachment has to be Dan what does he
mean by that
can Trump be indicted and should he be
indictable I think it is I put on my
motor kneecap and just really rely on a
couple of common law classes I took in
college but is that this is Justice
Department guide there is no this is an
interpretation of the law in the
Constitution and there's no wall on the
books somewhere there's no amendment in
the Constitution there's a provision
that says the president cannot be
indicted this is the opinion of the
legal analysts at the Justice Department
many many years ago and has remained as
such for a very long time so it is an
opinion opinions Ken
and it is makes it it does put if you
believe this to be the case and Mulder
believes this to be the case and Sdn why
believes this to be the case it does put
some pressure on Democrats to have to
eventually move on opening up
impeachment proceedings at some point
because you have these clients these
very obvious clients that were they not
committed
perhaps Trump would not be president and
a whole host whether that is collusion
whether that is these payments yeah you
have a whole host of other things that
may be revealed in the Muller report or
in further Scentsy memos or indictments
in the Southern District of New York
investigation and if the only recourse
the only way to hold Trump accountable
for those crimes or to have a proceeding
for that activity is in Congress then
the pressure will ruffle Democrats and
increase the likelihood that Trump will
be one of our few presidents who has a
scar what I'd like yeah I mean two
things from what Neal was tweeting one
he said he believes the guidelines don't
necessarily apply to crimes that go
toward obtaining the presidency itself
so you mentioned this because basically
you want to avoid incentivizing a world
where the prize of winning the
presidency is a get-out-of-jail-free
card for crimes you committed to get
there so that makes sense like yeah
they're the reason that the DOJ
guidelines say that a sitting president
can't be indicted is okay well the
president can't be going through this
trial while he's got to run the country
there's important duties here it could
hurt the American people could hurt the
country if the president has to you know
be distracted by this lengthy trial of
course we know the Trump and it doesn't
even get up and go to work until three
o'clock on Wednesday so it's not like
he's that busy to deal with the trial
but in a usual case that's the deal but
the idea that you can commit a crime in
order to obtain the presidency and then
once you win the presidency you can't be
touched you can't be indicted it does it
incentivizes people to commit crimes to
get the presidency and that's clearly
not what the founders intended that's
clearly not what the DOJ guidelines
intended the other
point that Neal made and Neal by the way
wrote the special council regulations
back in 1999 and sort of set up the
special councils office
Muller can seek a departure from DOJ
policy and ask for permission to indict
Trump he asked the acting Attorney
General the acting Attorney General
either says yes which with these goons
in there seems unlikely unless it is rod
Rosenstein which we don't know who the
acting Attorney General overseeing the
case right now is because they won't
tell us but if the acting Attorney
General says no you cannot indict the
president then it triggers this Muller
must report all of the information he
has to Congress both the majority and
minority parties so in a way Muller
asking for an indictment of Trump if he
so chooses and if he has the evidence to
do so could trigger making sure that the
public knows what Muller knows and you
know the report doesn't get quashed by
some Trump toady in the attorney
general's office which i think is a
pretty big deal it is uh there are a
couple other elements of this which is
you like Neal's point is very
interesting both as it relates to crimes
committed to get the presidency hmm but
also what about crimes committed before
the presidency right like not let's put
trumpets October so with that but like
if you have a like under the way this is
currently interpreted right if you elect
the President and then that president is
suspected of committing a murder you
know within the statute of limitations
that president could not be indicted for
said crime right and so that I mean that
there it is just it does create this
very perverse set of circumstances
whereby the president is the president
has a special privilege that makes them
immune from the legal accountability
that everyday citizens face which is
crazy because the president is now
president above the law
you know this for this policy what's
that I said I think there are very good
reasons for this policy right we're yeah
keep reading it and thinking like yeah
it makes sense because what you don't
want is to be able to have a political
effort to undo an election through the
criminal justice system right like there
is that the designated way in which our
presidents faces legal repercussions is
to Congress so that there is a political
ascent that people have a voice in right
which is they elected these
representatives and they will have the
opportunity to reelect them or send them
home as they abuse that privilege as
essentially happened with Republicans
who impeach Clinton and so it makes
sense and then you're like but trunk but
this president this situation is
different and then when you start saying
this president this situation is
different it kind of explains why the
policy isn't there to begin with because
some other time down the road it'll be
done in a way which you don't agree with
the exception and so I can decide with
the fact that this is the right thing to
do yeah well I mean we're only talking
about this because we don't we see that
there's like a broken Republican Party
that will refuse to impeach this
president no matter what crime he
commits but the reason that it's set up
the way it is is because an indictment
is a way to take care of everyone in the
country except for the president where
impeachment is the remedy that's like an
indictment right and then so you have
impeachment proceedings in the house if
the president commits a crime and the
impeachment proceedings in the house and
voting to start impeachment proceedings
isn't necessarily expelling the
president from office it's not
convicting him it's merely saying this
is going to be our version of a trial
that every other American gets when they
are indicted and and that's supposed to
be the process so we'll see if it
happens okay I want to talk about
climate change before we get to our
Stacey Abrams interview over the weekend
political ran a story about how climate
activists are reconsidering where their
carbon taxes are the best tool to use to
combat climate change
this comes after protests in France over
a fuel tax and after a carbon related
ballot measure in Washington state that
was just defeated that would have
charged $15 per ton on greenhouse gases
and used the revenue to help communities
suffer
from the effects of climate change or
the closure of fossil fuel industries so
Dan is a carbon tax politically viable
and I guess more importantly is it
necessary I am not enough of an expert
in climate policy to know whether it is
necessary whether it is the only
solution or so much more so much better
a solution everything else is what we
should do what I do know is that
basically no one has made a political
argument for it ever right the process
always begins let's run up let's have a
poll let me see it and it test terribly
and so let's put that to the side and
not do it and while you have like Al
Gore and Tom Friedman and people who
write near Times op eds and speak at
Davos arguing for no one very few people
if not no one who has been running
campaigns and facing the wall the voters
has made a strong and consistent case
for you
which is sort of like no no wonder
it's it's not popular because you only
have people making negative arguments
and no one making positive argument so
it's sort of hard to make no argument
for it for a decade and then try to put
it in place like that never works when
you do that you always face a serious
backlash yeah I mean look the other
problem here is in in the case of France
McCrone instituted this carbon tax and
then used the revenue from the tax on
working people who were paying the tax
at the pump used that revenue to pay
down the deficit and he also gave a
corporate tax cut to a bunch of rich
people and corporations in France which
I will tell you for sure I'm no pollster
but that is not the popular way of doing
this I mean there are plenty of that is
political suicide I do not like this job
and I want to lose it immediately it's
crazy so there are a bunch of proposals
around a carbon tax you can design a
carbon tax a million different ways so
it's hard to talk about it as one
specific policy but for example you
could institute a carbon tax so that
people you know the idea here is that if
gas the price of gasoline is a little
bit higher people will be incentivized
to buy fuel-efficient vehicles so that
they're not paying as much at the pump
right so you could
institute a carbon tax where in order to
make people whole and who are paying
higher taxes at the pump you cut their
payroll taxes so you give a big payroll
tax cut to work in class people to
middle class people and then therefore
they're in in some they're really not
paying any more at all so there's all
kinds of ways to design this but there's
also by the way it's a way to design
this where you say this is a tax on
corporate polluters right because what
the main source of dirty energy here are
like coal plants and it's an electricity
and it's stuff like that and so you you
mainly place the tax on corporate
polluters and I bet if you pull that
it's gonna pull a lot better than saying
average people who were driving around
have to pay more at the pump and all the
money that they're paying is gonna go
towards reducing the deficit that's
crazy
well there's a whole bunch of I mean
carbon tax is one way to do this there's
a whole bunch of other ways to to
regulate the emission of greenhouse
gases and you can all the way up and
down the chain here and you can start
with the companies that are polluting
and I do think that's probably a more
politically viable solution which brings
us to the green New Deal there are now
thirty five huts Democrats signed on to
a green new deal which is a series of
investments that would get us to a
hundred percent renewable electricity by
2035 and zero net carbon emissions by
2050 while creating 10 million jobs over
the decade and that includes by the way
a green job guarantee for anyone who's
transitioning out of a dirty energy job
now there have also been activists
protesting outside of Pelosi's office
who's now promised to re-establish a
Select Committee on climate change in
the house which was last there in 2007
and we also know a full 69% of Americans
think the US should work with other
nations to fight climate change that
numbers up a little bit so what do you
think of the green new deal is it more
politically viable than a carbon tax and
how hard should Democrats be pushing
this I think it certainly seems to be
more viable than a carbon tax it is he's
like there it is not it seems to me to
be put aside the politics I mean it is
substantially immorally the right thing
to do right it is a
old approach to two huge problems facing
this country in the planet climate
change being one of them and also the
transition in our economy from a
manufacturing fossil fuel based economy
to something new yeah but if we don't
have a big bold new deal esque plan for
we're going to end up with a bunch of
low-paying service jobs with no benefits
while all of the manufacturing is
happening in countries other the united
states and so like you need bold
solutions we have to get beyond the just
simple like soundbite e tax you know tax
incentives for x or a tax cut for y like
we need a bold holistic solution to
address these problems and you know with
the devil will be in the details of all
of these things right how does the new
job new the cream deal jobs guarantee
work I'm sorry how does the green jobs
guarantee work how does the like what
does it look like to actually transition
out of fossil fuel to fully renewable by
2035 all of that matters but it seems
like this is a bold solution to a huge
problem that people should get behind
and I am curious about some of the
politics here that have made some
Democrats not jump on right away yeah I
mean look I think this has been the this
has been the challenge with climate
politics for a very long time you know
most people do believe in climate change
most people are not in the camp of the
climate deniers but when you ask them
what to do about it most people in the
country don't want to be paying a bunch
more for you know paying more taxes
paying all this money for something that
they are like they can't see the
tangible effects of at least in their
lifetime this is this is just a problem
we've seen us in polling for a long time
even but what we do know is people want
clean air and clean water they want a
clean environment they like that kind of
stuff but that's a well that's all
incredibly important to a lot of people
especially when you talk about you know
protecting the the earth for the next
generation protecting environment for
people's children like that is all very
very popular I think I think that the
smart aspect of this green new deal here
is tying climate change and climate
policy
to economic policy in a way that's
telling people we can create good-paying
jobs like you were saying we can
transition from the economy we're in now
where we have these a lot of low-paying
jobs and jobs are getting automated out
of existence to this economy with a lot
of good-paying jobs and if you're
worried if you're in the coal industry
we're not gonna just say something like
oh don't worry we'll give you some
training for your next job we're gonna
guarantee that one of these that there's
there's a green a green new job for you
there's a green job for you and what
that could mean is retrofitting
buildings that's construction jobs
that's you know working in a revitalized
auto industry that's making
fuel-efficient cars right there's it's
everything from like cleaning up
community gardens to you mean there's
there's a million different kinds of
jobs here that you can guarantee people
and so if you if you present this plan
to people as a way to protect the
environment save the planet and also by
the way build this new economy with
millions of good-paying jobs then that's
gonna be a popular that's gonna be a
popular agenda item I'm guessing some of
the hesitancy from some Democrats is
around the pricetags rights whatever it
is is gonna be quite high in the short
sighted traditional way in which we
think spending right where we think of
it as money out the door and not as
investments if you did it if you measure
it spending as an investment we measure
federal spending like you measure
investments in construction investments
in the stock market where you calculate
the return in the end then this would be
a great thing to do and I think we
should not be scared by the by the you
know CBO or wherever else monitoring you
know dire budget predictions on this for
two reasons one Republicans just passed
a trillion dollar tax cut to fatten the
pocket that the Koch brothers and help
solve the national crisis of Apple's tax
burden and so it seems like giving
people jobs and making effort to save
the planet seems like a better use of
money and frankly what are we gonna do
if we have a balanced budget and
everyone is living off so they drafts
because the planet is melted well but
also one of the dire predictions that is
being made by people who study
by climate scientists and others is a
dire economic situation where climate
change is already climate devastation
already is hurting economic growth it's
gonna put people out of work it's gonna
cost us more money like so we're either
gonna pay we're either gonna pay a
smaller price now to transition this
economy from a dirty energy economy to a
clean energy economy and save the planet
and create new jobs so we're either
going to pay a smaller price now for a
lot of benefits or we're gonna pay a
devastatingly large price both in the
environment being destroyed the planet
being destroyed and by the way a whole
bunch of people being out of work and a
lot of economic output disappearing
because there's climate devastation all
over the planet so we can pay now we can
pay later and if we pay now we save the
planet we create a lot of jobs so I
think but you but you're right that I
don't think enough Democrats have sort
of at least in the last couple years we
used to talk about this all the time we
talked about in the obama administration
the clinton ministration talked about it
but like we haven't talked about it in a
way that made the case for you know
sorry we haven't made the case for a
green new deal yet and we haven't made
it in a big way and i think democrats
would be wise to to make that case one
two points on this one is i think it is
important to do this in the context of a
moral argument for addressing climate
change yeah right i think one of the
things that democrats ourselves included
and been guilty about at times is trying
to get climate friendly policies passed
on the political cheap right by arguing
simply framing and totally around clean
air and clean water which is true and
very important and pulls well or trying
to simply talk about only green jobs
right like we're doing this thing we're
going to ignore some of the harder parts
of it and we're going to tell you some
to create these jobs as opposed to
making a broader moral argument about
climate change because people are smart
and they get it and we do have to move
the politics on climate in this country
in a big direction and we have to do it
very quickly and so I think that that
isn't it you can't just simply say this
is only about the economy this is a
blank you have to just be transparent
and honest on what you're doing and make
up for
well case for climate change and you
have to be honest about like these are
the costs of transitions there are gonna
be some people who are in some
industries that hurt and here's how
we're going to help those people and
help those industries right I think you
need an answer for the people who say
okay well am i out of a job now I work
in the coal industry what do I do you
need an answer for those people yeah and
it's it's gonna be there will be pain
here it will be messy but it is a
hundred percent necessary and you're
gonna have like in any big policy
transition whether it's healthcare or
green new deal or whatever else it is
there are winners and losers and you're
gonna have to talk about explain to
those are and talk about what policy
didn't break up the losers for sure yeah
the other part I think is important is I
hope there is not one green new deal I
hope that there are that every candidate
running for president is articulating
some some their version of a vision like
this Yeah right so it's like what it
what will be dumb is and I think in the
service of the learners who is like here
is the officially sanctioned green New
Deal get on this specific green new deal
or you are a traitor to the party in the
planning way that is not the way to
approach it we should have a big debate
around climate policy economic policy
and how we address this and if the
framework is within a green new deal and
if all these people run if Kamala Harris
has one version that does this and does
this and then Bernie Sanders it's a
different version that maybe does
something differently or move things
forward like that is the conversation to
have and like we talked last week about
a healthcare specific debate yes there
is not a climate energy specific debate
in this Democratic primary it is such a
missed opportunity for the voters the
public and everyone involved and so I
hope that we have a debate like this
we're really smart people who know
climate policy who can call on
pablum and talking points conduct that
debate and people have to articulate
their plan for how they do this it'll be
better than the debate that is happening
on Twitter we know that for sure I'm in
sweater is pretty good everyone saw you
dip in like you check out like Dave
Robertson mentions or something but
you're they're pretty smart there's a
little niches of Twitter where they're
like really smart conversations we're
just are rarely exposed to them
we're in yeah we're looking in general
political Twitter slack channel and it's
pretty terrible this is it's pretty
garbage okay when we come back we will
have sorry when we come back my
interview with Stacey Abrams
you
