now it's time for a game called okay
stop will roll equip and the panel can
say okay stop at any point to comment
lou dobbs who you might know as the
founder of space comm because he was
found inside a racist meaty or it's
actually also a television host and for
someone who loves the universe so much
he really does have some backwards views
on drugs let's take a look with
President Trump he wants to build a wall
he wants to stop the importation of
billions and billions of dollars of
methamphetamines marijuana heroin
cocaine opiates and he wants the Chinese
not to ship us all the fentanyl and all
of the other deadly drugs that they
bring into this country
okay stop I think he wants to do drugs
he got really lost enlisting all the
drugs and I think he was kind of like
finding himself enticed by the idea of
them I think it's offensive to say that
a guy wants to do drugs who up
every other word he says on his show and
thinks that Obama is a member of the
Muslim Brotherhood and I just want to
say he has amazing style he has to get
everyone's support for that in this
country what in hell is wrong with the
American people that they don't
understand this president deserves their
support because he is trying to protect
their lives okay stop
that's that's fascism right in a
nutshell like I'm not saying he's
advocating for overthrowing the federal
government but the final step of fascism
is well these people aren't going to
vote for the right person well we'll
just have to get some new people you
know it's like a little bit like like if
these um these Americans don't
understand what's good for them Lou
Dobbs understands what's good for them
I'm on Fox News business
Fox News for the people that couldn't
get on Fox News
yeah well I think that's the message he
has to keep pounding every single day
because no way wait a minute he pounds
it every day how doesn't it
okay blue dogs just told that Rollins
that Trump pounds it every like Lou
Dobbs
he pays attention he watches the news
and he's telling us that every day Trump
is pounding it I will say I'm actually
getting word from my people on the
ground the White House which is the
President and I it is confirmed he does
not pound it every day he's not pounding
it every day Hayes you think that's
right he's not pounding it every day huh
I think when like pounding it is
literally the way that he can kind of
get it going these days that's like not
a euphemism also he let Ed Rollins speak
for one second he played okay stop with
pounding preacher in the country talking
about it every Sunday they should why is
it every school in the country talking
about this where there's students okay
stop I just want to be clear what Lou
Dobbs is advocating luda believes that
every school in the country needs to be
teaching kids that Donald Trump is
trying to stop China from importing
fentanyl I don't understand where that's
fitting into the curricula he also
thinks that's what should be coming from
the churches from the pews into the pews
from the from the from the Bema is it
Bhima if it's Christian if it's going
what's I get it get the nod from the
Ashkenazi section
every history teacher ever yeah it's
incredible to me higher education is
indoctrinating American students to
become left wing radicals instead of
pointing out what a great country this
is and how we became a great country
you're watching i'm robert muller man
trying to kill it
you're watching whether it's a paul ryan
a republican speaker a house trying to
kill okay so this is the man i found it
space.com
wholesome endeavor to teach teach people
about space also he's talking about what
children in school learning he's a
billion years old he hasn't seen a child
or spoken to a child that's a little
insulting he talks to the kids when he's
doing the blood transfusions
that's ridiculous daddy you owe Lou
Dobbs and the children he buys blood
from at Lou Dobbs I'll tweeted him and
this and before you ask he does insist
that they are white as someone who
dropped out of state school a mere four
years ago I will say they did they did
program me to like Democrat and you
dropped out in protest that wasn't any
academic stuff it was not academic I was
just like no no my God my king my
boyfriend Donald J Trump is gonna run
for president and just in just four
years now I'm smart and I am serving on
the administration which is why I was
brought here to represent the different
perspective watching Mitch McConnell
sort of wash his hands of the whole
thing instead of stand up for the
country I mean it's pretty despicable
what do you think Lou Dobbs does with
the money that is such a good question
he's too up to golf like I
thought of body that crazy to me that he
knows what a website he is the founder
of a glorious idea called space.com is
the money going towards keeping the body
like that
like would it be worse would we be
trying to give him the money back if if
it suddenly went away maybe he's going
to space.com I haven't checked out the
site recently I got a gorgeous design
it's a magnificent Super Bowl ad Super
Bowl ad for space.com Danica Patrick is
moving over from GoDaddy to space.com
what is the difference you know what I'm
done with Lou Dobbs
that's okay stop
[Music]
