I am honored to have with me in the
studio today former mayor of San Antonio
former Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development Julian Castro thank you so
much for joining us thanks a lot great
to be with you
so it's been a weird week in the Trump
world as I guess we could say that every
week basically that is true but I mean
he threatened to seal the border with
Mexico
he threatened to cut off aid to El
Salvador Honduras Guatemala
you rolled out a very very different far
less punitive and cruel immigration
policy you've proposed decriminalizing
illegal entry into the US and making it
a civil infraction so more like a
speeding ticket than a crime you want to
split up ice you've proposed a Marshall
Plan for Central America can you explain
your immigration proposals and you know
in proposal in particular what you can
do on your own versus what Congress
would have to act on and talk about why
you took such a bold approach well I
just have a different vision for this
from the president if you'll remember
about a year ago his administration told
us basically that if we would just be
cruel enough to separate little children
from their parents that that would deter
more families from coming to the United
States and in fact more families are
coming now yeah and so he wants us to
believe that in order to have a secure
border we need to choose cruelty I
believe that we have a border that is
more secure than it's ever been and I'm
asking Americans to choose compassion so
this people first immigration plan that
I rolled out includes rolling back
something called section 1325 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act which as
you know was put in place in the late
1920s but until about 2004 these
infractions somebody crossing over the
border was actually treated mostly as a
civil matter it wasn't treated as a
criminal matter I believe that we should
go back to that that it will help us
undo the backlog that exists of people
folks have been watching these images of
people under the bridge in El Paso that
are literally fenced in with razor wire
this family detention yeah practice of
separating little children from
their parents that's all part of this
incarceration push in our immigration
policy I think that we need to do away
with that I also believe that we need to
increase the number of refugees that
this country takes in I think that we
need to stop playing games with people
who are seeking asylum in this country
stop treating them like criminals and
allow them to make their claim
I saw the president today suggest that
we should somehow do away with asylum
and also do away with immigration judges
actually I believe that we should
strengthen our immigration judicial
system and make it independent and
invest in it so that we can actually
process these claims I mean the fact of
the matter is we know that many of the
people who make it a sign a Cylon claim
in the United States may not get asylum
right also under my plan of course we
maintain the power to deport people but
we don't treat them like criminals and
we don't act like this is just going to
go away
I also proposed basically a 21st century
Marshall Plan for Latin America I know
that you can't compare the Latin America
of today with post-world War two Europe
right I mean Europe was coming back
after the war but what I mean is that I
believe that we need to make investments
in these northern triangle countries in
on doodahs in a Salvadoran what the
malla
so that people can find safety and
opportunity there instead of having to
knock on the door of the United States
and so they win and we win um I love
that you are taking a big bold approach
on immigration policy I think that
Democrats need to go at Trump hard on
immigration because if you look at the
facts he's a failure right he's failed
on enforcement he's failed when it comes
to living up to our values he is he's
not done the job gotten the job done but
I also know you know just for mostly
that time in the White House that some
of these policies are tough politically
and some of them you've proposed like
splitting up ice decriminalizing illegal
entry the the foreign aid if those
require congressional action and in in
some instances aren't unpopular how do
you propose to
sell that I mean how can we get voters
to understand that more money for for
foreign aid is actually going to help
them in the long run well I mean the
fact is that as you know the United
States every single year invests in the
relationships that we have around the
world with aid to many countries and so
I do think that there's a backbone in
our history of some built-in support
some realization of that you're right I
mean we do have to convince people why
it would make sense and I would very
much lead that with an explanation of
how much we're gonna spend how much it
would cost to build that wall versus to
invest less what would be less dollars
in these northern triangle countries and
I think to stem the tide stem the flow
of people coming over here so just on a
numbers basis do you have a popular
number your house I don't but you know I
anticipate that that would be our
approach and you know during the course
of the campaign we look forward to
getting specific about that but the
other thing is that you know I think
that on January 20th 2021 at 12:01 p.m.
we're gonna have a Democratic president
a Democratic Senate and a Democratic
House and one of the lessons on
immigration reform of 2009-2010 is don't
wait yeah and so you know we're gonna
we're gonna go for that um a lot of
candidates announced that they're gonna
run for president and then they catch
the first plane to Iowa you went to
Puerto Rico why'd you do that I went to
Puerto Rico because I wanted them and
all Americans to know that if I'm
president that everybody counts in this
country this administration has failed
the people of Puerto Rico just recently
he lied that 91 billion dollars have
been invested in Puerto Rico to recover
from Hurricane Maria the truth is that
that's just over 11 billion dollars and
I wanted to just tell them you know
we're thinking about them they're
Americans - and if I'm president I think
frankly if any of the folks that are
running for president as Democrats make
it that we're gonna treat them very
differently we're gonna make sure that
they can
why do you have a theory for why he is
so vicious towards elected officials any
financing going towards Puerto Rico he's
it's it's glaring
it's nasty it's insecurity he recognizes
that it's another example of the
administration's either malice or
incompetence and see I don't think that
his incompetence is given enough credit
a lot of times it's an incompetent
administration full of people who are C
or D level appointees not all of them
but a lot of them
I mean you served in the federal
government you know what I'm talking
about yeah a lot of positions that are
unfilled a lot of decisions that don't
get made because people are afraid to
make a decision because their gaps in
the chain of command political decisions
that get made so he wants people to
believe that it was Puerto Rico's fault
from the very beginning when they
suggested that somehow you know people
were on strike and so they didn't help
deliver supplies on the island he riles
up his base by making him think it's
Puerto Rico's fault when it wasn't and
shifts the conversation to that instead
of the fact that that Harvard study
pointed out that about 3p3 thousand
people died and a lot of them after the
storm hit because the recovery was not
handled the right way yeah Puerto Ricans
are known to create their own hurricanes
I think is take on this um do you think
were toriko ship become a state well I
think that they should that they should
determine that I know that there have
been a couple of votes in years past I
would like to see a process for
self-determination I would be committed
to that if I'm president I think that
you know they should be respected first
and foremost and they've been completely
disrespected by this president I mean I
I cannot believe how disrespectful this
president has been nor can I um so you
were President Obama's Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development from 2014
to 2017 that the financial crisis and a
lot of the fallout from it was before
your time and in many instances but
there
some Democrats who believe that Obama
didn't do enough to help homeowners hurt
by the financial crisis but he bailed
out banks right something you hear a lot
so for example they think we should have
let bankruptcy judges modify homeowner
mortgages to reduce the terms reduce the
value of the debt and avoid foreclosure
it's called a cram down one of those
awful terms that I will never forget and
no one knows what it means
um do you agree with that criticism and
if you do do you what other things you
think we could have done to help
homeowners after the crisis well what I
believe is that President Obama did a
very good job with the circumstances
that he inherited in terms of getting
the country back up on its feet you
think about communities like Florida or
Nevada that were very hard to hit it was
night and day you know if you stepped in
there in January of 2009 versus January
of 2017 at the same time of course there
are things that that you know lessons
learned hopefully we won't have to go
through that again but lessons learned
in terms of maybe we can be more
aggressive and so that more people can
keep their homes but overall I do think
that the administration was focused on
the concerns of everyday people
especially in a way that this president
just is not yeah folks may remember you
know right after he was elected you know
somebody caught him I think on tape or a
reporter the Trump told his buddies at
one of his clubs you know I'm gonna get
you that tax cut I mean lower your taxes
I mean that's completely different from
the the attitude that President Obama
had and all of us had which is we want
to do what we can to to improve the
lives of everyday Americans that are
working hard and have just lost their
homes I think in the future we can look
at more aggressive ways to to make sure
people can keep their homes also to add
to housing supply that is affordable
because we have a rental affordability
crisis out there and on the stump these
days I talk a lot about that you know
one of the things I talked about is that
we need to be the most prosperous nation
in this 21st century but it has to mean
prosperity for everybody from raising
the minimum wage to investing in
affordable housing to making sure that
of course we focus on the middle class
but also that we focus on the poor too
yeah I mean look I've lived recently in
DC LA San Francisco I mean these are
cities where rents are just skyrocketing
you really hit the hotspots oh yeah it
was a place that's not the smartest move
on my part I wasn't a tech founder um so
I mean like these these cities I mean
they're gentrification people are
getting driven out of their homes what
role do you think the federal government
can play in in helping people afford
housing versus you know state and local
government there are things that we can
do you know at the end of the Obama
administration one of the things we did
was to release a set of recommendations
for local communities on land use
decisions that they could make basically
to increase the likelihood that
affordable housing would be built that
we get greater supply but we can make
stronger investments I would increase
the national housing trust fund
increased low-income housing tax credits
also traditional tools like Community
Development Block Grants and home
funding and money for to combat
homelessness because we have yeah in
these cities that you mentioned right
growing unsheltered homelessness but we
also I think have to restore something
called a firmly furthering fair housing
it was a blockbuster rule that HUD did
during the Obama administration to
basically tell communities look if
you're going to get federal taxpayer
dollars through HUD you have to get more
serious about providing equal housing
opportunity throughout your jurisdiction
and that I think will help jurisdictions
cities or counties be wiser be more
prudent about things like gentrification
and displacement I have to tell you that
I traveled to a hundred different
communities in 39 states when I was out
secretary you know over those two and a
half years and I would not have graded a
single community with an A when it came
to combating displacement because
oftentimes what happens is by the time
people recognize there's a problem here
you know there's
already gone through a tipping point
people can't afford to live there
anymore Austin is a great example of
yeah you know the east side of Austin
has lost half of its african-american
population over the last decade or so so
there is a lot of their investments but
there's also I think an approach that we
can take to help local communities get
better about that um switching gears a
little bit but I guess staying in San
Francisco
there's some polling out today about how
unpopular some of the big tech companies
are like Facebook Google Twitter um
there's been a lot of talk recently
about how they should be regulated or
maybe even broken up do you think it
makes sense to break up companies like
Facebook or Google and and if yes I mean
do we need to update our antitrust laws
to reflect the reality of business today
versus say Standard Oil in the 20s oh I
think it's definitely worth taking a
look at those laws you know I believe
that that's worth a debate a
conversation I have concerns about for
instance companies that have gotten as
big as they have with a business model
of using consumer information using the
web data cell phone data you know
tracking data of ordinary Americans I do
think I was in Iowa the other day we did
a forum and storm Lake around rural
issues and one of things I said there
was with respect to agribusiness for
instance that I applaud efforts to not
just look at consumer price when two
companies are trying to merge in
agribusiness but also looking at the
effect on small business along the chain
of production and I think you know
analogously that we can say that in the
same way about attack or other
industries so yeah I think that that's
worth a debate during the campaign
President Trump had some donors
lobbyists the Federalist Society draw up
for him a list of potential Supreme
Court justices that he could then
release the show's conservative blown a
few days do you have a list and you want
to share any names with us today I don't
have a list but let me tell you what I
would do number one we need to bring
back
respected organizations like the
American Bar Association to give input
and make recommendations and take those
recommendations seriously secondly I
know the importance of the Supreme Court
to fundamental rights like the right to
choose and that the future of roe v wade
is under threat because of the direction
that the court has been going in and if
I'm president I'm gonna make sure to a
point very well qualified judges who
have a good track record and have
embraced progressive values I mean so
just this week Mitch McConnell is
forcing through a rule change that that
reduces the amount of time you have to
debate one of these judges and cloture
from 30 hours to two so they are just
 these you know they're finding
like anybody over the age of 13 who's
maybe taking the LSAT and they're like
you're not yeah you're not kidding in
some instances yeah unfortunately I'm
not I mean can we fix this are they
stacking the the federal courts to such
a degree that the next democratic
president might not be able to unwind
this the damage well I mean there's
gonna be a lot of damage no doubt
because they're appointing ideologues
because some of these ideologues as you
suggest are hardly qualified I mean
there were a couple I think that hadn't
even argued a case yet had not litigated
a case and now they're gonna be Supreme
Court justices that go into the
intricacies essentially of the law so
people have discussed different ways
that we could look at it there there's
one that I I'm not too fond of and you
know maybe a couple that I I would
consider the one that I'm not too fond
of is just simply increasing the number
of justices on the Supreme Court because
if we go from nine justices to 11
tomorrow what's to say that in a couple
of years they don't come back and put it
back in nine or 15 the ones that
intrigued me more for instance are term
limits yeah on what are now lifetime
appointments if you had a 20 year term
limit or something like that or some
system that's you know kin to how some
states do Commission redistricting right
the Democrats appoint certain people the
Republicans appoints out a certain
number of people and then you have to
agree
on a certain number of people so those
tend to be more in the middle you know I
think that that's worth looking at you
know yeah a couple political questions
for you so in the in the 2018 midterms
Democrats obviously had a lot of success
and we made some progress among Latino
voters but I think it was a lot less
than people had hoped especially in
places like Florida similarly I think
you've seen general Latino political
participation not keep pace with Latino
population growth I'm curious if you
have a theory of the case for why that
is in in thoughts on how Democrats could
do a better job of earning the votes of
Latinos in the US well I mean I think
different reasons what can we do to
improve that it's gonna take an all-out
365 day a year effort to invest in
registration and in turnout as you know
I mean campaigns are often focused on
the most likely voters because they have
limited resources right so this is
something that foundations and you know
c4s and others are gonna have to do year
round not just three months before an
election or six months before an
election but if you have a sustained
effort to improve turnout registration
and turnout then I do think that you can
start seeing those numbers improve we
did see you know from 2014 to 2018 over
a hundred and fifty percent increase in
Latino participation at least in Texas
so you know there is some reason for
hope I do think that in 2020 we're gonna
see in the increase you know I believe
also that you have to continue to
recruit good candidates from the local
level the state level and at the federal
level you know as a candidate
I've always been mindful that you need
to represent everybody when you're if
you're in office and as you campaign but
I do believe that my candidacy is the
only Latino that's running in this race
he's gonna have special meaning to a lot
of Latinos and I believe that if I'm the
Democratic nominee that I can go get the
11 electoral votes of Arizona the 29
electoral votes of Florida and the 38
electoral votes of Texas yeah something
you said
reminded me of something that literally
keeps me up at night which is hey you
know Trump is out there he's gonna raise
a billion dollars he's good he's all
he's putting millions of dollars into
Facebook ads to scare the out of
all the white people in various places
like it every day and Democrats we are
gonna spend a couple hundred million
dollars in Iowa South Carolina and New
Hampshire you know maybe some Super
Tuesday states does that worry you that
we're not doing the structural investing
that you you talked about or do you
think the DNC is filling that gap well I
mean I'll give Tom Pettis some credit
right I mean I do think that he has
given that thought in addition to
addressing some of the 2016 issues of
right you know Bernie Hillary's yeah
divisions and feelings that we're still
there but I do think that they've taken
a you know eyes wide open approach now
but it's gonna take you know the
democracy alliance and others that are
interested in long-term growth in
registration and turnout to make those
investments we can't take our eye off of
that ball I do agree that look the first
order of business is to go get Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania I mean we lost
those by collectively less than 80,000
votes and I think that a couple of the
trends we saw in 2018 like the suburbs
going over to Democrats and is you know
President Obama in 2012 there was an
african-american turnout rate of 66% and
that fell to 59 and a half percent in
2016 I think that that that's gonna go
up again right whether I'm the nominee
or there are others that can I think
make that go up again so there's a lot
of promise there but on top of that the
future used to go get Arizona Texas and
Florida
Kyrsten Sinema already won in Arizona
Gilliam only lost by in a midterm year
only lost by 33 thousand votes they were
they were but you know I mean a
presidential year's gonna be better than
a midterm year probably for us but you
know Bill Nelson only lesap like 10,000
and in Texas you know Beth O'Rourke got
within two and a half points of Ted Cruz
so we there's a lot to suggest that
that's fruitful territory for us yeah I
mean look betos
Peto turned out a lot of voters but he
was also running against like arguably
the worst person on the planet I mean do
you think do you think Texas is gettable
in an election year because Demick
Texas for a decade Democrats have oh I
do you die do you know a good example of
that was that Hillary lost Texas by nine
points right but she lost Ohio and Iowa
by nine points but for Texas it had gone
from a sixteen point difference to a
nine point difference and now in the
midterms there were a couple of
candidates not only congressman O'Rourke
but also the lieutenant goona toriel
candidate I think Mike Collier who were
within three points so for 2020 I
believe with the right candidate that
yeah we can get it I believe that if I'm
the nominee that I can get Texas I like
that um speaking of the nominee so
there's a roughly a thousand Democrats
running for president I can't imagine I
didn't think he was hard to break
through I can't imagine how it is now
especially with there's thresholds one
has to meet to be invited to the debates
right and you you warned supporters in a
fundraising email that the party's new
rules mean you might not make it onto
the debate stage so I guess my question
is sort of what's your pitch to
listeners to say give me a buck so I can
get on that stage and and how do you
hope to break through and then because I
love fifteen four questions like it is
your path Iowa New Hampshire Nevada
South Carolina or do you think you might
prioritize your time differently yeah
well you know I announced on January
12th and unlike some of the candidates I
had not run for president beforehand run
for Senate right even though I've served
as a federal executive right a National
Post so we're building up our campaign
from scratch our fundraising has
accelerated tremendously I'm still not
at the 65,000 threshold and so we're
taking contributions to get on that
debate stage I have met the polling
requirement though and and why well
number one I'm one of the few candidates
in this race that has executive
experience having served as a cabinet
secretary you know manage an agency of
48 billion dollar budget 8,000 employees
50
for field offices across the country
also served as the mayor of San Antonio
the nation's seventh largest city so I
have a track record of getting things
done and I represent a new generation of
leadership and I think that people are
looking for a new generation of
leadership
I've also articulated a strong positive
compelling vision for the future that
that we be in the 21st century the
smartest the healthiest the fairest and
the most prosperous nation and and
releasing plans on how we get there like
we did with this people first
immigration plan so yeah I believe that
with the support of the American people
that I am gonna get on the debate stage
and would encourage folks to give once
we get on that debate stage I'm
confident that I'm gonna stand out in
terms of my path
I think everybody's got to keep compete
for Iowa because in such a crowded field
yeah you know if you get lost in the
shuffle if you don't do very well there
then it's probably hard to stick around
so I'm gonna compete in Iowa I also like
that we have Nevada as the third state
yeah after those first four states I
actually really like the secondary
stretch of states on Super Tuesday March
third we have California we have Texas
we have I believe Colorado as well as
the South Puerto Rico I understand is
looking at moving up its primary to
Sunday March 8th and then after that
within two weeks or so you have Florida
and Arizona and so I feel good very good
about that secondary stretch of state so
let's fast forward a little bit you won
Congrats you walk into the Oval put your
feet up on the desk what do you do on
day one well in that moment will be a
very special one I actually look forward
let me back up a few hours I look
forward to the moment when it's
traditional for the incoming president
to usher out the outgoing president and
you know on the White House lawn Donald
Trump and Melania Trump will be ready to
go off to New York or Tamar Lago or
somewhere yeah you know yeah sure
whatever you want right before he leaves
to go off into the helicopter I'm gonna
tell him
adios so when I get into the Oval Office
then know my first executive order will
to recommit the United States that Paris
climate Accord so that we can lead on
climate change again and also and I
think this reflects the experience that
I do have having served as a cabinet
member as you know this administration
has undertaken a number of different
rule changes that have undermined civil
rights women's rights the environment
health care education any number of
things my first order of business will
be to have a catalogue of that an index
of that and to immediately on the first
day and the few for the days following
that instruct what well at that point be
temporary people in charge of the
department's to begin undoing those
things that have been done and to go in
the right direction on civil rights and
education and health care yeah we got to
go back in the direction of expanding
opportunity instead of taking away from
it yeah agreed
um ask you a couple of national security
questions so there's been this very
frightening increase in globally in
terrorist attacks by white nationalists
most recently there was a lunatic who
shot up two mosques in New Zealand the
New York Times this week published an
interesting analysis showing that many
of these attacks were actually connected
either by direct communication between
individuals involved or one was inspired
by another appears what you think about
what the US government and also tech
companies should do to stop online
radicalization and the horrific violence
that can come from it well yeah we have
seen that that there's this underworld
out there and the internet and social
media where people are getting
radicalized yeah right that's often a
word unfortunately that has only been
used when we talk about folks in the
Middle East Muslims you know has been
people you know groups whole groups have
been slandered but it is accurate to say
that several of these young men who have
gone in and shot up whether it's a
church or a nightclub or other
circumstances here and also in other
parts of the world have been radicalized
and so I do think that whether it's
Facebook or Twitter or others that they
have to bear some responsibility for
cracking
on that being more vigilant and they've
said that right and in some instances
they've taken steps but I don't think
that they've done enough I think it was
the FBI director may have testified
recently that that this white
nationalism is a real threat right yeah
and we see that right I also though I do
think that we have to be careful because
the President and others have would have
people almost believe that every time
somebody who happens to be Muslim
commits a terrorist act that we should
view all people in that way and you know
we don't do that just like if somebody
is white and they go and if you have a
white man that goes and shoots up a
church or somewhere else we don't make
those kinds of conclusions we have to
come at these challenges where they are
right and do so in a way that separates
the actions of one individual from an
indictment of entire groups do you think
Trump has I don't know inspired these
groups or made common cause with some of
the the fringe e'er nationalist groups
out there yeah I think it's fair to say
they've gotten inspiration from him yeah
no doubt and that from what I can tell
there had been moments where he seems to
either encourage or knowingly does not
discourage these beliefs I'm thinking of
after charlottesville you know the very
fine people and yeah he'll make a
comment that this is wrong it's the
wrong thing but it's never as fervent as
he does when you know it's somebody of a
different faith yeah
yeah somebody of color or different
religion especially incidents in France
or Europe or other places where you've
happened to have had someone who was
Muslim commits one of these attacks and
he's all over that yeah yeah in the
strongest terms but will not do that
when it's one of these white
nationalists agreed um it's been about
six months I believe since the Saudis
brutally executed and dismembered a
journalist named Jamal khashoggi and
they're their consulate and
this week Congress voted to and US
involvement in the saudi-led war in
Yemen that has put literally 20 million
innocent people at risk of starvation
now this week we also learned that the
Saudis are about to complete
construction on their first nuclear
reactor but they have yet to agree to
any international rules that would
ensure that that technology is used for
civilian purposes and not for weapons
given the trajectory of the relationship
and what we know of Mohammed bin Salman
do you think the Saudis are still our
ally that is a very good question and
you know frankly I think that the Obama
administration began to take a new look
at that relationship it's also troubling
what we continue to find out about the
relationship between the president's
family yeah and the Saudi royal family
and so you know I acknowledge here that
I'm not privy to classified information
I don't know what other information
there is or how helpful they may have
been but right now I would say that it
certainly raises the question and it's
alarming that Saudi Arabia would be
progressing toward nuclear capacity in
this way and there seems to be little
accountability right now yeah Misha
magining if Iran butchered a journalists
who lived in the US and then we found
that they were building a nuclear
reactor I think we probably would have
been faded five minutes ago you know
it's just it's a remarkable double
standard and there's just this inertia
in Washington I think that keeps us from
rethinking these relationships and I'm
not totally sure why well and that's why
you know you wonder is there something
else there that we're not getting a
value I mean that's the question that I
have as somebody right now that is not
privy to that that kind of information
but what I can't say is that that that
their march toward nuclear capacity our
capability does trouble me given other
circumstances of AMC so as we speak the
the Chinese government is undertaking
what is likely the largest mass
detention of a racial or religious group
since the Holocaust
experts estimate that at least 1 million
weekers who are a Muslim minority group
are being held in I guess you'd call
them reeducation camps they're forced to
renounce their religion learn Chinese
Communist Party propaganda some are
reportedly being tortured and I'm just
struck by the fact that the world is
largely silent on it and that includes
like allies of ours like the UK I don't
know that there's an easy answer here
but do you have a sense of what the US
should do to push them on this sort of
massive human rights violation or it's
an atrocity in plain sight well I think
that should be part of any agreements
that we forge with China and our
continued diplomatic relationship with
them I'm somebody that still believes
that the United States has a role to
play in leading the world on what we
care about you know freedom democracy
opportunity and that even though this
this administration has scaled back in a
big way it's leadership on human rights
abuses we actually need to restore that
and so I would find every single way
that we can to apply pressure to China
on this and not only China but other
countries around the world we just saw
what happened with the Sultan of Brunei
yeah instant right and you were in Los
Angeles today I mean there's a boycott
of one of his hotels over here right
that he has an interest in so we're
colluding right one op-ed and we're
boycotting a bunch of hotels yeah yeah
but I mean the fact is that cuz I like
it yeah but that ain't the way it's
supposed to work either right so one of
the things that we need to restore is a
strong voice of leadership on human
rights abuses um so President Trump has
had this long back-and-forth with Kim
jong-un in North Korea he had this
stomach that he thinks is historic in
Singapore were they you know he came
back and told us that there was no
longer a nuclear threat from North Korea
and that everything was solved that's
obviously not true the negotiations
seemed to have fallen apart but as
someone who who worked in government for
a while in the NSC and saw particularly
in the first term the way inertia in DC
conventional wisdom can hamstring a
president I
kind of impressed by Trump saying
you guys I'm gonna meet with him who
cares what's the downside I mean I guess
I'm just curious what you make of that
diplomatic effort and if you've thought
about why sometimes in Washington it
seems so much harder to make peace and
and have talks than it is to go to war I
remember you know how much then
candidate Obama got pilloried right for
saying that he would speak with people
who were our quote-unquote enemies and
without preconditions and so forth and
you know what we see here with with
Trump maybe a kind of a Nixon and China
example a smaller scale of it where
because he's seen as a tough guy on
these issues in some ways he can get
away with more but it shouldn't be like
that
right because the principle of being
able to try and negotiate peace should
apply no matter who you are because it's
in the nation's best interest so yes I
do think that that's an approach that we
should take yeah I also see that frankly
as for me I'm not part and parcel of
Washington you know I spent
two-and-a-half years there I think
sometimes folks that spend more time in
Washington right the more you're
influenced by the thinking of of elite
Washington we shouldn't let that hamper
how we go forward
of course what we've seen unfold in
front of our eyes is that it seems like
this president got played yeah
and in fact misled the American people
about what was happening with these
talks and maybe most disappointingly
yeah just from a executive perspective
he does not seem to have the discipline
or the energy to put the time in to
understand the issues well enough to be
prepared one thing that you knew about
President Obama is that he studied those
books you know reading and he respected
the people that were advising him this
president things that he can wing
everything and you know there's no doubt
of course that he must have some talents
he wouldn't be where he is without it
but it just seems completely in over his
head and because of that now they're
actually going back and probably there
breakout capacity is getting you know
smaller and smaller and shorter and
shorter play so we're we're miss served
by a president that is too busy
insulting people on Twitter or playing
golf or going to mar-a-lago instead of
putting the time in to actually you know
get us the kind of deal that we need
yeah Low Energy done they probably made
a few more nukes on his watch um
final question for you so whenever
someone famous comes into our office and
gets asked about Beyonce it gets picked
up literally everywhere so yeah like
strike up a deal with adidas yesterday I
saw that tell me about it
yeah I don't know what about it I saw
the headlines right detects a radio
she is Houston she endorsed I don't know
what she does I hope she endorses me
okay there we go
Beyonce might endure sorry Castro that's
your headline out of this Bank thanks so
much for coming in it's a pleasure
talking to you and good luck
hey thanks a lot thank you
you
