marianne williamson welcome to pod save
america thank you thank you for having
me I'm honored so you've been a
spiritual and inspirational best-selling
author many times over you've worked at
nonprofits you've run for Congress
obviously there are other candidates in
the field without much experience in
Washington or even elected office but
what is it about your specific set of
qualifications and life experiences that
made you say I'm the best person to be
leading this country at this moment I've
worked up close and personal with people
for over 35 years
who are dealing with crises in their
lives
seeking to navigate those crises to
transform them into opportunity and I
have recognized particularly over the
last 20 years how many of those crises
are at least indirectly and often
directly a result of bad public policy
mmm so not only do I have a real
visceral sense of how bad public policy
affects people's lives and which bad
public policy affects people's lives but
also a deep passion for what needs to
change I think that that's what it's all
about it's about human suffering how to
address it and how to ameliorate it
that's what politics should be a
politics should be a conduit for making
people's lives better securing our
rights not sorting them right so you
were a Bernie Sanders supporter in 2016
what made you say not this time this
time this time I want to do myself said
no this is not about no towards Bernie
and say yes about me mm-hmm
if you know I'm a big fan of Bernie
Sanders I have been a big fan of Bernie
Sanders and on the vast majority of his
policies I agree with him however I'm
having what I believe is a more expanded
conversation as well we need an
integrative politics and by that I mean
we need to factor in much more than just
external issues the reason that the left
was gobsmacked by his success the the
establishment the Democratic
establishment was gobsmacked by his
success is the same reason that the
Republican establishment was gobsmacked
by this success of Donald Trump both of
them failed to wreck
and for the most part still do fail to
recognize this the significance of
psychological and emotional factors in
in creating political dynamics I had
seen up close and personal as I said for
decades the economic despair the
economic tension and anxiety that is
prevalent in the lives of so many
millions of people then I wasn't
surprised that this economic populist
cry of despair made itself heard it was
going to make itself heard either in a
leftist progressive populism or an
authoritarian right-wing populism such
as as Donald Trump so when I see certain
things certain issues where people are
suffering needlessly and the political
establishment is simply normalizing that
despair rather than addressing it then
I'm going to speak up that's what I do
Marilyn Robinson says the basis of our
democracy is the willingness to assume
well about other people I've always
loved that line how did we get to a
place or so much of politics here and
around the world is more focused on this
idea of the sinister other then it has
been in quite a while there so it's
always been there and you of all people
have demonstrated how much political
force can be manifest when we go high
rather than low yeah when in
aspirational principles are spoken
literally you of all people so if you
stop if you stop extending the light
don't go be surprised when the darkness
comes in so you have to be proactive in
in extending the principles the ideas
and the energies which do create
positive force and if you remain there's
you know there's really no such thing as
neutrality neutrality is a myth and a
lot of American over the last few
decades both economically socially and
politically we have fallen for the myth
of neutrality well we're not really
trying to hurt anybody which is not
trying to help anybody right we're not
really trying to exploit people we're
just trying to
get along and leave people alone no
there is no such thing they used to say
in the 60s if you're not part of the
problem you're part of the you're not
part of the solution you're part of the
problem if whether in our individual
lives our personal lives or our societal
lives we're not holding high proactively
and vigorously the principles of
democracy and the principles of deep
humanitarian concern and passion there
is no reason to be surprised you know
you turn off the lights the darkness
sets in also you know now everybody's
talking about what do we do about the
darkness the answer is uh turn on the
light well people would say I mean you
know how obvious Li as you pointed out I
worked in the Obama administration I
think he conducted himself in that
manner his administration did I think
Hillary Clinton tried her best to run
her campaign like that how do you think
we ended up with Donald Trump when there
were some leaders some politicians
trying to be optimistic to lift people
up well I don't mean to pander to you
but words matter and once there was a
big difference between in my opinion
between the campaign Obama's campaign
and Oh 8 yeah and the way governance
unfolded right the words you know I
think it was Cuomo who said that we we
campaign in poetry and we govern in
prose should never do that right you
should campaign in poetry and you should
govern in poetry so it was the poetry it
was the words you know anybody said
words don't matter say that to
Shakespeare words have tremendous force
first there was the word it's even a
biblical concept so words lifted
everybody up and then the word stopped
okay now we're gonna get to business
well hello hello and you know I think
part of the tragedy of with Hillary
Clinton is what happened was Trump named
people's pain Obama named not Obama
bernie named people's pain Hillary did
not name the pain I'm not saying she
didn't care about the pain and I'm not
saying that she wouldn't have done
everything in her power to ass wage the
pain but her campaign when she was out
there saying oh we just need to continue
the success of the Obama years I
my heart right then because I travel
this country that's what I've done for
35 years I knew how many millions of
people were out there thinking continue
the success I'm freakin dyin here
right well but that's also an argument
but you know obviously that pain is out
there it is very easy for a demagogue
like Trump to channel that pain into
anger and to division into fear hatred
right how do you turn that around while
still recognizing it because some people
you know who are feeling that pain we're
feeling an economic dislocation that you
mentioned will say hope and change that
sounds nice we've heard it to hope and
change that sounds great that's easy for
them to say these are these are well-off
wealthy political leaders telling us
this what are you gonna do for me well
first of all Democrats have to take
responsibility for the fact that there
is some legitimacy in that in that point
when you allow people to get to the
point I mean there is absolutely no
reason that things got as bad as there
were Democrats were in charge a lot of
that time right Democrats were in charge
a lot of the time that the trajectory
was unfolding of the largest massing and
inequality since 1929
Democrats were in charge some of that
time Democrats were in charge some of
the time when we were moving towards a
place where 1% of all Americans was
owning more wealth than the bottom 90%
Democrats were in charge a lot of that
time including in charge of the economy
during that time when we were leading to
to a place where 40% of all Americans
are struggling on a daily basis just to
make basic costs so for those of us or
for those Americans who do not have a
historical memory such as I do of a time
when the Democrats stood for the people
no matter what even if it was against
overreach by capitalist forces so that
we look at the times when the Democrats
too often cozy up to those corporate
forces and we say yeah but you know
they're really their hearts in the right
place and too many Americans haven't
seen that or don't recognize that or
certainly haven't seen that in their
lives in my opinion while we have a
Republican Party that's been bought hook
line and sinker into the idea of a
corporatist
my sense well two things going back to
words also Republicans don't walk their
talk
but Democrats too often don't talk their
walk mm-hmm now with Democratic policies
in my opinion the vast majority of the
time their policies seek to assuage the
pain that is produced by unjust economic
policies but it's too often just pain on
the periphery because too often
Democrats are unwilling to address the
underlying forces and to challenge the
underlying of forces underlying forces
that make all that pain inevitable what
policies would you pursue as president
to challenge those underlying forces
well the first thing we need to do is to
recognize that the undue influence of
money on our politics is the cancer
underlying all these other cancers one
of the very sad things of course about
the fact that Hillary did not win is
that we don't have a chance anytime soon
of appointing a Supreme Court justice
that might give us a path towards
overriding citizen turning citizens
united right so we have two things here
one we have the possibility of a
constitutional amendment and the
possibility of legislation if and I this
is one I think it's as important that
the Democrats win the Senate as is
important that the Democrats win the huh
the White House in 2020 that would be
the magic possibility here if that's the
case first thing I would do is submit to
Congress legislation to establish public
funding for federal campaigns the issue
it's not big enough in my opinion
for the Democrats have said we want
universal health care Democrats also
need to be making very clear and
standing on the realization not just in
what we know but in what we are willing
to say that the reason we don't have
universal health care right now is
because it would cut into short-term
profits for health insurance companies
and big pharma we need to be willing to
say to name it and to say it and to
challenge it that the reason we're not
addressing the climate crisis adequately
is because of the obstruction from and
the fact that it would cut into
short-term profits for fossil fuel
companies and the and the Democratic
Party should name and challenge the fact
that we do not have a national security
agenda based on creating peace in the
world any time in the next few decades
because to really do
would cut into short-term profits for
defense contractors and the nuclear
industry and that is exactly what I mean
by challenging by naming it by by by
bringing the American people into that
realization rather than exploiting how
often the American people our brains are
scrambled and they don't really get
what's going on here the Democrats
should not only stand for doing the
right thing but in order to do that
there has to stop being the moral
equivocation on the part of too many
Democrats by which the Democratic Party
has itself been willing to pander cozy
up to and play footsies under the table
with those same corporate forces because
they to take the money do you see the
support in Congress even among Democrats
and the public for publicly funded
elections since that's my point -
exactly
do you know you use I think you can pass
well there are two kinds of Democrats
aren't there and that's being played out
in this campaign there are two
categories here there's the two
categories is the incrementalist who say
we can have it both ways we can take
their money we can take tens of
thousands from some security investment
firm so we can take tens of thousands
from Big Pharma we can take tens or even
more thousands from oil companies but
we're gonna go and be in it it's
permanent change
yeah right there's that and they're
saying well we'll make these incremental
changes and then there are those of us
who say this has got to stop
we need a fundamental pattern disruption
of the American political and economic
status quo do you see HR 1 as
incremental or sweeping sweeping and I
think it's a perfect example of if you
only have the house and you don't have
the Senate right what do you do about as
president this Republican Party do you
try to work with them do you try to work
around them what what do you do with
depends on who has the power in the
house and who has the power in the
Senate say okay well let's say Democrats
do take the Senate back which is in the
best scenario but we still have a
60-vote threshold you get rid of the
filibuster there should be they
shouldn't be able to shut down the whole
thing but there should be there should
be a way of actually I mean there is a
constitutional issue there but I
shouldn't I don't think they should be
able to cut a cut you know cut off all
conversation do you so let's say in this
an area where the Democrats do
when the Senate back in Mitch McConnell
hangs on what happens to your
legislative agenda or do you have
executive actions that you would pursue
well there are times when you take
executive actions that do not represent
executive overreach but are appropriate
I believe in the case of Obama they were
because let's not get ourselves so
McConnell said I'm our main goal is to
make Obama a one-term president he made
it very very clear that they were not
interested in any kind of positive
positive relationship positive in the
sense that that is a great American
political tradition they did is a loyal
opposition and that you try to work
together i I am less interested in
thinking about how awful it's going to
be if it goes back to those days and
more interested in talking about all
that we can do once we are delivered to
a new possibility and I believe two
things I think first of all in terms of
the presidential election this last
presidential election we need to
remember Trump did not win just because
the Trump voters voted for him
Trump won every bit as much because of
how many of us stayed home right and how
many of us voted for Joel Stein now I'm
one of those people who believe that if
the if the Democratic establishment had
kept their finger off the scales and let
it let let it be very very clear that
the people decided then either Hillary
or Bernie would have won the primaries
but we would have all felt this goes
back to the pollutants to the egg to
this emotional and psychological forces
it would have made everybody feel like
okay it's our candidate I think we would
have had a lot more Democrats at the
polls that's number one
number two look what happened in this
last midterm we have a lot to be hopeful
about and also I think among women
there's been a very delayed reaction to
how much misogyny was at the core of
that campaign also we've had the me2
movement man women are so ready to
express ourselves now with the spate of
anti-abortion laws give women a chance
man we are so ready the the dominance of
the McConnell's of the world is on its
way out so what's your theory of
political change because you know in
this race we hear different things from
different
candidates there are some who believe
they can try to work with Mitch
McConnell and Republicans to compromise
Bernie Sanders calls for a political
revolution you know there's some kids
that believe we just need to elect more
Democrats how do you how do you change
the political system how do you bring in
those voters who stay at home in 2016
the Obama voters who stay at home in
2016 the third-party voters how do you
bring how do you inspire those people to
come back into the political system look
who's asking I wish I did the issue the
only way to defeat a big lie is with big
truth Donald Trump will eat the half
truth tellers alive if all the Democrats
do is is nominate someone who's one of
those kind of sort of people we can have
it both ways people we can we can be
sort of a better version of same-old
same-old Trump will win again but if we
are willing to really lay it down we
have more than a swamp we have an ocean
of corruption we need someone I believe
and this is why I'm running who's really
willing to say what we all know to be
true that's the thing it's kind of like
the Leonard Cohen song everybody knows
everybody knows everybody knows what
this country has become we're not Adam
we're not functioning as a democracy
we're functioning as an aristocracy we
are a corporate aqua sea we're not a
government whose policy is of the people
by the people for the people so much as
it is of the few of the people by a few
of the people for a few of the people of
the multinational corporate interest by
the multinational corporate interest and
for the multinational corporate
interests and many people however
dysfunctional this this is it I think
they are at a point where the only way
they have to express their rage is to
refuse to vote right however
dysfunctional it is an act of rebellion
but those people when you lay it down
and are honest with them my experience
and I and I and I have experience I have
experience not only through my
geographical travels but also through my
socio-economic travels I've worked with
people in palaces I've worked with
people in prisons I had an experience
this last week the
was a really interesting demonstration
to me of this I don't care
where people are who people are how rich
people are how advantaged or
disadvantaged people are people are
smart people are smart and they are
noble at their core and if you just talk
truth to them they appreciate that and
they will rise to the occasion the
problem with the marabou it experiences
where you've persuaded people I know
you're very persuasive on a whole host
of issues have you persuaded people to
change their mind about politics that
seems to be at the core of their
political their political leanings that
seems to be at the core of our problem
right now
I remind people of America's mission
statements all men are created equal all
are created equal God gave all men an
alienable rights of life and liberty and
the pursuit of happiness
governments are instituted to secure
those rights and government of the
people and by the people and for the
people is not to perish from this earth
and its perishing on our watch
and it is the responsibility of every
generation when democracy is so
threatened to rise up and that is what
happened the political establishment did
not wake up one day and say let's free
the slaves no the people stepped in I
believe the abolitionist movement the
political establishment did not wake up
one day and say I think we should give
women the right to vote no that's not
what happened the people stepped in all
other suffragette movement and the
political establishment didn't wake up
one day and say let's dismantle
segregation and just stop with this
whole institutionalized white supremacy
thing no it was the people stepping in
all of the civil rights movement it's
happening again it's the same it's just
a new formation
that's what symptoms do they just morph
it began with the era stock with the
aristocracy that we repudiated in 1776
the many revolutions with which we have
repudiated aristocratic forces
throughout our history it is simply time
to repudiate them again let this not be
the first generation to wimp out on
doing what it takes
to push back against deeply
fundamentally undemocratic forces when
they are at the door and it was naive of
us to ever believe and it you can't say
well I was healthy in 2015 so I don't
have to eat well or diet or exercise
anymore right if you don't take care of
your of your health don't go be
surprising when you lose your health if
you don't take care of your relationship
don't go being surprised if you lose
your relationship and I think part of
the awakening of the last two years is
we have not proactively nurtured and
cultivated the deep democratic and
humanitarian principles that are at the
core of right living within the public
domain we need to harness that now he
has harnessed fear and racism and
bigotry and anti-semitism and all of
those things for political purposes but
there are far more lovers than haters in
this country but those who hate hate
with conviction and conviction is a
force multiplier abolitionist had
conviction the women's suffragettes had
conviction and the civil rights workers
had conviction we need conviction and
just an over secularized corporatized
mentality the plays of both ways lacks
conviction lacks moral persuasive power
what do you say to a lot of activists on
the left I've heard this especially
women especially people of color
especially people in marginalized
communities who say our anger is not
only valid but useful and as a tool for
political and social change i remember
that you wrote and you're in your first
book that you used to be an angry left
winger and then you realize that and
it's working an angry generation can't
bring about peace which is i think it's
fascinating cuz you're obviously still a
left-wing you're still very progressive
but you know you see this debate play
out in the democratic party i think joe
biden you know when he announced said
something about we don't we don't need
an angry nominee and a lot of people on
the Left got very upset about that and
said I'm angry you know I've been
marginalized I've been discriminated
against because of this presidency and I
think that anger in that rage is useful
as an organizing tool what do what do
you think about that I think moral
outrage is not born of anger moral
outrage is born of love and women you
know women have known this forever we
express our fierceness we're called
angry so we know there's a lot of
projection and
misuse of that word to hold people down
when we're expressing our passion when
you allow anger to be the fuel for your
for your political activism it's like
choosing white sugar as opposed to a
healthy diet as your nutritional support
so white sugar will give you an
adrenaline high and you'll have all this
energy and then you'll crash political
change is a marathon mmm it's not a
sprint
and so it ultimately eats away at you
yeah if that's your motivation you are
serving it's higher and every bit as
powerful to know you're serving the ages
something fierce rises up particularly
in a people with a history of oppression
something fears and way more powerful
than anger rises up when you say you did
it to my grandparents and you're not
gonna do it to my kids you've been a
supporter of baby not anger it's just
that this stops me yeah you've been
a supporter of the idea of a department
of peace for a while how would a
Department of Peace work what would the
function be well first of all there are
two categories to address one is
international and one is domestic so
right now we have a 715 billion dollar
military budget we have a forty billion
dollar State Department budget now even
Donald Rumsfeld said we must learn to
wage peace and general mattis said if
you're not going to fully fund the State
Department I'm going to have to buy more
ammunition development mediation
diplomacy etc all of that is within
within State Department now it's like I
said we need an integrative model you
can't just take medicine you have to
cultivate your health right so you can't
just endlessly prepare for war and hope
that you back up into peace because war
is the absence of peace peace isn't the
absence of war so we have to proactively
cultivate peace now there are peace
building agencies within the State
Department so remember the math here 718
for the military 40 billion for the
State Department and guess how much
money the specifically peacebuilding
agencies get yeah a couple percent of
that less than a billion got less than a
billion plus USAID is 17 billion right
and the u.s. Institute of Peace gets a
whopping third
six million so with public policy it's
just like with your personal life how
you spend your money is an expression of
your values so so there are two issues
here for a Department of Peace I don't I
would not want to go in and with some I
think it would appear arrogant and
disrespectful if I walk in there and say
okay we're gonna have an International
Department of Peace there I think that a
lot of people who work in those agencies
would go excuse me we've been doing this
and so I would want to beef up what
they're already doing okay far far
better funding for what they're doing
but all within an umbrella of
realization that we not only have peace
building issues that must be addressed
internationally but also domestically we
have domestic war zones one of the
reasons I wanted us Department of
Children and Youth is because we have
millions of American children living
with chronic trauma going to schools
where they don't even have the school
supplies with which to adequately teach
a child to read and if a child cannot
read by the age of eight the chances of
high school graduation too drastically
diminished and the chances of
incarceration are drastically increased
but one of the other issues with these
children many of whom live in these
domestic war zones is that psychologists
tell us the PTSD of a returning veteran
from Afghanistan and Iraq is no more
severe than these children's PTSD due to
the fact that they live in such violent
communities homes etc we need wraparound
services community wraparound services
trauma-informed education conflict
resolution restorative justice
mindfulness in the schools now some of
the issues of peacebuilding are the same
whether somebody's working in the Congo
or working in the inner city of Chicago
some of them are different however so I
think if we have a United States
Department of Peace you you make the
International part beefing up what
already exists in this in the State
Department and then on the on the
domestic level addressing all these
issues of peacebuilding that are
necessary here in the United States
under what circumstances would you use
military force as commander-in-chief if
there's a direct threat to an ally
direct threat to the humanitarian order
of the world that's that seems to be the
tough one like Wanda hello Syria
would have he would have said it's a red
line and then it would have been his red
line yes would you have said you would
have sent forces to Syria
I believe that when Obama said that's my
red line it should have been his red
line yes and the other one of course is
when our own homeland is is threatened I
guess the question on sending forces for
humanitarian missions and this is this
is the one of the most challenging
questions and all foreign policy and US
foreign policy as well is how do you
know when military force can make a
difference in a potential genocide in a
mass slaughter of civilians like in the
case of Syria in the case of you know
Rwanda as you mentioned versus you know
I'm gonna send in troops to an
open-ended commitment how do you define
the mission how do you define when to
send US troops in to conduct a
humanitarian mission political
leadership is not just a science it's an
art as is medicine
that's like saying when is this operable
when is it not when do we use chemo when
do we use radiation when do we take out
the tumor mm-hmm
it's integrative once again I keep
talking about this it's integrative so
one of the things that we'll have when
I'm president if I'm president is that
there will be so much a more robust and
sophisticated relationship between
defense and state state will have as the
leader when I'm president a world-class
humanitarian and world-class diplomat
somebody whose understanding of what is
going on inside people is as deep as
what's going on outside people and we
sit there and we figure it out just like
you you know just like and remember the
television show house yeah when they all
sit around the table given the situation
what are the best things the best things
to do however what we have in politics
is what we used to have in medicine like
75 years ago where invasive measures and
brute force basically physical brute
force is is your primary problem-solving
option that will not be true but I do
believe that there are times when for
instance when you say would you have
used force let's say Rwanda yes and I
would have gone in sooner I remember
during the during the Bosnian war I was
I was with the Republicans on that like
when are those planes gonna
go when of those planes gonna go and you
know what this is an interesting issue
for me in that situation because I
remember it very well the American
people are good people we are with good
people
I remember this would be before your
time I remember years ago there was some
little girl and she I think her name was
Jessica I'm not sure she's fallen in a
well the whole country held its breath
and people would like meet in the
hallway at work like did they get hurt
you know if they got her so when you
show us one suffering person Americans
really care particularly if it's
children but for whatever reason this
denial and grandiosity sets in when it's
millions and millions of them were easy
to fool and distract from that where we
are easier to fool and distract from the
suffering of millions than we are
it to fool and distract from the
suffering of one it's very interesting
like that's why we're very good with the
screaming emergencies but not
necessarily with the silent emergencies
like the millions of American children
who live in this chronic trauma every
day so what happens with the system a
sociopathic economic and political
system the way it operates is do what
you want to do and then whatever
suffering results make sure it's on the
other side of town or on the other side
of the world so the people don't see it
because if they see it they care when
Americans can see it we care so what
happened with Bosnia is and to Clinton's
credit clinton kept saying i want to go
in there i want to go in there and it
was the europeans who who were holding
back and then there were all these all
these stories and they started making it
into the newspapers in the united states
of how twelve-year-old boys were having
their their throats slit how they would
go in and grab little boys and slit
their throats
once those stories made the american
newspapers enough you could just feel it
critical mass you could feel it NATO
planes were like within days right
though that you know when you speak to
the conscience of the when you speak to
the contents of the American people
that's what's wrong with our politics it
panders the popularity and it panders to
self-interest i can do this for you i
can do this for you i
not having that conversation with the
American people I'm saying we together
can do the right thing what are the
challenges what that is though you know
george w bush would use stories of mass
atrocities or atrocities committed by
saddam hussein to justify a war in iraq
that i think yeah we all believe was a
mistake well so how do you you know he
wasn't a truth-teller right well yeah he
was an awful dictator but at some point
sometimes i think the united states to
look and see alright this is an awful
dictator if we had our way we do not
want this person in power but do we
commit US forces in u.s. lives and us
treasure trying to remove this person
knowing that the consequences of removal
you could be worse than of course not we
can't go invading every country or
seeking regime change and every country
that is abusing human rights for
instance I mean obviously and we did not
go into Iraq because because said I'm
saying was a terrible dictator who was
mean to his people in fact it was a
terrible dictator who's mean to his
people was simply used right that's to
to exploit the emotions to manipulate
the emotions of the good people who were
not being told the truth and who were
led into a terrible terrible attack I
want to ask you about faith and
spirituality what do you think about
some of the polls and studies that say
Americans especially young Americans are
becoming steadily less religious or at
least less tied to a specific religion
why do you think that is because I think
that sometimes the institutional dogma
and doctrine got in the way of the deep
mystical and spiritual truth that is at
the heart of all the great religious
systems of the world so even though
while it's true and not a bad thing but
there is less interest in a certain kind
of dogmatic doctrinaire religious
institutional identity there is clearly
an uprising I mean this is obvious this
is you know what do you think all that
mindfulness stuff comes from where do
you think all those yoga mats come from
where do you think all this health and
wellness stuff comes from it comes from
the spiritual center which is alive and
well and mainstreamed in the United
States and I would know something about
that
what uh what role
do you think faith and spirituality play
in our pluralistic democracy the
abolitionist movement arose from the
early of angelical sent Quakers many of
the leaders of the women's suffragette
movement were Quakers and dr. King
memory earth was a Baptist preacher and
it was the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference hello all of the great social
justice movements have been a product of
a spiritual impulse that's why when I
said before it's always when the people
step in and the people step in when the
heart says okay too much we've got to
stop this what what do you say is
president to the evangelical Christian
who says my religion dictates that
abortion is more murder and
homosexuality is an abomination this is
America we're a free society
nobody owes it to anyone to agree with
you to agree with me or to agree with
the president and I believe that
abortion is a moral issue I simply
believe that it is an issue of private
morality and not public morality I
believe that the moral decision-making
and the biological choices are to be
made by the woman herself and it is an
attack on the agency of women to to seek
to deny them that right so if people
believe that that abortion is is a moral
abomination that is their right that but
that is very different than saying that
they have the right to stop another
woman or any woman from making that
choice for herself I guess the the
challenges when is when can your
personal spirituality private morality
influence public morality and public law
and when shouldn't it when it has to do
with the rights of the individual versus
the common good I mean that is the art
of governance we are always seeking to
balance and when we're in our right
minds were seeking to balance individual
liberty and I have a little bit of a
libertarian streak the older I get when
it comes to the individuals it's but
that has to be has to be balanced with a
concern for the common good and it's not
as difficult to make that delineation as
you might think if that's actually your
aim right well would uh why do you think
Republicans attend church more than
Democrats
what do you think about that divide
especially white white Democrats there's
needs to be this you know you look at
the polls at the end of a presidential
election one of the biggest gaps is you
know if you attend church more often you
more likely to be Republican you 10
church less often you're more likely to
be a Democrat and like I said what's
actually keeping the gap somewhat
narrowed is that black Democrats are
quite religious and go to church but
white Democrats especially it's a
limited definition of church to some
people they're a a meeting is their
church yeah to some people a meditation
group is their church so I'd be real
careful that's a pretty old-fashioned
view of what it means to go to church
what are you surprised that Trump's
strongest support may be the demographic
group that supports him more than any
other in the country are evangelical
Christians what do you think's going on
with that
when I was growing up there was a potent
religious left during the Vietnam War
the beragon brothers William Sloane
coffin and also traditionally both
Catholics and Jews were very very
involved with social justice issues what
has happened in the last few decades the
the Catholics got very singular in their
focus on abortion yeah and Jews became
very singular in their focus on Israel
and in both cases this sucked a lot of
juice out of what had formerly been a
powerful religious backing for social
justice and social justice reforms after
after the 60s into the 70s you know I
grew up in a in a generation where we
read Ram Dass and Alan Watts in the
morning and went to political we went to
anti-war protests in the afternoon so
during that time of the 60s and the 70s
the issue of revolutionary cultural
change was both external and internal
it was cultural sexual musical and it
was political after primarily I think
due to those two the assassinations
there was a rip
and many people took the sort of
traditional political that had to do
with addressing symptoms but not
necessarily cause and a lot of that
traditional political activism went back
to a time where moves all the neck up
and making external policy change
then those who and I was myself one of
those who felt a deeper calling to
address the causal issues of societal
dysfunction and societal repair and
change had to do with addressing
internal issues but a lot of that
movement disconnected itself chronically
from political activism this was a
mistake on both parts and both sides
would have mutually derided the other
mm-hm
and those days are coming to an end now
many of the people who are dealing with
traditional political change are
themselves people who they're in therapy
they're in a a they go to they go to
spiritual support groups they get it
they know that we need a more holistic
and integrative approach and those who
are involved in more spiritual
communities have begun to understand
that you can't use your spirituality as
an excuse for narcissism and chronic
self-reference and so that has begun to
change as well I sometimes wrestle with
the idea that faith and spirituality are
often about acceptance and finding inner
peace well I'm a Jew and that that's not
where we're and no actually there is no
serious spiritual or religious path
anywhere that gives any of us a pass on
addressing the suffering of other
sentient beings so there so you see it
as outward Jesus said feed the poor
right no I believe that I just say you
know politics and activism clarify if I
may what I said to a sermon tonight was
you're in Judaism there is the the
phrase tikkun olam to repair the world
and also in Judaism one of the one of
the older binnacle teachings is you are
not obligated to complete the task but
neither are you permitted to abandon it
but you could look at all the great
religious systems and see there and in
Junction if interpreted that way to the
look that the law of love is as a
command yeah I changed the world yes
there's a story that someone told me I
think of it as the transformation
between the Good Samaritan and the
conscious Samaritan okay so the Good
Samaritan is walking down the road and
the Good Samaritan sees a beggar and
gives them alms and then the Good
Samaritan continues his journey down the
road and sees another beggar and gives
them alms and then the journey continues
the Good Samaritan continues down the
road and sees another beggar and gives
them alms after about the sixth or the
seventh beggar the Good Samaritan says
to himself why are there so many beggars
that's how I feel about my own
transformation over the last twenty
years it's one thing to say to people
who are in careers like my own your job
is to help people transcend difficult
circumstances I understand that some
difficult circumstances are just a part
of life that somebody you loved died a
heartbreaker you know these things
happen you got diagnosed with an illness
your child is on heroin whatever it is
but over the last twenty years people
like myself are being called upon to
address the suffering that is too
unnecessary to many times to address a
need to navigate circumstances that
simply should not be so prevalent in the
richest country in the world
I guess I'll phrase the question a
different way because I was listening to
you talk to Oprah during that supersoul
podcast and you both talked about how
happiness is really finding peace
finding inner peace and you know as
someone who is in politics and has been
in politics on my way all my life part
of the reason that I am in a constant
state of agitation is because of the
world around us and everything that's
wrong in the world and how do you as
someone who's also very spiritual and
now in politics sort of navigate the
tension between having that agitation
about all the wrongs and justices in the
world around you and still finding that
peace there's a difference between
happiness and joy I'm joyful
I am deeply joyful but
not happy when I see things go down that
I know should not go down pieces of
strategy you know Martin Luther King
said you have very little morally
persuasive power with people who can
feel your underlying contempt when you
do the spiritual work getting rid of
judgments seeking to dissolve personal
judgment and grievance it's not so that
you would then become you know sometimes
people talk about spirituality like it
makes it it diminishes your brain cells
it doesn't make you less intelligent but
it makes you more strategic marianne
williamson thank you so much for joining
thank you good luck on the track it was
an honor to meet you thank you thank you
you
