so Danny the the playbook for messing
around in the US political system seems
very not complicated to me you hack
people you run targeted propaganda
campaigns online and then you dump money
on lobbyists and think tanks are the
Chinese following that PlayBook in if
not why not well fortunately for us thus
far they haven't been very good at it ok
imagine what the world would look like
if Chinese were as good as the UAE when
it comes to manipulating Washington and
employing lobbyists they also aren't
quite like the Russians or they haven't
been in terms of really just straight up
wanting to with us in our elections
they're dyed-in-the-wool Marxists and
they're reasonably confident that the
slow rot of capitalism is kind of you
know collapsed the West in due course
but a lot of Twitter I think that yeah
it may be that partly as a result of the
current operation piss off the Panda
that they're changing up a bit and might
be willing to give the u.s. a little
more of a push down the steps yeah the
the areas where they're really where
they're really screwing with us of
course are in the technology and an
economic field where they've made a
fortune taking advantage of this sort of
duality of being the world's biggest of
help developing nation at the same time
that they're one of the world's biggest
developed nations the problem is that
you know we used to joke about the
Chinese always you know claiming win
wins right and in negotiations yeah well
we're pretty close to locking down on
lose-lose
because the current trade battle and
Technology battle isn't solving any
problems its exacerbating them it's sort
of a duel with chainsaws and no you know
nobody's gonna come away whole from that
and when you when you look at the praise
heaped on the Trump administration for
creating leverage and for challenging
China you really got to ask yourself
okay what have they accomplished what
have they done what are they gotten from
all of that leverage and at what cost
so they
no redress on four stick transfer on IPR
theft market access industrial subsidies
all those things those aren't even
really locked into the agreement that
blew up right that was all you know
largely about soybeans and you know some
generalized commitments on non-tariff
barriers and they couldn't close that
deal right so we're not even addressing
the major irritants in the relationship
where I'd go one step further and saying
that we're creating a political
environment in which no one who's
involved in decision making in China
dares to advocate for reform dares to
stand up and encourage shifts in the
direction that we're asking for because
the United States is defining the
relationship as implacably adversarial
right yeah right who's from the Steve
Danon worldview is shining through so I
mean the trade war with China is
escalating I'm curious who you think has
more leverage or can absorb more
economic pain but in addition to that I
mean there was really brusque
back-and-forth this week between US and
Chinese officials at a defense summit in
Singapore the Chinese were particularly
pissed off about increased support from
the US for Taiwan yeah how much you
worry about this escalating into
something worse than a trade war into
something a little more even more
contentious yeah I was saying Danny like
I I'm curious what you think about this
because I it's almost like have they
discovered Taiwan you know like in other
words if the Trump people really wanted
to push the Chinese buttons they could
start messing around there I've been
wondering if they would go there to try
to find another way to mess with China
to have leverage on the Chinese to say
we might start playing a little more
footsie with the the Taiwanese well I
think there's plenty of evidence of that
already the thing to worry about perhaps
more than the risk of pushing the
Chinese buttons on Taiwan is the
administration accidentally elbowing a
button on Taiwan without understanding
what it is they're doing yeah there
isn't a lot of area addition and
research that goes into the decisions
apparently by
the president who was largely informed
by his Godin occasionally by John Bolton
look goes - that's all I got in this
world I mean the the mo seems to be
released the hounds you know yeah
Hellfire and fury and let's everybody
should do whatever they can to unsettle
and back foot the Chinese right now and
that this is I think in the president's
mind all in service of being able to
close an incremental a better deal on US
exports and a few other odds and ends
that he cares deeply about the problem
is like so many of these initiatives
that he's taken the end result isn't
going to be better than we could have
gotten through more conventional and
collaborative negotiations it's going to
fall vastly short as it already does
inch with China of his great claims of
what he was going to get mm-hmm and it
comes at an insanely high price
the Chinese have shall we say long
memories yes you know that Italian thing
about revenge served cold well Marco
Polo brought that back with like they
invented it yeah so why are we
gratuitously
 with these guys there's a lot to
complain about there's a lot to push
back on in terms of Chinese behavior but
if you're randomly pushing buttons and
you hit a South China Sea button you hit
a Shin Jung button you hit a Taiwan
button sooner or later you're gonna get
a reaction that you weren't prepared for
and that you don't want one one question
that i cross with Danny is on the one
hand Trump has been a huge opportunity
for China right because what I find you
know when I travel across Asia or
Southeast Asia is the the perceived
immune ition of US presence and
influence is palpable and that the
Chinese are the main beneficiary right
so they have their belt road initiative
they're expanding their influence
economically commercially and
politically across Asia across Africa
across
so they benefit from Trump's America
first bullet rinse unpredictability etc
on the other hand you know they are
getting rattled by tariffs and there has
been an effect on their economy there
they seem completely fed up with the
seesaw of these negotiations and I'm
wondering if you're sitting in Beijing
right now in year three of the the Trump
administration they for the Chinese are
you looking at this as we want four more
years of this to consolidate our
expanded influence at the expense of the
US or are you looking at this and saying
like okay we banked all the influence
that we're going to get out of the u.s.
taking this crazy turn and we hope that
the US comes back to its senses
well opportunism is a big part of
Chinese international relations and
strategy but it is a distant second to
stability predictability that is what
they absolutely crave and they've made
no secret about it over the years and
it's continues to be at the center of
their global strategy they want a stable
secure predictable environment in order
to allow them to put the finishing
touches on the internal pieces of the
great national rejuvenation they want
relations with the United States which
in their view is decaying power anyway
to stay on I mean on an even keel
they have misread Trump as I think most
people have repeatedly they certainly
believed that Trump would be vastly
better for China's interests than
Hillary Clinton who they feared and
loathed once he came into office they
were confident that he's a businessman
and they could find his bottom line but
the what they discovered is he's not a
businessman he's an entertainer with
autocratic overtones and he has been
utterly unpredictable sometimes they
have been able to take advantage of that
but other times they've really paid a
big price for it so no they would trade
the advantages they get that's yeah
that's interesting in a heartbeat for to
get rid of fascist PT Barnum okay let's
little history so we're recording this
on Tuesday the 4th which is the 30th
anniversary of the Tiananmen Square
massacre I bet a lot of people listening
have seen the famous photo of tank man
you've heard of the term but don't
really know what happened Danny can you
tell us why were students and citizens
in China protesting and what happened on
June 4th 1989 mm-hmm well if you I mean
the the thing to remember is that this
1989 was a year of considerable turmoil
in the Communist world this was glass
snows and perestroika was about ten
years after the Cultural Revolution in
China and the death of Mao Zedong and
dong Xiao ping had begun a series of
steps aimed at economic reform I
remember reading when I was a kid about
the French Revolution somewhere that
revolutions happen when things start
getting better not when they're at their
worst that the reforms liberate forces
that become hard to control that's very
much what seems to have happened in the
late eighties in China where students
workers people throughout the country
but this was not just in Beijing not
just in Tiananmen Square became very
agitated about corruption about
unfairness there was you know a serious
upsurge in political protests throughout
the country and Tienanmen square became
ground zero for student protests and at
one point there was apparently something
in the neighborhood of a million people
Wow camped out in OG Tahrir Square
exactly a million people so so I'm told
Wow so this this started a big debate or
maybe exacerbated a big debate within
Chinese leadership between hardliners
and reformers and ultimately dong Xiao
Peng who is the paramount leader at the
time made a fundamental decision that
has really shaped modern china since
then which was there is no price too
high to pay for the preservation of the
athough
of the Communist Party and that reform
is important but a precondition for
reform is absolute security and
ideological control and conformity so
based on that he called in the army and
the army rolled in and started shooting
and so beginning the night of June the
third overnight and into the following
day something in the order of ten
thousand people were killed and many
many more were of course injured the
really astonishing thing though is the
success that the party has had in the
ensuing 30 years in this or Willian
effort to airbrush out of history the
very fact of 10:00 on men so can I ask
you about that I mean what would happen
if I were a young teacher or living in
Beijing and I try to teach my class
about Tiananmen Square or if I if I
tried to search for Tiananmen Square on
my computer in China
well most Chinese don't know enough to
teach or to search but today even the
numbers six for 89 and pretty much any
combination are considered to be a
political offense be they're essentially
outlawed teaching what happened that the
Tiananmen Massacre is completely
unacceptable in Chinese political
society the Chinese have a lot of tools
to correct bad behavior and it ranges
from being called in to the Security
office for tea losing your job having
now your social credit score adjusted so
that you can't buy a ticket on a
high-speed rail you can't get a passport
etc or worse this is a non-event
although I heard this year for the very
first time Chinese official publicly
defend 10-on men it's quite rare for
them even to admit that such a thing
happened in effect what they were saying
was it was highly unfortunate that those
students compelled the government to
commit such a distasteful act do you
think I mean Danny you know you're what
we were familiar with this debate but I
think it'd be useful for our listeners
you know I think that the basic
consensus that has emerged in recent
years is that the u.s. policy community
after Tiananmen doubled down on the bet
that opening up to China bringing China
and the WTO bringing China in from the
wilderness into the international order
would over time promote not just
economic liberalisation but that that
economic liberalisation would lead to
some form of political affiliation right
and so that was kind of the the the the
frame of mind of people in the US
certainly for the 90s into the arts and
now of course what we've seen is the
economic opening in China has lifted
hundreds of millions of people out of
poverty that is clearly good it has
served to make China more of a
stakeholder international system I think
that is generally good but clearly the
the the political dynamic has gotten
worse inside of China not better and if
you look at the million we Gers in
detention if you look at the the use of
state surveillance if you look at the
crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in
Hong Kong which was supposed to be you
know one country two systems' situation
where Hong Kong enjoyed greater civil
liberties and in the repression of even
any mention of Tiananmen as you talked
about I mean I guess I'm less interested
in the like did we get this wrong
although I'm curious your take on that
but also like what if you care about
human rights in China if you care about
you know the cultural and language
heritage of the Tibetan people or the
right of someone to to learn him at
Tiananmen Square like how do you even
think about this current moment and
where things are going well in terms of
were we wrong I think we have to ask
what the alternative
it was a reasonable proposition in fact
the proposition shared by an awful lot
of Chinese people that the steady
improvement the growth in the economy
the growth of the middle class would
lead to greater political liberalization
freedoms and more sanctity of contracts
rule of law that's that logic is not
fundamentally flawed second history
hasn't ended you really don't know how
this story ends yeah what we do know is
that in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis
yeah which convinced the Chinese that
the American model had some pretty
serious cracks and yet called
glass-steagall I'm proud and embarrassed
all at once
continued in and in the aftermath of the
Iraq war and Afghanistan war where the
Chinese started to ask themselves is
this PAC's America really poxy or it
looks pretty vile and yeah do we really
want this is this right and then in with
the fall of Balthus governments and the
Arab Spring and color revolutions the
Chinese Communist Party had an epiphany
and the epiphany went something like
this
oh we could be next and we need to
double down we need to crack down we
need one-man rule enough of this sort of
collective leadership yeah we got to
pick one of our number who's gonna be a
hard ass and because China needs to be
ruled with an iron hand etc and we got
Xi Jinping yeah so over the last six
years we've seen two things one is you
know retrogression in terms of political
space and it's it's bad it's serious and
it's been augmented by the tremendous
surge in Chinese wealth in Chinese
national power they're big enough strong
enough they can do a lot of things that
they hadn't been able to do and the
technology that allows them to surveil
people that is the second part yeah yeah
so we have never we've seen this we've
seen Big Brother but we've never seen
Big Brother with big data no it's never
happy history of the world that this
capacity was in the hands of a system
that was will was going to use it
Full Tilt so this experiment is either a
pendulum or a spiral yeah we don't we
don't know if it's going to swing back
or if it's gonna intensify I mean
obviously there are pretty fundamental
humanistic impulses the urge for freedom
the urge for fairness the urge for
justice the Communist Party of China has
its handful hands full trying to contain
control and suppress but it hasn't been
proven yet new technology yeah give it
the edge um so you guys were in a lot of
situations where meetings with me to
where we'd be discussing a really hard
thing and and then President Obama will
be sitting there he'd have to make the
decision and everyone around the table
would restate the problem in some
creative way and then not say if I can
think about what to do about it right so
I feel like you hear that a lot from
Democratic president potential
candidates when it comes to China they
all talk about the rise of China being
like one of the greatest geopolitical
challenges we face but rarely do you
hear therefore we must so do you guys
have like a like a 30th 60 second kind
of like three-point plan for these these
candidates for what they should be doing
yes I in the words of the great American
political philosopher Melania Trump we
should be better so what does
that mean
I mean just because I picked some as
I'll tee this up and then Danny I think
and fill in more detail but number one
you need a China policy that that is is
an Asia policy right so do we have the
capacity to just change things in China
no but if we are deepening our
relationships around China right and
this is what we did so you know we have
a trade agreement that raises the
standards to where we want them on
things like intellectual property with
all the other countries in Asia Pacific
that matter you set a standard that you
then try to hold China to with other
countries right I think we want it's
more of a reason to double down on not
just our alliance relationships but
getting our allies closer together right
so that the Japanese are closer to the
Indonesians and the Singaporeans and the
Indians so that there these other
countries that you know it's not so much
containing China but shaping the
environment within which China is rising
right so the shorthand would be your
China policy has to be a regional policy
and you have to be working on all the
things you care about high trade
standards the promotion of democracy and
human rights responsible stakeholders
international community you want all of
those things to be in the ether in the
asia-pacific in a way that allows us to
either leverage China if we're
confronting them or hopefully a you know
absorb a rising China into a more mature
set of arrangements in asia-pacific and
then with China it's a classic case
where we won a ledger of things where we
can work with them and on climate change
we need them to help us transition the
the the global energy economy and pick
your spots on where you confront them on
trade irritants on technology irritants
but the basic principle I would have and
that the Democrats running should have
is when we confront China we should not
do it alone as Trump is doing we should
be working with other countries in the
Asia Pacific region with the Europeans
as well so that we're confronting China
as an international community saying
we're not trying to hold you down China
we are trying to hold you the same
standards would be hold everybody else
do I totally agree with that I think
number one we have to get our act
together for the allies and partners to
work with us and to have some faith in
us they have to see the we can make our
own government work our governance
matters yes ours yeah all rights true
that's very true our economy matters not
just a you know a trillion dollar tax
break for the rich and not just a Google
and a Facebook but we have to be seen
tackling our own problems including
problems of infrastructure problems of
Education problems of immigration I mean
I not only do we want a country that
will attract the best minds from all
over the world and keep them in our labs
and our companies but we want an
immigration policy that will let them in
the goddamn door in the first place yeah
I completely agree with Ben we need to
work with partners and present United
Front and America first is not exactly a
flag that a lot of other countries are
going to rally around so countries to
support us to work with us because
remember leadership is embossing people
around leadership is other people
deciding that they want to follow you
because they have faith that you have
the best interests of the group of the
world in mind for us to be able to
collect that kind of unified front they
have to know that we believe in
something they have to know what our
values are and they have to see those
values at work that is and has been our
huge comparative advantage over
authoritarian regimes in the past
China has a China dream but it's only
for China it's for the Chinese you can
become an American or at least you could
until recently you can't become Chinese
there is no export model of the China
dream there certainly is an export model
of the American Dream and people around
the world are living that no matter what
they call it because it's about
education it's about opportunities for
your kids it's about institutions that
will protect you and protect your rights
so instead of admiring the problem which
is what you're describing really we need
to get to work Danny said think really
important which is that the stuff at
home if I was a candidate talked about
at home like just couple quick examples
there's this concern that you're going
to beat us in technology right well the
the way to beat the Chinese in a
technological space race is not to kind
of go around and scold countries at by
Huawei we should be investing the
federal government should be messing in
basic research and innovation here right
you don't wanna get beat on artificial
intelligence get the tech companies
together figure out what the investments
are that have to be made for the u.s. to
not lose that race you don't want to
have the authoritarian Chinese model
beat the democratic model then
strengthen our democracy at home like
voting rights in the United States is
actually connected to our ability to go
around the world and promote these
values so I think you can
articulate and lastly by the way don't
fight a forever war in the Middle East
yeah what guess what one thing the
Chinese aren't doing is part of their
strategy spending trillions of dollars
fighting fruitless wars in the Middle
East right so you can draw a whole
critique that starts with our own
democracy that goes through our
infrastructure and our investments in
technology innovation that goes to the
need to end the forever war and then
gets to the China and Asia peace that's
all about positioning the United States
in democracy generally to be able to be
back any authoritarian trend that would
overwhelm us
you
