now with cypher okay stop overcook lip
and the panel can say okay stop at any
point to comment Tucker Carlson okay
stop
he loved socialism he loves nationalism
and he's got a few wild ideas about
putting them together but you know what
wild idea he doesn't care for YouTube
supposedly censoring conservatives
steven crowder is a conservative
comedian who makes okay stop we're
really tossing this word comedian around
these days and i think if you did a
couple of open mikes and then realize
that just being entertaining couldn't
pay your bills so you had to add like
vile racism on top of that to find your
market maybe we should find a different
name for that job he's pretty popular is
that close to four million subscribers
and tens of millions of viewers his
stuff isn't for everyone but so you
don't it's against some people that's
the problem right I mean it's not that
it's not for everyone is that he's a
vile racist and bigoted so got really a
taste issue then he got banned over it's
a free country
or he used to be the press is working to
change that a few days ago a writer at
voxcom demanded that youtube and steven
crowder why for the crime of insulting
him amazingly many in the washington
press corps agreed you shouldn't be
allowed to mock talentless vox writers
they said apparently it's a new addition
to the First Amendment ok it's not yeah
apparently Tucker doesn't understand
that YouTube is not an organ of our
governments this guy is trying to make a
buck off of being on their service he
needs to understand the Terms of Service
I once had a video banned for violating
the Terms of Service on YouTube and then
I reset it and covered up the go-go boys
pubes and it wasn't a problem anymore
I will say this I could die a happy man
to see guy Branum in this box talking
about being censored by YouTube because
he wasn't able to show up a go-go
dancers pubes as Tucker Carlson says
what's next if we can't see rippling gay
torsos on YouTube you can see rippling
gay torsos on YouTube just not the pubes
first first they came for the pubes but
I did not speak up
turns out the Vox Reuter in question is
hardly a sympathetic figure
hardly he's got a long history of
leveling racist attacks online he's a
fascist posing as a victim no sensible
adult would take him seriously okay yeah
we really talking about sensible adults
with Rutger Carlson like first of all
I'm a little disappointed that in this
video for our listeners he's wearing a
tie and not a bowtie like I feel a
little robbed by a Tucker Carlson right
now um but here's the deal if Tucker is
is sad that he can't watch these like
racist white supremacist anti-gay videos
on YouTube all he has to do is just go
home and use the feature on his iPhone
and just record a little video of
himself talking like it's that it's that
easy
I'm a problem-solver you are and I just
want to point out that fascist posing as
victims is the Fox primetime hours yeah
that's right I mean that's in there
that's in there slide deck for
advertisers hey tube is obeying his
commands the company announced it will
de monetize Stephen kryder's YouTube
channel killing his business co-founded
the intercept and he joins us thank
button thanks so much for coming on so
you don't have to be a fan of steven
crowder or what or anyone to see this as
a threat a threat to one person's speech
is a threat to all of our speech is it
not okay stop I look I do think
universal basic income is an idea that
should be explored in America I do not
think that that universal basic income
should come in the form of everyone
having a profitable youtube channel oh I
personally find steven crowder to be
just a contemptuous as a
commentator I do think he's an infantile
bully witch and bigot which are not
words I easily invoke he didn't just
criticize Carlos Mazda he mocked him for
being gay and for being Latino you used
the Lisp and things to ridicule him
sends a lot of harassment his way but
it's not so far so good Glenn the point
Tucker is that censorship advocates want
our brains to only go to that most
primitive first level of do we hate this
person YouTube caved in not in defense
of the marginalized person but in
defense of the powerful one the one who
okay stop I mean in this Pride Month if
I never have to hear about how good gay
people or with it like women or people
of color have it about how we're the
powerful ones these days
it would not be too soon like it's
if you want to criticize someone's
terrible ideas go ahead and criticize
their terrible ideas but using slurs or
making fun of his wrist movements
remaining fun of his list what what is
that adding to the discourse what is
that saying other than this is a non
person whose voice doesn't matter works
for a major media conglomerate and
that's what they're always gonna do is
defend the mob and defend the powerful
at the expense of those who are
marginalized such a good point anyway
it's wild it's wild what's happening out
there folks everybody be careful out
there on the road these people have cars
[Music]
