so Ben everybody just heard the
conversation with Anthony Faiola the
Washington Post walking us through what
the hell's going on yeah and then as
well itself I wanted to talk to you
about the the Washington component of
this yeah diplomatic effort because you
know the Trump team has been running a
pretty intense diplomatic play to push
Maduro out of power in Venezuela I think
I've been impressed by the way they have
coordinated with regional allies Trump's
recognition of Guido was closely
followed by bunch of countries in the
region
OAS which is an international
organization European allies so like
that kind of diplomatic unity has been
yeah missing and almost everything else
yeah done candidly um
similarly they've they've cracked down
hard on Maduro with sanctions including
sanctions against Venezuela state-owned
oil company that happened on Monday that
said it does feel like we are diving
into a coup without any discussions of
the implications or how it might be
received given this or fraught history
of the US has in Latin America so I
guess like I'm struggling with this
Maduro is a monster who's
starving his own people he's a idiot he
doesn't know what he's doing like he's
missing manage the country is corrupt
he's awful but we are not very good at
the regime change business so I'm torn
here well how you feeling I'm in the
same place let me just I'd start by
saying that first of all there's no
question that Venezuela would be much
better off if Maduro was not in power he
is not he has zero democratic legitimacy
he's eviscerated democratic institutions
in the country he you know I met him
once a you know Obama and I met him
backstage at a summit oh really we had
to do it away from the cameras like you
know we didn't wanna be seen with the
guy right could you get beat up on Fox
News for six months yeah but you know we
wanted to kind of say like hey man this
is before things were completely off the
rails and and you know we obviously were
saying you take mr. wrong direction he
he was kind of incoherent he just kind
of went on about how he was a
revolutionary and and you know Dan
Restrepo steak was just he had to deal
with them all the time dinner trouble
who ran Western Hemisphere
latin-american affairs for us the White
House is just like the guys just not
smart the Chavez charisma it's right and
I also
some in Cuba speak to a very large crowd
and like talk about a home game right
yeah and he couldn't even fire that
crowd like so he Chavez's had a charisma
and hold on the country Maduro has all
being you know corruption and cult of
personality of Chavez's none of the
charisma and he's completely mismanaged
and destroyed the economy through
corruption
he's repressed the opposition he's
cheated in the election so he has no
legitimacy that's a starting point I
also like you think that you know this
was an unusually well coordinated play
that they did getting you know host of
other countries in Latin America to come
along with them in the D recognition of
Maduro and the recognition of Guido I
have a couple of concerns with it though
one is the decision to recognize an
alternative president that makes for a
very good story a very good kind of bold
seeming move but it's kind of your last
diplomatic bullet to fire you know and
the reality is the military still backs
Maduro so you recognize someone who's
really not in charge of the country and
you mentioned the challenge that Obama
had in this exact scenario in Syria yeah
nice and this I put this on our on our
we have bad experience with this right
because we recognized here in opposition
they get their hopes up you know and
Assad digs in and nothing changes and
then you look felis because you can't
you know execute regime change and so I
think there is a bit of a worry that you
know this was a play that might serve to
kind of galvanize maderos backers and
you already saw Russia and China kind of
come to his defense and the military
come to his defense and leave open the
question of oK you've recognized this
other guy you know what are you gonna do
about it because if the Venezuelan motor
doesn't flip then the situation is going
to further deteriorate and the risk then
becomes well you know do we invade you
know Venezuela John Aldens got his five
thousand troops in Colombia that he saw
we saw written on us
Skiba yeah a legal pad will come back
there so I guess this is a tough issue
because I support what the Trump
administration wants to have happen
which is majority power and a
restoration of some semblance of
democracy miss Willa I just worried that
they are kind of driving the car in 80
miles an hour without kind of a clear
plan for where this is headed and a lot
of fraud history in Latin America and a
lot of ways that this could just kind of
continue to get worse yeah I also got to
worry about the people who are in the
room because obviously Marco Rubio is
running the New York Times to tell them
that he's driving a decision but then
you know the decision to ultimately tell
Guido that they were gonna recognize him
and D recognize Maduro was reportedly
Josh broken for The Washington Post
reported that it was on January 22nd
John Bolton convened what has come to be
called a quote small group National
Security Council meeting which is the
restricted yeah meeting they do to lock
out of other people so listen to who is
there okay Mike Pompeo secretary of
state sure of course
Treasury secretary Steven Oken sanctions
are important make sense to have them be
their commerce secretary Wilbur Ross
like they woke that guy up for the
meeting why larry cudlow what the
the chairman of Joint Chiefs sure
Pentagon official like it's there's no
technocratic ear a bunch of Intel people
like it doesn't sound like the right
room to make a smart decision where
you're thinking through all the options
yeah I mean there are a few problems
with this one is they have no
credibility on democracy right so Mike
Pompeo had just probably returned from a
flight where he was giving a foot rub
Mohammed bin Salman oh yeah you know and
I mean you know look the u.s. always is
a bit hypocritical in the application of
its values but you know this
administration had no pretense of caring
about democracy anywhere in the world
except in Venezuela and Cuba right where
they have a domestic political interest
in doing so right they are trying to
appeal the certain kind of more
conservative hardline elements in
Florida who support changes in
government and in Cuba in Venezuela and
that makes it harder you know it
undercuts
your credibility internationally you
don't know cuts their credibility inside
of as well if it just kind of looks like
you know you're taking this shot at
Maduro because you know you have some
domestic interest in doing so that's the
first problem the second problem is they
you know they they they seem that that
group suggests to me that you know this
is entirely like a sanctions policy
right I mean the reason that Larry
Kudlow is there I guess is that they're
gonna try to throw the book at the
Venezuelans in terms of sanctions but
you know that that may work in
pressuring Maduro a lot but I worried
that they're not thinking through the
secondary effects of that right if you
completely collapse the Venezuelan
economy you have potentially millions
more people flowing out of the country
going into Colombia people frankly
coming the United States where they're
not giving any protected status to
Venezuelans fleeing repression and you
know even if even if somehow you might
succeed in you know kind of collapsing
the country there not a lot of people in
that room who know anything about
Venezuela or what comes next right I
mean let's say they're even successful
somehow and just kind of collapsing the
place and guardo's saying he's president
and maybe some military goes with him
and some others but then you have this
kind of failed state and what is who are
the smart people who are gonna help put
it back together right so the again this
is the problem with the this policy in
general is that they're just trying
through brute force to dislodge Maduro
in doing so they're gonna further
destroy the the economy of the country
without probably giving a lot of thought
to what comes after that and and and
what happens if there's kind of a civil
war situation what happens if you know
there's just a massive humanitarian
crisis even bigger than today in the
middle of South America and so it
doesn't give you a lot of faith that
they're thinking two or three or four
moves down the board as as some of Trump
supporters say that they're playing
chess checkers yes yes yeah I mean
speaking of chess so Trump keeps saying
that all options are on the table in
Venezuela which is usually code for
saying the military option
is on the table and to offer just it's
just often just posturing and in a way
to you know sort of increase the
pressure on the other party but yeah on
Monday National Security Advisor John
Bolton was spotted with a notepad that's
head 5,000 troops to Colombia so first
of all get a cover sheet like I
guarantee you a a troop movement of that
size that hasn't occurred yet is
classified yeah
so that is disclosing classified
information great job but what the hell
like what are you gonna do with 5,000
troops in Colombia to impact the
situation who among us hasn't doodle
than a meeting you know fantasies 5,000
troops to some South American country I
I don't think that the the there's a
viable military option you know that if
the template is like Panama and Grenada
these tiny countries that that we
invaded in the past Venezuela is a big
country it the Venezuelans have external
support from not just Cuba but the
Russians just deployed some like
mercenary Brigade to help protect Maduro
that'll be good and so you're talking
about potentially putting thousands of
American troops into a very large
country that has very high levels of
violence and insecurity already in a
region that has a deep resentment of the
history of US military intervention
which have really broken some of those
places and not led to good outcomes
rightly so
yeah fair for them to question our
motivations here yeah so not only I
think there's not a viable option but
even if we were to somehow great one by
staging all the troops in Colombia what
does that look like to invade Venezuela
by the way what is the legal basis for
that domestically or nationally with the
question that we can just pick a country
in South American invaded can we get UN
support for that absolutely not with the
Russians and Chinese well Congress
authorized in an invasion of Venezuela I
don't think so right so it may seem like
an inconvenience but you usually when
you start a war you want to have some
legal basis for it and and so
again it's a sign that they seem to be
kind of flying without a net here just
trying to throw stuff at Maduro to
dislodge him again I want him gone
like we should all be very clear like
this would be good I do think there's a
different way to go about this which is
to be tightening the news to be
tightening sanctions but to be very
intensively trying to negotiate with the
different factions inside of Venezuela
frankly talking to the Chinese and other
countries about how to create some soft
landing to a transitional government
that can then hold an election that was
clear the preference of the Europeans
who are a bit slower and wrong or lead
and they put the onus on now let's
negotiate to hold in a new election
right a week right yeah and I think
that's the that's a better course to say
let's get everybody at the table here to
try to find some some common ground
where there's some transitional
government that can then hold the new
election so that you have the democratic
legitimacy of an election to choose a
new leader because frankly I don't know
that it's good for a Guido to come into
office unelected but kind of selected by
like Trump you know yeah I mean so I I
think that the the there ways other than
an invasion to be trying to manage us
and and not just because those are
simpler but because those are more
likely to result in more stable outcomes
right it's not just question of getting
Maduro out it's it's what does the
country look like after that and how
broken is the country in that process
and and what is your capacity to bring
together enough of the different actors
in Venezuela so that's easier to rebuild
the country and I think that is more
easily done through a negotiated
settlement than it is through some kind
of u.s. invasion or us kind of sponsored
coup in the country and so again I think
I'd be very happy to wake up one day and
learn that Maduro is gone I think these
guys are again going about it with all
the you know aggression and and not a
lot of the thought yeah
well so I think you kind of half
answered my last question it was just
you know if you were sitting in a
Situation Room like what
would you tell the President to do and
maybe more importantly of what do you
think Democrats today right now should
be saying about the Trump administration
policy because yeah you you see that
like dick Durbin and some very
thoughtful members of Congress and
senators are are torn yeah well people
like Durbin Tommy your friend and former
Kenyan fellow alum Leopoldo Lopez
incredibly courageous guy Durbin has for
many years championed him
we pulled a love as a freedom fighter in
Venezuela it was imprisoned for a long
time and came out and then you know went
back in now I think bleeding's on house
arrest there's actually a fantastic
episode of the daily yeah where they
talked with him about his story and what
he's been through it's check it out yeah
so I think it's a tough situation for
Democrats because on the one hand you
know there's this reflexive distrust of
Trump yeah which can lead to just say
well he's for this so I must be against
it right and then they're these people
like Durbin are thinking like well look
I I support the Venezuelan opposition so
I'm just gonna kind of I'm gonna come in
behind this I think there's a another
way of doing this it's like a lot of
things we've talked about Tommy where I
can find some sympathy with the
objective that Trump has but I also have
a lot of concerns about how he's doing
it I think Democrats can say look we're
for a transition in Venezuela we don't
think Maduro is a legitimate leader but
what is a comprehensive approach to this
look like okay well number one we should
be doing more to support the Venezuelan
people so we should be giving TPS
temporary protected status for
Venezuelans who are here in the United
States fleeing that violence now one of
the reasons why the Trump administration
is so embarrassed to take that step is
it kind of validates the concept of its
Asylum of people having legitimate
reason to come here to flee violence
right but if you really care about the
Venezuelan people you would be offering
the protection of coming to the United
States if they're fleeing violence and
repression they're right second you
could also provide a lot more support to
these countries of Colombia that are
hosting you know like a million
Venezuelan refugees so one piece is
Democrats can express through policy
approaches more support for the
Venezuelan people I think secondly we
can critique where we feel like there is
danger and Trump's approached
certainly a military option and again I
would also express a preference for a
more negotiated approach to a transition
rather than just kind of declaring the
opposition the president and and trying
to muscle Maduro out so I think there's
there is a more nuanced way of doing
this now it's hard if you're in Congress
it's kind of what you've been doing if
you were in the White House I think
third though trying to plan for what
what is the Venezuela we would like to
see after this transition because again
part of what I worry about with Trump is
you squeeze and squeeze and squeeze and
look maybe you do dislodge Monroe but
you've completely destroyed the place in
the process and you probably aren't
giving thought to how you build it back
up what is a package of humanitarian and
reconstruction assistance look like that
is internationalized that is ready they
can frankly also serve as an incentive a
carrot to say look if you guys make this
transition the international community
and the World Bank and the IMF and these
other countries will come in and help
put this place in a stable footing with
a kind of package of assistance so that
you're not just thinking about how to
bring one man down you're thinking about
how to build back up the country those
are all the pieces I'd like to see and I
do think Democrats should be unabashed
calling out Trump's apocrypha you know
you should be for the the freedom and
democracy for the Venezuelan people and
frankly we should be for those values in
lots of places including places like
Saudi Arabia where these guys have
totally sold out our values right
including and dealing with people like
Vladimir Putin you know Trump is gonna
go you know give a bear hug Dick Kim
jung-un next month a man who's much more
brutal than even a Maduro right so I
think Democrats should also in engages
fight and not just kind of offer the
Republicans the rhetoric of freedom on
Venezuela when they've clearly shown
that they don't believe those values are
for everybody they just believe that
those values are for places where you
have some domestic political agency
Trump's worried about caravans coming
north boy wait till there's a failed
state well that's what these oral
sanctions are tricky you know I don't
cutting-off Venezuelan oil like is going
to cause a humanitarian disaster right
and that's always a difficult thing with
with sanctions policy when are you
hurting the people more than the leaders
there's way to target the leaders more
rectly yeah the last thing I'd say Tommy
is that I Elliott Abrams is announces
the Envoy like Elliott Abrams really
this is a guy in apart from kind of
being one of the architects of the Iraq
war which worked out great and proposed
democracy a well planned invasion
followed by a well planned
reconstruction of need here but also the
guy was an architect of around Contra
and a policy that supported Contras and
death squads in Central America so like
the worst this tricky history of
American intervention in Middle East in
Latin America and well and the Middle
East - is this guy right and so this is
the guy that we're bringing in it
doesn't doesn't offer you a lot of hope
that they've learned from the the
history here and again I should say like
we should be very mindful that even if
they somehow get Maduro out which is by
no means a guarantee that's not the end
of this story it's like are these guys
equipped to help stabilize this place
and move forward
you
