[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
all right what's up Los Angeles welcome
to pod save America I'm Jon Favreau I'm
Jamel Hill I'm Dan Pfeiffer happy
birthday to John Lovell thank you this
is what you always wanted for your
birthday all right let's go to the news
we are six months out from the Iowa
caucuses and the unofficial Labor Day
kickoff of the presidential primary is
right around the corner this is a time
when most voters start paying attention
start making up their minds here's where
the race stands Joe Biden remains the
front-runner with Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders right behind him
Kamala Harris and Pete Budaj edge right
behind them Cory Booker and better work
right behind them and another 3,000 or
so candidates right behind now so the
race has been largely stable since it
began but we're heading into a fall that
includes more campaigning more
television ads more a smaller debate
stage and news this week that the
economy may be headed towards an
economic downturn downturn or a
recession dan you have some people
saying it's early anything can happen
and then you have other people who say
yeah it's actually not that early which
is closer to the truth about where this
race is right now how fluid is it what
does history tell us about you know what
we can know about a primary race at the
end of August which objective judgment
is true dan yeah that was a great
summary of American pundit rewrite there
right
I mean history says that we have a lot
can happen in front of us right at this
point in 2008 the leaders in the polls
in the Democratic primary was Hillary
Clinton by 30 points and in the
Republican primary it was Rudy Giuliani
by double digits and so why does it
Giuliani ended up in greener pastures
Giuliani's in Kiev with with a
magnifying glass just calling in to
Chris Cuomo repeatedly so history
suggests a lot can change what would
have been really struck by in this race
is the point you made which is that has
been incredibly stable yeah the poll
with the exception of Elizabeth Warren
eclipsing Bernie Sanders for second in
the polls
the race is stayed it's a lot of
applause for second place the polls have
stayed basically the same since the
beginning yeah and there's very little
undecided vote so for this to change
people the candidates I think you are at
the bottom of the of the sort of the
middle tier that ones you mentioned are
gonna have to get to work right now to
change the dynamics of the race I mean
if you don't if you're a candidate who
doesn't make the debate stage in
September where nine candidates I
believe have qualified so far and
there's another two or three on the edge
do you think that's it or what I mean
honestly yeah yeah Tommy you just spent
a few days in Iowa which candidates are
yeah she had cheer for Tommy and I
[Applause]
[Music]
Instagram followers here tonight which
candidates are impressing Iowans right
now and which candidates have sort of
the the most impressive organizations
right now so I was definitely four days
I saw Bernie de Blasio Pete
Michael Bennett I hung out with the
staffs of Warren Booker and beto the
things that I took away from my trip
there was one like in 2016 you were
either a Hillary person or a burning
people and there was no cross
pollination it was ultimately like a
turnout election which is weird for
caucuses this time everyone's getting a
look and they're going to lots of events
like I went to a house party hosted by
undecided voters for the Booker campaign
try to figure out you it's been an hour
of your life doing that on a Wednesday
but um the thing that really stuck out
to me was the degree to which the
national news narrative was like in
critical this time around because when
we were in Iowa in 2008 there was you
know George W Bush was a thing of the
past you could bet on hope you could be
excited about your nominee now it's just
existential dread about what's coming
next so people are everything they talk
about is through the prism of
electability so I have to say Warren's
field staff was incredibly impressive
the the if you talk to people who who
sort of spend more time than I did there
they say that cory booker is actually
building a good field team you haven't
seen it manifested in the polls yet but
they have some time mayer peeve had some
huge crowds on a tuesday at the stake
there we walked around we ate pork chops
on a stick we talked but you know look
the story of iowa is it can ultimately
be wide open because of the need for
retail politics but it's just harder
this time because you can have a
candidate in your living room but if you
don't see them on that out the night
before maybe you're not thinking they
have a chance yeah jemelle you wrote a
piece in june about how trump has killed
Democratic voters sense of what's
possible and this is like what Tommy was
talking about it's about electability
what did what did you mean by that and
looking at the race today versus when
you wrote the piece in June do you think
it's still true or not I think it's
definitely true and I think Joe Biden
the fact that he's a front-runner speaks
to that truth and and I feel like every
time I talk about this electability
issue which is very annoying and it's a
nuisance that it is that people feel
like I'm unnecessarily banging on Joe
Biden I'm not but I think when you dig
deeper and you talk to people about a
lot of the reasons why they support him
it's not because he has the best ideas
it's not because he has the best
policies is because they look at him as
being an old white dude and who better
to beat another old white dude then an
old white dude so it's kind of a fight
fire with fire
so to them this is Captain America
picking up Thor's Hammer's but no I mean
I think this is what's frustrating for
me to watch because I think that part of
what can be very invigorating and
exhilarating about the political process
is energy is new ideas is you know
hearing you know from different people
and a thought process a critical
thinking process that happens and I feel
like that part of politics has been
squelch and there's been so much focus
on how to beat Donald Trump that it has
killed the sense of the possible right
it's like the reason if the reason
you're not gonna vote for Elizabeth
Warren or Kamala Harris or Pete Buddha
judge or Cory Booker is because your
only reason is well I don't think they
can be Trump then Trump has already won
yeah right because you're supposed to be
voting for people who can help change
and better the country and if you're not
doing that
you're part of the problem and so that's
why I wrote about I don't like to give
him credit for much but unfortunately I
think that's what he's stolen from a lot
of people yeah I mean there's something
very real there which it's the it's the
PTSD for Democrats of losing in 2016
yeah which makes us play not to lose it
so to play to win right and that is in
sports and in politics a terrible
strategy I mean love it they so the New
York Times wrote a piece this week about
Warren about the electability thing
again if you're sitting in the Warren
campaign what do you do about sort of
this electability thing that continues
to hang out there ya know I think it's a
it's a good question and I'd actually
think it goes to what Jamel is saying
which is yeah you can start you can make
an electability argument actually
believe she started to do that and there
was an argument she made in the last
debate which went you trust me on all
these policy matters trust me when I say
I can win you think I'm smart you think
I know what I want to do as president
[Applause]
trust me that I've thought this all the
way through and I think there's value to
that but really what we're talking about
is pain like there's so much pain and I
think people are trepidations about the
field I think they're nervous about who
to pick because there's so much trauma
from 2016 as Dan said and I think
speaking to electability is really
speaking to that deeper sense of hurt
that people feel that they don't
understand their country they don't
understand how someone like Trump could
get close to the White House and so we
come back to that same question we've
been talking about for months which is
who can speak to the fundamental fear
and crisis of this moment that goes
beyond just economics that goes beyond
just electability that goes to what kind
of country we're gonna live in what's
gonna happen to our democracy what we're
gonna do to attack the political rock
the cultural rot and the pain that
people feel and I think any candidate
currently running in Iowa who finds a
way to really make that their case will
do better for it whether they're trying
to beat you Biden on electability or
trying to I don't know eat a pork chop
no it's weird funny about that is like
ultimately every stump speech feels like
a greatest hits album right because you
hear it so many times but I saw Bernie
at the fair and it felt like a throwback
albums like a TBT right which is
interesting because he's consistent but
I do wonder if people are like if you
want saw a chance and you only played
coloring book it'd be a good show but
you'd be like the culture has moved on
like where are the new hits groceries is
fine right like like what are you
telling me about today and like I would
worry if I were him a little bit yeah
you come along with Tommy on his anima
and so on his analogies you follow him
wherever he goes if you don't like
chance I can't help you I I think it's
just as a historical reminder is it at
this point in 2007 no one thought Brock
Obama was elected I was gonna say that
we had the same electability and the
thing that changed that was winning the
Iowa caucus winning elections which is
what Elizabeth Warren said this week -
yes like winning is
best way to alleviate the way to define
an individual term it's all
until people actually vote yeah I will
say though like in 2007 people were
worried about taking a risk on Barack
Obama and they thought that Hillary
Clinton was the more electable candidate
she was more experienced
I think people in 2008 were a little bit
more willing to take a risk because like
tommy said george w bush was not gonna
be president again and so people had
this sense of possibility
I do think you made a really great point
in your piece Tramel which is you know
for a lot of voters you talked about
especially african-american voters like
they're gonna be very pragmatic about
this choice because Donald Trump winning
a second term represents you know a real
existential threat to our country to
people's lives and so I do think that
like fear sort of pervades this
electorate in a way that it hasn't in a
long time not just fear but also dread I
think part of the reason and this what I
mean about this stollen sense of
optimism that is very disappointing to
kind of to kind of witness is as you
pointed out if you believe again
Elizabeth Warren has and and I'm just
using her as an example but if you
believe these candidates really have
good ideas but it comes back to
everybody thinking deep down in the
places they don't want to talk about Oh
we'll never in elected will never elect
you know another black president it will
never it like that's that is what is
keeping people back and I think even for
probably one of the the really sad
things about you know oppression and
racism and all those other things is
that you eventually adopt the mindset of
the people who exercise those principles
so black people in many ways are because
Joe Biden carries you know the largest
black supporter of any candidate but
part of the thinking of why that is the
case is because they also have adopted
this thinking that leadership the only
leadership that will be electable in
this country is white leadership and
that's kind of sad to see that being
stolen from people not being able to
believe that we can have leadership that
looks different in this country if we
did it you know just literally
a few years ago why couldn't we do it
again but that's just how deep-seated
this pain really is and I also think
it's it's worth remembering too that
what electability is is thinking to
yourself what will other people think
it's what it's what is someone else
going to do in that voting booth it's
saying I want people to judge I want
Cory Booker I want Kamala Harris but
after what I saw before based on what
I'm seeing now I don't trust my fellow
citizens anymore I don't trust them
anymore because of someone like Donald
Trump getting close too close to the
Oval Office and I don't understand how
you overcome that mistrust because in
some ways it's legitimate I mean it's a
legitimate fear this is the most
important presidential election in
history the New York Times did a piece
about these concerns about Elizabeth
Warren and someone quoted in the piece
said if it were up to me I'd vote for
Warren hey you're going to the
polling booth I think Warren and some of
all the KS Warren Camela every candidate
who's not the front-runner he's not Joe
Biden they have played it really well
because they you know if with the
exception of Bernie Sanders who does
talk about electability quite a bit they
don't actually talk about electability a
lot they just show it and I think the
best thing that way to overcome
electability is to show that you're
electable and not not tell and there was
polling this week that shows that 57% of
Democrats are now saying that Warren can
probably be Trump and that's up from 14
that's up 14 points in school and you
know Biden is still in the lead with 65%
but that number hasn't changed over the
over the last couple of months and
Warren's is actually rising a little bit
and so you know she might be doing
something right there I do want to talk
about Joe Biden he's he's had a
relatively light schedule in August and
and some allies are reportedly advising
his campaign to scale back his
appearances in order to reduce his
gaffes dan is a smart well it's up now
the campaign says this is not true we
should say but that's what was reported
it if there were people who are advising
him to do that they should not do that
and if those people advising him are
telling the press or advising him those
are bad advisers but I think to be fair
to Joe Biden on two points we have known
Joe Biden a long time
we have a lot of great personal
affection for Joe Biden we worked with
him the fact that he is making gaffes or
making verbal misstatements it's not
something that is necessarily related to
his age right this has been part of his
like and this I'm not being mean about
it he is someone funny people take that
as a backhanded compliment like that is
something he has done for a long time he
is actually for mushrooms Kircher than
to a political strength as an example of
his authenticity and that he speaks
off-the-cuff and not off a teleprompter
but I think that his light schedule has
more to do with the fact that his
campaign is dependent on big-money
fundraisers than online fundraising
right he has to leave Iowa to come to LA
ansar cisco in New York to raise money
because he does not have the grassroots
fundraising base of all these other
candidates like there's a certainly no
time switch said his five best online
fundraising days of this campaign were
in the his first week so Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders and Camilla
Harris to a lesser extent can stay in
Iowa in New Hampshire in the campaign
because they can raise money online he's
got two leaves he can to raise money the
old-fashioned way yeah I can't even
repeat his own website here's the thing
though like that's Joe Biden right and I
think that his campaign has to make him
as available as possible to the press
and do as many events as possible like
the only way out is through for him you
know like I think he's got to be up and
he's gonna lean into the gas right this
is me
I say things wrong a lot you know I
screw up as I think but like you know me
you love me you know who I am you know
where my heart is like I think he has to
be the more he sort of pulls back
because he's worried about the gaffes I
think the worse it is for him he's got
the same thing with the age right
turn like the best politicians from
their weaknesses into strengths right
and his age has run up a little a
weakness but his experience could be a
strength if he can bill it as both that
experience is the best way to beat Trump
and the best way to bring stability and
security back to this country the age
question is important because it's I
don't think we all talked about it as
openly and honestly as we might in the
media but you know I was sitting there
across from a like a 70 year old woman
who was saying I don't think that I
should be President and I think I should
someone younger than me should do it and
I do think that a lot of the questions
about gaps are misstatements or slowing
down our proxies for this age question
you
hear that about people who are just a
few years younger than him like or
Bernie who's older or Warren who does
not seem like someone who's 70 years old
by any stretch well I think he comes
down to does he seem too old that's what
we're talking about does he seem too old
to be President and the thing is it's
not just about winning the primary and I
don't know maybe you can win the primary
by scaling back events and by trying to
minimize gaps by doing less things but I
don't think well whatever the case is
the point is not to win the primary the
point is to win the presidency and
Donald Trump is a you know a fearsome
adversary he is gonna make he's gonna
stand in front of a microphone in front
of his audience of fellow Americans for
for two hours and he is going to ramble
and consistently and incoherently and he
is going to make lots of vicious
negative attacks that are gonna blanket
across the news he's gonna feed off of
that energy he's gonna do it every day
and he's gonna sit up cross sit on top
of an incredibly sophisticated political
organization backed by billionaires in
the Republican National Committee like
that that is gonna require somebody who
is going to be able to and the Russians
as if this as if this part of the game
wasn't hard enough and and we're gonna
need somebody who's able to go
toe-to-toe with that person every single
day we're ready to fight him every
single day and so if by and so Biden
wants this story to go away he's the
campaign heart every single day and
he'll have to do it no matter what I
will just say love it
that what you just said is the reason
for all of us not to completely throw
away the idea of electability because
what you just did is you made it
electability argument against there
there's become a thing like we shouldn't
talk about electable no it's it the
problem is that you it's hard to judge
electability exactly but I'm not saying
here I'm saying these things because I'm
talking about what a candidate will or
will not do in the campaign trail what
that candidate will face I'm not trying
to put myself in the heads of a swing
voter because that's a we could actually
be on stage next to Donald Trump yeah
yeah and the important part of that is
you can judge you can make a decision a
theory of the case but who what's the
best candidate koalas are a take on
Trump but to do that you have to widen
the aperture because the problem with
collectimus you put it yourself in the
mind speed when all the pundits put
themselves in the minds of white people
Midwest yeah yeah
don't ever ask the question in the terms
of younger voters or voters of color or
non voters all over this or I don't know
there are black people who actually
lived in the Midwest right I will say
this so I do think part of if I may make
a sports analogy love lovers are stale
look so Joe Biden feels a little bit
like what has happened in college
basketball when you have a player unlike
the rest of them that like you know the
really good players leave after one year
one in Dunn's right but if you're a
senior or you're a junior you give him
more time to pick a puncher game and
unfortunately Joe Biden has been in
politics you know since the
horse-and-buggy and so because of that
he was unfortunately a politician during
some times where there was racial
segregation there was issues that look
much differently now than they did then
and he's on the record for some stuff
and these gaps would be way easy to
minimize if Joe Biden just learned two
words I'm sorry
realize that it was a different time
there most of us are smart enough to
understand that part of it but he is
still doubling down on dumb things and
that's what's getting him in trouble
it's not for age okay because again he's
in a race with Bernie Sanders I mean
Donald Trump's 3,000 years old I mean
it's not that part of it that should
actually work for you
it's just his lack of accountability for
when he was four earlier in his year as
a politician that to me is really
undercutting him in this in this primary
season okay we will be back with more
news right after again
[Music]
you
