welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod will
talk to Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
about the latest in the shutdown we're
also gonna talk about the ten minutes of
our lives that Trump stole from us on
Tuesday evening the latest on the
negotiations to end this government
shutdown and how Paul man affords crack
legal team couldn't figure out how to
redact details about the potential
conspiracy committed by their client in
a 2016 election also don't miss the
first pod save the world episode of 2019
includes new artwork a real banger of a
new theme song and an interview with
congresswoman Alisa Slaton a former
Assistant Secretary of Defense and CIA
analyst and don't forget the pod save
America love it or leave it and pod save
the people are all going on tour this
year you can buy tickets for some of
those shows already at cricut.com slash
events we'll be traveling all around the
country again this year with the first
pod save America stops coming up in
February in New Orleans Durham in
Charleston South Carolina go get some
tickets okay let's get to the news on
Tuesday night Donald Trump wasted our
time with the primetime address on
immigration that was heavy on lies and
completely devoid of news he was so busy
trying to scare the out of everyone
with imaginary tales of immigrants
poring over the border to kill people
that he didn't even talk about the fact
that the federal government has shut
down until about halfway through the
speech Dan what did you think the White
House was trying to accomplish with that
speech and did they accomplish it I have
no idea
neither do they the hair there seem to
be no I mean this is the it's like the
most Trump White House thing in the
world which we should just remind
everyone the Trump White House is
staffed by people who couldn't get hired
on third-tier Republican campaigns and
mostly just came from the back up
greenroom at Fox News so not the bet
they heard these are not the best people
working and they had they had it the
idea was to give a speech without
thinking about why you're giving the
speech and what you're trying to say and
it like the whole thing fell mailed in
by everyone involved mailed in by the
speechwriter mailed in by the speech
giver mailed in by their
the White House staff trying to explain
it and it is because the if smart people
were in charge here the way you the way
shutdowns end is one side feels
political pressure to give it to make a
concession or to fold that is how the
shutdown and the 90s ended between King
Richard Clinton it's how the shutdown in
2013 ended between Obama and the
Republicans over the Affordable Care Act
and if that is the only way it ends and
the way you do that is you make an
argument to appeal to people beyond your
base right like it
Trump's base being behind him this
nothing puts no pressure on Senate
Democrats or Nancy Pelosi independence
and some Democrats siding with Trump
would put that pressure on him
but he made no argument that has any
history of success in persuading those
voters he just doubled down on the same
old racist talking points that he's been
doing for four years that have grown
have done nothing to grow support for
his immigration agenda yeah Darryl and
from Fox calls that the immigrants are
coming over the border to kill you
speech and she points out that it's
literally the only speech he knows how
to give it's the one he gave when he
announced his candidacy it's the one he
gave all through the 2016 campaign at
the convention it's the American karnage
speech and the inaugural it was during
the 2018 midterms there's one trick he
has in his bag when his backs up against
the wall and he's not doing well
politically and that is telling people
that immigrants are coming to kill them
that's it that's his hole that's his a
whole political arsenal right there yeah
I mean it the whole thing was it was an
embarrassing moment for the president
the White House the media the television
networks it was just you know the whole
thing was a sad statement on the current
state of affairs in America and look if
you don't you know if you don't believe
a couple partisan hacks like us here's
what the White House thought about the
speech according to a tweet from Maggie
Haberman that reads for what it's worth
inside trumps orbit advisors are feeling
good about how we did during the oval
office address the main point they have
all emphasizes the Trump who was often
described in coverage as fuming with
and controlled in the delivery no
prompter stumbles etc so it seems like
they're happy he was able to read the
words I mean just like after a speech
someone in the White House press office
all the big brands get together they
decide how are we gonna quote-unquote
spin this what is the story we're gonna
tell reporters and our supporters about
why this was a win and so all of these
small brains got together and what they
decided was this is a win because Trump
proved he can read that's that's it it's
not he gave him a powerful soaring
oratory made a compelling case it's he
didn't trip over his own tongue kudos
people great job no prompter stumbles
etc the reviews are in it's also worth
noting by the way that Trump apparently
didn't want to give this speech here's
Peter Baker writing in The New York
Times quote privately mr. Trump
dismissed his own new strat his own
strategy is pointless in an
off-the-record lunch with television
takers hours before the address he made
clear in blunt terms that he was not
inclined to give the speech or go to
Texas but was talked into it by advisers
quote it's not going to change a damn
thing but I'm still doing it mr. Trump
said of the border visit according to
one of the people who was in the room
the trip was merely a photo opportunity
he said but he said gesturing at his
communications aides bill shine Sarah
Huckabee Sanders in Kelley a Conway
Kellyanne Conway these people behind you
say it's worth it
so like I mean we already talked about
you know that didn't seem to be a
strategy here but like Trump didn't want
to do it in the first place why do you
think Kelly and Conway and bill shine
and Sarah Huckabee Sanders wanted him to
do it why did they why do you choose to
deliver a primetime address in the first
place well I think in this case it is
because they are losing the clock is
running down and the only play in your
book is the throw a Hail Mary pass right
this is it this is all it's the only
thing they have available to them in it
there is generally very careful at least
with previous presidents or at least our
president careful consideration about
when and how you give our primetime
address because it is the biggest
weapon in your communications arsenal
even in this world of Netflix and phones
and second screens it is still the way
to get the most eyeballs on in an
unfiltered way on the president's
message and it's it matters because
people watch it right if you were gonna
interrupt you know NCIS Omaha or
whatever the is on CBS at that time
at night you'll get people right you're
capturing passive viewers or like oh
I'll stay and watch this but then you're
also secondly sending a signal that this
is an event you are telling them sending
up a bat signal to the press to cover
this Walt you know massive coverage
beforehand message coverage afterwards
and it becomes an event in events or the
one of the few things that still bring
people together or can contaminate the
conversation in this media age and so
it's a huge deal
but if you're gonna play the card you
better play it well and play it at the
right time and that is why this is was I
think such a fundamental mistake which
is they played their biggest card which
it in part I think because congressional
Republicans are probably on their ass a
little bit about why they are losing the
public opinion battles and why Trump
isn't doing more to try to win it so now
they've played the card now in a pull
the polls don't change now what's gonna
happen yeah those are probably worth
mentioning how much you and I
hate oval office addresses as as the
particular method for primetime address
and certainly like I never thought we
never thought Obama did well in Oval
Office addresses certainly Trump looks
like he's reading a hostage statement
like there is something to be said for
the idea that they are an antiquated
mode of communication in this day and
age even if a prime-time address in
general is your biggest weapon sitting
behind that desk and just staring into
the screen does seem a little uh well
outdated I mean this is a hill I'm gonna
die on and I literally did almost die on
it once read my book to get the story
but is the idea that there is some
Majesty to in a national televised
address delivered sitting on your
posterior in your office as opposed to
standing in the palatial room next door
you
so stupid and theirs knows there
is zero evidence to suggest that somehow
I quote unquote oval office address is
more valuable or more important or more
meaningful to the actual public
consuming the information than any other
address when Obama addressed the nation
after the death of bin Laden no one was
like well this can't be that big a deal
he's doing it standing in the East Room
as Moses seated in the Oval what makes
and then people some people will be like
well I really remember that Reagan's
challenger speech or Bush's oval office
address in the beginning of the Iraq war
and that sort of makes the argument
against these people who fetishize oval
office addresses that somehow these
incredibly valuable things it is the
context and the in the is sorry it's the
context of how the speech was given in
the words in the speech that make it
memorable not where it was delivered if
Reagan hey if Obama had announced the
death of bin Laden in the back of a
jack-in-the-box restaurant it would
still be memorable right it's not where
it happened it's definitely memorable
and but it is the eddie's think that
this idea that somehow he's doing it
from the Oval is gonna can make it more
compelling or more convincing to the
public has no basis in fact and it's
something that political junkies and
reporters have been assess about for a
long time and it's just frankly stupid
very dumb so there's a lot of debate in
the lead-up to the speech about whether
the networks should have given Trump the
time in the first place where do you
come down on this one was it the right
decision no it was not the right
decision I it was a tough decision I
understand that because all of their
rules in decision making is based on a
previous model of normal presidents who
are known liars but they gave their time
too for nothing new Trump said nothing
new he just the same you learn nothing
from that speech that you couldn't have
learned by following Trump on Twitter or
watching one of his rallies and they
gave 10 minutes of their very valuable
time to for pure partisan propaganda and
it was I think it was a mistake
and the the challenge I think a very
important thing as networks need to
balance balance I'm sorry sure can
networks have a decision to make what is
a greater responsibility the
responsibility to ensure that your
viewers get accurate information in real
time or appearing quote/unquote balanced
by a lot by giving your airtime to Trump
and they they chose the latter and that
was a mistake I mean no one is better
off for having had that happen and there
was no reason that he couldn't have
given the speech and they couldn't have
covered it as a news story not as an
event of national importance because
that's the threshold for our primetime
address yeah I was gonna say I mean
there was so much talk in the lead-up to
the speech about you know maybe network
shouldn't give him the time because he
lies so much and to me that's almost I
mean it's obviously he does lie all the
time he lied a ton in the speech and
it's ridiculous and I do think that the
media did a fairly good job
fact-checking him at least the
television media in the moments
following the speech and in the you know
next day but to me the bigger problem
with giving him the time is the lack of
news value right like if you're gonna
say well yeah he's the president's of
course he gets to address the nation if
he has something important to say to me
you have to the White House it's all
it's incumbent upon the White House to
tell the network's he's got a pretty big
announcement tonight or he's gonna make
some he's gonna make some news tonight
and so you're gonna wanna you know
please please let him make that news
because he has something really
important to say to the country that's
new and different and you know I'm
clearly they didn't make that case to
the network's and the network said yes
anyway networks kept pulling they they
were scared they all knew what was gonna
happen everyone knew what was gonna
happen and they twisted themselves into
a pretzel to justify doing this because
they are more afraid of being called
biased than doing the right thing and
that has been that is a structural
advantage that the right wing has had in
media for a while now because they right
wing criticism is the tail that wags the
dog at many media organizations in the
but particularly the networks which are
owned by large corporations yeah so
after Trump finished Chuck Schumer and
Nancy Pelosi crowded around a single
podium stared into our souls delivered a
very me mobile rebuttal optics aside
from that because obviously they're fun
to mock but shouldn't be taken too
seriously uh how do you think their
message came across the message was good
I mean it was the right message they
responded to Trump we had they have the
political moral factual high grounds in
this issue which is the shutdown is
 stupid and there's no reason the
government can't be open while they try
to think well the two parties try to
come to some sort of an agreement on
border security there's no there's no
logical reason why it has to be happen
and they may they made that case like
this isn't a nationally televised
addresses are not they're not easy for
anyone Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer
are not in their jobs because they are
the best spokespeople in the party
they're in their jobs because of their
leadership qualities they're their
strategic acumen their ability to build
coalitions within their caucus is not
because they're the best speech givers
and so the so even in the most ideal
circumstances where you are you have
weeks to prepare for this being the
person who responds to the president is
like it's like a graveyard of political
features right Marco Rubio embarrassed
himself and bail and never recovered
Bobby Jindal embarrasses often never
recovered people who do it usually are
never heard from again
and under and they had one day to
prepare for it so in that sense I think
they did about as well as you could
expect in that situation even if they
did spark what I thought was Jon Lovitz
funniest tweet of 2019 thus far and
maybe 2018 where he said coming to you
live up next live parents who hate the
groom the parents of the bride who hate
the groom until that was very funny yeah
my only thing that is your right prime
time addresses and responses in
particular are like very difficult to
pull off just about no one does it just
have one person do it definitely don't
have two people at a podium next time
next time they got to do this do a
little rock scissors paper to see you
know who gets the who gets the slot if
they can't pick was like between Chuck
and Nancy
I would have said maybe you know Pelosi
Speaker of the House so maybe and you
know she was just elected Speaker the
house so maybe she gets this time maybe
check gets the next time I don't know I
just think talk about like optics and
trying to figure out the best way to
deliver a speech to people at a podium I
just can't imagine any scenario where
that's a good idea
when I many many years ago when I worked
for Tom Daschle who was the Senate
Minority Leader at the time I said
things wasn't 2004 the Daschle and
Pelosi did the responses adhesion
together and my recollection on it was
it was incredibly awkward at the time I
think they were seeding chairs next to
each other and that I went looking for
it and it's basically because I wasn't I
was like I'm pretty sure that happened
I'm pretty sure they did it seated in
chairs but it's basically been erased
off the internet it's as if it never
happened and it's just like the history
of two people giving the same speech
together is not good there's no there's
no history of that working and so yes
you're right this is the case of not
making a decision being being a problem
because you would have to it was hard to
choose between the two of them and so
they chose not to choose and here we are
but in the end of the day this is small
potatoes well the message and like I
said they did what they needed to do
which was I thought Schumer in
particular did a very good job of like
painting Trump into a corner you know
his message over and over was like we
are happy to negotiate about border
security just not with the government
closed which is almost word for word
what McConnell's message was every time
there's been a shutdown specifically the
one the brief it down in last year in
2018 McConnell kept saying yeah yeah
we're happy to negotiate an immigration
just not with the government closed open
the government and then we will
negotiate and it's a pretty strong
message you know so more people watched
more people watch the response then
watched Trump's speech which is
interesting how does that happen I don't
know the people tuned in thinking they
were like I'm turning this off for 10
minutes because I am NOT gonna watch
Trump or I don't want to watch all ticks
and they tuned back and there's just
like Nancy and Chuck and it's great I'm
glad it happened
very
it is weird so let's talk about where we
go from here on the shut down the master
deal maker hosted congressional leaders
on Wednesday and he apparently offered
them butterfingers before slamming his
hands on the table and story of the
meeting when Chuck Schumer Nancy Pelosi
said the Democrats wouldn't negotiate on
border security until Trump and the
Republicans reopen the government Trump
tweeted just left a meeting with Chuck
and Nancy a total waste of time I asked
what is gonna happen in 30 days if I
quickly open things up are you going to
approve border security which includes a
wall or steel barrier Nancy said no I
said bye-bye nothing else works so
that's great uh uh what happens now dan
how does this head well this morning
before Trump left on his undesired
photo-op on the border he basically said
if we did not have a deal where if he
was unable to come to a deal with
congressional Democrats on the wall then
he would definitely maybe declare a
national emergency to build the wall so
I think he is definitely maybe going to
declare a national emergency as a way as
an inelegant solution out of this mess
he created and what what is the response
to that gonna be I mean we know we'll
talk to Schumer about this in a few but
it seems like all the options are legal
in nature that you know that there'll be
a bunch of lawsuits to try to stop him
from doing this because it seems highly
illegal to declare a national emergency
when there's when we're not at war and
for a whole bunch of other reasons that
he you can all read legal scholars talk
about but I don't know what do you what
do you think yeah I think look I
understand in Politico playbook this
morning Jay Sherman was reporting sort
of how congressional Republicans in the
White House was thinking about this was
this was the only way out right which is
Trump will declare this there will be a
lawsuit it will almost certainly there
will be an injunction to prevent him
from doing this and it'll play out in
the courts over a period of many months
or even years right and they can reopen
the government so it's like Trump can
claim to his base that he is fighting
for them and trying to build the wall
and everyone else can't get on with the
this of paying federal workers for the
jobs they do and providing government
services to Americans and so it like it
is I mean it is sad that the only way
out of a situation is to go down the
path of a legally dubious authoritarian
power grab that is almost certain to not
work but this is sort of where we are
these days yeah it's sort of all about
just making sure that Trump can get to
the next episode of this terrible
reality show
he needs to somehow end this by at least
throwing I mean it's it's sort of like
what he did when he tried to end daca
right he tried to end everyone thought
it was legally dubious so there's bunch
of lawsuits and now daca has been held
up in the courts for the last year but
to his base who doesn't pay much
attention in the media and we all have
you know memento memories at this point
so no one no one remembers what happened
like two days ago we're all moved on to
the next thing you know and it seems
like he just he's just desperate to get
on to the next thing and no negotiate
he's not gonna settle for any ago she
ations he's not gonna settle for
anything that looks like he lost or even
conceded anything so it does and it
doesn't seem like you know the other
option I thought about was are these
Republicans who were getting weary of
this you see a lot of these senators
like susan collins cory gardner all
these people who are up in 2020 starting
to say you know we want to open the
government up and we don't want to do
this anymore if you have enough of those
people on board you could potentially
override Trump's potential veto with a
bunch of Republicans in the House and
Senate joining with Democrats it doesn't
seem like any of the Republicans are
willing to do this which is
bonkers you have Lindsey Graham out
there saying oh if we voted against the
president tried to override his veto you
know that would be undermining the
presidency and the presidency would be
over and we can't do that and Thom
Tillis of North Carolina was like we
would never ever do something like
override the President's veto which is
just by the way so crazy that
these people are a co-equal branch of
government and suddenly there's a new
rule which is we must never vote against
the president United States I mean that
is just bizarre well John maybe
you haven't read Federal's paper 11
says the roles and responsibilities of
Congress are to provide checks and
balances on the president unless
Congress and the president of the same
party then it is Congress's job to serve
as the president's legislative Butler I
mean just it never never has this
happened like we had to worry about
Democrats in Congress all the time when
Obama was president because many times
they voted against him on very big
issues sometimes George Bush lost a lot
of Republicans especially in the second
term of his presidency on various things
Bill Clinton you could go on and on and
on this really is the first president
where there's been like just complete
fealty to everything he does no matter
how stupid it is would you know
- they're not even they're not even
pretending no like there was a world in
which they could have been like well we
are of course gonna do working our
constitutional duty and we're gonna hold
these hearings and look into things like
the completely failed response to Puerto
Rico they wouldn't even do like there
was it they wouldn't even do the bare
minimum because the bare metal and would
have been seen as partisan treason in
this Republican Party yeah and look I
think when Democrats run against a lot
of these Senate Republicans in 2020 I
know it's it's gonna seem like 50 years
from now but you know they should make
this an issue because even the ones like
Gardner and Collins who were sort of
making noise about opening up the
government again they're not pushing
that hard they're still say you know
Thom Tillis is gonna run in North
Carolina for election is basically
saying I can never vote against the
president I could never override the
President's veto and I don't think
voters are gonna like a senator
especially in a swing state who never
ever ever votes against Donald Trump no
matter what doesn't seem like that's a
very good political position to hold
there will be a moment and about a year
from now when Thom Tillis is running as
declaring himself to be an independent
voice for North Carolina right that
Democrat should shove that quote
directly up his rhetorical prostitute
posterior so it does seem then if the
Republicans aren't gonna budge because
they're afraid to override Trump really
the only way out is this dumb
national emergency thing and I guess the
question is you know when does Trump do
that maybe he waits til the end of the
week
I mean it's about to be the longest
shutdown in history today's Thursday if
it lasts till Friday it'll it'll ty is
the longest shutdown in history and then
I guess Saturday he he wins wins the
record he's got a new record longest
shutdown in government history kudos to
him yeah it's it's pretty bad so is
there anything people can do is there
anything you know we should have we is
there any political pressure points here
that we can exploit I think if you if
you are a listener who lives in the
state of a Republican senator you should
call them and put pressure on it
if you are I believe it let me recently
is that call your member of Congress if
you if you were represented by a
Republican in the center of the house
call them and tell them you want them to
open the government up it and if you're
represented by a Democratic senator or a
Democratic House member call him and
thank them for standing strong and for
fighting to reopen the government
because it like you the calls matter
they really do they affect the mentality
of a congressional office they are
talked about in the halls of Congress
and we often tell you to call your
members and yell at them also call them
and thank them because this this is
tough particularly for some of these
newly elected members who are in either
Trump districts or districts that are
very purple or gonna be targeted again
in 2020 let them know that you
appreciate them doing what they said
they were gonna do on the campaign trail
which was serve as a check on Trump yeah
all right let's talk about all the
crimes that Trump and his goons are
being investigated for or haven't done
that a little bit we learned this week
that the president's former campaign
chairman may have shared internal
polling data from the campaign with the
business associate tied to Russian
intelligence
and we learned this because Palmetto
fort's lawyers didn't successfully
redact a document they filed in court
the right way even notorious Trump
sycophants like Hugh Hewitt have said
this accidental release could be
evidence of conspiracy between Trump's
campaign and the Russians Dan how big of
a deal is this how important is internal
polling and what does it tell us that
manna fort was sharing it with his you
know once
business partner Constantine kill Nick
who has ties to Russian intelligence the
same Russian intelligence that you know
tried to hack Democrats in the 2016
campaign this is it
this is the thing this is what we have
been waiting for this is what the
Republicans said could never happen
Democrat even the most sort of
conspiracy leading Democrats suggested
was the core of this this this is the
thing this is the Trump campaign giving
internal actionable information to
Russian intelligence that is a
conspiracy to defraud the election that
is something that they have lying about
it's something that Marcy wheeler
pointed this out that this is such an
intense secret that Paul Manafort is
willing to was willing to spend the rest
of his life in jail - why about this
fact and try to avoid it from coming to
light then of course he had an idiot
attorney who showed it to everyone but
this is a this is a this is a gigantic
deal like who the problem is is the
Overton Window of what we expect shifts
every day because the things we thought
could not not happen right like when
this whole thing began a more like huh I
wonder if there was collusion and then
if someone had told you right after the
election that we were gonna find out
that Donald Trump jr. Jared Kushner and
Paul Manafort had a meeting with a
Russian intelligence some I'm sorry if
it had a meeting with someone connected
to Russian intelligence who promised him
dirt on Hillary Clinton's campaign we'd
be like that is crazy
right get off the grassy knoll you
lunatic then that happened and now you
have Trump meeting with a known Russian
intelligence asset and sharing internal
information from the campaign that's a
gigantic deal yeah so I mean we're
trying to figure this out you know Tommy
and I were talking about this yesterday
because he made the point he's like look
there's there's two reasons that he
could have shared this information with
Klimek right one is here's the
information that you and in other
Russian intelligence agents need to help
direct and guide your campaign to both
hack the Democrats and sort of spread
all this garbage on social media to try
to influence the election right it's
sort of target all
of your social media campaign right so
that's one the other one is we know that
Paul Manafort was when he started the
campaign when he started working for
free for Donald Trump was deeply in debt
to a number of Russian oligarchs
pro-russian Ukrainian oligarchs and that
he was trying to curry favor with them
and show that hey I'm a big deal on this
campaign manager now and by the way look
at this internal polling even though the
public polls look awful I have some
polling which shows that Donald Trump's
actually gonna win so by the way I'm a
pretty big deal and even though I owe
you a lot of money you know maybe I can
take care of you once I'm in the White
House right which is still likely
criminal but it seems less you know
severe than the actual collusion over
the election but what do you or I guess
it could be both - but what do you think
of that possible other explanation it's
both and it doesn't matter to me at all
right right the motivations for why
manna Ford would actively work with the
Russians
to help win the election is does it
matter like the the motive for why he
killed why he is the head of the Trump
campaign quote/unquote colluded or
engaged in a conspiracy with the
Russians doesn't really matter if it is
the refit is to help you know ease the
financial pressure on him on his debts
or to help put Trump in the White House
because he cared about nagavalli's
doesn't matter and you know the like
like we cut like we let's take yes for
an answer people like this is like it is
all before us it has all happened we
have all the circumstantial and actual
evidence you need to prove that many
people within Trump's orbit engage a
conspirator with Russians to alter the
effect of the election yeah and I think
that is why they took the meeting that
is why the that is why Manta Ford gave
this information all of this all these
things piece together paint a very clear
picture
of a campaign actively willing to work
with an adversary of the United States
to try to win an election
whatever various reasons led to that
fact whether it is mana Ford's debts the
held Trump's to jr. stupidity Jared
Kushner being a dilettante whatever the
reasons that let it happen it very
clearly happened right and the question
will be for the voters in Congress what
is your response to that what what
accountability should be brought to bear
for that in addition to whatever mana
for I'm sorry whatever Muller does to
bring two to justice to various people
involve this but a couple of important
points here right like sometimes it's so
obvious that we're we don't were like we
don't like focus on it
Paul mana Ford is someone who has been
out of Republican politics for thirty
years after he horribly mismanaged Bob
Dole's campaign he is deeply in debt to
Russian a lot he's deeply in debt to
Putin aligned oligarchs right what he
and then his next move is to work for
free for a candidate who just happens to
have deep financial ties to the Russians
which we know this because Eric Trump
bragged about Russian investment cat
Russian cash investment in their
properties that happened right after
Donald Trump to who declared himself the
king of debt decided to stop to change
his financial I'm sorry to change his
business plan to affect this new world
where he was getting money from people
like the Russians and then the other
story that sort of we don't talk about
as much which i think is gonna end up
being a pretty big part of the whole
conspiracy is and then after Paul
Manafort joins this campaign as he's in
debt to all these pro-russian forces and
as he's broke and just jumps on board
this campaign his big move is in the
summer of 2016 when there's the
Republican convention it changes the
Republican party platform not in a whole
bunch of different ways doesn't try to
put down from stamp on a bunch of
different issues it's pretty much the
same
Republican platform has been for a while
one thing has changed which is the
Republican Party stance towards Russia
and they make it more favorable which is
just like oh I wonder why they did that
I wonder why that's what they picked to
change in the platform at the RNC
platform I mean it seems it seems pretty
coincidental huh yeah and then two other
points that are just so that make it so
clear that there is something very
rotten here which is everyone from
Donald Trump - Donald Trump jr. - Paul
Manafort - Jared Kushner all why'd
repeatedly in many cases under oath or
at penalty of at risk of criminal
prosecution lied about their contacts
with Russians over and over again and
then you also have various other things
like Roger stone being in contact with
WikiLeaks the people who who was
responsible the distribution of the
hacked information you have all the
stuff that is right there before us
including which I can we can never
mention enough which is that Jared
Kushner was involved in a plan to set up
a secret back channel conditions so that
you can communicate with the Russians
outside of the eyes and ears of the
United States law enforcement
intelligence agencies like if you were
to just like take it out of the context
of American politics in this like soap
opera drama of terribleness we've been
living for last years and just present
this set of facts to someone they would
be like of course these people are
 guilty it is so obvious but we
are unwilling to take yes for an answer
because that actually it once you take
yes for an answer then you have to do
something about it and as you guys
talked about on Monday
people are scared shitless about having
to actually do something about this
because it is seems politically risky
and it's a giant deal and the idea that
the president states and the collection
of corrupt criminals that he worked with
broke multiple laws to help but when the
office
something that sort of breaks the brain
of the body politic and but we it's all
right here it is just it is plainly
obvious for everyone to see and the
question is what are we gonna do about
it don't forget don't forget the
National Security Advisor Mike Flynn
who's also pled guilty called up the
Russians before they even got into
office before Trump even got into office
and said hey don't retaliate on these
Obama sanctions because we're almost
there we're gonna take care of you guys
don't retaliate on these sanctions
 influencing the election it's
just when you start to remember all of
it it really is it's not good it's not
good so let's talk about how this all
ends on Wednesday news stories broke
that Deputy Attorney General Rod
Rosenstein would soon be leaving the
Justice Department Rosenstein appointed
Special Counsel Robert Muller in 2017
and has been in charge of the Russia
investigation because sessions recused
himself confirmation begins next week
for the man Donald Trump has nominated
to replace sessions William Barr it's
still unclear what bars nomination and
Rosen Stein's potential departure could
mean for them all our investigation
Chuck Schumer has already asked the
Trump withdraw bar from consideration
because of critical things he said about
the special counsel sorry things he said
about the special counsel how worried
should we be about Rosenstein leaving
worried I mean I don't know there's
anything we should there are there's
anything that you're gonna bring up
early to talk about we're like don't
worry about that it's fine so yeah we
should be worried I think there are some
questions here about and the reporting
has been a little mixed on this about
some reporting I think from CNN talked
about how Rosenstein has said he
basically wants to stay to make sure to
the point which there's like a good he
knows the Moller investigation is in a
good place or is coming to an end or
something like that and so I don't
really know how much to worry but there
is one factor overhanging this which is
it's not entirely clear that ethics
officials will at the Justice Department
will allow Barr to oversee the Muller
investigation
grabbed me obviously he can override
that recommendation but yeah the we live
in a world where Democrats of subpoena
powers so ethics officials Department
Justice will make a recommendation on
whether he's recuse himself or not and
if that has not made public that error
he does not recuse Democrats can
certainly subpoena that piece of
information and find out what the
recommendation was so it's we just don't
really know enough to know about
everyday particularly as the facts get
worse and worse for Trump he has proven
himself to be a particularly rash and
irrational individual so there I think
here we still every day that he does not
fire Muller as a small miracle yeah I
mean look it's there was a Washington
Post story last night to that you know
Rudy and the rest of the goons who are
Trump's lawyers are already preparing to
try to prevent as much of the Muller
report as possible from ever seen light
of day they're gonna try to claim
executive privilege which is basically
saying oh well if this report involves
conversations that the President had
with his advisers those conversations
are always supposed to be privileged
otherwise how can a president have
honest conversations with his advisers
and so therefore you know any parts that
deal with how the president spoke with
his advisers should be redacted or
should be withheld but if you know I
would ask tell every sorry but I would
suggest that everyone reads you know
there was a thread on Twitter from Neal
Katyal who was our was acting Solicitor
General under Obama I believe and also
wrote the special counsel regulations in
the first place and and Neal believes
that the way that the regulations are
written that pretty much in every
scenario Muller can trigger a report
that has to go to Congress and
ultimately the public because the way
that the regulations were designed they
were designed so that an administration
couldn't cover up the results of an
investigation like this and that and he
feels fairly confident that Giuliani or
bar or whoever will not be able to
prevent this report from seeing the
light of day which I found some solace
in yeah I thought that was a good thread
it makes a lot of sense and it seems
even highly likely under all
scenarios the report will find its way
to the public either through actual
release through delivery to Congress
through subpoena through leak like I
have great hope and a decent mount of
confidence that will come out it is also
funny that Rudy Giuliani noted
constitutional scar that he is thinks
that executive privilege would include a
protection for presidents to discuss
criminal conspiracies with their advisor
yeah I'm sure that was the intention of
writing it like look these conversations
where the president's trying to obstruct
justice with his advisers those are
privileged it is wild it is really wild
that what do you think about that and
and we had this car station a few months
ago about the ability to indict our
president and I think this was this was
also a Neal Katyal threat about the idea
that that prohibition that justice
foreign policy would not necessarily
apply to crimes committed before you
became president right in the sense that
it like it you like the like you
shouldn't be able to run for president
in win as its like the political
equivalent moving to a non-extradition
country it's like haha I'm president you
can't prosecute me for four years
yeah you can't cheat to win the
presidency and then think that by
winning it's a get-out-of-jail-free card
like that's just this I'm fairly sure
that's not what the founders intended
I'm not a constitutional scholar but I
would wager no one involved in this is a
constitutional scholar not not Paul Mann
of there's no there are no scholars in
this this is a I've said before it's a
conspiracy of dunces that is a
conspiracy of dunces okay
when we come back we will talk to
sentiment already leader Chuck Schumer
you
