Donald Trump likes to put on a show not
a show like Hamilton more a show like
that spider-man musical plummet yeah
kept falling out of the sky right though
they had to keep replacing spider-man's
because spider-man's were in the
hospital and Bono wrote a song and then
disavowed it so let's take a look at
Trump's press conference from Wednesday
and see how we did it's all concerned
the message that has been send it being
sent to the women who are watching this
when you use language like con job in
relation stop done job that's like
probably the nicest phrase I've ever
used I mean time job it is it's a con
job
you know confidence it's a confidence
but they should but one of the biggest
problems of Donald Trump is that he's
never ever saying anything
he put her like he just said con job 40
times just so it would be in the news
cycle like I don't it's not even a good
sound bite it's not even good why did he
keep saying it it's like he's just
you're the puppeting again like he'd
like this guy who ran a con job on
America is accusing these poor women of
con jobs and it was so scary to see in
Brett Kavanaugh today that's same kind
of like pugnacious throw accusations
around like kind of attitude well it's
also worth remembering that a lot of
what Kavanaugh did in his opening
statement was a performance for an
audience of one which I said my
reputation there's nothing more
important to Donald Trump than the
reputation of a white man quit before
you start it though to that point I
don't think Donald Trump would have
liked those crocodile tears I feel like
that would have been like come on man
don't cry about the quarterback he
definitely does not respect male tears
they try to convince people that I had
something to do with Russia
there was no collusion think of it okay
did she ask anything about that no okay
he actually asked about she asked about
women in particular and he jumped to
Russia which is really impressive and by
the impressive I mean just
amount of somebody was telling me to
wish I could quote her this was the
amount of superlatives in what he says
without even really a subject to a set
grammatically I'm attacking this now and
I'm coming up with question mark I'm in
Wisconsin I'm in Michigan I say gee
we're not doing well I won both those
states let me call the Russians to help
does anybody really believe that it's
okay
no one believes that no one thinks that
he was doing poorly in Michigan
Wisconsin and called him in yeah it's
that you had a meeting at Trump Tower as
it's been reported and also very clearly
on tape saying hey I wish they would
hack Hillary I mean that video exists so
yeah we believe the truth sorry also he
doesn't recall any of this happening and
all of the witnesses who were there say
it didn't happen in one case they say
he's a fascist he's taking over the
government he's the most powerful
president ever he's a horrible case top
excuse me just at least put only insults
in order he just threw it but he's a
fascist he's the best
what which is that he's too handsome he
hombre really worked right yeah needs an
army wants to take over the entire
government and he's gonna do it we can't
stop him that didn't work the next week
he said he's incompetent I said one case
I'm taking over the world and the other
case he's incompetent that yep yeah no
one ever said all of those dictators
throughout history were like super
efficient and great they generally like
drove their countries into a wall in the
process of trying to like subvert
government but we'll see we've got
another three or four years also the
whole thing is you got to nip fascism in
the bud you know try that for a week
that didn't work
look these are very dishonest people
yesterday you were talking about your
administration's accomplishments at the
United Nations
and a lot of the leaders laughed why do
you think they were left straight okay
we all left I laughed at the video of
people laughing so you cannot tell us it
didn't that you put up a reaction video
of you laughing at on your YouTube
channel
man that is it's just nice in a terrible
week to remember that Donald Trump sees
the world in terms of bully and
humiliated victim and there's nothing
worse to him than being laughed at it is
the worst thing that could happen to a
person well isn't he our president
because Obama made jokes about him at
that one White House so many options and
it was covered that way okay they
weren't laughing at me they were
laughing with me interesting points that
are explored in the comedy / performance
piece known as never can you be
self-deprecating while still being
controlled what does it mean to be
laughed with versus laughed at these are
the questions she answers I mean I
realized that we are having fun with
this game but I do want to point out
like the place of laughter and the two
big stories from this week the fact that
like you know for dr. Ford it was this
resounding memory of being the object of
someone's like joke that she was a
non-person to them and Trump's inability
to even like face the fact that he is
being laughed at and not respected like
this is a government for bullies for
that reason it doesn't have much place
for women doesn't have a much place for
people of color or people of our queer
ilk
yeah it really does it is um you know
I've said this for but it like Donald
Trump is the baby boomer supernova but
it did feel like the hearing today was a
kind of people's a toxic masculinity but
I actually think they're being too nice
because they're talking just about
masculinity but they know they need to
couch it this was about is about
masculinity he's not a bad person he was
on the track team to get faster I had a
great time at beach week beach
week
[Music]
