one live-streaming shining livestream
we're here tomorrow what that is I don't
care what it is it's uh it's a Super
Bowl thing pod save America live live
commentary yeah I'm John Lovett
I'm Tommy Vitor we've got a Lisa on the
on the sound board on the mixer
yes Priyanka sick so wish her well we
always Priyanka well Travis who is
blissfully not on camera dabbing has
decided that every time I make eye
contact with him he will dab we've got
Maggie monitoring all vectors all all
avenues yells on the camera you know we
can't cut all this like first question
from Travis give me a this
Travis this the first question in a live
stream for everyone to ask questions
it's but I don't care what the question
is the very first question from the
world of people is from Travis let's
hear it I guess he I guess you know hey
let's hear it what does Travis want to
know that he couldn't ask us in any
other moment okay is there a chance Ari
Fleischer didn't know he was lying or do
you think he's just straight-up trying
to lie his way out of the history books
again what do you think love it I know
he's your mentor as your friend you love
him our Ari Fleischer who was a press
secretary for George W Bush in the
run-up to the Iraq war I think today
exists on Twitter and as a public figure
to remind everyone that the Bush
administration was also quite terrible
in sometimes similar and in sometimes
distinct ways now what Ari Fleischer
knew or didn't know
around the intelligence that led us to
war with Iraq or the manipulation of
intelligence that led us to a war with
Iraq doesn't so much matter to me you
know there's this idea that like I don't
know where these yeah you don't to worm
tell me that it doesn't matter to me the
collective failure to either tell the
truth
- honestly seek out the facts from the
intelligence agency - the decision to
manipulate information to make the best
case for a war
we didn't have to fight Timmy is a
collective failure of the Bush
administration including ari fleischer
what he knew or didn't know I think is
very important to him I suppose well not
about him he's saying that the
allegation that Bush lied people died is
a liberal myth and Ari Fleischer is a
disgusting liar who is spinning the
greatest foreign policy disaster and in
our his nation's history by trying to
blame this the entire Iraq war on the
intelligence community which is accurate
that they got a whole bunch wrongly the
in Iraq war but that was in part because
the Trump team leaned on them game I'm
sorry the bush team leaned on them to
find things that connected Iraq and
al-qaeda and Saddam Hussein in al-qaeda
and they leaked intelligence to
reporters who were friendly to them that
made you make the case for war they sent
: Powell to the UN to give him
presentation based on intelligence that
we should have been able to know was
faulty so and famously by the way also
they went to it they like they went to
like the Defense Intelligence Agency
they went inside of those agencies to
try to cherry-pick the information that
best made their case they set up teams
with their own folks within the Pentagon
that were sort of designed to find the
best stuff that would make their case
which they would then get to the press
so there are some people like Bush's
Treasury secretary said that Bush wanted
to invade Rock a rock from day one
there's books I've read that suggests
the same they were always gunning for
Iraq I don't know exactly what happened
it was a disaster but like he also can't
spin and blame on the CIA the fact that
they went to war without any plan for
how to win the peace or have a troop
presence that could maintain security
for the Iraqi people after a rebuild the
country so there's an unbelievable
failure of planning an execution and
they will never be able to get rid of
this stain in a tweet storm yeah
you are a flesh and on this and so many
other things there's very few issues in
which RF I should not to live just
deliberately mislead the American people
again again and again
great okay Travis we answered your
question stop dabbing that's a yes with
Canada heading to the polls this October
how does Trump feel about Trudeau do you
think he wants him gone and replaced
with Shearer
or does he not care you're a big shear
guy right
big fan it seems like Trump does not
like Justin Trudeau yeah and this man
tweets Yeah right he's hollering he's
handsome he's well-liked he disagrees
with them he fights with them on NAFTA
renegotiation so I'm guessing he would
like to see Trudeau gone I'm curious if
there is a connection between the
ramping up of removing Maduro from power
and general mattis leaving the DoD it
seems like once he was gone the rhetoric
increased a good question I don't know
the answer certainly I think someone
like Jim mattis whose secretary defense
would probably know pretty well that
there's not a military option in
Venezuela and thus constantly floating
it is a stupid idea and he would
probably pushback on anyone who wanted
to him to do that the new Secretary of
Defense is a guy who was some random
Boeing executive who now is an inspector
general report our investigation into
his conduct and whether he promoted his
former gig in the to get contracts so
yeah there might be a connection it's
hard it's hard to know from in here but
that's a good good guess good
speculation questions on 2020 this one
is a little long Florida lawmakers are
trying to mess with amendment 4/4 and
block returning citizens with court
debts from voting which sounds a lot
like a poll tax what can we do to
protect this amendment and protect the
right to vote for all 1.4 million people
who were supposed to have their suffers
restored this year also what does this
move by Republican lawmakers say about
the potential of Democratic success in
2020 and following elections in Florida
it's no surprise that so what happened
with amendment four is Florida voted
with a big majority to restore voting
rights to non violent felons in the
state of Florida which I believe is 1.5
million people have the right now to
vote that they didn't will have the
right to vote that they didn't have
before this is obviously terrifying to
Republicans now one interesting fact
about this is it's actually half people
of color and half white people something
that actually I think probably helped
them make this case to more than just
the
well more than just Democrats to vote
for it but clearly both you know
Democrats including Democrats like
Andrew Gilliam see an incredible
opportunity in Florida to register more
people and get more people to vote
because we know that when more people
vote Democrats win Republicans see a
pool of 1.5 million people who could
potentially vote as a threat and so
they're looking for a way to weed out
the people that they don't believe will
vote for Republicans and sure enough
well who are the kinds of people that be
able to pay back any court debts or
anything that they owe this state well
it'd be people that have a lot of money
white-collar criminals people that would
tend to vote Republican so it's just I
mean that has to be fought I assume that
there will be legal challenges to this I
don't even know how far it's going to
get I don't know the details
specifically but it's just a reminder
that at every stage even after such an
advance like amendment forests passed
they're still going to be a threat to
voting rights and the fact that 1.5
million people could get the right to
vote is not a guarantee that they will
get the right to vote yeah it's super
shitty yeah socks are on DeSantis one
that governorship use this would not be
happening if Gilliam was the governor so
we got to keep work on it can Democratic
candidates shirk off criticism the way
Trump did in 16 or must they own up to
and defend them themselves regarding
every claim made against them should
they just ignore it entirely and focus
on policy um you know it's hard to have
a broad brush answer to that question I
think I probably case-by-case there will
be dumb criticisms that you can ignore
there will be a tactics of when to love
the phone
there'll be tactics of when one should
or should not respond to criticism like
better O'Rourke this is the amount of
respect he has for you the viewer there
will be criticisms like Castro who Leon
cut can you at least just duck out of
the room when you're taking a phone call
un-fuckin'-believable somebody someone's
getting delivered and I've been waiting
for for a long time and they've been the
guy can't get this thing off a truck it
was a whole thing listen you know what
it's like you know what it's like it's
my really sorry I'm really sorry I'm
sorry to Tommy Rogers close respect that
everybody here I'm not gonna dab Travis
next question I don't need your
forgiveness okay I don't remember what
the question was it was all criticism Oh
criticism I love it yes there's a lot of
it online so yeah whoo Leon castro
criticized better work the other day and
was interesting he responded with like
just a compliment and he like castro so
that's one tactic like there's gonna be
substantive critiques of people's
records they're gonna have to answer to
I think they can't be all they can't all
be Trump or you can say the worst things
in the world and your voters don't care
I think Democratic voters actually do
care Thank You Tommy you know I just
swap you out for Travis for somebody no
I'm here now it's done are ya a lot of
people are weeks have been waiting for
that call happened during the live
stream a lot of people are already very
passionate and vocal about their
candidates I'm feeling the pressure a
bit to get behind someone early though
my brain is saying keep an open mind I'm
going to vote for the 20/20 nominee
regardless what advice would you give to
someone still weighing the options but
wanting to get involved I think that
that's uh like what are you talking
about know whose pressure you to make a
decision now it's the elections number a
year and a half you're not voting at any
time you don't to make a decision now I
don't I don't know who's putting this
kind of pressure on you to pick a
candidate as early a lot of people
haven't even gotten in yet I've got Joe
Biden out there you know he keeps saying
he's running for president but he won't
actually pull the trigger he was
accidentally running for president
better o'rourke has several counters to
stand on left in Iowa Elizabeth Warren
still hasn't outlined the rest of the
Democratic policy platform for the rest
of the candidates Mike Mike Gravel is
mine he's getting the race I saw I
haven't learned anything more than John
Delaney's name and Andrew hang out there
he's making a yeah he's made yang waves
he's a gay circumcision that's the first
time we're talking about that first time
it's been never been brought up about
save America right now so you're gonna
tell me you got to make a decision this
early we don't know what cory booker's
position on circumcision is yet we don't
know what Kamala Harris stands on the
universal basic income lots to do lots
to decide just a tip for all the yang
stands out there pick up your mind take
your time yeah read some stuff watch
them there
listen the things were talking about in
six months are gonna be totally
different than we're talking about right
now campaigns get stupid for a while
it's okay take your time
early polling shows name recognition for
Harris going up while CNN has a poll
saying Bernie's popularity is declining
how important are these polls now and
should we be putting much talk in them
they're not important you shouldn't be
pretty much thought of them they're
interesting snapshots into a moment in
time that can tell us that people's
messages are effective or not but
they're generally pretty meaningless
especially if they're national polls and
not state by staples agreed what the
hell is the difference between a
delegate I know the delegate and a super
delegate okay there are people chosen by
the states that in the nominating
process that go to the Democratic
National Convention these are the pledge
delegates they're the way they're chosen
varies by state and by party and it's
very complicated sometimes by
congressional district but they're often
like local activists and political
leaders who then are required to support
the candidate their state voted for in
the process then their so called
super-delegates who are like DNC members
elected officials big muckety-mucks and
so under the old rules those people
could they could just vote for whoever
they wanted the convention so if you
were a former governor you could take
400 phone calls from Bill Clinton and he
convinced you to support Hillary and
then you could go to the convention and
support her even if your state had gone
for John Edwards right
they just performed those rules so that
super-delegates can't vote on the first
ballot in a way to reduce the influence
of like party insiders and stuff but if
there is a split convention they can
vote later so that's the gist yeah I
also again like I think it gets an
outsized amount of coverage in the
political press but has not played as
big a role in choosing nominees as the
coverage would suggest yeah how is the
media doing of twenty twenty candidates
like Senator Warren are putting out very
thoughtful progress
proposals but it still feels like horse
race and popularity reporting I think
it's a mix I think that Elizabeth Warren
has been successfully using policy to
drive the conversation there's always
been a mix of personality driven
politics verses and pundit and like sort
of horse race politics versus the actual
substantive policies however especially
in a primary I think right now what
we're seeing is policy driving the
conversation I mean look at what you
know there's two kind of things they've
been able to dominate news coverage in
the past few months one is Donald Trump
doing something crazy and the other has
been policy right 70 oh the wealth tax
that Elizabeth Warren proposed the
higher marginal tax rates that AOC
proposed the conversation about
reparations has been policy driven the
conversation about the green New Deal
husband policy driven so I think that
it's not a I think that we have to have
a nuanced argument about what the media
is doing right and what the media is not
doing right but for the most part right
now the pot the policy conversation has
gotten I think a fair amount of coverage
yeah I think they're you know Tanner
missed some reporters doing a great job
some are annoying the thing there will
always be boom 'let's for candidates so
if like that O'Rourke jumps in the race
he's gonna get a couple days of coverage
that are focused mostly on him Stacey
Abrams jumps in the race there's gonna
be couple days coverage that are almost
entirely focused on her that's just kind
of how it goes there's a little boom
what's in these things
um the thing that I find stupid and
annoying is when in the midst of a you
know ten part tweet storm lamenting the
coverage of process and personality some
reporter says and no one is focused on
Elizabeth Warren's great policy
proposals like you have agency here
you're a journalist you can cover
whatever you want
so cover the policy but that's a
Twitter thing more than it's a
real-world thing yeah for Tommy is there
a book article or author on organizing
around the IO caucus that you recommend
no no there's not no I mean that's
something I want to work on so stay
tuned crooked media's responsibility to
help quell infighting to make sure we
all get
behind the winner of the demo right look
we're raising our dragons we're
sharpening our knives yeah I mean gonna
take the other side I made uh I made
this argument before the November
election that if we could avoid the
infighting until after November 2018
right after November 2018
into the early part of 2019 like this is
in fighting time like this is the time
for the infighting that we need to have
I think some infighting is good some
infighting is bad I think when the
conversations we've been having this
primary so far for the most part have
been collegial respectful and in good
faith between the candidates who all
recognize a that that the election
between whoever wins in the end the
Republican and Donald Trump is the most
important presidential election and the
most important decision and the most
important goal and be they all recognize
that in order to become the nominee and
a field this big you're gonna have to be
a lot of people second choice so I think
that that is couldn't combine to make
people generally cordial you'd see like
interesting a little bit of mixing it up
but for the most part people being kind
to each other that said I think we have
a focus on in the in the primary it's
about educating people and helping
people make the best decision and then
in the general it's about making sure
that we defeat Donald Trump both of
those depend on the parties staying
united while at the same time having
significant debate and buy-in around
differences inside of the party that
we're gonna have to litigate because
what this Democratic primary ultimately
is is millions of people coming together
to decide who we want to represent us
and the most important presidential
election of our lives so we're gonna
keep focusing on that and one way we're
gonna do it is we have something called
unify or Die and if you go to vote vote
save america.com slash unify you can
donate to a fund that will go to the
eventual Democratic nominee no matter
who he or she is and it's a way of
raising money and making sure our
candidate leaves that that convention
with everything they need but also it's
about sending a message that yeah this
primary is important yeah these debates
are really important but it's it's it's
all about coming together in the big
fight yet to come so far it's pretty
chill chill I mean Donald Trump's out
there attacking John McCain eight months
after he died again and again and again
so comparatively we're doing pretty good
John
duck John John McCain died seven months
ago the only reason Donald Trump is
talking about John McCain is because he
happened to be reminded of John McCain
and his feud against him
because of a rerun of Saturday Night
Live the president is giving speeches
about John McCain because he saw a rerun
did you see what he said today I did
Tommy do you want to tell people what he
said he criticized McCain for not
thanking him after he organized a great
funeral for him he is saying that he
wants to see that guy thanks she say
thank you for the funeral organization
it's marinate on it it is incredible it
is incredible it's incredible what you
can achieve despite a serious case of
malignant narcissism a lesson for all of
us
shut up everyone shut up I don't know
because I put my ringer on silent I know
what's going on flip it over let's see
Oh nervous they called three minutes ago
again oh no not my end table know
as terrible as all the news is right now
how much enjoyment are you get are you
all receiving from this Devin Nunez mom
cow's story hmm a lot it's amazing uh he
is a member of the United States
Congress he was in the Republican
leadership running the most one of the
most important committees uh
traditionally bipartisan committee in
the house and he has sued Twitter for
tweets because they made him feel bad he
filed a lawsuit that included a graphic
of him involved in a human centipede
there's not much more you could do for
me in this situation to make me enjoy
sad life it's also a great example of
the Streisand effect name for I leave
Barbra Streisand
for a scandal I don't recall but the
gist of the Streisand effect says you
draw more attention to a piece of
criticism by trying to squash it by
trying to to sue Twitter and sue people
that tweeted a picture of a human
centipede which had information in the
form of food going through the digestive
system of Putin through Trump through
newness right that's the image okay
something I forgot about if I ever knew
it at all but because Devin unas sued
Twitter over it millions of people have
seen it these are accounts that nobody
followed until they found out that Devin
noonas pissed about it he made them
famous Thank You Devin Nunez you
continue to be way too dumb for the
level of scam you are trying okay if you
had to choose between Trump Bush jr. or
Swartz and Egger as our next president
which one we guys pick and why so I can
mfk reboot I you know look Donald Trump
and George W Bush are certainly the
worst two people to be President
in our lifetimes george w bush's
administration did vast and incalculable
damage at home and around the world he
left us with a terrible foreign policy
crisis in Iraq and a an economy in
absolute ruins Donald Trump has been
undermining and destroying our
institutions while corrupting our
government and sowing racism and
division and destroying our reputation
around the world I don't really feel a
need to decide which one is worse right
now shortly one that hasn't been
president is sortsa so I got a
natural way to go cuz I don't think he
could do worse than the other two teams
seems like an easy one I'm harder
questions I'm asking about five towns
I'm not from the five towns I'm from I'm
from Syosset Woodberry people are asking
what do I want to know Oh Avery time I
hope you re reminded of what the three
of that what the five towns are and
whether the Roosevelt Field mall is
technically in one of them but I don't
think it is what are the five towns Dix
Hills is that a real name Great Neck
what are the five towns somebody Google
the five towns I don't really remember
I'm not from the five towns so that's
that I was from exit 43 um do you guys
watch queer I mm-hmm
I just learned that there's love it's a
big anthony guy I'm more of a JD an
excuse me excuse me I don't know that I
have the literal poster of him I do not
have a poster of Anton who do you like
the most you know I have make up
all I have
I actually have like I have not really
dived in really to this to the queer eye
thing I just haven't you know I have a
thing where too many people tell me to
want something I stop myself from
watching it it's hard to explain but the
more I hear I need to watch it the less
I'm likely to do it so they clearly
filmed the first two seasons all at once
and it's like really minimal production
value and then they split it up because
everyone loved it and then the second
season they've really they've judged it
you know they got a lot more a lot more
pre-rolls a lot more a lot more bells
and whistles a lot more French sucks in
terms of production value and you know
III kind of missed the stripped-down
version you know the roadshow version
but um okay it's a great show Tommy
loves it who would win an erase pundit
Leo Lucca or Dan's baby Punda tah Punda
doesn't isn't an athlete Leo is pretty
fast if you throw a ball if say we threw
a ball for all of them I'm guessing
Dan's baby you would probably last cuz I
don't believe dance baby walks Leo would
probably be out first chasing the ball
but Luca will be chasing Leo so you know
they would be looking for a lap yeah you
know pun doggins snuggles and then I
guess finally I was told March Madness
is happening are there any oh we were
gonna do it are we gonna do wise you've
got something planned here yeah it's
just scheming on March Madness
can we play one shining moment or I'll
get me cease and desist that's stupid
Elijah's rolling in racquet do I know
four teams don't I need to have a
microphone okay the four towns
yep give me 512 so you think are ripe
for an upset buck now
Gonzaga buck now two teams everybody's
talking about another team people have
heard of mmhmm uh-huh
Duke who's the best player oh the best
player is definitely someone whose name
I learned for the Duke show he is not
the Greek freak because he's a
Timberwolf
ion like a lie on in Oh Zeek Xion Xion
Xion what's his name well whatever he's
good
and then obviously everybody is talking
about am i laggies and then I obviously
think you got to go with the team that's
not Duke and then I think um I actually
think Avengers infinity war and then I
actually would say Dark Knight is the
best of them so Dark Knight versus Duke
in the final I don't know I'm done
with this well that was a great bit and
I think that's all we got for the stream
anything else love it
one other Jaime else out there I'm gonna
see more Q's really so we get any more
they're more they're not bolded I think
we've covered a lot of ground today um I
think we learned a lot
Travis dad Travis would you want to come
dab in front of the cameras no can you
get a cab now you don't have oh yeah hey
yeah would you mind just turning that
camera at at Travis for a second Travis
want to dab no not not so not so not so
ready to dab there we go there we go all
right that's enough ahem gift
all right that's it for the livestream
that's it thank you guys for tuning all
got a little loose got a little bit but
here we go okay bye
