I am honored to have in studio a
Massachusetts resident a united states
senator Elizabeth Warren thank you so
much for being here
oh thank you I'm delighted to be here um
you just met pundit Leo and I did so
most important question of the day we
got to give the people what they want
how is your new Golden Retriever puppy
are you barely doing oh I'm telling you
Bailey is taking to campaigning so he
now comes to the events in New Hampshire
since we're nearby and he runs his own
separate photo line and I keep saying to
everyday is not a competition I said
I'll do one really right and I have to
keep saying that because more people
want to get their picture take it with
Bailey he is painfully cute everyone
check him out in centers in sunny but I
mean just amazing okay and I I just want
you to know he's completely in favor of
affordable child yes Universal child
care affordable health care he's in oh
no he's for all of this accountable
capitalist accountable capitalism he's
in the whole suite yeah we had to do the
whole thing on glass-steagall which was
early on and I think maybe he was a
little young when I first introduced him
to it hey I heard he was no I and he
really pushed you towards the no first
use nuclear policy oh actually this was
a big deal for him and I think it came
from the other guys at the dog park had
been talking about it for a long time
and you know there just comes a moment
where it is the right time to just go
ahead and say it we're just not gonna do
this makes him miss that's right and
make a statement of your principles here
like no first you see he really as
opposed to nuclear war so what could I
say yeah you got to work together well I
would love to dig into that in a minute
but first question for you so during
president Trump's soaring stirring
beautiful State of the Union speech he
said we renew our resolve that America
will never be a socialist country you
stood you clapped you said you're a
capitalist why are you a capitalist
because I see the value of markets and
uh that they can produce a lot of good
if they have rules but let us all be
clear markets without rules are theft
and I am opposed to theft there is a
reason that the folks on Wall Street the
big CEOs
don't want me there kind of ending
anyone but you that's exactly maybe
that's will be their tattoo anyone but
her you know because I get how the
system works and how it can work when it
works right and how these are the guys
who are ripping it off and making it not
work and I really do want to I want to
see it work I want to see us as a
country not just continue to produce
more wealth but I want to see us
continue to produce more wealth where
that means opportunities not just for
those at the top but opportunities for
everybody and I mean not like kind of
everybody I really literally mean
everybody so I think in part because of
how exaggerated Ocasio cortez and
senator sanders and then President Trump
picking up the mantle of socialism means
I'm sure he's a big supporter it's been
discussed a lot recently and so I mean
I'm just trying to help people
understand the distinction because you
know you support Bernie Sanders
medicare-for-all bill you said you
support the concept of a green new deal
you know I think people look at you and
they look at senator Sanders and they
think they're there's a lot of
similarity there on policy views but
he's a Democratic Socialist you're a
democratic capitalist and I'm just
hoping maybe we can help listeners
understand that distinction and how you
might differ on policy so you know
Bernie and I have been friends since
long on before I ever got in politics of
course that's not saying much actually
I've been in a South long on the
political endeavor it's always been the
policy but the best I can do is is
explain my end of it so let me let me
give you two parts to it first part is
we've got a country right now that works
great for those at the top it is a
country that works great for giant drug
companies just not for people who are
trying to get prescription pills it
works great for giant oil companies that
want to drill everywhere but not for
people who see climate change as its
bearing down on us it works great for
investors in private prisons but not for
the people whose lives are destroyed and
whose communities are torn apart when
a government works just for those at the
top
that's corruption plain and simple and
we got to call it out because what's
happened in this country is in effect on
every decision that gets made from giant
ones that we see out in front like
drilling offshore down to to my new
regulatory decisions there's almost
always somebody in the room representing
the rich the powerful or multiple
someone's trying to get the field tilted
just a little bit more in favor of their
clients and not just once but twice 20
times 200 times 2,000 times and the
consequence has been we now have a
government that really does it's it's
not working for the people and so
whatever issue brings you to the table
whether it's around economic issues gun
safety climate change
net neutrality it all intersects through
this fundamental piece of corruption of
of a government that's listening to the
folks with money instead of a government
that's listening to the people who
elected us to get there so I start with
we got to root out the corruption and
then we got to change the rules in this
economy and move us away from an economy
that works again giant corporations who
can buy political influence we've got to
get to an economy where there's more
balance in it we need it ought to be
easy to join a union right right we
ought to make it easy to have more
worker power accountable capitalism says
workers get to elect 40 percent of the
seats on the corporate this is a bill
I've already put forward 40 percent of
the seats on corporate boards ways to
get more power back into the hands of
workers that's how we start to rewrite
this Akana
me and I just keep working through that
in every part of it taxes progressive
taxation I put up an ultra millionaires
tax out a proposal in this think about
this if we taxed a state of people
families that have more than 50 million
dollars in assets if we if we charge
them two percent a year and they put
that back in the kitty to help build
opportunity for everybody else we could
pay for universal childcare we could
bring down student loan debt would make
a big down payment on a green new deal
we could make the investments that make
this country work and that's that's for
me what this is all about yeah but there
wouldn't be a lot of investing in
nantucket summerhouses oh I think that
they need new decks and places to park
boats and such um so staying along these
lines I mean a lot of this 2020
Democratic candidates support Medicare
for all I think it's sort of table
stakes really in this race yeah some
people think you I think interestingly
you said that there are a lot of paths
they get to universal coverage but there
are some critics on the left you see it
a lot of Twitter fun place to be
who vigorously disagree they sincerely
believe that a public option won't get
us the universal care and that we need
to eliminate private insurance to
actually fix a broken health care system
Bernie Sanders for example told the New
York Times that he thinks the only role
for private insurance in the system he
envisions would be cosmetic surgery you
want to get your nose fixed something
like that why do you disagree with those
who have a more draconian take on how to
get to universal health care so let me
start by saying I believe in Medicare
for all I'm a sponsor on this bill yeah
I'm signed out for this but remember
even the bill that Bernie has put on the
table has a lot of layering in overtime
it doesn't just happen immediately
nobody throws a light switch and says
we're there it's got its ways of how we
get some people how we get some more
people how we get some more people in
by the way how some people never end up
in so for example veterans are kept in a
different system there's a question
about how Medicaid gets brought into
it's a big and complex system to be able
to do this and so there are folks who
think for example one way you could
layer this in is you could say you know
what how about if we say Medicare now
starts at 60 and then a year from now it
starts at 55 and a year from now it
starts at 50 in a year from now it
starts at 45 or how about we go the
other way and we say everybody 30 and
under is covered by Medicare and in
another year or another two years
everybody 35 and under is covered by
Medicare how about if we let more of the
population shift to Medicare immediately
by letting employers by directly and
drop private insurance and put people
into Medicare how about if we let people
individually be able to buy into
Medicare instead of having private
insurance in fact I'll tell you I have a
bill that I put out last year that
bernie is a co-sponsor on that says if
you're going to have any private
insurance one of the provisions we ought
to put into law right now is private
insurance has to at least cover what
Medicare covers so that's what I mean by
there are a lot of different paths but
we all know or at least I know where
we're aiming and that is the center of
this where we're trying to add to is
that everyone has Medicare coverage and
that everyone in this country has
coverage at a price they can afford
and and let me just add on that how
think about what it means that Democrats
are talking about okay is the way to get
there that you do it Bernie said well
let's do it over four years other people
say let's do it over six years some
people say let's build up from Medicaid
and stuff for Medicare others say start
with young people start with the older
people lots of different ways that's the
conversation Democrats are having you
just reject this it's all-or-nothing
while well but here's my point while the
Republicans
are out there at the same moment doing
everything they can right now to take
away health care from tens of millions
of Americans and you know they've still
got the lawsuit pending down in Texas
that that they're trying to repeal all
of the Affordable Care Act the Medicaid
they're trying to cut Medicaid and
they're doing everything they can
through HHS and the regulations around
that to undercut it so I think this is a
great moment for what primaries are
about is to get the ideas out there get
a lot of people to talk about but the
point is to build the kind of of energy
grassroots energy in this country for
Medicare for all
so that Democrats win 2020 we've got the
house we've got the Senate we are ready
to move forward and get everybody
covered it has been a very substantive
primary so it has let's keep it that way
it's listening um now you you're you've
been perfect so um
president Trump recently declared a
national emergency on the southern
border so that he can take a bunch of
money from other places to pay for his
stupid wall there is no emergency this
is absurd I think everyone knows that
including Mitch McConnell even though he
flip-flopped on it but it's also clear
to me I think that the publicans aren't
going to stop him I mean Congress could
block him in this instance but it would
require Republican votes and I think
we're all sick of waiting for them to be
courageous so I guess my question is to
you is shouldn't Democrats say to
Republicans if you're not going to step
up and protect the institution of
Congress and and enforce the old rules
then these are now the new rules and
that we're gonna play by these rules
when a Democrat is elected and we fully
intend to use a national emergency to
advance democratic priorities or things
that are actually an emergency like
climate change yeah which is an
emergency right we've got a lot of real
emergencies so here's how I see this I'm
not quite ready to give up the way you
implied in that question that fight yeah
in the following sense there is no
emergency at the border so the facts are
just wrong on this
second I don't think he has legal
authority to do this and he's not going
to be able to do anything right now like
she knows sixteen states have sued and
we're gonna see a lot of law and that's
just going to be the beginning of the
lawsuits this is gonna be like full
employment for lawyers you can spell
Constitution right but we're gonna see a
piling on of these lawsuits ultimately
the courts will settle out what is the
legal authority here of the of the
President of the United States so the
threat here is not imminent we can
continue to have this this
constitutional debate around it I think
the president is wrong on this but I do
think it is a moment to talk about what
you think a real emergency is and to
talk about that emergency in terms of
trying to highlight for all of us this
is the responsibility of government
government's job is to look out there
and see what's coming and climate change
is upon us I'm gonna say something
really controversial hope you know
everybody listening be be calm out there
this is controversy only watching I
believe in science and science is
climate change is real the it's man-made
our and we have got to act we're running
out of time on this the urgency of the
moment and banging on that drum I think
is critically important right now and
and I want to say it I want to do the
emphasis on that in a big public sense
again because I see our opportunity in
2019 and you know up through November of
2020 as a chance to pull more people in
on the core issues and I think look I
think the questions about the power
president are very very important come
on I believe in this but we got to be
out there talking to the American people
about the stuff that touches their lives
we really do have to be talking about
that's not working for them talking
about Universal childcare talking about
people are just getting crushed by
student loans talking about the
importance of raising the minimum wage
and the opportunity to join a union
talking about climate change talking
about gun safety talking about the
things and making them real that that
affect people every single day and
saying to them look maybe you're already
a Democrat then you should be a fired-up
Democrat maybe you're an independent but
man if you're worried about climate
change or if you're worried about gun
safety or if you're worried about your
student loan debt or how you're going to
get your kid in some kind of high
quality affordable day care we are the
party who is working for you we're the
party who's trying and that's our chance
to write back some of those some of
those Trump voters I want us to use this
period of time to build the grassroots
movement so when we win in 2020 we are
ready to start making those changes yeah
look I'm 100% with you but I do think
there's a lot of Democrats out there who
look at the past few years and are
pissed off they look at Mitch McConnell
stealing a Supreme Court seat they look
at the way Trump right now is completely
ignoring the Magnitsky Act requirements
he has to report to Congress about
whether the Saudis were the sanction the
Saudis for murdering a journalist
they're pissed off that he's using a
national emergency declaration to take
away from Congress it's most clearly
articulated power in the Constitution
which is the power of the purse and so I
think they're wondering our Democrats
when we get power back going to fight
fire with fire or are we gonna try to
return to norms and institutions that
seem a little passe
especially when you have someone as
Craven as Mitch McConnell in charge for
the Republican side I think that's sort
of what I'm trying to get it so it's so
mainly the best place to look at that
one how about if we do it in the
specific room around when we think about
the rules on voting sure right what's
going to take a sixty person majority
are we really going to have a filibuster
or are we going to say 51 now I'm
somebody who believed very very strongly
in Phil
us to reform I'm on the record on this I
fought for it for a long time because
the Republicans completely blocked us
right they weren't letting us put
anybody in the courts but it was worse
than that not worse equally bad they
also weren't letting us but anybody in
the consumer agency said the agency
couldn't get its legal full legal
authority NLRB they're about to shut
down the NLRB and the answer to that and
I think it was the right answer was just
to say we're done
I'm the filibuster and I voted for it I
strongly supported it harry blew it up
perry blew it up and i think Harry was
right to blew it up I strongly supported
him when he did that now the Republicans
turn around
and they took the filibuster and blew it
up even more so they said even on a
Supreme Court nominee and we hadn't even
done anything right so first they steal
a Supreme Court seat then they turn
around and change the rules on
filibuster on a Supreme Court seat and
so when it swings back around to us what
are we going to do and my answer on that
is all the options are on the table that
that's how we got to do this if the
Republicans are going to try to block us
on key pieces that we're trying to move
forward then you better believe we got
to keep all the options on the table and
I think that's the way we should be
describing it right now on everything
that the Republicans are doing that
nobody's going to forget what happened
here and all of the options are on the
table we're not going to play but let
them play by one set of rules and then
we play by the you know polite everybody
drinks tea and and keeps a curled pinky
up while they do it
I'm just not for that and on the Morning
Joe civility rules I like that answer
very much um to turn to some foreign
policy if that's okay I'm ready okay so
there is a humanitarian crisis in
Venezuela people are literally starving
to death hospitals don't have like gauze
or band-aids like the most basic
supplies yeah um the Trump
administration has recognized the
National Assembly President Juan Guido
as as the president and encouraged a
bunch of other countries to follow suit
and frankly what was a pretty impressive
diplomatic play by the
he also sanctioned Venezuela's oil
industry which is a major step which
could cut off all their supply of
dollars and their ability to you know
have an economy do you agree with those
two steps recognizing guido in the
sanctions on the oil sector and and if
so I mean how do we back up step as bold
as saying there's a new president and
it's this guy that we named especially
given our history in Latin so so I want
to I want to broaden this one out just a
little bit start with the fact that
Maduro is obviously a dictator he's
terrible he's stolen this election it's
a nightmare it's a nightmare for the
people of Venezuela so that's part one
part two this notion of using our
diplomatic tools I'm all for it I think
recognition I think getting our allies
to do it it's a way to bring diplomatic
pressure economic sanctions yeah I
support economic sanctions but now we're
going to start we got to turn the dial
some here we have to offer humanitarian
help at the same time we can't let
people starve it doesn't matter that
Maduro is willing to let his own people
starve so for example let me pick a one
that's at least a little easier to deal
with a lot of people are fleeing the
country yeah and that means they're
loading up around the borders the
countries around the borders the social
services are under enormous strain
refugee camps are springing up we should
be leading the international community
to get help to those people to make sure
that they've got food they've got
medicine they've got care and frankly
that makes it easier for people who are
in Venezuela they have you know fewer
people dividing the resources more
people saying an option that if they get
out of the country at least for a period
of time and that puts more pressure on
Maduro the part you didn't talk about
though and I just think it's worth
mentioning here Trump did something else
besides doing the diplomatic recognition
because I'm I'm all for the diplomatic
part of this he also did a lot of saber
rattling yes
and given America's history in South
America frankly our history all around
the globe now I think rattling sabers
when we should not be considering a
military intervention is
a real mistake I think that it causes
the president to burn the credibility of
the United States and to remind everyone
of times when we have intervened yeah
that were not only bad for our
government they were sure bad for the
local folks so I think that our focus
should be on diplomatic and on on
humanitarian relief and I just have to
emphasize this part again I said it but
I want to let it just go in passing
working with our allies this is why we
need allies this notion now that Trump
cozies up to putin and kim jeong-hoon
and g and can't get along with canada
yeah i mean who can't get along with
merkel everybody likes canada exactly
but you know the europeans that are
allies this these are the times that we
should be working with our allies our
European allies our Canadian allies our
Asian allies to move in and support
together that increases the pressure on
Maduro it it it helps with your
humanitarian relief and it it it
undercuts any notion that the United
States is big footing around South
America or any other part of the world
there's a reason we need our allies and
these this is one of those times we need
to work together we'll have a lot more
diplomatic and economic power if we do
that
agreed um the first bill that the Senate
put forward was a bill called s 1 which
did a whole bunch of stuff it was
military support to Israel I think it
was some policy towards Jordan some
additional sanctions in Syria but then
there was a really controversial
provision that would allow state and
municipal governments to punish
companies that boycott divest from or
place sanctions on israel's so-called
neediest matías why did you oppose s1 so
I opposed the boycott but I oppose a law
that permits punishment of people who
want to support the boycott i this is
one where I stand with the
CLU I just don't think we do that in the
United States I'm opposed I opposed it
when it came up earlier I've spoken out
against it I've written letters on this
I don't think that's the place we go I
know that Israel faces real challenges
so to the Palestinians I think the way
we can be a good ally to Israel is we
can push again toward a two-state
solution toward a long-term solution in
this area and look I get it
Israel lives in a very dangerous part of
the world it's a liberal democracy we
don't have a lot of allies over there
that follow the Liberal Democratic
traditions but a good Ally urges friends
to get together and work out a solution
and the Palestinians and the Israelis
need to be back at the negotiating table
the United States should not be
dictating terms we should not be putting
shits on the table or taking them off
but we should be pushing them to
negotiate a two-state solution so
totally agree and you know President
Obama spent a lot of presidents spent a
lot of time pushing the Palestinians and
the Israelis
to try to negotiate a Middle East peace
process a two-state solution but you
know one major sticking point in that
peace process has been Israeli
settlement construction right now and
you know we put a lot of there were a
lot of carrots there are a lot of things
offered to Netanyahu some that haven't
even been reported in terms of military
hardware and other incentives that come
to the table and and they to their
credit these realities did have some
settlement freezes and the Palestinians
refused to engage but you know at this
point we are at a point where a lot of
members of the like who'd party
president Yahoo's are Prime Minister
Netanyahu's party are talking about
annexing the West Bank and it feels like
the chance for incentives to bring them
to the table for a two-state solution or
to end settlement construction are
unlikely to work and I'm curious if you
would consider a pressure track that
included some sort of punitive approach
that might force them into negotiations
or to stop
settlement construction so let me say I
think we have to stop to acknowledge
what has changed during the Trump
administration the pressure toward a
two-state solution obviously has gone
away and in fact the whole publicly
naming Jerusalem is the capital and
moving our embassy took one of the
things that should have been decided by
the parties it's not our decision it's
their decision and how they wanted to
handle that it made it very clear we're
standing on one side in these
negotiations and the problem with that
is it it doesn't encourage negotiation
so in fact the Palestinians refused to
talk since that happened that's exactly
right
Jared's magical plan that's there we go
plus the Israelis now have less
incentive to talk right that's that's a
part of what's happening in this so the
way I see what you're talking about is
she said we had pushed it this far under
the Obama administration
and now Trump has completely reversed it
I don't therefore draw the conclusion
that what happened under the Obama
administration was never going to work
that that you couldn't keep pushing
harder because overtime realities are
bearing down on Israel demographic
realities births and deaths what the
region looks like and I think that that
this is a moment
not while Trump is in there playing the
game that he's playing but that the
opportunity soon to get Israel back to
the table and get the Palestinians back
to the table if we the United States can
be an honest broker and can encourage
again other nations other allies to help
support that I'm I'm I actually have
just a little smaller optimism let's
call it a glimmer can we start can we
start with glimmer I'm Pro Hope I'm
probably no but I mean when I look at
Israel I look at Bibi Netanyahu putting
up campaign signs at featuring big
photos of him and president
Trump this weekend he released a TV ad
attacking his opponent Benny gansan
accusing him of colluding with Obama
behind his back and it had this like
grainy darkened image of Obama and I'm
learning does it worry you that such a
close ally has fully aligned with one
political but a Republican Party yes no
I this is the part that's why I was
talking about the difference between the
administration's yeah yes and I honestly
I I don't think it's good for Israel I
mean I think it's terrible for Israel
and that that's the direction he's going
course also remember you know he he is
under investigation others in his
administration and his family we're
talking about in Yahoo oh oh I'm sorry
which one were we talking about yeah
yeah sentence applies in both places
doesn't it but I think that is part of
the point yeah um Trump is not forever
and neither is Netanyahu hmm good point
um so here's a little bit so I know your
brother's all served in the military
um and one flew combat missions in
Vietnam did their service shape how you
view let's say the use of force or the
use of the military espress
is there a post-world War two conflict
that you look at and you think that was
a right justified use of military action
that's an interesting question um let me
tell you how it's shaped I think it
undoubtedly did that I grew up because
I'm my brother's all a lot of older than
I am
I grew up in the shadow of a family
constantly worried that one of my
brothers wouldn't come home that Don
Reed flew in in Vietnam was obviously
the main one 288 combat missions that's
Wow it's what an 8888 that's incredible
yes it is and to this day I I feel my
heart flutter when I say that I I lived
watching my mother always checking the
mail you know the it was always there
but I think of that in terms of the very
personal reminder both of
the incredible bravery and sacrifice of
those who say I'll put it on the line
you know my my brother John was was
stationed in Morocco much safer it was
at a different time but still yeah
he was a he was far far away couldn't
come home for a year there was some
shooting there was Magritte that's what
they've agreed to do David my youngest
brother trained as a combat medic not
turned out he never had to be sent to
combat but so the first part of it for
me is the the reminder that it is an
extraordinary decision to sign up for
military service and that that means
there is a moral obligation incumbent on
those who would send our military into
harm's way to make sure that it is done
for well-thought-out reason right when
truly our security and safety are on the
line yeah not not just for politics not
just that it's that it's got to be real
yeah and it's hard to find a place where
that's been the case right I mean I
think that's really driving I mean we
all know now that Iraq was sold to the
United States under false pretenses yeah
but you know if if someone I loved had
served in Vietnam and it would piss me
off that the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution
in 64 was forced through Congress under
false pretenses and when Johnson in you
know the administration figured out that
there were those false pretenses that
was never real to the American people
and they continue to use that
authorization so curiously its when
McNamara said right
he knew that we'd lost but he didn't
pull out and thousands and thousands of
people continued to die young Americans
18 19 20 years old had been set over and
he lay
claimed as part of his you know his
great confession that he knew it was
lost and yet he kept sending yeah our
our brothers our sisters to die over
there yeah that would piss me off yeah
well you know it's just a fining moment
in our history Obama was sort of a post
Vietnam president but I think for a lot
of people who were in the military there
are some who feel that Vietnam is an
instance of where we should have gone
all in earlier and didn't have the
backbone to win the war right like you
hear that from some parties others I
think you think how could we possibly
trust our government when they tell us
why we're going into war I'm just
curious like if that experience
especially how personal it is for you
maybe makes you distrustful of some of
the claims that might be made for why we
could go to a war in Iran or whatever
the next thing might be so I think of it
is surely we have learned our lesson
that we need to ask the question once I
asked the question twice look at the
evidence over and over and over before
before we move in and obviously during
the George W Bush administration the
whole weapons of mass destruction was
just made up it was just a lie to the
American people I think of this just
just a little bit differently and that
is if we're going to use military force
that we need to be a lot more thoughtful
about what exactly we think military
force can accomplish you know there's a
big toolbox out there yes and there's a
lot of diplomatic tools in there and
there's a lot of economic tools in there
why military okay on the front and then
the question is what's the back end of
this look like what so the military do X
and then what and what do we expect to
have happen is it the military going to
go this far and then economic support is
going to move in and it's going to cause
something to happen
a lot of diplomatic help so for me I
think what frustrates me and it has in
virtually every discussion about using
military force since I've been old
enough to follow it is there's always a
lot about the front end yes and nothing
about the middle in the back end and
that that's how we end up in the endless
war of Afghanistan yeah that's how we
ended up yes that's exactly right
and that can't be right that cannot be
our approach going forward um we are
we're running out of time but you and
Congressman Adam Smith recently
introduced legislation that says quote
it is the policy of the United States to
not use nuclear weapons first yes close
quotes a very brief but very important
piece of legislation and I think a
conversation that again unfortunately
isn't just academic everyone knows we
use nuclear weapons at World War two but
that didn't swear us off using them
right it'd be Truman debated using
nuclear weapons or in Korea the
Eisenhower was telling Johnson to use
them in Vietnam Westmoreland was talking
about it with a working group we are
planning to spend a trillion dollars on
nuclear weapons to upgrade our arsenal
why did you think it was important to
put this policy forward because he also
noticed you put it in your foreign
policy speech and it was it jumped out
at me
that's right in fact I didn't hide this
yeah this is right out front and I'll
tell you exactly why it's because we're
having a conversation in the US Senate
right now I said on Senate Armed
Services about usable nuclear weapons
tactical strategic nukes because the
whole three euphemisms and it's oh we
want nuclear weapons so we can totally
blow up a city but not the entire
country around it and that would mean
usable just by definition means more
likely to use right and that that's been
the push from the Trump administration
and the Republicans jumping up and down
for this I think that we need to have a
conversation about nuclear
weapons and I think we need to make
clear there is a real risk to that kind
of conversation and that kind of move in
our nuclear arsenal if we are out there
saying yeah we could be first use
country the odds that something goes
wrong in the next big crisis and someone
miscalculates
a signal that we've sent more missiles
that our conventional weapon that we
have sent that we have increased the
odds of a nuclear holocaust global
annihilation yeah yeah um final question
for you so Massachusetts our home state
we've produced a lot of winners
we have Patriots we've the Red Sox threw
the Celtics even the Bruins everyone in
the room now hates me um we've had less
luck with presidential candidates to
caucus Kerry Romney Ted Kennedy kinda an
ad um why can I just stop you right
there
John F Kennedy I know I know we go back
a little further we had won a serious
badass but why are you the Massachusetts
and I guess base database take whatever
we say who can put it over the top for
me this isn't about politics it just
never was this is my life's work and it
grows out of Who I am
I am the daughter of a janitor who got a
chance to be a public school teacher to
be a college professor to be a United
States Senator and now to be a candidate
for president of the United States
because America invested in a college
education for a kid like me because
America set the minimum wage at a place
where my family could survive and didn't
lose its home and get tossed out on the
street I believe in an America that
recognizes the value of every kid that's
our best that's that's our best
statement of who we want to be I look
around and see this government that just
works great for those at the top I want
to make this government work great for
everyone else that's why a minute all
right senator Warren thank you so much
for
coming I won't tell the other guys that
you said Luke as the best and we can
clearly hear pundit barking as the
interview of Koreans to a close
yes well Bailey loves it all he's he's
he's a dog
thank you again he's a good dog he's
very good
you
