your name yeah kasia's clay what does
that come from so it's got I think two
meanings the first one I was always very
like particular about my music and like
how I created it and like I mentioned
like I play a lot of instruments but I
also produce and now I started recently
singing but like all of that process
that went into that I was very
particular about it so I just felt like
cautious clay Sunday better than
particular that was the first reason and
then I think also like Cassius Clay's
Muhammad Ali that was like you know you
know kind of relationship there but that
what felt was our fel exactly oh you
know what also like I was really at one
point the people who owned his uh like
like the rights to his publishing and
like his name they reached out to us on
email and that was the scariest I was
like a Marvin Gaye Oh God
ended up being fans which was like kind
of cool oh thank god like they're like
oh we want to work with you by blood I'm
like okay like great like Leila's still
in the picture she can hang out so some
possible Holly try yeah album you have a
new EP it is out now
it's called table of contexts yeah it's
great it's uh it's just six songs it's
also a double meaning I make all my
music at my desk so it's a table you
can't even leave that nine to five
you're still doing it
[Music]
you
