welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod our
conversation with sherrod Brown of Ohio
we're also gonna talk about today's know
sorry we're also going to talk about
Michael Flynn sentencing memo Donald
Trump the tariff man and the early
phases of the fight for the 2020
Democratic presidential nomination fun
stuff on this week's episode of POD save
the world Tommy and Ben talked about
George HW Bush's foreign policy legacy
and they also talked with Kelly Maggs
Minh of the Center for American Progress
about Elizabeth Warren's foreign policy
speech it's a great episode check that
out if you haven't heard we've been
trying to tell you because the Trump
administration certainly isn't talking
about it the deadline to enroll in
healthcare programs under the Affordable
Care Act or to change your coverage is
December 15th don't miss it go to
healthcare.gov all right let's get to
the latest news about the Trump
investigation special counsel Robert
Muller has recommended that former
national security adviser Michael Flynn
serve little-to-no prison time for lying
to the FBI because he's been such a good
cooperator and not one not two but three
federal investigations the first appears
to be a criminal investigation that is
not being conducted by the special
counsels office about which all details
are redacted and the memo
the second is Muller's investigation
into quote any links or coordination
between the Russian government and
individuals associated with the campaign
of President Donald J Trump and the
third is an additional investigation
that's also entirely redacted altogether
Flynn has sat with Muller's team for 19
interviews 19 interviews dan Mohler said
to deliver another memo on Friday about
Paul Manafort who prosecutors say has
been lying to them since reaching a plea
deal earlier in the fall and a
sentencing memo from Muller about
Michael Cohen is also due on Friday so
coming attractions Dan what if anything
does this heavily redacted memo tell us
about the overall direction of the
Moller investigation I think it tells us
two things the first is
that unlike man afford or Papadopoulos
or some of the other characters in this
overly long drama michael Flynn has been
very very helpful to bob muller and not
just by Muller but other investigations
under the purview of the Justice
Department because he for very serious
crimes he has been wreck no set no jail
sentence has been recommended for Flynn
which that usually is I understand it
only happens when people have been very
helpful and so that's one yeah - I think
the redacted parts are just service of
the thing we should try to remember
every single day which is Bob mother
knows exponentially more about what
happened in 2016 and since then any of
the rest of us do and he has know and he
knows things when we find things out Bob
Muller has known them for months if not
years and so yeah just once again to
remember that there there's a lot of
information to go yeah and I think the
other thing too is the memo did say that
Flynn helped Muller cooperate in several
ongoing investigations you know there's
been some reporting that this thing's
almost wrapped up but it does seem like
from all the redactions and the fact
that the multiple investigations are
ongoing that there is much more to come
that this thing is not it might be we
might be heading towards the endgame or
in the endgame but it is not wrapped up
by any means it also makes clear that
Flynn reported false information to the
FBI about his conversation with the
Russian ambassador during the transition
and that his lies were material to the
FBI's investigation into the nature of
any links or coordination between the
Russian government and individual
individuals associated with the Trump
campaign and that means that whatever he
lied about it had to do with potential
collusion and we know that Flynn and the
Russian ambassador probably talked about
sanctions relief so again it does seem
as if we are getting closer to evidence
at least Muller having evidence
uncovering that there may have been some
sort of quid pro quo I helped you win an
election you lift sanctions from my
country I mean it does seem like the
most simple explanation it still might
not be that
but it is pointing throw in a large real
estate deal at the time and a real let
exactly so again we're still not a
hundred percent sure and all these
things but it's certainly looking like
that so you know we should engage in and
just pure speculation here what do we
think the redacted investigations are I
mean just to be as reckless as humanly
possible yeah let's do breakfast my my
reckless speculation on people who know
a lot more than me like Marcy wheeler
and Matt Miller and others who follow
these investigations very closely you
have a couple of options here one is a
counterintelligence investigation into
the Russians right right so that would
be redacted we may never know anything
about that other options could include
you know the very weird story it's sort
of it's like that sort of the check offs
a gun if this whole thing this story
about Peter Smith who is a Republican
fundraiser who sought aggressively to
get Hillary Clinton's emails and have
them hacked and then passed away not
long after the Wall Street Journal
contacted him about these things he is a
very odd figure in Republican politics
he's also the I learned this from the
Clinton affair documentary on A&E he was
also the person who raised money to fund
the troopers who testified against Bill
Clinton back in the early 90s and so
there was a lot to there's a lot of in
Peters birth also had some outreach and
connections to Michael Flynn so that's
so there is a nexus here that is one
possibility for what this could be but
like said Muller knows a lot that we
don't know and so it could be anything
yeah and Marcy and the New York Times
have both sort of floated in the last 24
48 hours that the first investigation
that seems like it is outside the
purview of the special counsels office
could have to do with a secret Turkish
lobbying effort where Flynn and his
former business partners and clients
find hits to campaign against a Turkish
cleric living in Pennsylvania the turkey
wanted extradited and potentially
kidnapped which you know when your
national security adviser just those are
the things that you do
so there could be that could be one of
the investigations so looking at this
memo what it says what it doesn't say
who do we think should be worried about
this
Flynn memo so a couple a lot of people
should be nervous
most notably Donald Trump this is his
national security who's in the inner
circle of this campaign who has been
spending a voluminous number of hours
with law enforcement officials of all
sorts telling them clearly everything he
knows so much so that they're willing to
reward him for his for his fairly
serious crimes without jail time and we
know Donald Trump is nervous because his
tweets of the last few days have
basically been flops set sorry again his
his tweets the last few days have been
flopsweat in digital form so he's clear
I think I think the other person who we
have sort of has drifted to the back of
this conversation but should be very
nervous as Jared Kushner because it is
important to remember that he was
intimately involved in the discussions
during the transition with Michael Flynn
and the Russian ambassador at the time
Sergey kisi act about saying about
potential sanctions relief and let us
not forget this very important point the
Jared Kushner proposed setting up a
back-channel between himself and the
Russians so that Kushner and the Trump
in the Trump inner circle could talk to
the Russians without being heard by the
intelligence agencies of the government
that Trump was about to be in charge of
so there was something fishy there and
we know it's fishy because Kushner lied
about those contacts with Russians on
multiple occasions on his security
clearance forms which are documents that
we're why were if they are legal
documents where lying is equivalent to
perjury and it is it can be if you put
yourself at risk of criminal penalties
fines and maybe jail time so there was
some there was more about Jared Kushner
that Flynn has potential to know a lot
about and so I think he should be very
nervous and then frankly if you're a
Republican elected official you should
be nervous
because you've spent the last two years
covering up a wide set of crimes from
collusion to corruption to grift to
obstruction of justice
without knowing the crime the exact
crimes you were covering up and we're
about to find out what those are so
whether you were Paul Ryan or Devin
Nunez our mission McCullough or anyone
else who have been accessories in this
in this political obstruction of justice
you should also be nervous yeah and one
more thing on Jared there were court
documents about a year ago that said a
very senior member of the presidential
transition team quote/unquote directed
Flynn to make an overture to the Russian
ambassador about the sanctions vote
reporting has suggested that that was
Jared that did that and so clearly he is
very tied up in this potential quid pro
quo especially around the sanctions
remember like I do think one of the
biggest revelations in this
investigation or one of the biggest
areas of focus is going to end up being
fake they changed the Republican
party platform before the convention
only the only real difference the only
real change that the Trump team made was
to Russia to be nicer to Russia to be
easier on Russia and then you know they
did this otherwise inexplicable move
after the election to try to let Russia
know don't worry about the sanctions
that Obama just imposed on you for
interfering in our elections will take
care of that when we get into power like
there are very few other explanations
for why they would do this other than
they somehow felt indebted to Vladimir
Putin for something yes and it's not
forget that the person who was running
the Republican convention at that time
was Paul Manafort and with close ties to
Putin cronies who was deeply in debt to
Russian oligarchs and just mysteriously
showed up at Trump's doorstep one day
volunteering to take over his campaign
for free despite being millions of
dollars in debt to people who take their
debts very seriously with Russian mob
ties so they're the I mean they're like
mother will make his case we'll look at
evidence but just like if you take the
Occam's razor
view of this the simplest explanation is
there was a lot of crime happy
that's it that's that's our conclusion
what do we think is next in the
investigation Garrard graph just wrote a
piece for Wired on Wednesday with 13
questions that Muller has the answer to
that we don't you know everyone should
go read the piece of good piece what
questions do you have that you think
Muller has the answer to well I want to
know I think one big one is around Don
Junior mmm who seems to have a wide
horizon of vulnerability here from very
clearly it appears lying to Congress
about conversations around the Trump
Tower deal in Russia to who he may have
told about the in advance and afterwards
about the meeting with the Russians and
Trump Tower and there is this grand
mystery that Muller I believe should be
able to know the answer to with a
subpoena which is what was the unknown
number right I was in contact with
Donald Trump jr. right after that
meeting and so there's a lot involving
the president's son that I would like to
get the bottom of and just want to know
like Muller was known this for a long
time and I want to know what Muller does
I also want to know how closely the
Russian conspiracy investigation is tied
up in the Trump organizations financial
scandals obviously it seems like there
are links there but I'd love to know
what they exactly they are I'd love to
know what Paul Manafort lied about and
why which we may find out some of that
on Friday what else Cohen told them
since he also sat for many many many
many interviews I think he was like 70
hours worth
and I'd also to know like whether Muller
believes that Trump obstructed justice
like I'm very interested in that
investigation because it seems so
obvious to so many of us since Trump
like obstructs justice every day out in
the open but it'll be interesting to see
it sort of laid out in in a Muller memo
exactly what he thinks you know whether
he thinks that Trump obstructed justice
and when and why the obstruction of
justice thing is so fast
because he obstructed justice he fired
the FBI director in the in the Russia
investigation into himself he has just
done it publicly and incompetently
and so it's there's this open question
of whether there is either a criminal
case for the people around Trump or an
impeachable case they from those facts
but like we know you know he told us he
was gonna rob the bank he then showed up
at the bank he tweeted about the bank
and he just left without money so it's
like we know what happened as just like
we know that obstruction of justice was
attempted and was a Syria and remains a
serious priority of Trump because to
this day we do not know who this is the
other question I want to know who is in
charge of the mole investigation of
apartment dresses is that still rod
Rosen Stein oh yeah is it Matt Whittaker
no one in Congress or the media can get
an answer to that question while there's
just this unqualified fraud she'll had
political hack named Matt Whittaker is
inter is currently the chief law
enforcement officer was United States
and we don't know what his what his
responsibilities are and Trump seems to
have no desire to appoint a new Attorney
General and so there's a lot there's a
lot we want to know just tell us but
Muller we don't have we don't have
forever we do impatience anymore it's a
Twitter age is is deeply corrupt ex
toilet salesman Matt Whittaker running
the Matla Moeller investigation what we
want to know her in half okay I'm never
about the rest of Russia investigation
let's talk about another subversion of
American democracy that's actually
coming from within the country on
Wednesday the Republican legislature in
Wisconsin passed legislation to strip
power from the Democrats will be
replacing them or as the New York Times
put it in a headline Wisconsin
Republicans defiantly stand like bedrock
in face of democratic wins
someone someone talked to the headline
writers at the New York Times man I you
know if you know who should be pissed
about this or the journalists of the
narrative yes who for the most part
write stories that are I mean are good
they're like the story itself is an
accurate fair representation of what
happened and they
some former No Labels in turn a
headline writer just craps all over it
then the the writer has to take all the
 on Twitter for because people only
read the headlines and I'm just gonna
rant for one second this is where
mainstream American journalism
institutions are so ass-backwards which
is in this day and age the headline you
put on Twitter is sadly more important
than the story itself tell you like t
like reams of experience people spending
all this time analyzing the fifth power
editing the fifth paragraph of the story
and then some Yahoo can just
throw some dumbass headline on and base
it cause a Twitter riot against you is
just it's infuriatingly stupid and look
I don't like that that's how it is I
read the stories I hope everyone reads
the stories in full but like you know
it's a big country a lot of people folks
are busy they're like walking through
the airport and they see a headline on
TV they look down at their phones and
see a headline pop up like sometimes
people don't know the whole news so like
don't don't yell at all the critics
about it go to your social media
departments in your in your media
organizations and talk to the headline
writers and have them fix it you
your stories are too good your
journalism is too important for this
crap anyway okay that's a rant on that
so back to Wisconsin so uh it was guns
and legislature the Republican held
legislature legislature passed bills
that will limit early voting require the
governor to get permission from
legislators to adjust programs like
Medicaid that are run by both the
federal and state government allowed the
state Senate to veto the governor's
political appointees required the
Attorney General to seek the approval of
the legislature before making important
legal decisions allow legislators to
intervene and litigation and even
prevent the governor from banning guns
in the state capitol without the
approval of the legislature that is
 bonkers the reason why all this
is happening
here's the Republican state Assembly
Speaker this week quote we are going to
have a very liberal governor who is
going to enact policies that are in
direct contrast to what many of us
believe in yeah no that's
what democracy is outgoing gyah
P Governor Scott Walker could still veto
the bills in Wisconsin and of course the
Republican Party in Michigan is up to
similarly sketchy stuff right now dan
what if anything can Democrats in
Wisconsin do to fix this legislation and
more in general what can Democrats
everywhere do to prevent this from
happening in the future well first the
thing we shouldn't do is wait around for
Scott Walker to veto those bills
because I have a suspicion that is not
gonna happen yeah well for Tony versus
calling him but this is this is Walker
like that Scott Walker brought this type
of politics to not just Wisconsin about
the country in the Republican Party he
is the poster child for the coke funded
anti-democratic corporatist policies
that defined the Republican Party long
before the era of Trump so a couple of
things that I think we need to do here
which is one Republicans don't respond
to cover it to norms they don't respond
to shame they respond to blue saree they
respond to brute political force and so
the legislators who pass these bills
need to pay a price and someone with an
equally well funded but non imaginary
super PAC should be running ads now
making sure that that their
participation in these efforts were is
forever ingrained in the memory of the
voters and that's important because
every two years the entire Wisconsin
Assembly is up for election so we're
gonna have a chance in 2020 to address
this yeah there obviously will be legal
action here right like some of these
things test the bounds of
constitutionality and separation of
powers within both federal and state
constitutions and now obviously one of
the big challenges here is that there's
a signing vote on the US Supreme Court
is held by a angry partisan hack with an
axe to grind so problematic but like you
can still their injunctions that can be
put in here some of the things that were
done in North Carolina were struck down
not enough of them but some were the
other thing that I think is important
remember as Wisconsin has recall laws if
you remember Governor Walker was
there was an attempt to recall Governor
Walker after he passed these these very
anti labor and as I collective
bargaining laws back in 2011 by simply
getting enough signatures on a petition
you can recall tried making an attempt
to recall some of these legislators
legislators so these posters jump in
2020 you could send a signal by running
recall campaigns against the most
vulnerable Republican legislators who
voted this way and I think that's
something consider and the last thing
that I think is important is a lot of
times when states make horribly dumb
decisions it is outside pressure that
makes them that forces change right
whether it was in Indiana when they
passed a blatantly homophobic so-called
sorry i blatantly oklahoma blatantly
homophobic so-called religious freedom
bill same thing around these anti-trans
bills in north carolina it was other
employers outside organizations you know
I remember the football both the NFL and
the NBA I'm sorry I'm I'm saying this
backwards so I'm gonna start this hope
for never again sorry about that
it is often times when states pass these
regressive laws that outside entities
put pressure on that and force change
whether it is companies saying they
won't have their businesses there we saw
that in Indiana after they passed the
blatantly homophobic law whether it is
sports leagues who said they won't hold
their all-star game to their
championship games in these states we
saw that in North Carolina after in
anti-trans bill there was a a there was
a law on the path to Georgia Legislature
that was eventually vetoed by the
Republican governor because a lot of
employers including Salesforce said they
would not locate their companies there
if such laws passed and so there I think
Democrats should think about how we
organize grassroots around businesses
and other entities to put pressure on
Wisconsin politicians and so for example
the I know the Milwaukee Bucks are
desperately trying to get
the NBA all-star game and I think 2022
or 2023 and I think there could be a
grassroots campaign to put pressure on
the NBA to not do that
under this set of laws which are
anti-democratic and created frankly an
uncertain business climate for for these
entities so those are the sort of things
I think are in our wheelhouse to do
ultimately being control of legislators
is the key to this right well I was
gonna say I mean Democrats should
understand like Tony eavers is not going
to be able to accomplish all that much
in the next two years with this
legislature and they have made that very
clear from the outset it is not anything
specific about Tony eavers that they're
upset about
they are basically openly saying he's a
liberal and that's bad and so not only
are we not gonna cooperate with him over
the next two years we're gonna make his
life a living hell we're gonna make sure
that he doesn't get anything done
whatsoever it's like Mitch McConnell
saying you know my main goal is to make
Barack Obama one-term president on
steroids
that's basically what they've done here
so I think there's an opportunity here
for Democrats to continue the organizing
efforts in Wisconsin that we began in
the lead-up to 2018 which were
successful in the sense that Tony Evers
was elected governor but look
Wisconsin's going to be you know one of
the tighter swing states of the three
states that Trump won in 2016 the blue
states that Trump won Wisconsin Michigan
and Pennsylvania Wisconsin's probably
gonna be the toughest for us in 2020 and
so it will be good to be on the ground
organizing protesting fighting now from
now until 2020 and not only will that
help sort of elect a more democratic
legislature in 2020 but it'll help
whoever the nominee is win Wisconsin in
2020 so I think you know outside
organizations the DNC everyone else
should continue sort of the organizing
effort on the ground in Wisconsin to
fight this Republican legislature and
then also lay the groundwork for 2020 so
on Monday we talked a little bit about
how the North Carolina State Board of
Elections has refused to certify a
congressional election in the state's
ninth district where there's pretty
clear and compelling evidence that a
paid Republican consultant committed
election
by going door-to-door in neighborhoods
collecting absentee ballots and
literally stealing votes from people now
there are calls for House Democrats to
refused to seat Republican Mark Harris
who appeared to win the race last month
by only around 900 votes one House
Democrat is also calling for an
emergency hearing into the matter dan
what do you think should happen here I
think that there should be a new
election and there should be criminal
charges brought against the people who
did this and if there are not and if
there is not a new election I think the
Democrats should refuse to seat this the
Republican Mark Harris who want who won
the election under these pretty
blatantly obvious illegal circumstances
yeah I mean the guy who did this
this consultant has been convicted
before and may have been doing this for
up to eight years he's been doing this
 there's evidence that he did it
during the primary that Mark Harris won
an unusually number high number a high
percentage of absentee ballots in this
county in the primary and that in this
county over the last several years the
absentee ballot counts have been way off
in comparison to the rest of the state
so you clearly have overwhelming
evidence at this point of the a
Republican consultant who's just been
stealing people's votes that's it just
stealing their votes and you know the
Charlotte Observer had an editorial this
week saying that there should be a new
election it is it is clear that I think
the only way to you know make sure that
this is a fair election is to hold it
over again I just I don't see any other
way around it and you know some people
say Republicans are like well you know
it's 900 votes and there weren't that
many absentee veils but like we don't
know we don't know how many ballots were
thrown away there's some evidence that
in the neighboring County this has also
been happening so it could be thousands
of ballots we just don't know because
this guy's been stealing so yeah
it's it's pretty crazy and it's
interesting like haven't heard much from
all the the Republican voter fraud
police on this mark Marco Rubio 60
tweets about Democrat Lloyd
stealing an election in Florida haven't
heard too much from Marco Rubio's
Twitter feed have you I saw our friend
Sam Stein from The Daily Beast we like I
think there was fo sincerity to this but
be really nice to hear from Marco Rubio
about this it's like really you think
like are you unfamiliar with Marco
Rubio's work he's full of that's
his deal it is it's so bad but look this
I'd say go ahead go ahead
I was gonna say a couple things about
this I was I did have this weird feeling
when I saw that steady Hoyer and so
impressive Vail said that if there was
not some resolution here the Democrats
would consider not seating Mark Harris
and I was like oh we have power again
every hour that we could at all we're in
charge of something take that
Republicans like yeah it was just like a
rhythm so it was a rack like it one
member of Congress like this is a huge
deal but this is not like passing a
medicare-for-all or something else but
it's like oh they can't just run
roughshod over us with a bunch of
illegal we can actually stop
them in some way shape or form so that
was very good I also think that there is
something that ties together what is
happening what happened in North
Carolina and what's happening in
Wisconsin in Michigan and that is the
fact that the will of the voters is
simply an annoyance to Republicans like
they understand like this is nothing to
do with Trump Trump is just a buffoon at
the top of the ticket yeah at the core
of the Republican Party the people who
fund the party people who make the
decisions they have known for a long
time that they represent a dwindling
coalition in this country and that with
every passing year their agenda gets
less popular and their base gets smaller
and so they are employing a aggressive
set of anti-democratic small D tools to
ensure that we essentially have minority
rule in this country you know even in
Wisconsin it was Democrats got a lot
more votes and a lot less seats because
as one of those gerrymandered seats in
this country Wisconsin also like North
Carolina has
under Republican leadership the some of
the most owners voter suppression laws
in this country and so the the least all
of this is about making that making sure
that your vote doesn't count but also
that you know that your vote doesn't
count so that you're less likely to vote
the next time and it is to breed
cynicism and a sense of submission and
the voting public to ensure that we will
continue to pass this deeply unpopular
and deeply damaging corporatists
environment that's absurd corporatist
agenda that is funded by billionaires
yeah apparently the North Carolina
Republican leader just said he'd be open
to a new election if fraud is proven no
we don't know what kind of standards
he's gonna have for proving fraud here
but that is at least a good sign but no
you're totally right and I would say to
well I thought the same thing when I
heard Steny Hoyer say that they might
not see Mark Harris because you know the
first reaction of everyone which has
been our reaction for the last two years
is not enough people are talking about
this we got to put pressure on them we
got to make a big stink about this and
like that's all true but it's like you
know what's gonna get a lot of people to
cover this and talk about this when
 Nancy Pelosi ins Danny Hoyer are
like nope not getting seated that'll
that'll make it a big story then people
will be talking about it
so that's exact our gets you that's what
organizing gets you okay let's talk
about trade president Trump's incoherent
trade war with China wreaked havoc on
the stock market this week Trump bragged
over the weekend that he'd reached a
deal with China at the g20 to end the
trade war between our countries but it
soon became very clear that all of his
bragging as it usually is was entirely
 on Tuesday Trump tweeted
President Xi and I want this deal to
happen and it probably will but if not
remember I am a tariffs man when people
or countries come in to raid the great
wealth of our nation I want them to pay
for the privilege of doing so it will
always be the best way to max out our
economic power we are right now taking
in billions
tariffs make America rich again and then
shortly after his tweet the stock market
plunged 200 points on Wednesday Trump
went back to saying that China was
sending strong signals about making a
deal following a statement from China's
government so Dan what what the hell is
going on here was he lying originally or
was he too stupid to tell the truth
because he didn't know the details of
his own trade policy or was it both I
think it's both I mean it's always the
answer is always both would be these
things but ever you tweet something it's
like I don't know what's worse whether
Trump believes this or he lies about it
there we were like both I don't know
what's worse well there is a lie or a
stupid people like it's both goddamnit
it's like like what this exposes is that
basically we have had we we haven't
we've known for two years that we have a
dangerously unfit purposefully ignorant
 as president United States and yet
somehow we have made it through in some
in without the bottom falling out of the
American economy
in that case and what we know is from
having worked in the White House is your
words matter when you're president
unlike anything else in the world in
life you can make the market move you
can cause a crash you can cause you know
someone to move aircraft carriers into a
gulf like it just by saying the wrong
thing and we and so that is a the
responsibilities if that role is a bad
match for someone who is a pathological
liar with verbal diarrhea and you serve
easily the consequences of that here I
mean I reading about this story you just
like you know if Donald Trump was
president during the Cuban Missile
Crisis there would have been nuclear war
like it's just there just would have
liked you you watch him in a high-stakes
negotiation on the global stage and you
watch him just not just fumble through
it I mean he didn't know what he doesn't
know trade policy he doesn't know what
the he's talking about and he
doesn't know trade policy and by the way
this is supposedly
issue that he genuinely believes right
like and it is true like if you look at
Donald Trump's record on trade over the
last 20-30 years it has been it's one of
the few policy areas where he's been
pretty consistent
he's been protectionist for a long long
time and so this is not a racist
protectionist since birth
yes fake racism and the protectionism
those are both genuine genuine beliefs
on his part and the protection is I'm
like for someone who's been
protectionist for so long like you'd
think that he thought about that he'd
have have a nuanced view of the issue or
at least some view on the issue that is
I don't know within the ballpark of
accurate he clearly doesn't know what
he's talking about on trade policy he's
out there who God knows what he said to
the president of China who's no dummy
and then he's like tweeting out the
White House has asked about you know
Trump's tweets they can't back them up
there they admitted they don't know what
he was talking about they had no idea he
starts like naming details about the
deal White House is like we don't know
what he's talking about I mean this is
meanwhile the stock market's plunging
the countries in a trade war with China
which is already hurting farmers hurting
consumers like it's crazy now here's the
question the question is is like can
Democrats make this case against Trump
in 2020 should Democrats make this case
against 2020 against Trump in 2020 and
on this trade policy is it more of an
economic case is it and you've said this
many times before you know Trump is too
chaotic to be in the Oval Office it's
about as chaos and corruption like what
is the case you make here or is at this
point we're just sort of used to him you
know tweeting crazy and people are
sort of immune to it I think it is
interesting that the only people who
have not figured out the incredibly dumb
and age-old question about whether you
take Trump seriously or literally is the
market who just like two and a half
years in is like oh
this guy's a yahoo like what are they
been doing other than counting money for
two years to go to your question I I
think that we
- yes we can make a case from this yes
we have to make a case around it I want
to talk interested to hear what sherrod
Brown has to say about this but there is
an argument that the chaos that comes
from Trump whether it's the tweets
whether it's the fact that he is always
wrapped around the axle of some criminal
investigation or another the you know
and all of the drama comes at a cost and
you have to show people you have to show
me what that cost is it can't be an
esthetic discussion has to be a
discussion as impact in their lives and
certainly in a lot of states that are
going to make make up the the winning
coalition for a Democratic presidential
candidate you should be able to do that
around these terrorists but also if the
if his tweets are moving the market in
ways that affect people's 401ks yeah
that is a very strong argument for not
having a president who sends crazy
tweets right and and and the point is
it's not about Trump's tweets it's not
about Trump's crazy tweets it's about
you know policies and real-life
consequences that result from the
statements that the president United
States is making publicly right I mean
cuz sometimes I think just saying oh
you've got crazy tweets like minimizes
the real consequences and the damage
that come from his presidency to
people's lives it's not great okay let's
talk about the 2020 election since
there's been some news this week since
it's December of 2018 let's get to it
let's dive in talked about we've talked
about trade we talked about Wisconsin
and Michigan now we get to talk about
2020 so former Massachusetts governor
friend of the pod Deval Patrick has
decided against running Orange County
lawyer Michael avenatti has also decided
against running there were reports that
better or Roarke and Andrew Gilliam have
both met with our old boss Barack Obama
to talk about potential 2020 bids Joe
Biden this week said that he'd be the
most qualified candidate in the field
but is thinking about his family and
will decide soon Elizabeth Warren
delivered a major foreign policy speech
Kamala Harris has got a new book coming
out soon which is what you do when you
think
about running for president and there's
about you know four or five hundred
other people considering running so
before we get into it Dan how much how
much should people be talking about and
focused on 2020 at this point I as much
as you want to be right it's it's now at
this point it's like political sport
right it like if you're interested in
this is a great day to focus on the
election itself is obviously well the
massively consequential for the future
of the Unites States of America and
democracy more generally but none of its
gonna be decided for a very long time
and so you know might like I think
people should be interested or their
candidates are interested in follow it
closely see if they decide to run and if
they decide to run watch them early on
and see if they are saying things and
doing things and proposing things that
are interesting to you and if someone
inspires you you can start working for
them either work on their campaign or
just volunteer for them and in
innumerable ways and so like it is
interesting if you also want to after a
very exhausting two years want to take
the holidays often watch I don't know
Christmas movies or a reality TV or an
amazing NBA season you can do that too
it's it's like this is option this is
optional political viewing right now
yeah and look I mean just to compare it
to past elections because always feels
like you know the the presidential comes
earlier every cycle but at this time in
2006 December 2006 I believe Obama was
headed to New Hampshire to give a speech
and where that sort of raised the
speculation about whether he was gonna
run I believe you had walked into our
Senate office to interview for a job by
December maybe in December pretty yeah
pretty close to that pretty close to
that I think and I think it was first
week of January Gibbs told me I was
moving to Chicago
and then I think you know in Fame then
in February Obama announced so this is
the time that you know people start
announced candidates announced they
staff up this is what happens so it is
early but it is not it is not earlier
than than previous cycles now and people
people should get started
because has our old friend and boss
David Plouffe uses say the only non
replenishable resource in a campaign is
time you can raise more money you can
hire more staff you can run more TV ads
but every time the clock ticks that is a
minute you don't get back and so there
is urgency because organizing and
organizing well takes time that building
a campaign and building it right takes
time and you can either put the starting
line in January of February of you
basically a year out of the first
primary dates or you can do it six
months out and so you can either do a
year's work in a year or a year's work
in six months yeah so what you know
obviously one of these candidates who's
trying to figure out whether he'll run
is better or Roark we haven't talked
about the piece you wrote for crooked
comm arguing that beto should run and
that if he does he'd be one of the
strongest candidates why do you think
that Dan well I would say that I really
felt some sympathy for journalists after
writing that piece because you always
hear journalists like scream about the
fact that no one reads the whole thing
before they react to it and I definitely
felt that because in like the fifth
paragraph or something I made the point
that I like beto I am he is a friend of
the pide I'm very impressed by him I
also like a lot of other people who are
running and I wasn't arguing that he
would win or he should win it was the
quote most electable candidate which I
think that's one of the most
arguments ever or even that when the
California primary rolls around early
2020 that he's necessarily the person I
would vote for I was mainly making the
case for his political strengths and I
doing that from the perspective of
someone who like you worked for a
candidate with a short non-traditional
presidential resume who had found a way
to inspire people prior to running for
president and so all the sort of
weathered critiques from sort of the old
sort of Washington political observers
about why he shouldn't run or didn't
have a shot seemed very familiar to us
because they're the same most people
said about Obama but does it mean like
we don't know whether better Oracle
great presidential candidate or not he's
got to get it and see I hope he runs
because there there was a formula for
winning that is critical information is
you have to run as a progressive who can
inspire the base yet also win over
independent voters in because there are
more Democrats than Republicans in the
country but when you start allocating
those voters in two states that make up
270 electoral votes you're gonna have to
win some people who voted for Gary
Johnson some people who voted for Trump
some people who voted for Romney and
what better work did in Texas show
showed the ability to do that on that
stage there are other candidates who I
think also have that ability but we
needed there are very few people who can
do do the an both thing of excite the
base and win over swing voters and
better was showing that potential there
others who do as well but I want us many
candidates to get in there who had that
ability as Ken because the more the more
the merrier in my view yeah yeah we were
we were all surprised when we saw Axios
report crooked media got career media
endorsed betta because he wrote a piece
saying that he should run and works
listen the piece that you're not even
sure if you're supporting him yet no I
mean I they did nicely they did after
they did correct it I said it some nice
emails corrected very nice well we
should say just because we're starting
to talk about 2020 stuff look like it's
obvious we've all talked about how we
like beto here you know it's been
reported and you should all know that we
are we're co-producing committees
co-producing a documentary that was
filmed about Beddoes campaign there's a
documentary film crew following him
around the whole time so that should be
exciting will see that March but in
terms of 2020 in the primary here at pod
save America and cricket media in
general like we are not we are not
making any endorsements here we want pod
save America we want Craig immediate to
be a place where every 2020 candidate
feels comfortable coming talking about
the future of the party why they're
running for president you know we have
sherrod Brown on in a couple minutes or
hope to talk to all the candidates like
and the reason we're doing this is
because it's not just for like company
reasons it's like as
activists I actually believe it's
incredibly important that whoever we
support in the primary and it's gonna be
a tough primary it's gonna be a lot of
candidates that we all come together in
the general to support whoever the
nominee is and I like all the candidates
who are potentially running right now I
won't be happy to support all of them
whoever wins in the in the general
election because there's literally
nothing in the world more important than
 beating Donald Trump in 2020
nothing and the thing I worry most about
in this primary is like we should have a
great debate over the different
candidates their positions on issues how
they're gonna govern what their
experience is all of them let's have
that debate but I really hope people
don't get into oh well I'm never gonna
vote for that candidate if he wins or
I'm never gonna vote for that candidate
if she wins or there's I I have a litmus
test on this issue and if this candidate
doesn't meet the slickness test then I
won't vote for that Kay Doral vote for
Trump Bravo for a third party I want to
try to avoid that because these are all
real we have an excellent field of
candidates in 2020 all of them have
something unique to offer all of them
are exciting all of them we should be
able to get behind and that doesn't mean
we shouldn't have it like a contentious
debate even at times where we really
argue about the policy in the positions
that each of these candidates take like
let's have at it but let's just at the
end of the day not get so far down the
road with our own candidate that if
another candidate wins we throw up our
hands about it like you know I'm genuine
but that's what we're gonna try to
practice that here and because we're not
just like your your typical pundits
we're not gonna pretend to not have
feelings about each of these candidates
like we're gonna talk about when they do
something great when they do something
inspiring you like you you know we do
like better we've said that here too we
also love sherrod Brown who we're gonna
be talking to soon also love a bunch of
other candidates and we'll be saying
that I don't expect us to trash
candidates here I think just to be
honest about how we feel about
candidates but you know in general we
want this to be a place we want this
sort of be neutral ground for candidates
yeah and I think the other contact this
is not just
are you know our attempt at neutrality
of sorts because it's not I don't even
think neutrality is the right word
because we I think it's more
transparency yeah that's right look Joe
Joe Biden was Barack Obama's vice pres
for eight years he was also my senator
my entire life yeah being from Delaware
and he has someone I have known and been
around much of my life you can't live in
Delaware and not be around Joe Biden
small state and he's omnipresent and I
have a lot of very very warm feelings
about him I had me I have been a
lumberman of Kamala Harris since she was
knocking doors in Iowa from Barack Obama
in 2008 and Elizabeth Warren has been on
the pod a million times there you know
there we we know like this is the first
election in my lifetime where I had sort
of have relationships or have worked
with or colleagues with a lot of the
people who are running and I want to
basically want to see it play itself out
because you just don't know the by
looking at someone's you know there were
how they performed in a Senate race or a
governor's race and trying to like
project that on to a presidential race
both a primary and in general is like
watching someone playing in a beer
league softball game and then trying to
imagine them pitching game seven in the
World Series
right it's just that the different you
just the stage is so big the scrutiny is
so high the stakes are so great that you
don't know one how people will perform
on that stage based on what you knew
before and you have no idea
sitting here today in December of 2018
what voters are gonna want in the late
winter spring of 2020 when Democratic
leaders make decision or November of
2020 when voters make their decision
like the world is gonna change a
thousand times it will change three
times between when we finish recording
today when the pod comes out so imagine
what's gonna happen in two years right
candidates stumble candidates shine who
you wouldn't expect to shine I mean it
all kinds of stuff happens and also like
no none of these candidates is going to
be pure or is going to be perfect and
we're gonna know that there's something
wrong with all of these can
it's because their opponents in the
primary are gonna point out the things
that are wrong with their record we're
wrong with their policies right so like
everyone is gonna get roughed up here
and I think you know as voters that
doesn't mean we shouldn't like settle
for less right we should we should
support you should support the candidate
who inspires you most who makes you want
to go out and knock on doors for that
person who you think's gonna be a great
president but know that every single one
of these candidates has faults and has
taken positions on things that you don't
necessarily support none of them are
perfect on every issue some of them are
great on some issues bad on other issues
like that's gonna be the case all across
the board so just you know this is for
folks who spend a lot of their time on
Twitter like us unfortunately and when
watching cable news and all the rest but
like you're gonna see bad about all
the candidates and just take a minute to
during you know during this primary to
listen to each of these candidates
yourself to really do your own research
on them to go to some events if you can
you know like they said because of the
primary color moved up they're going to
be all over the country and they're
gonna be competing in all kinds of
states because there's so many
candidates and really just take a minute
for yourself forget about what everyone
else says forget about
electability and ask yourself what you
believe how you feel when you watch some
of these candidates speak and when you
watch some of these candidates answer
questions and do interviews and that to
me is like sort of the just for whoever
is deciding whoever you may support
that's usually the best way to do it I
think so there was also a Washington
Post story this week about how the DNC
is trying to avoid the kind of debate
 the Republicans went through
in 2016
instead of having an undercard debate
which they did back in 2016 and the
Republican side DNC wants to mix it up
so that some top tier candidates appear
with some lesser known candidates so one
way to do this is you know maybe there's
one debate Tuesday night one debate
Wednesday night and they all pick from a
hat to figure out who's in the Tuesday
night debate and who's in the Wednesday
night debate what do you think of this
plan Dan and are you at all worried
overall about too many candidates
cluttering the field and the message I
am not worried about too many candidates
cluttering the field I don't that's not
people who say was the
18 Republican candidates that allow
Trump to win are idiots that's not what
allows him to win it was the appetite
for racist populism in the Republican
base that allow Trump to win and the
general incompetence of Marco Rubio Jeb
Bush that's why Trump won so I'm not
worried about that I did I think the DNC
debate idea at least for the first I
don't know however many months of
whatever they start is the right choice
because polling is a snapshot in time
yeah it doesn't tell you tell you how
voters feel today it doesn't tell you
how they're gonna feel in January and so
if you were to just do the if you were
to do this by the rules applied in the
Republican primary you if I remember
this correctly in 2016 there was a
threshold it was like that top eight
candidates were on stage one and the
bottom eight were on stage two or ten
and six or whatever the number of
Yahoo's was that's what it was and the
problem with that is is it grants
immediate advantage to the cancer the
candidates who've been around longer
with a higher name ID yeah right as
opposed to some of the younger fresh
faces who may have something to offer
and so I think I think mixing it up is
good let's see let's see what happens
the question will be when you get closer
to the Iowa caucuses or the New
Hampshire primary or the California
primary at that point will it make the
most sense if you presume the field is
still very large at that point to have
you know like once della or maybe even
once delegates have been s are being
allocated yeah
to allow actual delegates to determine
who gets on the stage so because you do
I think in the end voters should have an
opportunity to see the six people who
have an actual reasonable chance of
winning what six the six is a random
number but whatever that number is of
people with a reasonable chance of
winning be on stage debating each other
instead of you know the whoever's
winning at that point the person who's
in third and the person who's in 17th
and 18th place all being on stage at
same time doesn't seem like that is good
for anyone other than the future pundit
career of the person in 17th or 18th
place yeah no I like the idea for the
beginning too because it's also about
incentives right like if you know that
the only way to get into the mainstage
debate is to you
be at six or seven percent in the polls
I don't know pick a random number it's
gonna give you an incentive to just make
yourself known by saying something crazy
perhaps right like it's it's sort of
perverse incentives if it's based on
polling to try to get into that top tier
and I like the fact and it's not you
know it's not just the lesser known
candidates that this helps it's also the
candidates who are maybe a little
quieter maybe not like celebrity status
right like it's just it it is good to
have a level playing field at the outset
where your name ID the money you've
raised you know your celebrity status
doesn't directly affect how people can
hear how voters can hear from you on the
stage so I think it's a good move by the
DNC and of course you know the DNC has
under new leadership by Tom Perez has
learned from sort of the DNC of 2016
which people were worried you know put
its thumb on the scale for the Clinton
campaign and people can argue whether
that's true or not but that was one of
the concerns back in 2016 so I think in
2020 the dancies probably gonna take be
extra cautious in trying to make sure
that the field is the playing field is
level here I think you can pretty easily
argue that at least the debate strategy
and plan the DNC put out 2016 was done
explicitly to limit damage to Hillary
Clinton right like that like that seems
pretty clear pretty the debates like on
Tuesday night know it's like what's like
let's how can we get this debate
opposite the Super Bowl it's probably a
bad idea and debates are good and they
actually help the Republican Party in
the long run because they created
massive interest in that campaign now
that had a lot to do with Trump but I
suspect you will see very good interest
in the democratic debate field the one
thing I want to say about the debates
that I think is important and I hope the
DNC takes into consideration is how do
we structure these debates so that they
are about the things voters care about
yeah not the things that political media
likes to ask about a Trump like so tweet
about it right like like we should have
a debate about like it should be a
health care debate and it should be
about and it doesn't necessarily have
to be hosted by George Stephanopoulos
right it could be hosted by a someone
who is an expert in health care policy
right and they could be like an Ezra
Klein and Sarah Kliff right and just
like like you'd like we should set this
up so what Trump is going to be that I
saw Chuck Todd make this point on in an
event with Kara Swisher the other day
which was Trump is gonna be the first
president who commentates on the
Democratic primary on a daily basis yeah
and we have to think about that that was
a I think that was an important thing to
keep in our mind as we think about how
we structure this because if if the
debates set up where we we get our
candidates on stage however else it is
and Chuck Todd gets up there and Assam
it's like Bernie Sanders why did you
take NRA money in the early 2000s and
you know Elizabeth Warren defend your
decision take that DNA test and like if
it is all organized around the trivial
marginalia that political journalists
care about and democratic voters don't
care about then we are doing a
disservice to the process like this is
the debate should be a debate about
issues and policies not a debate about
your ability to withstand Trump's tweets
if and when they come as a general
election nominee and I worry that absent
some very strong guidance from the
Democrat Democrat the DNC we're going to
end up in a in a bad repeat of previous
mistakes yeah Donald Trump should not
dictate the terms of the debate and the
questions that are asked in the debate
like he dictates cable news coverage
right now which is why yeah I am worried
when a lot of a lot of the usual
suspects are asking questions because
they tend to focus on the latest Trump
tweets you know and and we do need a
very a very nuanced substantive
discussion about policy here so okay
well we will be talking to potentially
one of these presidential candidates
when we return senator sherrod Brown of
Ohio
you
