this thing's on right this is recorded
welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Jon Lovitz or later in the pod love
it talks to adam serwer of the Atlantic
about trumpism and the fight for
multiracial democracy before that we're
gonna talk about the president doubling
down on his racist attacks the
administration's latest restrictions on
immigration and whether or not Trump has
an electoral college advantage heading
into 2020 a few programming notes today
we're releasing the final episode of
this land where you can hear about the
next battleground and the fight for
native rights so check out that and be
sure to binge the entire series at this
land podcast.com binge it very
compelling exciting story just funny
funny what we've done to the word binge
Ben yeah we made it a good thing and it
wasn't for a very long now it's great
yeah just take all those pods at once
also big news about our LA pod save
America show at the Greek Theatre on
August 17th in addition to being joined
by Jamel he'll amanda seals best Kosan
Jim James Maggie
Rogers will be performing huge update
huge what a show another another benefit
I think my mom's gonna come out so whoa
let's know that you'll be in the
presence of the person that led to this
Wow
we got Tommy's mom and Maggie Louise see
you there
the show starts at 7:30 and proceeds
will be donated to organizations at the
forefront of the fight to protect the
vote across America so it's a good cause
it'll be great show get your tickets now
at crooked comm slash the Greek alright
let's get to the news over the weekend
the president made clear that he meant
it when he told for congresswoman of
color to leave America on Saturday he
said sorry
on Saturday he tweeted that he doesn't
believe the women are quote capable of
loving our country and today he called
them quote a very racist group of
troublemakers who were young and
experienced and not very smart and just
days after the president said he wasn't
happy with the sender back chance at his
rally in North Carolina he reversed
himself on Friday and said the following
to a reporter who asked if he was
unhappy with the crowds chant quote
those are incredible people they are
incredible patriots all this comes as
the Washington Post confirms the Trump's
original attack on the squad was not the
carefully planned strategy of a
political master
mind but the gut reaction of a dotty old
racist to a segment on Fox and Friends
guys what do you think of the Post story
it says that White House aides didn't
think that Trump fully understood that
his tweets were racist and said that
quote he thought he was interjecting
himself into democratic politics in a
good way so yeah well so one thing that
well one thing that comes across in the
pieces it was it clearly was a strategy
in a discussion they had to go after the
squad yes that is that is something that
they've been talking about trying to
insert thing about how to insert himself
into that to elevate those members it
does seem as though his way of doing it
was something that was more of a kind of
Jackson Pollock esque kind of
exploration of form so I think both
things are true and once again a segment
on Fox of Friends sets the national
debate the Democratic Party had its
worst news days in a long time when that
fight was ongoing and he's like I got it
guys jumps in tweets the worst thing
possible and unites us behind our
reminding that we hate him a couple
things on the what he said over the
weekend one it's just he's always
projecting right like he's a man who's
incapable of loving anything but himself
and he's accusing them of not being able
to love their country I don't think
anyone should be surprised by the
pattern we saw this is exactly what
happened in Charlottesville
he was rebuked for being a saying
shameful disgusting things and he walked
it back a few weeks later because he
cares more about looking weak than he
does about actually treating people with
decency and humanity but you know what's
unfortunately depressing and still the
case is that Republicans in Washington
don't view racism as a moral or an
aesthetic to our values antithetical to
our values the country at least not
publicly they talk about it as bad
politics and the media often adopts us
framing in the discussion that should be
about right and wrong and moral and
immoral becomes laundered through the
prism of a political strategy discussion
whether this will turn out his base or
you know fire up people on Twitter and
it sucks
and then the final Republican move is
always to play the victim and say the
Democrats are really the racists and the
squad they're actually racist and they
hate their country and that they the the
good people at the Trump rallies are the
ones being victimized so it's the
 we've seen for years yeah I
mean last and last week also we were
told by various pundits and strategists
that calling out Trump's racism might
actually help Trump on the Republicans
but it's clear from the Washington Post
piece that a bunch of Republican
politicians and White House aides didn't
agree oh yeah it begins of course with a
obviously very personal account from a
White House insider who cares only for
the country explaining how Kellyanne
Conway was very upset very Satan was
like hey you went too far in Trump was
like I don't understand what did I say
yeah which is like which just goes to
show you how racist Trump really is is
that it's not he doesn't even know when
it's racism he's just like oh well
that's my belief that they should go
back to their country he's is that a
problem
again projecting it's in his bones the
racism was grown inside of him it's a
part of him it's who he is admit you got
this whole Washington Post piece too
with all these Republicans strategists
donors who are like you know they
privately disagree or this you know no
one wanted to touch it one of the
advisers said no one wanted to go to him
and talk about how this was bad Lindsey
Graham says is quoted as saying he
realized that part of it was not playing
well which is to your point that we're
gonna skip the moral part of this and go
right into the political strategy and
then this was a quote from one of the
donors who were all upset Republican
donors quote you put your head up and
you get it cut off this person said and
then everyone remembers you weren't
loyal when this blows over yeah which is
says so much about the entire
Hollywood party at this point is that
like there's a bunch of people who know
how wrong this is but they don't want to
be the one to say it's bad because Trump
will punish them like this is this is
what happens in authoritarian regimes
all right it's it's a tragedy in the
Commons you know no one wants to be the
first one to pop their head up because
you know they're they're they're afraid
they're gonna get their heads taken off
and actually they're correct they are
correct because so few relic Republicans
have been willing to stand up to Trump
whenever anyone does it
Trump directs the full force of his and
tippet antipathy at them and yet that is
not an excuse because first of all when
they have decided to say something
together it has in the past matter we
have been through these cycles before
the Washington Post in The New York
Times have run many of these stories if
Trump crosses a new line the internal
deliberations about how upset they were
about Trump crossing this in the new
line and none of them knowing how to
convince him that he made a mistake yeah
I mean if you dare to speak out he makes
you chief of staff for six months and
tortures you like Remus you know you can
tell the writers are getting bored in
season three though because we're also
seeing the emergence reemergence of the
Ivanka as Savior narrow yeah which you
know thank God for Ivanka which is why
we're still in the Paris climate Accords
the woman's right to choose protected
you know LGBT rights are being respected
you know she is like delivering on this
getting rappers out of jail in Sweden
platform from the right or they
it up but I want to talk about where
Trump and the Republicans plan to go
from here so the post story says quote
like others Lindsey Graham urged Trump
to reframe away from the racist notion
at the core of the tweets that only
European immigrants or their descendants
are entitled to criticize the country
advisers wrote new talking points and
handed him reams of opposition research
on the for congresswoman pivot to
patriotism focus on their ideas and
behavior not identity some would still
see a racist agenda the argument went
but at least it would not be so explicit
so basically their strategy is
don't say that these women of color
should leave the country just say that
they hate the country is that is that
what we're expected to believe that the
Republican Party's strategy is here and
I presume that that subtlety will not be
lost on the chanting hordes of they will
Trump rally
attendees yeah no they're all definitely
I mean it's just the idea that pivoting
to questioning people's patriotism is
the good strategy is the more mild
criticism now when you know for a long
time in politics when you started saying
that someone hated the country or didn't
love the country that in itself would be
seen as completely outside the bounds of
normal political behavior is is somewhat
troubling actually I agree it is
troubling John much a good way to just
maybe see their birth certificate but it
is clear that this is how they want to
this is how the Republicans want to
frame the 2020 election if they can
right like they they don't they know
it's not popular to do to go as far as
Trump went but they like the idea of
elevating these four congresswoman
in making this election about are you a
real American or are you know but I
don't even know if it's that the Lindsey
Graham explicitly said he said quote I
don't think a Somali refugee embracing
Trump would be asked to go back in and
quote so they're not asking me if you're
an American or not they're asking if
you're a Republican or not and if you're
a Republican then you're on their team
and you're okay and then anyone else
can't say what they think or believe and
like what would their trying to what
they're trying to say is yes you have to
be a Republican to be a Republican to be
a real American exactly and this is
where I get a little frustrated with the
press because this Craven strategy to
pivot away from and pretend you didn't
say something racist has been laid bare
in the Washington Post and is obvious
from all the tweets and all the comments
from his supporters and the reporting
will fall into this frame and become
bloodless again in a moral and be like
well how's it playing in you know
Wisconsin or whatever state and it
drives me crazy right well because like
you say in the Washington Post story
we're basically being told that we are
being lied to all the time by these
people like this whole this whole veneer
that all the Republicans have have put
up about how like oh it's not really
racist and it's about all the bad
comments these congresswoman made mobile
we know that's a lie because we see
these stories and we see Trump's tweets
like they are bullshitting us yeah we we
know he didn't introduce the idea of oh
the real reason that they're so upset is
because of several old comments by Elon
oh ma by Elon omar from months ago that
is actually what has been driving this
entire things just a lie it's just
illogical is what it's retconning to
explain what he did before and there's
too many people willing to go on with it
because either they they want to because
it's better for them or because they
have their own equities and see a lot of
value and attacking Elon omar themselves
yeah and you know that they're not
feeling great about their argument when
they send out their two biggest
bootlickers to the sunday show so you
had Stephen Miller and then Mercedes
slap who you know would just say or do
anything Donald Trump told them Rudy
Giuliani is still in his cage somewhere
we haven't seen him mccrane trying to
take yeah he's got a match he's gonna
he's got a magnifying glass and a
fingerprint duster he's in Kiev
well I thought when you said two biggest
bootlickers time me I think gonna say
Mike Pence too who was also on the
sunday shows and was asked or he was
interviewed over the weekend and asked
about the chance at the rally and he's
like I think if it happened again he may
say so yeah that was incredible that's
the other thing too is you know we're
about to have he's gonna do another
rally I find it very hard to believe
that Trump supporters who are just as
aware as us as to what Trump really
cares about
and once wants them to do I do not
believe that they have taken the message
of the past two weeks don't you stop
shouting shouting Center but no that's
right so let's talk about the Democratic
response over the weekend
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez said quote the
president's policies are not about
immigration they're about ethnicity and
racism and this sentiment was reflected
in a great piece by greg sargent at the
washington post over the weekend who
wrote quote it's now in arguable the
Trump's overall immigration agenda is
shaped around the broader goal of
preventing as many people as possible
from getting asylum and refugee status
here even if they qualify for it on the
merits it's also an arguable that
underlying that is the goal of
dramatically reducing the number of
immigrants admitted to this country and
as Trump's own rhetoric has repeatedly
confirmed this is inescapably about
reducing the number of non-white
immigrants here so how should this link
between Trump's racist statements and
his broader policy goals shape the
Democratic response is this a fight that
we need to have or do we think that you
know like a lot of pundits have
suggested we have to sort of pivot away
from this to talk about broader economic
issues in health care and all the way I
agree with everything Greg wrote and I
think it's indisputable that the
ultimate goal is to have no refugees no
asylum seekers no anyone that isn't
currently living here or of white
European descent coming to this country
I think the Democratic strategy here
should be to pivot to impeachment
immediately there is no zeal like the
zeal of the converted I'm a recent
immigration impeachment advocate but I
just think that we I don't wanna have a
fight where the media is relitigated
like whether this is racist or not or
whether you know some comment that was
made by a Democratic member of Congress
ten years ago I want to start litigating
his crimes all the things he's done and
said and
his corruption also knowing that it
drives him crazy and that he'll
continue to lash out and make it about
himself and I think that's the train
where we end up winning yeah love what
do you think
hey Ozzie also I think put it in broader
context about you know this is what he
believes about immigration
this is his agenda here's our agenda
right it's a more human it's a
humanitarian and reasonable immigration
system but it's also action on health
care its action on all these on this
host of other issues I just look we've
said this a million times you you cannot
abandon you know you you cannot abandon
an argument about Trump's moral
unfitness
his his racism his undermining of our
basic tenants as Americans but you also
cannot abandon a larger argument about
how this fits into the policy debates
we're having you just we have to do both
it's the most you know it's the minute
so it's it's a bromide it's obvious but
it has been true it will continue to be
true and no matter what these things no
matter how these fights unfold we will
always have to do both be honest and and
fight him on on the ways he's dividing
and attacking the basic ideas of what it
means to be an American while not losing
the bigger argument that that fits into
about why he is dividing people around
immigration is because he has no answers
not just for not just for white
Americans but for black Americans for
brown Tamera's he has no answers for
anyone in this country yeah I mean look
I think it's important to understand
that Trump's racist tweets as racist
comments they are not taking place in
isolation right there's this broader
policy agenda attached to it and I think
because there's a broader part of policy
agenda attached to it specifically
around immigration which is this is
mostly about I don't think I don't think
Democrats have the luxury of running
from that fight and we've talked about
this too I mean while we've been talking
about these tweets over the last couple
weeks they announced that the Trump
administration wants to accept zero
refugees next year zero we saw that they
tried to end asylum for anyone coming in
through Mexico seeking asylum just today
it was announced that they want to have
expedited removal expanded to everywhere
in the United States not just a hundred
miles from the border and also affecting
anyone not here for at least two years
as opposed to two weeks so and I believe
that's actually the more serious part of
this because you know the one
hundred miles own actually includes huge
portions of America already but this
idea of you get stopped on the street
and you need to prove immediately yes
your documents documentation here's two
years or you could be just removed from
the country without without the
intervention of a court is terrifying
yeah and I just want to be clear when I
want to fight those policies to the
greatest extent possible oh I don't
think we should ever be silent in the
face of his nativism or racism or
nationalism I think though that for the
national media narrative we need to go
on offense and start taking it back to
who he is as a human being the
corruption the crimes the policies and
just create a narrative of our own or
else we will just be whipped around I
completely agree with that I think in
the short term that's absolutely right
this is partly a question about for the
long term for the for the Democratic
candidates in 2020 right like Trump is
gonna do this a million times between
now and the election in November and I
still I am still concerned that and love
it you've talked about this a long time
for a long time now the Democrats don't
have a positive forward-looking message
of their own on immigration and that
it's always either we want to end
Trump's inhumane immigration policies
and when they attack us say oh no we're
not for open borders but we don't
exactly say what we are for you know and
I think on you know in the last
democratic debate there was a lot of
talk about like decriminalizing the
border and health care for undocumented
immigrants both of which are extremely
unpopular policies there's a new poll
out today about that mm-hm and yet that
same poll shows that citizenship for
undocumented immigrants which is where
you know which is what Democrats have
been pushing for a long time would make
a huge difference in the lives of
undocumented immigrants in this country
is it sixty four percent approval people
think it's one of the best new ideas so
like I do think Democrats have to be
able to have a message on immigration
that says we want to end Trump's he
million policies we want to make sure we
give citizenship to the people who've
been in this country for a long time
we're undocumented immigrants but by the
way yes we do want if you come here and
you're you come here by crossing the
border as an unauthorized immigrant
crossing the border we will send you
back yeah you know after we've already
legalized 11 million people here like we
do need to people like oh well you don't
need to do
all this stuff just to please
Republicans it's not about pleasing
Republicans it's let it's about letting
Americans know here's here's where we
believe here who's sorry it's about
letting Americans know exactly what our
immigration agenda is yeah that's right
all right let's talk about 2020 over the
last few days the New York Times and NBC
have both published pieces by Nate Cohn
and Dave Wasserman arguing that Trump
could have an even greater electoral
college advantage than he did in 2016
last time Donald Trump lost the popular
vote by two point one percent but walked
away with 306 electoral votes and this
time cone argues that Trump could win
reelection while losing the popular vote
by as much as 5% he also says that the
president's advantage could grow even
further in a high turnout election which
could increase the Democratic candidates
margin in states like California or get
us closer than ever in a state like
Texas while doing almost nothing to help
us in must win states that are dominated
by non college educated white voters
like Wis again sorry voters like
Wisconsin Michigan and Pennsylvania guys
what was your takeaway from these cheery
pieces it's the worst thing I've read in
a long time I didn't like it
thank you for making me read it even
more in-depth and talk about it they
know it's it's seriously intensely scary
I mean I think maybe we need like a
swear jar for polling where where we and
all our listeners every time you like go
deep on a poll or read an article about
you donate $1 the unifier die set fun so
that we feel some agency and like our
ability to shape things like we can win
this election we can shape these events
but there are some structural
disadvantages we have in terms of
demographics terms the electoral college
and all the states where they've put in
place the toughest voter suppression
tactics possible yeah I love it yeah you
know it's a reminder you know it has
people if you ask people was Trump a
fluke a Black Swan event that no one
could have ultimately seen coming or was
Trump's victory though perhaps unlikely
the culmination of a huge number of
forces in our politics cultural social
political electoral I think most people
would obviously agree with the latter
phrasing of that and then you say well
how many of those dynamics have
fundamentally shifted since 2016 I don't
think we'd save any money and I think
these kinds of polls are a reminder that
the dynamics we saw play out before are
still in play today well like in the
economy at least the your view of how
the economy is doing is coming better
right
in fact he's benefiting and so the
reason is these studies are particularly
worrisome is so the New York Times
estimated Trump's approval rating among
people who voted in the 2018 midterm so
we do have an election to look at right
and this approval rating that they
estimated is more accurate than your
average poll because they matched it
with actual election results right so
this is a very accurate view of Trump's
approval rating in these states at least
for the people who actually went to the
polls and voted in 2018 and we also know
that from all the other polls since 2018
that the approval rating hasn't really
changed much since then so it's pretty
static so the good news is that
according to these approval ratings
Trump is currently underwater he's under
50 in states that totals 310 electoral
votes so that's good news it's possible
like you said Tommy but in many states
that we need it's really close so in
Wisconsin his approval is 47% and a
reminder that we won the governor's race
there by a point in 2018 and in Arizona
it was forty eight point nine percent
and we won the Senate race there by
about two points and the reason that I
mentioned Arizona in Wisconsin is
basically if you look at the map if we
take back Michigan and Pennsylvania in
2020 which is somewhat likely because in
Michigan and Pennsylvania in 2018 we won
democrats won by a really good margin
and Trump's approval rating is it like
44 45 46 so it is there's a good not not
definite but there's a good chance we
take back Michigan and Pennsylvania
guarantee they're gone Favreau says we
will win you get you do Hillary states
Michigan and Pennsylvania and that is
not enough to win the electoral college
which means that you definitely need
Wisconsin if you lose Wisconsin the next
most likely state is Arizona and maybe
also just another way to put what you're
saying is if we've won Wisconsin it
seems quite likely we love also won
Michigan and Pennsylvania however based
on what we're seeing now it is possible
to win Pennsylvania and Michigan while
losing Wisconsin that's right and I
think the important thing here is look
at your national polls and you can look
at them for responses on issues to
underst
and how the whole country view something
but in terms of horse race for the
electoral college for 2020 just
throw away your national polls because
they are garbage throw in the trash
remember that there's 50 million people
in California that are kind of tipping
the balance here and then convince some
friends to move the Midwest it mean
really this thing is gonna probably come
down to Arizona and Wisconsin and their
two states are very interesting too
because in Wisconsin you have a little
bit of a lower approval rating for Trump
but as as Nate suggests in the article
boosting turnout in Wisconsin may also
boost the turnout of non college
educated white voters of which there are
too many in that state compared to
Pennsylvania in Michigan and so when
everyone says oh our coalition can just
be people of color boost turnout among
African Americans and Latinos and then
college educated white voters and that
should carry us through in Michigan and
Pennsylvania there are probably enough
of those voters to do that in Wisconsin
it's really tough right like Tammy
Baldwin
right very progressive senator LGBTQ one
of the few LGBTQ senator is very
progressive for Medicare for all
she won Wisconsin by 11 points in 2018
and that means that she won a fuckload
of Obama trump voters a lot of non
college educated white voters so this
idea that the only way to win over those
voters is to somehow trim our sails and
like change our positions and moderate
ourselves is not necessarily true but it
also means that we can't write those
voters off we can't just sit here and
say oh no no no we can have a coalition
of people of color college-educated
white voters and and young people and
then non voters and that's it like
that's just that math is not correct in
the state of Wisconsin it's correct if
you want to win the popular vote right
and then it's corrective something it's
correct if you want to win the popular
vote it is not correct if you want to
win the popular vote and the white house
we just we've said this many times you
said this million times it is a
combination of inspiration and
persuasion we have to do both one one
thing that I've just been thinking about
as I looked at a lot of these polls you
know there was there was one poll that
aggregated a ton of data and it looked
at a subset of people they were more
evenly divided between Trump and Clinton
and actually a lot went to third party
candidates in 2016
they voted 58
for Democrats in the midterms and these
are people that give Trump a slight
approval on the economy yeah but are but
slightly disapprove his slightly da are
somewhat disapproving of his conduct as
president and in part they and they
point to his conduct his tweets his
childishness though he's undermined our
reputation in the world and what I what
I thought when I saw that is I think
sometimes we combine two kinds of
moderates and I think it might actually
be helpful to split them in half and I
we talk about people that are are we
talk a lot about people that are
culturally Pro Trump right
yeah and that are being hurt by his
economic policies but there's another
group of people that actually find Trump
repeal it but actually find some of his
policies appealing and I think sometimes
around the economy around the account or
at least his stewardship of the economy
and I don't like his tax cut and they
don't like the health care his health
care position there yes those are awful
but in the economy overall they're like
okay yes and they are sympathetic around
trade and they are sympathetic around
regulation right that's just that's just
who they're I'm sorry I'm saying they're
sympathetic around trade and they
largely view the economy in part because
of what Democrats and Republicans have
said for decades as something the
president is responsible for all that is
a way of saying the job for Democrats is
really really hard and and it's it's
both about showing people who might be
sympathetic to Trump that actually he's
hurting them every single day while also
making the case that we're making all
the time about how reprehensible and
unfit Trump is for office it's it's a
really really difficult task
well that that conduct question that
Kahn did that conduct response in that
poll is why again I do think that an
impeachment proceeding is a hell of a
lot better time than passing a bunch of
message bills out of the house that no
one will ever hear of care about find
relevant in their own lives because it
will highlight all the things they like
least about him and very likely lead him
to do a whole bunch more stuff that they
will also find unsavory and frustrating
in on presidential that said we as
Democrats who aren't serving in the
House of Representatives I wonder why we
aren't or the National Party isn't
spending all the time registering voters
in Milwaukee Madison and then the entire
state of Arizona B's that feels like the
whole ballgame like Florida
might be lost and that's not just
demographic changes I don't think like
Trump has been running a very miami-dade
focused presidency right he is he's
doing all this outreach to Jewish voters
he's done this huge Cuba Venezuela play
they're running tons of digital ads that
are targeted on these issues down there
like I think we need to step up our game
a little bit as a party big time in
Florida and we're lucky that Andrew
Gilliam is working his ass off to
register a bunch of voters there but
Florida demographically you're right
Tommy should it has been very close and
it should be moving towards us but it's
not so something is very weird about
Florida in Wisconsin you know I Tom
Perez since he's became chair of the DNC
has been like obsessively focused on
Wisconsin and he's been they've been
investing a lot of resources there and
we've got the convention there and our
friend Ben wiggler previously of MoveOn
is now the party chair in Wisconsin so
and Ben if you if you look on Twitter
Ben's been trying to raise money for the
Wisconsin Democratic Party which would
be a good use of your money to donate
there because of how important Wisconsin
is and hopefully similar efforts are
underway in Arizona but I do think those
two states love it actually represent
the two different types of swing voters
that you're talking about right and this
is the difference between the northern
battleground states of Wisconsin
Michigan and Pennsylvania of which there
are many Obama Trump voters non-college
educated white voters and demographic
change is not really hitting those
states as fast as it is some of these
Sun Belt states like Arizona Texas and
Georgia which are moving towards us but
we're in a weird moment where the Sun
Belt states have not moved towards the
Democrats faster than the Midwestern
battleground states in the north are
starting to move away from the Democrats
so we're in this tough spot right like
Texas and maybe four eight years from
now very well because the Democratic
Change increased Latino turnout could
very well be a democratic state and then
that changes the ballgame but do we
still have an America then yeah about to
say like man right when we're about
right when Texas turns blue that's right
when we're gonna think elections aren't
worth having it also this exact same
conversation was being had about Texas
ten years ago yeah and I've been waiting
on this for a while where Lucy with the
football but but they're really tough
part for Democrats is is straddling the
line between these voters who are
you know mostly located in these Sun
Belt states who are a little bit more
moderate on economic issues very
culturally progressive so open to
Democrats these are some of the like
they were never Trump Republicans they
used to be independently used to be
party Republican party they have been
driven out by Trump's behavior in
corruption all that kind of stuff and
they're open to Democrats so that's one
group but then you have another group in
in the in Wisconsin who are you know
economically populist and probably like
Medicare for all and infrastructure and
all these things Democrats are talking
about but are more culturally
conservative on immigration and they did
vote for Obama so it's not like they are
racist beyond belief here and we
shouldn't say that but like they are
they are open to Democrats some of them
and they are not as and they are not as
persuaded by the arguments around
Trump's moral unfitness and are too
sympathetic to the to the immigration
arguments that he's been leveling
against Democrats for a long time and
that's it and we need ya and we need
both of those voters we don't need all
of both scripts of them but we need some
of both groups and and by the way that
does not mean you know and we've also
said that you have to do that this is
why it's so hard you have to do that
while also not while inspiring the
millions of young people
yeah and college-educated voters and
voters of color who need a champion and
deserve a champion at a time in which
the president is in on is it is an
avowed racist in which our institutions
are under threat in which the president
is exacerbating system a systemic
injustice in every way that he possibly
can so you know I think we are focusing
on these voters you need to persuade but
what we've also talked about for such a
long time is you have to do that with
while also not not not presuming your
coalition will be there for you for even
one second because that's also a mistake
that was made in 2016
you got that Democratic candidates so PZ
people who liked Rick's nominee they got
an easy got a cakewalk you gotta get
more voters than them and a bunch of
 states this is basically what
we're describing is the part of the film
entrapment where Catherine zeta-jones
has to move through the laser beams to
get to the safe or painting I
don't remember
entrapment starring Sean Catherine
and Catherine zeta-jones what where it's
a number that I remember the crawling
through the lasers yeah hey doing I
don't you know me I don't watch any
movies all right when we come back we
will have Lovitz interview with Adam
server of the Atlantic he's smart
you
