um - pod save America live Tommy Vietor
to my left Vitor veter been my friend
for a decade yeah I've known each other
John for 12 years Priyanka on the ones
and twos hey got a cornucopia in the
queues and a is we got a cornucopia of
donkeys - metaphor for the debate lost
on no one Yael said asses hmm
interesting
horn of asses cornucopia of Democrats
messaging Rocky you want to kick us huff
no no like don't you guys have something
to tell us oh that's right this thing is
brought to you by this very stream that
you are currently watching who's it
brought to you by Tommy The Times of New
York the New York time ever heard of it
you want to talk about a credential New
York Times the truth matters I believe
is what they say no it's worth it I
don't know New York times.com the best
it's where you get all the news site for
all the news yeah get your sports yeah
they have a good cooking section
yeah cooking section Hillary's email
section huge admirers and fans of the
New York Times and thank you for
sponsoring for them our debate coverage
we love the time and is very stream we
also love the daily with Mikey Barb's we
love Mikey barter Lee listen every day
love the galley he tweeted us yesterday
he did he did he's a fan he tweeted us
while we were talking about the debate
which is what we're gonna do now grain
cool great seamless good transition
let's do anything all right so last
night we heard from Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren Pete Buddha judged
better o'rourke Marianne Williamson Amy
Klobuchar John Hickenlooper Tim Ryan
John Delaney and Steve Bullock for two
and a half hours really long
time so long to Enfield's highest
pulling in most progressive candidates
Bernie Sanders an Elizabeth Warren were
there and based on punditry previews you
might have expected them to be going at
it the entire time except it ended up
looking like they spent most of their
time
fielding attacks from more moderate
candidates like Delaney Bullock
Hickenlooper and Klobuchar prompted in
part by CNN's questions mm-hmm
the debate covered a lot of substance of
ground though candidates talked about
health
immigration bracelet reparations a bunch
more so let's get into it shall we
mm-hmm let start with an overview what -
you guys stood out among this two and a
half hour long escapade as big stand-up
moments what were your big takeaway is
big takeaways I would say I mean the
moment to me that I think was both a
dynamic moment in the debate but also
something that captured the larger
conversation that took place over the
two and a half centuries that we watched
was the moment where Delaney I believe
it was Delaney I don't know one of the
one of the moderate men shokichi cab
yeah yeah a little adderall under his
nose do you could just kidding just good
that one came at Bernie and said you
don't know you don't know how it works
Bernie said I do know how it works I
wrote the damn bill and no no one says
it was Tim Ryan Ryan
no one says I wrote the damn bill like a
75 year old Brooklyn Jew I mean I I
wrote the there was so much um there was
so much throat mm-hmm in it but it did
capture I think the dynamic that largely
played out over the course of the debate
which was especially around health care
a bit on immigration some of the other
issues like trade was one in which you
had Bernie and Elizabeth Warren
defending the left position against
varyingly successful moderate attacks
from people like Delaney Tim Ryan John
Hickenlooper Steve Bullock and others
while then you had mayor Pete who I
thought was playing a different game and
playing it well the sort of the kind of
arguing for making his I think that is
making a less ideological case for the
kind of arguments he's been making for
his own candidacy yeah radical one sort
of political reform moderate on policy I
think is how Dan summarized it last
night take away from me like I didn't
really buy all those previous stories
that Bernie was suddenly gonna go after
it was with Warren or vice versa I don't
know that's in their interest nor
I'm not sure on what grounds it would be
I think that a lot of people came at
Warren and they came at Bernie and I
don't really think they landed a punch
despite the fact that there are like
real policy differences that you know
could cause you considerable problems in
general election that some of the
candidates on the stage hold and others
do not
I don't know that the moderate
candidates made the case in a way that
was beneficial to them maybe they got
their names out there look look john
delaney talked too much in my opinion
given his relative stature in the debate
but he we're talking about him right now
got his name out there so that's no yeah
yeah you know I also think the moment
where Elizabeth Warren said I don't know
why you would run for president to say
what you wouldn't fight for and things
we shouldn't do I'm paraphrasing it but
it was really well said and I think
spoke to the strength she had in that
debate you know to me I think the
candidates at the top of that debate
Pete Bernie Warren they know why they're
running for president they really do and
so when a moderate tries to attack their
position they don't really show weakness
in the sense of they don't act as if
they are vulnerable to that criticism
because I think it's a criticism they've
already thought through and come to a
different conclusion around that doesn't
mean they're right right there's I think
a debate about should Democrats be for a
public option that leaves private health
care in place where should we be for for
Medicare for all that's a that's a
worthy debate but to me the places where
I think you saw the real tension between
you know whether it's single-payer
actually more on immigration was when
the moderators were pushing them totally
on those questions yeah the questions
were constructed to be like you know
love it you said you hate dudes who wear
the sweatshirt of the company they
worked for previously Tommy's wearing
one right now doesn't offend you it's
like what the fuck'd I didn't say
anything
yeah they want it yeah like there was
one specific moment where they really
tried to make it an argument because
Delaney was there they had tried to make
it an argument against Delaney and it's
like I don't need to see Elizabeth
Warren take a shot at John Delaney again
life has already taken all the shots at
John Delaney that it needs to take you
know to get him to the place where he
has spent what
fifteen million dollars to achieve the
zero percent in the polls like one
question where I thought you did see a
real difference right is on 1325 this
emotion this immigration law around D
criminal this question around
decriminalizing the border I mean that
hooli and Castro has brought to the fore
in a big way something Pete and Mayor
Pete and Elizabeth Warren agreed with in
the previous debate I think you saw two
different approaches to a question that
I think both those candidates at least
you could see in their eyes felt as
though they didn't braced an unpopular
position and I think you saw Pete in an
uncharacteristically squirrely moment in
which he really wanted to not be the
kind of politician who changes what he
says week to week about the same time
trying very hard to not say basically
the position he took directly and I
think you saw Warren be a little bit
show a little bit more of a facility to
dance around that while still I think
more full-throated ly embracing her
previous position let's talk about the
questions really quick actually wait a
minute we have a request from Elijah for
the viewers of the stream
can you please like the video before we
get to the next question please he says
he is asking and begging you see I have
some water here it's cuz we're thirsty
what who you want the people watching ya
to like the stream yes that's it so that
other people will see it so the
algorithm so the algorithm will reduce
in the algo well grab this video and
just show it to people in line at their
Chipotle's I'm assuming yes and they're
paneros Bret he's nodding so yes okay
but we get to the next the next question
basically long lines of what you guys
were saying about this question stop
questioning style why is CNN pitting
candidates against each other this
person asks is there a strategy or are
the moderators just horrible people more
interested in ratings than in helping
the American people how do you type that
question on that high horse of yours
hard you guys had to have one hand on
the saddle and one hand on your phone
and be worried about falling from your
very high horse wing enemy of the people
look all three of those moderators are
good journalists good people we know
them personal
it's an unbelievably difficult job you
have ten people on stage if to know all
their positions you have to think of
smart questions to move the conversation
along years to get them to adhere to
rules it's tough that said to criticism
like I think there should have been more
topics moved to a little more quickly in
my opinion maybe it's just a hobby horse
but I wanted hear us talk about like war
in itself I think the time restrictions
even though everyone had agreed to them
felt a little weird when you're cutting
people off after 15 seconds like I just
don't get how that became the rules but
again not the moderators fault right
they're enforcing rules that were
predetermined they did construct
questions in a way to try to elicit
exchanges and at times it can feel like
the framing of the question is a
Republican attack on a democratic policy
and that is annoying but it's sort of
par for the course so yeah you know I do
think sometimes people are critical of
debate questions when really they are
critical of the format and actually
critical of Democrats if if there is a
question that is framed around say a
Republican criticism on whatever issue
it may be there's nothing wrong with
asking a question like that and testing
the candidates on that question I
obviously would really like there to be
a range of questions but it's incumbent
upon the candidates to decide how they
want to answer a question and whether
they take it at face value you know a
lot of people criticize Chuck Todd for
saying raise your hand raise your hand I
don't think it's a very good idea to
have candidates raise their hand in a
debate I think it's very silly I think
it makes them look silly I think it is a
a unfortunate practice that reflects
poorly on anyone who participates but
the candidates can then say hey you know
what Chuck I'm not raising my hand just
a tiny bit more combat him think you saw
Bernie do that a little bit I think you
saw Warren do that a little bit and I
think it was for the most part good but
I didn't I know that this was a I didn't
find myself watching the debate
believing that there was that the
moderators were creating problems for
the candidates whatever the questions
may have been yeah I don't raise my hand
for like the check at a restaurant you
know me now fill out that stuff we're
not children do you uh do you do a this
do you I definitely have done that now
now do a wave do you believe do you do a
check mark or deuce
some people write the word check in the
air oh come on you just do this I did
you just squiggle Mon less wiggle wiggle
actually I got to take out need alone at
home check please
he said to no one seeing what I see how
many more comedians and cars with coffee
are left it's a great show
sorry racket you're right do you guys
think that Warren and Sanders kind of
deliberately avoided each other
avoided one another in favor of broadly
highlighting progressive policies last
night felt like the media initial spin
was seeing Sanders versus Warren rather
than what we saw III don't I I just
think like they have a lot of common
cause on the issues I think there's a
genuine admiration and respect there
these are two people you know I think
Bernie moved democratic politics and was
ahead of democratic politics in the
primary in 2016 I think Elizabeth Warren
is someone who has been ahead on a lot
of these issues too so it's but and and
so on top of that personal kinship and
policy kinship there's also a political
reality which is there ideologically
aligned and so are many of their voters
so it doesn't surprise me that the two
of them would look left and right and
kind of stand back-to-back ready to kind
of fend off the marauding moderates
surrounding their encampment to paint an
image mm-hmm like that I like to do okay
David is asking am I crazy or did
marianne williamson actually have a good
night what do you guys think about what
we suffer I'd like to talk about the
aliens in Marion I just watched her on
CNN where they seemed to give her all
sorts of credit for getting Google a lot
that evening right basically now look
she spoke passionately and honestly
about our nation's history of you know
treating african-americans horrifically
from slavery to the Reconstruction era
through Jim Crow right she's right about
that
she made a compelling case for
reparations so setting that answer aside
I thought the rest of her answers and
love and I were talking about this she
often she
documents documents that's weird she she
diagnoses a problem which is the
Democratic Party sometimes responds to
emotional Appeals and sort of the
visceral gut level Trump attacks with
high-minded policy ideas and facts and
things and she's right on a process
argument that like you can't necessarily
beat him that way we're gonna have to
like reach people in their hearts and in
their guts but she makes that fair point
about process and then pivot system dumb
critique of like Democrats as being a
bunch of like bookie eggheads and I
think that demonstrates that she doesn't
really know what she's talking about
when it comes to policy and in fact has
written some weird about you know
health care or disease treatment or
can't like she's got some views that are
way out there I don't think she has any
business running for president based on
those qualifications and I don't think
we should get sucked in by someone just
making some process argument about how
to beat Donald Trump that doesn't do it
for me yeah I agree
it doesn't and and and you know if she
wants to be taken seriously then you
know she will get the serious attention
which will demand more of her than she's
currently had to offer yeah I mean to
tommy's point Donald Trump does call
upon dark psychic forces in this country
he has wielded them to terrible purpose
and she is also right that we need a
candidate who speaks to the opposite of
that that that speaks to our better
angels that calls upon emotions just as
strong but what she says is we need a
candidate who is going to appeal to
people in the opposite way Donald Trump
has he understands what Donald Trump
will do and understands why we need
something else the next sentence has to
be that case that argument never makes
it doesn't exist it just never actually
happened so it's always we need a
candidate who's finally gonna do X and
we if we don't do X we're gonna lose
never gives us the X and you know on you
know what she I think you know she
deserves credit for making reparations
part of the the conversation I am more
interested in hearing what candidates
with more skin in the game have to say
on
topic because it is easy it is easier to
take a politically unpalatable position
or at least one that is Cle as a hard
political position to take when the odds
of you winning the nomination are very
very remote versus candidates who are
actually taking political risks and
believe they are doing so with an eye
towards winning the nomination and
winning the presidency so to me I think
the test is not what can one candidate
say on a debate stage but how can that
translate into what other candidates are
willing to say willing to push for when
they believe that when they're doing a
delicate balance of building a coalition
and trying to win okay can we really
quick before we move on from this topic
can we sort of talk about what's going
on online here this almost like Nima
fication of marianne williamson what do
you guys think about that is there a
danger to that do you think that's like
fine and funny I feel about the sort of
unification the sort of ironic support
of Mary Ann Williams and the way I do
about the ironic supporter of Mike
Gravel I don't think that politics is
funny I don't think it's a game I don't
think it's a chance to around on
the internet and get some yucks and try
to stir the pot I think we're in a
deadly serious moment and people's lives
are on the line and we have a fascist in
the white house and we need to be really
serious about how we're gonna beat him
and so I don't have a lot of time for
that and like I look we say this is
people that laugh a lot and goof around
don't take ourselves that seriously once
you decide to run for president it's
very serious act and it should be
treated accordingly and I'm just I'm not
gonna ironically support Harry and
Williamson memes this time yes or
anything I agree with all that and I
also find it a bit patronizing for
someone to be on that debate stage and
say I've had enough of all this
wonkiness you know these are big policy
questions and they're debates we
actually need to have if not only do we
want to win but we want a government you
know there's a reason Republicans have
been unable to repeal Obamacare despite
having campaigned on it for a decade
it's because they didn't have the hard
policy questions at all along the way
and didn't build a mandate and didn't
build a coalition around a set of ideas
so we want to actually address
these important questions we need more
than emotion we need a sincere emotional
and values-based and principle-based
plea but we weren't you need to do more
that's all I thought one confusing
policy moment in the debate was with
Steve Bullock and this person is asking
if you can decipher what he was trying
to say about nuclear weapons because it
seemed like even he wasn't quite sure
what he was talking about yeah so okay
Elizabeth Warren has signed on to a
piece of legislation actually that says
the United States will not use nuclear
weapons first
we wouldn't nuke someone as a first
strike the idea behind nuclear weapons
is you have it in your arsenal as a
deterrent
so if somewhere to nuke you you could
completely destroy them it's supposed to
prevent everybody from using nuclear
weapons that like a typical stance or is
that Obama didn't go that far
Obama didn't have a no first use policy
I wish he had the idea is that you can
send sort of a moral message to the
world that the United States wouldn't do
that that we wouldn't nuke somebody
first under any circumstances
however we would of course reserve the
right to respond with a nuclear weapon
if we were struck Bullock in the course
of his answer kind of like Miss referred
to nuclear non-proliferation but like
that's a slip of the tongue that you
could kind of understand but then later
he said I wouldn't want to signal to
North Korea or on these other Desp it's
getting nuclear weapons that we wouldn't
respond if you were to nuke Detroit or
something like that and it's just like
showed that he fundamentally didn't
understand the debate in any way and it
was frankly embarrassing for him and he
needs to bone up on foreign policy
because in his conversation with John he
didn't really seem to have a great
handle on a couple foreign policy topics
either and that's like the area where
you have the most autonomy as president
yeah I I just think if you're gonna like
no first strike is I think a moral
position that Elizabeth Warren has taken
if you want to stand up on that stage
and tell her she's wrong about it you
probably should be able to explain why
yeah totally like when I interviewed ash
Carter he was former secretary defense
on my show he was opposed to it and he's
like the reason I'm opposed to it is cuz
no one is gonna actually believe us the
Russians the Chinese they will never
believe that we wouldn't use them first
so it's sort of a meaningless
declaration and
you know you went down a series of
reasons why he opposed it and look okay
that's fine like that's a reasonable
case to make I don't agree with him but
like yeah no you're talking about if
you're gonna pick a fight yeah got it
all right on the foreign policy topic
this person from Instagram asks where
are the foreign policy questions ah I
don't know
it is like Ben Rhodes I mean look we
have people in fighting in wars in
Afghanistan Iraq much places like it's a
disservice to them not to least have a
slightly more thoughtful long discussion
about the things they're working on I
look like love it was saying earlier I'm
glad we got into like considerable depth
depth on health care it's a big
flashpoint in the primary maybe they
were looking for areas where the
candidates disagree and that's why they
didn't get to these areas I hope I
suspect like the Iran deal will come up
tonight because Cory Booker is in a
different place than others but like
Bernie on pot save America said some
very interesting things about
withholding US support to Israel to
change their behavior that's a huge
issue in a primer I was shocked it
didn't come up yeah so should these
debates these lengthy debate it's cover
every topic or should we have maybe more
but that cover one or two do you think
you know it's a hard question I want the
debates to cover a range of topics I
also recognize that even twenty or
thirty minutes when you have ten people
standing on stage makes it hard to have
a substitute some substantive
conversation I thought the healthcare
debate at the top of the of the of last
night's debate felt it was it was both
long and unsatisfying that's not them on
the moderators at all that is just a
reality of what ultimately amounts to a
very combative ten person forum because
there are so many people standing side
by side so I don't think that there is a
good answer right now I would I think my
my view would be I would like to see
after this once we get into the third
and fourth debates when we have one
stage I would then be interested in more
concentrated conversations and then as
the field narrows down 20 minutes on a
topic goes longer goes further and
further because there's fewer
were people talking number three gonna
be one stage or it we're not sure yet
looks like it yeah I mean it's people
are slowly starting to qualify what do
we have like six or seven yeah we have
so we write six or seven I don't you can
you know we know the ones that are
already qualified you know Bernie Biden
Warren poot Pete Beto is qualified and I
think Booker is now qualified and Kamala
Harris is qualified andrew yang
qualified Andrew Yang qualified we may
get clover char and maybe one more I'm
not
I believe Booker's not qualified but I'm
not sure maybe just on the donors but
what and maybe and maybe marianne
williamson may qualify that i think has
to be a legitimate possibility totally
so regardless it does look like we're
heading towards ten a single debate
night got it oh boy let's pray what do
you guys think of different mediums like
if we televised streamed podcasted what
do you think will these always be or at
least for now be two TV debates or do
you think that they would work in other
formats I think there are radio debates
there's more forum styles where you yeah
which are more just like interviews sort
of at the same place in the same day
look i televisions the medium through
which most people are gonna view these
things get their news i mean i includes
streaming on that too so like i'd i
think it's fine what's your dream set up
for a debate like no audience like a
round table what kind of situation do
you think would be most effective for
getting substantive answers or dialogue
or what have you you know i have to say
i don't have as much of a compunction
about the current format III see people
complain that the audience's cause
people to kind of goose what they say
and play to the crowd and the crowd you
know changes the feeling of the debate i
see the argument for that i'm just
saying i i i saw debate last night in
which there was no obstacle to a very
substantive discussion about healthcare
when there were moments in which
candidates allotted the actual debates
at hand whether it's you know questions
to delaney around single-payer versus
questions to warren about
whether taxes would go up for middle
class the reason that those the reason
we may not get a true head true kind of
straight on argument between two
candidates on the specific question
asked in which they actually talk about
the pros and cons of that one act one
axis of concern which is kind of what
you wanted a debate has nothing to do
with the format it's because politicians
are gonna want to talk about what
they're gonna want to talk about and
avoid admitting to the flaws when they
don't want to talk about the flaws so I
am less concerned about format that's my
view we had a question from Brian on
YouTube wants to know if you guys think
the DNC is handling a large number of
candidates better than the RNC did
previously mmm yeah I do I think the
undercard like jvb team debate is it's
just it sucks you're stuck there forever
right but whereas you look at our setup
and like Julian Castro had a good night
and it kind of vaulted into something
whereas I think if that debates on it
like 3 p.m. Pacific it's probably not
getting the same play yeah I mean
they're planning people being critical
of the DNC but I think that there's a
lot of problems that are absent that
we're not noticing because they don't
exist which is I think the candidates
are being treated equally
yeah and in an unwieldy field of 20
people you know maybe there's
alternatives but it's hard no matter
what so I don't know yeah got it well I
had a question for you in the aftermath
of yesterday and then today what do you
guys think having been on campaigns and
experienced debates from that
perspective moves polling and public
opinion the most is it what happens on
these debate stages are they other
moments on the campaign trail like what
changes people's minds or wins you
support is it other people dropping out
of the field and then getting more of
their supporters like what is kind of
changing you know who people go it's
cumulative I mean there's not like a you
can't really like sort I think sort out
the variables
I think debates are critical
opportunities to introduce yourself to a
lot of people who may not have seen you
to mix it up to show you have the stuff
that it takes to beat the Republican in
the fall the winnowing will happen later
on the things we'll be talking about in
January will be probably a bunch of them
will be completely surprising novel
issues that arose through reporting or
or whatever so you know it's
gonna take a while and I mean I know
we're not predicting but you're not
pretty not ask a prediction no no in the
time between now and the next debate I
predict you're asking if you don't make
the debate like what happens to your
campaign if you don't make debate number
three well I mean first you know they
you get they bring out that kind of
metal its kind of a metal cage and then
they strap you into that and then right
before they dip you into the lava this
priests kind of this kind of priests
figure comes out and he does take your
your heart out of your body and what's
crazy is you stay alive and then he
holds the heart up to democratic voters
and then you are loaded into the lava
and then the heart catches fire and
that's how you know that you've been
given over and that you're no longer
part of the Democratic primary um that
is your question yeah no I look III
think I said only he'll be able to if
you don't make the debate so no one's
gonna give you money so you're gonna end
up having to drop out so you're talking
bill to raise money but that's my
prediction yeah I think that's right I
also think that there are candidates who
would rather bow out gracefully than
kind of hang on I don't know if that's
Delaney but it's certainly some of the
more prominent senators and governors
who I think sincerely wanted to take
this chance but don't actually want to
self-immolate to make a point
um so yeah okay we got one final request
from Elijah who wants you guys to like
the video again why aren't you doing it
listen to Elijah what's going on alive
anyway what is going on what what are we
what what what are we supposed to make a
bet how are we supposed to feel the new
people please like our video please
anyways don't like it right now all
right now on to the fun questions guys
let's talk about group Fred
okay guys like it what's it like so
group thread group thread it is a brand
new innovative revolutionary crooked
media format where we basically have a
slack channel that you can read in
real-time along with the debate it has
been actually a truly great way I think
to talk about the debate as it's ongoing
so that you can watch the debate but
also follow along with our
conversation it's kind of a mini version
of Twitter songs Nazis and and it's been
um because we've won you know we've
talked a lot about like how do you kind
of comment on a debate in real time
Twitter's one way to do it but if you're
doing a video or like a Mystery Science
Theater thing you can't really
understand what's going on so this has
been like the perfect balance and it is
so much fun I love your thread I'm a
huge fan
we're huge fans it's like you know what
it's just nice you know like have that
kind of mentality that you're just
chatting the out of tweet doesn't have
to be perfect
doesn't have to be spelled correctly and
you're just kind of going back and forth
road testing ideas talking candid I
think that group thread has gotten us to
be more honest about our actual opinions
than almost anything else we did we
finally were let you know everyone wants
to be nice you wanna like be a dick
personalities came out start getting
real yes
getting real okay yes I think yeah yes
but it I also just want to note that for
the previous debates and ideally for the
futures debates you we also be able to
kind of watch the debates streaming
along with the group thread that is
ideal hopefully CNN did reach out to us
preemptively
to ask us to not include their live
stream even if we used ads which I think
was persnickety mm-hm and hopefully that
is a decision we can reverse with them
and with others in the future because it
was a great opportunity for a lot of
people to watch a debate where the
ratings did go down from the first
debate to the second debate
yeah a little fj occurs a it doesn't
work at every network so hopefully we
can ok yell bet yeah I mean just my
opinion I think it's a lot less anxiety
and do thing than watching something on
Twitter and in real time the twittering
I had Twitter just moves too fast too
it's like you can't keep up with it I
find myself reading the tweets not the
debates right group fed
michael Barbaro to tweet us so toxic
twitter the toxic environment that
combines both self-expression and
self-promotion in which you're expected
to both be completely authentic while
also protecting
protecting yourself from saying the
wrong thing and the wrong thing is
defined differently by virtually every
single person so there's that there's
that aspect alright love it can we talk
about my very fun Saturday babysitting
your dog yes
Priyanka took care of pundit for a day
while I was at a wedding and she did a
wonderful job pundit was in there was a
spring in her step that I think carried
through all the way to Monday Wow
thank you for doing that I sorta made
out to well you know look we liked we
have a lot I we love dogs and dogs love
us but it's amazing how much more they
love you when they discover you feed
them so that's a funny thing where'd you
take her what'd you do how did I had
quite quite a day we okay well first we
tried to walk back from Lovett's house
she wouldn't leave so I had to carry her
for like at least a few blocks my girl
she kept trying to take me back to your
house I was like oh no no we can't go
that direction um she met a couple of my
friends we went to get ice cream we
walked around she made a lot of kids
were like her parents were like can my
kid pet your dog and I was like my dog
not my dog but yeah sure and she was
great she was great okay so sweet
went on a lot of walks we met my friends
two dogs golden retriever another bigger
dog pun it was totally fine she's a
little scared but like totally five big
dogs are scary sometimes
yes pundit pundit is um pundit contains
multitudes she is a little bit timid
with dogs out in the world so she does
get eventually comfortable however in
the office she does have a real alpha
streak joel's dog Iggy was here today
and again pundit our convivial they are
friends Wow but pundit does run at that
little dog full speed and pounce there's
a people's dog what I would say she's
the people's dog I wouldn't say a dog's
dog people parrot pond it this has got
to be too boring for people probably at
this ere enough content okay a pundit is
in the room can we get a camera up on it
improvise yell
mr. but there it is
guys I did we ever talk about the fact
that Megan Rapinoe was in this office
did we ever talk about this in one of
what I continued what was one of the
best moments of my life and I believe a
truly dark moment in the life of one
Emily Favreau Megan Rapinoe picked up
pundit said hello to pundit and then
Emily's like this is Leo and without
missing a beat
Rapinoe just you know withering sentence
Oh Leo not as famous as pundit it was
we're dodging your you know your friend
died in front of your eyes but it nearly
killed her and it was a kind of like a
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha get on the
phone with a public relations firm get
Leo out there get that Q score huh get
me some I said no one's ever even heard
of this dog what am I paying you
for my dog should be famous
anyways would you guys think about a
Bachelorette finale if we're asking the
rocks Favreau is that stupid was on
in my house when that guy started
singing the song I was like I'm out of
here
I hate these people I'm so why do
millions of people pretend that these
people are there to find love and not
find a future reality show to be on it's
embarrassing it's not a future reality
TV show they want Instagram deals Jimmy
cash same thing all this one what Fame
can I can I ask you a question Priyanka
about this about this world of The
Bachelor The Bachelor extended universe
if you will people do understand that
it's disgusting right
oh yeah it's the disgusting evil kind of
I would say that's why people walk well
but right but it's like it takes like um
like the fundamental good aspects of
humanity right like finding someone and
falling in love and exposing yourself
and being vulnerable and learning about
them as they learn about you and
hopefully building a bond as you connect
over deeper and deeper questions until
you discover that you're meant to be
together takes that idea and basically
makes it evil
well juxtaposes that well it's it for
television also then your friend
right and also then that which is nice
but so would you say that you watch it
ironically like oh this is so bad
or do you are you in Oh I'm not like in
in necessarily I kind of watch it as
like a social thing like that's my
friends got together on Monday I do a
little have a little wine is he always
like a jerk to these oh yes oh my god he
hates it he's like you're stupid and I'm
just here because they gave me a check
and I have no interest in your
relationships at all do you remember the
movie two points about this one remember
the movie stay tuned with with Ritter
formerly a Three's Company you don't it
came out probably before you were born
yeah but in this money this interaction
oh please excuse me I'm gonna be in my
zoo and we'll talk Oh he plays the
didgeridoo
does he really yes contains so many
talents act so many times so in the
movie stay tuned the the devil installs
a satellite dish in their home and they
only get devil channels and basically
the devil channels basically the
channels that show evil reality shows
and evil competitions in whenever that
movie came out the early 90s have become
actual television ninety to ninety two
stay tuned
Eugene levees in it it's a classic the
great movie second point the film The
Hunger Games meant to be a commentary on
how awful it would be if children were
competing to the death for sport to
contain a dictators hold on a system of
government in the theater when I saw the
Hunger Games in which children are
trying to kill each other the movie has
some of them being good children and
some of them being bad children but of
course they're all victims they're all
victims but when I saw it when one of
the good kids good hero kids lived and
one of the bad kids
the evil children got murdered my
theatre applauded and I realized in that
moment my theater wasn't watching a
movie about a world in which there are
Hunger Games they were simply fans of
the Capitol's Hunger Games and I think
about that whenever I hear that people I
like watch the bachelor
[Laughter]
any other questions Bianca you mind it
was a compliment parity you enjoy Tommy
reality shows I mean look I watched like
a lot of seasons of real world/road
rules the challenge those were good
those were fun
I liked the chat those the challenge
where they had to like they had to do
yeah it was like CT took steroids for
six months and then just heat up the
whole house or whatever on Boston I am I
enjoy the what I consider to be the the
thinking persons reality show buckle up
all right what is it a survivor an
amazing race Oh The Amazing Race you
practically got Jules Verne in a in an
air balloon you know traveling around
the world sophisticated competition
using your smarts so you're not gonna
windmill it's queer I owe reality show
Oh kind of Yeah right like this see I
think it's been great I the first season
of Survivor the very first one is named
Richard Hatch and you think I'm not
gonna retain the information of a nudist
gay criminal from the first season of
Survivor you bet I remember didn't pay
the taxes we need a million dollars on
live television skips out on the taxes
that takes Trump Trump hutzpah anyway
that first season in that final showdown
amongst the three of them I would argue
is one of the most exciting moments in
reality TV TV and is the moment that
launched everything else it was insane I
remember want running around my my home
screaming it was so exciting
uncontainable were my emotions 37
survivor seasons what that right yeah
cuz they do twice a year I guess what a
world what a world
well wipe the stream oh we didn't know
before we leave if you care about our
debate coverage which you should you can
sign up to get our debate recap
newsletters oh yeah at votes of America
calm slash subscribe
you can read last night's recap crooked
comm / 20/20 UK there's gotta be a way
clean that up a little bit I wasn't
gonna say anything okay and you can
watch our group thread you come back to
our YouTube show crooked comm / Creek
it's not that alright it's not that hard
just so just just a sama go.com slash
crooked slash no threat no go calm go
dot cricut.com slash group thread for
the group's ready crooked comm / 20/20
for last night's newsletter vote save
america.com / subscribe for tomorrow's
newsletter tonight's yeah tonight's
tomorrow mm-hmm you got it it makes
perfect sense
loving it yep it's worth it is that ever
out of straighten straighten end of
stream end of stream
