okay sorry about that welcome back to
pop save the world I'm Tommy Vitor I'm
Ben Rhodes Ben it was very hard again
trying to figure out what the hell would
talk about today because they're just
way too much so hot gonna so the biggest
stories for those listening are probably
the European Union parliamentary
elections the total mess in the United
Kingdom
Trump's trip to Japan and the huge
splited revealed on North Korea policy
in his arm sales to Saudi Arabia but
there's like three or four stories that
we might get to before we get to this
week's guest Ron Klain who talked about
the Ebola response he managed in 2014
and the pretty scary outbreak that's
happening right now in in Congo so
packed show today let's do it let's go
okay well so the European Parliament
election so this is a legislative arm of
the EU they're the only EU
representatives that are directly
elected by Member States citizens so
they passed European Union laws they
provide some oversight over EU
institutions they deal with the budget
each country has a number of you reps
proportionate to its population in front
Lee there's 751 reps total which seems
completely unmanageable to me but what
do I know
um the elections were over the weekend
the results were mixed put interestings
the the headline seems to be that
turnout was way up some of these
nationalist parties that everybody was
worried about did better moderates did
very poorly but the Green Party did well
in some places with what was the big
takeaway for you when you checked out
these elections first of all I think the
main takeaway is like Europe is right
now the principle battleground between
and I don't like calling it populism
basically right-wing nationalist
politics and everybody else and this
election has been seen for some time and
it's kind of a litmus test because the
far-right thought that they would do
well in this election because they've
been attacking the European Union for
years right so the fact that it was in
European Union election they thought
would play in their favor because they
thought they could gin up an to Europe
sentiment anti-immigrant sentiment and
then get enough of their people elected
to kind of grind the business of the
European Parliament to a halt which
ironically then allows them to say look
how dysfunctional the European Union is
you know I actually think that they were
generally positive results this was not
the right-wing populist wave that some
of the more ambitious you know national
leaders had anticipated basically I
think in general the center held they
did not get enough seats to really be
able to kind of drive the agenda of the
European Parliament they're still around
like you know 25 percent if you look
underneath the hood of the results there
are a couple interesting things one
where did they do well mm-hm so
unsurprisingly countries like Hungary
and Poland that had become kind of more
right-wing nationalists they did well
Italy was the standout so this
politician Matteo Savini who's the kind
of leader of the far-right in Italy
comes from the northern Italy you know
Northern League party very
anti-immigrant very you know the kind of
vicious rhetoric Trump like rhetoric
against immigrants they did very well in
Italy that shows you that a country
that's like right on the you know the
border the Mediterranean has a lot of
immigration problems was more
susceptible to the that message but if
you look at other places particularly
like Germany which is usually the
bellwether for European politics there
was kind of a groundswell for the
alternatives so the Greens the
libertarians like the the non fascists
did quite well in Germany in Northern
Europe in Spain as we saw in the recent
election so in other words this wave of
nationalism didn't spread across all of
Europe it just came out of individual
countries where the far-right has gotten
a foothold then the other interesting
thing is not about the far-right it's
about the left and the Greens did very
well in this election the Green Party's
and if you look at again Germany the
Greens actually pull better than the
traditional center-left Party in Germany
the Social Democrats which tells you
that Europe is also going through a bit
of what we're going through here where
their left is trying to figure out okay
are we going to be the kind of
traditional business-friendly
center-left parties or do people want
something more and a radical sooo strong
award for it but
certainly more aggressive in promoting
social justice and standing up for
immigration and you know climate change
is obviously central to the greens and
so what that tells you is at the left in
Europe is gonna have to sort out between
the greens and the traditional kind of
social democratic parties yeah I mean I
think I normally think that there's
maybe some risks you trying to draw
lessons from European elections to the
u.s. one one because people do in such a
blunt way know the left is losing
therefore you know Trump will win again
but do you were there any global trends
or macro trends or trajectories for
these parties that you think might help
us better understand changes in our own
politics
I do because I what you cannot ignore
it's how similar these trends are in the
US and Europe it's basically a bunch of
far-right figures like Trump and or
Vaughn who demagogue immigrants and
attack institutions and attack elites
and use that to get into power and then
a bunch of people on the Left have been
kind of knocked back on their heels and
are trying to figure out how to get back
up right and I think the thing you draw
one is the turnout was very high I think
as you mentioned so like it's a signal
that people are politically engaged they
yet that the stakes are high you know
and that's I think good because I think
a lot of people the right had driven up
turnout I think what you saw in that
election is people on the Left turned
out because they were worried about
what's happening on the right you know
so that I think probably does forecast
what happened in 2018 and what might
happen 2020 here is just more people are
engaged that's good I think people in
Europe have been very aggressive and
pointing out the dangers of right-wing
nationalism probably more so even than
here here you know we have all these
debates about you know how much to take
on the you know Muller report and
impeachment there I think the people who
sounded the alarm bells and offered a
message of values like these people
don't represent our values on the right
here what here are the values that we
believe in those kind of appeals to the
kind of core values of the European
voter you know we you know we believe in
the European Union and we believe in yes
controls on immigration but diversity is
a value we believe in democracy is a
value the rule of law those appeals did
well in Europe just the kind of basic
building blocks of democracy
as part of a message and then I think
what you saw on the left is some people
again trying to figure out how much can
issues that people care about and left
like climate change galvanized voters
and the Greens are proving that it can
particularly young voters in Europe
turned out much higher than they did in
the past and I think some of that is
these movements you've seen in Europe
around climate change like the the
school walk outside of people saw yeah
but hundreds of thousands of kids
walking into school to protest the need
for action on climate
I think the greens are proving that
having an unabashedly progressive
message about climate change and an
economic fairness can turn people out I
think that's an interesting lesson too
and you know the main question is Zek is
is you know this question of populism
that has been defined around immigration
on the right you know finding a language
on economics in an equality I didn't
feel like they they necessarily were
able to do that you know so like in
France macarons party didn't do very
well he's had trouble showing that he
cares I mean being responsive to
inequality McCombs party lost to marine
lepen z-- party I mean they got smoked
by the far-right yeah after Italy I
thought France was the most concerning
because Poland and hungry you expect
maybe but but you know it's like a
midterm election people vote against
incumbent but again I think you know
good lessons on mobilization of voters
on having a values driven message
against the far-right on activating your
voters and issues like climate change a
little more work to be done on the kind
of populist message around inequality so
it's not dissimilar from what we're
seeing the Democratic primers are good
silver linings um one other story from
the these elections or that oh no I'll
say I mean our friends in the UK are
just a mess so Prime Minister Theresa
May resigned
some people are floating Boris Johnson
is the likely up next prime minister in
New York Times in particular then Nigel
Farage's four-month-old brexit party
took 31% in the EU parliamentary
elections like I don't really even have
a question here it's just everything
keeps getting worse well alright number
one
well this if I was European I'd be like
why the are the Brits even allowed
to elect people to the European part I
would be so this is why I
think the europeans are gonna lose
patience with these brexit delays cuz
like basically you have this arsonist
nigel farage this kind of racist
anti-immigrant arsonist who has one play
in his book and it's brexit and you know
he gins up his people to vote for him
and now he's got this 31% block in the
european parliament from the UK of a
country that wants to leave yeah
so why the are you allowed to be in
the parliament to begin with of you if
you're hoping is is you want to leave
that i think is a warning sign that the
europeans can't put up with this weird
situation where the brits are still in
but they're trying to leave then may i
mean what can you say what a catastrophe
i i continue to think that she did
something's tactically wrong like she
thought that she would wait till the
very end of the deadline and then pop up
with her deal and like four separate
vote for it and when she did everybody
voted against it but the core question
is like when the british people asked to
actually look what brexit is look at
what it is they don't like it yeah and
that's why it always fails and that's
actually not theresa mais fault no Nigel
Faraj won't articulate what Briggs it
means to him yeah any way shape or form
yeah and and and Boris Johnson is
indicated you know who's like the Trump
of he's a slightly more erudite Trump
complete with the weird hair and
everything but you know he said you know
a no deal brexit is the closest thing to
the will of the voters in the referendum
so you get AB or chanson in there a no
deal brexit which as we've talked about
could be potentially catastrophic
becomes a much more real possibility
yeah it's uh not good nothing good
Arnold Schwarzenegger sat down with the
FT and they asked ma Bragg's it and they
were expecting some long answer and he
goes here's what I do every single
article that comes up in my iPad I
immediately erase it because it's all
the same hello it's like a
documentary that's going on too long
that's a summary Arnold yeah pretty good
from Schwarzenegger I didn't do an
impression because that wouldn't work
yeah
all right you see the guy drop kick try
to drop kick yeah just barely budged
yeah pretty much he still got it he's a
big dude okay let's talk about Trump's
trip to Japan for a minute so Trump goes
to Japan he meets the new emperor he
plays golf with Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe a he went to a sumo wrestling match
which I have to be honest looked pretty
cool
cool um we did in Japan yeah but he also
revealed a huge split on North Korea
policy so Trump said that Kim jong-un's
ballistic missile tests don't bother him
and he refused to admit that they are
ASIC UN Security Council violation
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe a had
to meekly suggest at a joint press
conference that yes this is a UN
Security Council violation but he did so
in a way that was sort of carefully
calibrated to not anger Trump it just
I'm just imagining the many trips we
took to to Korea or Japan where the
press was looking for the most minut
differed a light on policy this is about
as fundamental a policy split as I could
imagine I mean it was pretty truly
remarkable yeah and first of all the
facts are the facts
there was a ballistic missile launch it
is a valuation of UN Security
these aren't debatable like you know SEC
Trump it's like you know
well actually standing up here to say
that two plus two is five and John Paul
seems like yes I drafted this
authorization that it violated yeah and
so this isn't like up for debate and in
the fact that he's still like hugging
Kim jung-un as Kim jung-un is giving
them finger and firing off missiles he's
so incredibly weak I mean I really you
know and I saw you tweet this said like
Beto had made this point that like he
keep continually sides of these
dictators and that's a sign of weakness
I'd like to see the Democratic
candidates calling this out this is
crazy like to have a presen United
States who has just been humiliated by a
North Korean dictator firing of missiles
denying that a missile launch took place
that nying that it's a violation of UN
Security Council resolution like is is
just the denial of facts alone and is
concerning now move on to the foreign
policy piece Japan lives right next to
North Korea like they are in the
crosshairs of these ballistic missiles
like even if they're not
intercontinental ballistic missiles that
can hit us they can hit Japan they have
nuclear weapons and missiles that can
hit Japan our ally we have a treaty
obligation to them right
we are literally their security
guarantee and for the president States
to stand there and say actually I don't
think that this is a violation and I
like Kim Yuna and say nicer things about
Kimmy on that he'd ever say about the
Prime Minister of Japan I'm telling you
that is a quake in Japan yeah in a
across Asia because what it says to
every US ally in Asia and we have
several is that you can't count on us
our word doesn't matter the president
United States doesn't give a and he
cares more about his relationship with
his murderous dictator than he cares
about the multi-decade commitments
America's made to you that we've gotten
a lot out of those commitments by the
way right I mean basically the security
and stability of Asia the growth of
global economy all these things that we
benefit from having stable Democratic
allies and so what does that mean that
means if you're Japan over time you're
gonna find ways to hedge against us
you're gonna fall potentially more into
the orbit of the Chinese right the
Japanese and Chinese have deep rivalries
but if you're a bi you're sitting there
thinking like well I better call Xi
Jinping cuz this guy is crazy
you know and and I I think we've
undersold the extent to which this
degree of recklessness on the global
stage is both making us less secure
because you've got this dictator of
North Korea who can thinks he can do
whatever he wants and it's just
completely collapsing our leadership
position because if allies can't count
on you they will turn in another
direction yeah look I'm glad you brought
up this question of how Democrats should
take this on we talked a little bit
about the some parts of America but I'm
wondering like if you were if you had
thirty Seconds to go at Trump at a
debate
what would angle would you take would it
be weakness ineptitude I mean when I
think about their their objectives like
their big regime change play in
Venezuela has failed he said you get all
our troops out of Afghanistan he lied he
did not he sent more North Korea the
diplomacy there is crumbling I mean like
what do you think is the best way to
make this case yeah I think you take
something that everybody already
believes about Trump which is he is
reckless and impulsive and unfit to be
commander-in-chief and that's having
real-world consequences that is hurting
you in your pocketbook because of his
crazy China trade war which is driving
up prices and hurting American farmers
and workers it is making us less safe
because he's being taken advantage of by
nuclear-armed dictators like Kim jung-un
and it risks getting us into a war in a
place like Iran
well when he said he'd keep us out of
the wars so his reckless and impulsive
nature is making you less safe and is
hurting you in the pocketbook and then
the second piece is this man is walking
away from all the values that Americans
have fought for struggled for and led
for four generations he is more
comfortable with authoritarian murderers
dictators than with our allies and
America needs to be America again in the
world and promote our values and stand
with our friends and stand against our
enemies and this president won't do that
and and that's a combination of the fact
that he looks out for his own interest
and his in and and frankly is
corruptible and because he's just not
fit to lead the the strongest democracy
in the world I think that you know that
those two the reckless and impulsive
connected to real-world consequences and
then the kind of undemocratic nature of
his leadership there's lots of off roads
to those two core arguments but I think
those are the two core arguments right
he's hurting you because of his
recklessness and making you less safe
and he's not standing up for the values
of Americans care about yeah I agree I
do think Democrats really need to go at
this because he's his numbers on foreign
policy are better than his general
numbers and that's just because I think
of a vacuum of an argument against them
so we did a poll so the organization
that Jake Sullivan I have national
reaction we commissioned a poll on Nash
security in the 2020 election and what
you find is if you if we message tested
arguments the arguments against his
foreign policy if you make them really
register right and it's in this space of
he's reckless and impulsive and that
makes you less safe and less secure he
cozies up to dictators and turns his
back on our allies if you actually make
the argument you get up into like the
60s in terms of like susceptibility to
it you're right on the surface his
numbers are okay they're not great but
you know people don't follow these
issues closely you have to make the
argument he's going to be making an
argument I crushed Isis you know I made
this breakthrough with Kim jung-un that
prevented war you know I'm made America
respected again the world
all three of those things are wrong you
know like Obama basically started the
effort that crushed Isis the North Korea
things been a disaster we're less
respect in the world than we've ever
been but he's gonna make that argument
so you have to come back at him with
something yeah but you can connect it to
your domestic message you know if you're
Elizabeth Warren you've made a whole lot
message about corruption at home you can
extend that abroad too yeah I agree and
trumps you know the extent that Trump
has any genius is that he knows that
people are gonna remember that first
Hanoi summit all the cameras were there
and in you know pretty diplomatic
backdrop and not follow up on the
substance whether a deal work but
speaking of Trump's favorite
authoritarian murderers last week the
Trump administration declared an
emergency to bypass Congress and
expedite arms sales to the Saudis and
Emiratis among many others Secretary
Pompeo valued the arms sale 8.1 billion
dollars the emergency of course was Iran
this came is Trump announced that he be
sending another fifteen hundred US
troops to the Middle East to counter
Iran then how unusual is it to use this
emergency declaration to force through
an arm's sale and like is there a
reasonable argument the Saudis don't
have enough arms and is there any way we
can keep them from using these in Yemen
well one it's very unusual right
particularly of this size and skin this
is a massive arms sale right
- there is no emergency with
Iran like this is the only emergency
with Iran is the one we are creating by
deploying a bunch of to the Middle
East and threatening them and pulling
out of the Iran deal in the Saudis in
their Emiratis like let's unpack this
well what are they gonna do are they
gonna attack Iran I don't know like what
what if it if it is an emergency related
to Iran then why are we selling them
eight billion dollars to the weapons it
doesn't make any sense no they're gonna
use us in Yemen so to get of course you
can use this in Yemen right and and they
connect everything in Yemen to Iran when
that is that is not the case right
there's a civil war in Yemen yes there
happens to be one party that the
Iranians have been aligned with but it's
not like Iran is like fighting a war in
Yemen there's a civil war in Yemen and
Iran like Saudi Arabia and the UAE and
many other countries have proxies in
that in that fight so this is a bunch of
 it shows you
how it's kind of a perfect window into
the the dark heart of the Trump farm
policy right because one it shows you
his complete subservience to the Saudis
that he's shoveling all these weapons to
them two it shows you how much they
don't give a about human beings
because these weapons will be used to
kill people and and potentially you know
accelerate a famine and Yemen three it's
part of their crazy Iran is the
boogeyman behind everything in the world
but then also there's this growing trend
of look if he doesn't like that Congress
won't give what he wants he just ignores
Congress right so this is in a direct
line to the the emergency you know
around the wall it's like I don't
Congress says no to me so I'll just say
well I'll ignore Congress and declare an
emergency like this is being used again
and again and it should should throw up
some red flags yeah let's take a quick
break we come back we're gonna update
you guys on that crazy video sting
operation in Austria some news out of
Turkey some weird NSA hacking tools that
are ruining people's day in Baltimore of
all places and then the age-old debate
Donald Trump has of steam versus magnets
I figured I just put in a break it
seemed fun okay yeah all right we're
back so last week we told you about this
wild sting operation that captured to
right-wing Austrian politicians hanging
out in to biza
with people they thought were connected
to a Russian oligarch an offering
government contracts in exchange for
political support so this is a good news
story because the Austrian Parliament
has removed the Chancellor and a
no-confidence vote he'd force a
coalition with these two goobers who
were hanging out and he's uh um it's our
old friend I forgot his name I think
he's accountability yeah yeah yeah yeah
this is great you blow the whistle you
expose corruption and then the house of
cards class people don't like it yeah
people people get upset and then
falls apart and then there's an election
you choosing your government it seems
like it's a pretty good way to deal with
the right-wing national yeah absolutely
I have nothing better to say but you
know if there's a lot of listeners out
there who have the ability to set up a
cool video sting operation and Ibiza for
a way yes kudos to the world those who
in Ibiza I guess not that I know what
they are but I I the only other thing
I'd say it's like it's a point that this
is why
Democrats shouldn't stop trying to
expose corruption right I mean look cuz
you know it's worth it to go in search
of what you think is happening because
you know you may come up with the one
thing that does break the camel's back I
mean we don't have parliamentary systems
and won't collapse the government but it
shows it like you know actually trying
to ferret out the corruption and expose
it to people rather than just kind of
talking about it is worthwhile yeah it's
good stuff took a creep to Ibiza it's
like that Mike Posner song um Turkey
less good story so the international
community is criticizing Turkey for a
decision to rerun an election that we
talked about previously on the show yeah
the Istanbul mayoral election prime
minister aired one's party lost a bunch
of municipal elections in a area where
that's usually his base of power but he
basically just refused to accept defeat
this is now calling for a do-over I
guess my question is at what point we
need to just acknowledge that Turkey is
becoming a dictatorship and that that
other one is fascist yeah I I think we
need to do that I you know I think that
the extent to which you know usually
what happens in these drifts towards
authoritarianism is everything goes
about elections at first you know it's
like the rule of law kind of falls apart
and independence of the media falls
apart and and it's basically a democracy
and elections only mm-hmm
but now he's saying like we're not even
a I mean they didn't really give a
reason you know they lost the election
so they just said well there's
irregularities and we have to hold them
again and they stripped all the power
from the mayor got elected that's just
straight-up authoritarianism and
I think we have to be more outspoken
about this and by the way be more
unabashedly
Saudi Arabian turkey let's take those
two examples it's time for the u.s. I
think you know to go farther than we
would were in the past to stand by our
values in part because this question of
democracy versus authoritarianism is so
prevalent round the world that things we
might have been hesitant to do before we
should do so with Saudi Arabia we should
not be selling them any arms period and
I you know if if we feel like there's
some risk in that I'd rather take that
risk Turkey I think it's time you know
we always comes at us of like aren't you
nervous about Turkey
moving away from NATO well you know what
it might be time for us to take that
leverage out for a bit of a spin and say
NATO is an alliance of democracies and
in fact if turkey doesn't get its
together then we're gonna think about
suspending some of the things they
needed us with you I'm like like we
should we should be more consistent I
obviously didn't like the trade-offs you
know that we had to make in government
right because of these things and
they're all kinds of security interests
with Turkey but you just get to a point
where you can ignore somebody's just
invalidating elections so after taking
away basically all kinds of you know the
independents that the media and the
judiciary
we gotta use our leverage other
countries use our leverage Russia does
China does like to say like no you're
not an alliance of democracies and if
you won't act democratically like we're
gonna take a look at this yeah we can't
just baby step around air21 because
they're in NATO and we want them to be a
part I mean at some point we have to
stand NATO is supposed to be an alliance
of democratic countries that's part of
the whole thing about NATO and I would
rather have an alliance that has the
credibility of everybody in that being a
democracy then putting up with goons
like or bond and and and an airline yeah
I'm with you um all right to sort of fun
ish stories to close the day out this is
a wild piece than your time so
apparently a leaked piece of malware
designed by the NSA called eternal blue
whoever names these things just kills me
um it leaked out and it's being used to
attack local city governments and hold
them for ransom including Baltimore
which is I don't know right down the
road from the NSA kind of problematic um
I don't know how any of these NSA tools
actually exist but it does remind you
that we are you know developing these
weapons that can be emailed is this
unprecedented thing in the Pentagon
can't email you like a missile right it
feels almost more akin to like a
biological weapon or something that
could easily be transported so I guess
the question I have and I'm really
walking back the idea this was a fun
question but it's like is there enough
oversight over these sort of tools and
activities like so here's the context
when the Snowden disclosures came out I
remember reading all this information
about NSA tools and
things they were doing be like whoa I
didn't no clue yeah I mean so I
felt it's like barack obama knew either
right so people like you and me are
sitting in the White House and the
highest levels of the national security
staff have no idea what's happening in a
more granular level in these
intelligence agencies like who does well
because it's so complicated that you
know what you know in the White House
and is like what their what the
intelligence is it comes to you and what
the tasking is you're giving them you
don't know what code they're writing or
what tools are using to hack into
networks you know I think without
disclosing anything in particular that
happened under us like this phenomenon
happened under us where some tool that
they had got out right and you know try
to figure out a way to make this do you
watch mr. robot go yeah great great show
right it's actually a pretty pretty good
window into the basically the idea that
they're just a lot of there's a subset
of people in this world who were really
smart about about I was gonna say
computers in the internet but not sound
like a but I mean who are
about this world of the owl systems work
in networks we understand the thing that
they just don't fit I don't know and and
and basically if the if the NSA hacks
into something or has a tool inserted
into something a really good hacker can
see that maybe reverse engineer it maybe
steal it
I mean I'd probably just oversimplified
it but basically if you think about the
few thousand geeks in the world who
really understand this some of them
work at the NSA some of them work for
the Chinese some of them work for the
Russians and some of them are just like
you know Anonymous hackers were
literally that group Anonymous and and
and so the danger is you know the NSA is
doing all this stuff to get into all
these systems and it's not like there
aren't other people who can see that and
who might be able to learn from that and
and do something themselves and then
what you have is this kind of
subterranean war taking place between
different foreign governments and
hackers and and we sometimes get
overconfident I think that what we are
doing to surveil others
won't fall into the wrong hands and it
has now happened repeatedly so many
times and so I think the bottom line is
you got at it there needs to be some way
for there to be a little more oversight
here about what is being done what the
risks are what obviously the risks of
civil liberties which you focus on on
first known but the risks are security
too because the NSA has the advantage of
doing stuff that not many other people
understand and in a vacuum that can lead
to big mistakes as we've seen right but
also in the instructor setup where your
access to information that is classified
is based on your need to know right so
there's a ever shrinking pool of people
that know about the most sensitive NSA
systems and practices and tools and look
I'll just say it like a lot of those
people are probably a little older a
little less familiar with computers in
the digital age
then let's say the people writing the
code at the NSA and it's like I wonder
if the oversight the capability level
needs to be recalibrated in some way
yeah and because you know that what used
to kind of hunt haunt me a little bit in
government is you know we get the PDB
right and get all this intelligence I
never I rarely did I know exactly how
they got it you know I mean like you
know they don't tell you well here's the
origin of all this right and the amount
of time it would have taken me as a
White House official to be like well I'd
like to know I'd like to be briefed on
you know what's the tool this is using
or who's the human source and you know
you don't have much treated with such
skeptics that whether it part of this
probably involves Congress and the
intelligence committees but in part of
maybe internal but there needs to be
oversight on how we collect intelligence
not just like what we're trying to
collect because this kind of keeps
happening and I hate to put on the NSA
cuz like the in defense at the NSA right
here's what they would tell us they'd be
like well you all expect us to you know
the policymakers expect all this Intel
right so we're just trying to get it and
and so what it you need is someone to
tell them yes but and this would Obama
did after Snowden
yes I'd want intelligence but I don't
want you to spy on the leaders of any of
our allies and so we made this rule like
you can't do that right and then they
stopped doing that like there needs to
be someone who will go underneath the
hood
and look at the how are we doing this
otherwise this is gonna keep happening
yeah right because none of us can truly
remember what it was like in the months
and years I guess right after 9/11 when
everyone was terrified of the next
horrifying attack but we stomped on the
gas and no one has pulled their foot off
and shovels money at these people in 15
20 years okay
actual fun story so a lighter note
apparently during the Japan trip Trump
was walking around on a aircraft carrier
with a bunch of US service members and
he was polling them on whether they
preferred traditional steam-powered
catapults on aircraft carriers or
electromagnetic systems and then he went
out and publicly said that he's worried
that the electromagnetic systems don't
work in the bad weather so I guess is
this the normal procurement process you
have some like nearly 80 year old
president bumbling around on an aircraft
carrier and that's how you decide how to
make the next generation of Navy Harbor
I I mean the so there's so many things
so many things to say about this I mean
the the first thing is look what does
Donald Trump even know what the
that is just even know like what he just
said aloud like the ring was the word
salad that came out of his mouth about
steam and electromagnetic and and like
no right so let's just start from the
premise that he has no idea what the
 he's talking none right because
that's that's an important baseline for
us to establish right number two
presidents don't normally get down into
the weeds of the functioning of aircraft
carriers and aircraft like that is not
like Jimmy Carter was like a you know
actually an expert on these things and
you didn't do that right I why
Donald Trump thinks this is a guy the
height of this guy's engineering
capacity has been the size of the gold
 letters that he puts on his
buildings and the shade of gold that he
paints his toilet right and now
this guy is going to take the most
important tool in the US military
arsenal our aircraft carriers and make
some like flip decision they will
probably
facts like the entire fleet of US
aircraft carriers and the entire
procurement network will be changed and
the way that like planes land on
these things will change decades-long
problem yeah yeah like and by the way
I'm just gonna make a pretty safe bet
that whoever decided how this should
work is smarter than Donald Trump
like whoever looked at this I guess yeah
wherever it is whatever nerds sat in the
room and we're like well should we use
steam or should we like that they
actually had some data that inform the
decision about the the engineering of a
billion dollars worth of aircraft
carriers it is so crazy just walk around
and do a straw poll a bunch of sailors
everyone we're accused of micromanaging
the military I ever seem to go there
because like I'm just imagining you know
Barack Obama yeah coming out and
announcing you know that he was changing
that Bob gates woulda wrote a whole book
on this one oh my gosh the you know the
the Pearl clutching among Bob all right
that's it for for our portion but when
we come back my conversation with Ron
Klain about managing the international
response to Ebola
