he is bought and sold by special
interests in lobbyists he is one of the
worst things to happen to our political
system in decades
yeah we need to steal power back from
him by winning elections in the Senate
and the he'll soon I know his shoulders
broke yeah like look I'm not ever gonna
make fun of someone who hurts their
shoulder because I'm a wounded warrior
and that cam myself but he's an
but on the house side we would be great
to see the House Democrats come back and
pass a bill to put even more pressure on
the Senate yeah so wait so I know we
have HR 8 which is the bipartisan bill
requires background checks on all gun
sales it was passed by the house on
February 27th Mitch McConnell's blocked
this in the Senate so what would the
house what are you saying the house
would do then in addition to pass it
again just get press attention focus
people's attention make it a made-for-tv
thing sit and make a big press event
about sending it over to the Senate and
force them to take vote yeah I think
that the Democrats in Congress have not
quite learned what a lot of the
Democratic presidential candidates seem
to know which is like this is all about
grabbing the spotlight grabbing the
attention away from Donald Trump making
the media focus on something and
sometimes to do that you have to put on
a big show like coming back from your
August recess and voting again on
legislation that you already passed to
really put pressure on like hold rallies
hold you know go to Mitch McConnell's
office do just get people's attention I
also think you know they passed
background check legislation the house
has not passed an assault weapons ban
I'd be good but that would be that'll be
pretty good to just sort of you know
limit do do something beyond background
checks but it you know it is that the
house did pass a good background check
bill and they should come back and pass
it again got it okay so Craig is asking
about Democrats in the Senate
specifically would it be of any value
for them to convene a pro forma session
to debate gun violence legislation
that's passed the house but is being
blocked I don't even know what that
means be totally honest yeah I was
hoping you it up define probably not I
would do in my state I also think
because Mitch McConnell controls the
Senate floor it would be hard for the
Democrats
sort of convene a session on their own I
mean I guess the c-span cameras would be
on but it feels like the house is where
the action has to be got it okay this
next question comes from someone who
says I live in Florida where Republicans
are now in control what if anything can
I do to pressure my lawmakers to pass
reasonable gun control laws and to tack
on to this I have my own question if you
live in a place where you know your
house rep is a Democrat if your Senators
are Democrats does that excuse you from
calling like what should you be doing to
kind of push action on this forward if
you feel like that's a priority yeah I
mean I think that obviously the ideal
situation is if you can put direct
pressure on your representative or your
senator but if not that's okay too
you can put pressure on other senators
you can call other offices you can show
out you can organize protests and
rallies at outside people's offices you
can go to town halls for legislators
that are happening in August and then
look we are pretty clear right about
this the chances of gun legislation
passing between now and the 2020
election are very very slim at least
meaningful gun legislation and so I
think you can start donating to Senate
candidates who are gonna maybe pick off
vulnerable Republican senators in 2020
get Mitch rotate america.com slash get
Mitch we got our Senate fund listen guys
it's all the same answers organized
doing it the right places
I gotta get to work yeah all right and
this one's a more personal question
this person's asking you guys were in
high school during Columbine how has the
gun debate shifted since then I don't
really track the gun debate in my head
over time to be honest feels kind of the
same I mean it's certainly gotten worse
recently there's far more mass shootings
now than there were then yes carrier I
think that I mean look we had I remember
yeah I remember look 1999 right I was a
senior in high school when Columbine
happened and first of all I mean the gun
politics aside
Columbine was the biggest story in the
country for weeks and weeks and months
at a time and I don't even think it
ranks in the top 10 shootings anymore in
terms of mask out mass casualties in
this country due to mass shootings and
so we have been a nerd a little bit to
mass shootings since Columbine and I
think you know we were both in the White
House during the Sandy Hook massacre in
Newtown Connecticut and I think that if
after Sandy Hook when children died a
lot of children young children died in a
mass shooting and then there was a piece
of legislation that was co-sponsored by
a Republican Senator Pat Toomey and a
very conservative Democratic Senator Joe
Manchin bipartisan support for that and
that piece of legislation after
Sandy Hook and Tucson before that could
not pass the Congress with President
Obama pushing for it and bipartisan
support I think that's when we all
realized at the gun debate and gun
politics in this country are pretty
 because there is a majority of
people in this country Democrats and
even a lot of Republicans and I'm
certainly a majority of independents who
want gun control who want common-sense
gun control maybe not proposals that go
as far as some Democrats want but they
want gun control and the political
system isn't producing any results and
you know when we talk about
gerrymandering when we talk about
filibuster reform we talk about all that
 it's all about making sure that the
will of a majority of people is
recognized in the laws that we pass
because right now that's not happening
it's certainly not happening on guns and
before we move on I just want to talk
about their or ask you guys about the
response that we've heard like across
the board obviously Trump's was trashed
but can we talk about how the press has
covered this and then also Democratic
politicians obviously you've laid out
like some things that they can do but
have you heard politicians candidates
for 20/20 presidential nominations etc
respond to this meaningfully and well or
are you looking for more from
politicians oh no I think they've all
responded pretty meaningfully I mean
like better O'Rourke talked about a gun
buyback on pods hit America with John
which is not something he yeah the first
time he said that it's the first time
any candidate in the race has proposed
or his OBE has said they were open to
supporting a mandatory buyback program
Joba I had a voluntary by Breck program
Milligan what did swallow have was his
mandatory he was like pretty coralina
he's not in the race anymore yeah
obviously out but anyway the emoji so we
don't remember Cory Booker has a great
gun licensing proposal that's you know
yeah pretty ambitious and then I like
Carmel Harris's proposals because
they're all executive actions and so if
we have a shitty Congress again then
maybe she can do a lot the executive
action yeah and more mortally they're
all just calling out Trump for his role
in this and and I think they've been
great yeah yeah I thought I mean
something interesting and to look
forward to if you want to hear more from
people this is just like if you're
watching this stream and you're like oh
I want to hear more what people have to
say this weekend I think they're all
doing a forum that every town is more so
many of them are going to do me I'm
doing it which i think is great and will
be interesting agreed yeah and I think
you know we talked to Beto and I think
better was really sort of met the moment
was moral clarity over the last week I
think Cory Booker had a really great
speech today in South Carolina and I
think Joe Biden had a pretty strong
speech today too so there's just sort of
three people that have been speaking out
particularly forcefully recently got it
okay we are moving on we're switching
topics mhm
Elijah wants to make this a little
lighter really quick we can a larger
everyone watching this stream want to
talk about this either we're sorry that
we relate we apologize it's mostly on
them because they ordered food I did not
bus on your shoulders but can you please
do us all a solid and like the stream
like the stream like the stream right
now or not you guys can you like the
stream but like people like it I think
it's great I think it seems fine I'm not
sold yet
what else we got alright let's see
alright can we talk about Joaquin
Castro's tweet earlier this week he
tweeted a list I think it was yesterday
of trumps donors I think from his
district and this person is saying I
know it's public information but it felt
like kind of slimy move what do you guys
what are your thoughts on this I just
don't really get it I don't really get
who benefits from doing that it was like
people who maxed out it I know I know
what he did I just think it's kind of
stupid like I created a dumb controversy
people are still fighting about it on
Twitter I don't know what benefit he got
out of it I just don't really get it
yeah I mean look I think that the the
right-wing complaints about this
ridiculous I think the scolds are a
little much about this it is all public
information right he tweeted a list of
donors to trump in the San Antonio area
and there and where they work their
employer which is all information that
is public on an FEC report that anyone
can look for any time I also understand
the motivation behind it look there was
you know a domestic terrorists targeted
Latinos and the worst Latino hate crime
this country has ever seen and you know
we're all tired talking about like is
Trump meeting the moment with hope and
unity and meanwhile like Latino
Americans feel very targeted and so I
like I totally get the frustration and I
don't think it's like putting anyone in
 danger to list people that you
could find in a by a public way that
said I had the same reaction that Tommy
did when we first saw I was like if I
was advising him I don't know that I
would say to do that because I just
don't think it is I don't know what it
accomplishes it doesn't accomplish
anything it but like also I think the
Pro clutching is way over done but it's
a little menacing like it's it's
singling out people and sending a tweet
to the masses that these are some names
that you should know in your
neighborhood and someone articulate for
me the value of that for anyone involved
I don't really know why you would do it
in this context I just think it's a
weird move
yeah I guess the argument would be you
know it's an active resistance and then
if you know if someone owns a restaurant
in San Antonio and you know that the
owner of the restaurant is a trump
supporter because it's public then you
stop going to that restaurant again
isil's like so bank-shot rages it's a
lot of like we do a lot of that on the
left we do a lot of there's a lot of
bank shot right there's a lot of bang
show all the people tweeting in seven
part threads at Equinox today
like it's a little bit of the same
futility yeah like I would as opposed to
like trying to put pressure on Trump
donors who are if you're a Trump donor
you're pretty lost you know it's almost
like being one of the people at the
Trump rally yeah you were the unit
dentist of dead-enders if you're cutting
max outt jokes like go out and register
some voters people who didn't vote
before young people like what's that
that's the way to that is the more
effective way in my opinion to make
change yeah actually now that you bring
it up I was in newsletter sourcing was
reading something I think they did a
study it was about texts from campaign
specifically but those people who like
got text from campaigns were more likely
to actually vote and I wonder if the
same would be true if people got text
from their friends definitely for sure
texting is you know your your friends in
your social circle like you have more
influence with them than almost anyone
else especially like as the years go on
and people like I'm paying attention to
some male piece they get they are paying
attention to what their friends tell
them to do in politics for sure that's
very right okay so we're moving on we
have a question from the world owes
Tommy mm-hmm I mean John I guess you can
chime in too good trying to plot his fun
okay Sameera is asking what role can the
u.s. play in the Kashmir conflict and
then can you lay out what's going on I
have a lot of opinions on this oh that's
a complicated one so let's go back like
to Ben and I talked about this in more
detail on pot save the world this week
so I would go there for a longer answer
but like two weeks ago Trump had the
Prime Minister Pakistan in the Oval
Office and he sort of floated this weird
thing where he said that the Indians had
asked him to mediate a dispute between
India and Pakistan about this region
called Kashmir which is with some
semi-autonomous the
ian's tickets there's the Pakistanis
think it's quasi-independent
it's it's majority Muslim so it's sort
of complicated for a variety of reasons
so Trump said he would mediate this
dispute fast forwarded to yesterday the
Indians just declared that it's no
longer semi-autonomous and that they
have control over it and they apparently
it's sent in like thirty five thousand
troops and cut the internet and did all
these you know they're there it's it
feels very similar to the Russians going
into Crimea and just taking control and
so I don't know that I've it's a massive
deal this is the number one nuclear
flash point on the planet because India
and Pakistan fight over this - I've been
multiple Wars and they both have nuclear
weapons and so trump stuck his bloated
face into this dispute two weeks ago for
no good reason and now it is escalating
and the tensions are ratcheting up and
those things have to be related I mean
they just have to be and so in a normal
white house you would try to mediate
calm things down do something to you
know produce the tensions and risk of a
military conflict but it seems likely
that he exacerbated things in the first
place to get us here so I don't really
know what's gonna happen next
this should be a big story that people
should be real worried about but it's
not getting any attention today because
we're dealing with obviously a domestic
crisis is it White House hasn't really
really sustained any I meant to search
before I came in but I haven't seen
anything out of them on the subjects and
maybe that's good I don't know maybe we
don't want it anywhere near this got it
okay going back to 2020 questions and
adjacent races Andrea is asking with all
the focus on the presidential election
what major Senate and House seats do we
need to be focusing on as well you know
Andrea we can make this real easy for
you if you go to vote say of America
click that get Metro die trying
link it's all right there
little turtle shell yeah that the I
think we need some time to figure out
the exact House races we're gonna
we'd be playing defense because we have
the majority and there's probably still
a few other ones that we can flip like
you know we'll heard retired in Texas is
gonna retire in Texas and there's
another retirement in Texas I forget the
guys they're a bunch of three yeah in
Texas they're like 11 or something total
yeah there's four times there's two that
are really flippable yeah and then we'll
be playing defense so there'll be a list
of those soon enough
but in the Senate again big focus in the
Senate Colorado Arizona Maine the big
three and then help our friend Doug stay
in his seat in Alabama and then as a
backup in case we can't do that then I
think you look to Iowa North Carolina
and then I think you look to Texas in
Georgia but if you don't want to
remember all that get Mitch or die
trying go to vote save America calm got
it got you
I have a question about the people who
are leaving the house should we read
into all these people kind of resigning
like over the past like week or two is
that like a normal thing I mean it's the
house is pretty big obviously some
people are gonna leave but like the
people I mean will hurt is ya not he's
young there's things like that what do
you know I think we know how big of a
deal it is yet but usually when there's
a bunch of retirements before a house
election it it means that the party
that's doing the retiring is worried
that they're not gonna win I mean I
remember that last time around yeah it
was like every single day you have more
and more and more and I also think
there's some of these some of these
people like heard and the other guy in
Texas today I keep forgetting are in
districts where they just feel like they
are more moderate Republicans and they
there's no place in the party for them
anymore yeah and so they're retiring for
those reasons
yeah well herds a good guy I mean I'm
like I would vote for his opponent Jeana
Ortiz Jones over him but he's the only
african-american Republican in the house
he's a thoughtful guy he served in the
CIA he understands foreign policy and
intelligence world like Heath thanks
before he speaks no he's like decent and
that guy feels like there's no place for
him the Republican Party that should
that should scare a lot of people in the
Republican Party got it well not great
for them yeah sucks for them alright
next question and I think you guys will
have things to say about this one so
let's see lots of people are saying that
a good portion of the Democratic
candidates Hickenlooper beto etc should
drop out of the presidential race and
run for Senate instead it's obviously
important but how many of the candidates
can realistically run for Senate and win
should they be doing this what do we
think of people saying this yeah what
your thoughts I'll say this I am very
happy that a whole bunch of people are
realizing how important the Senate is
and how it's not just the presidential
race so good for everyone for being like
really in tune to that but I sort of
don't understand where a lot this is a
lot this is like sort of a Twitter thing
that has bubbled up or there's like a
lot of sorry my amateur strategists on
Twitter let's just talk about the races
in Colorado there are a lot of really
good candidates running for the
Democratic nomination great candidates
and Colorado is also the state that were
most likely to flip so any one of those
candidates in Colorado probably a really
great opponent for Cory Gardner so you
know when I heard rumors true that John
Hickenlooper is still thinking like
maybe he'll drop out and run apparently
he bought like like Hickenlooper for
Senate or something yeah but but I'll be
honest I think the difference between us
winning Colorado
if Hickenlooper drops out and joins the
Senate race or doesn't drop out enjoying
the Senate race is very small I don't
think it matters that much in Colorado
at all so then you get to then we get to
Texas and again there's multiple
candidates now running in Texas one of
those is a woman who is extremely
qualified a great candidate MJ Hegar she
ran for Congress last time around 2018
she is a decorated war hero and who
better talked about and endorsed
basically when he was on Colbert a
couple months ago the idea that this far
into the race betta would drop out go
back to Texas challenge this woman and
the other candidates after hear door
stir and then to the people of Texas it
looks like he's coming back to run as a
consolation prize
it's just it does not make a lot of
sense to me yeah I I'm I agree with John
that it's great to focus on these races
I'm glad people want to win I do think
that the the odds of you tweeting
something about how Beto should get into
the Senate race are pretty closely
correlated to the odds that you support
one of the other candidates yeah or
you're just a generally like a smug blue
checkmark box pundit like if you don't
like better don't vote for Beto but I
don't think pushing him to the Senate
race is very smart at this point I also
just think the Senate race this time is
gonna be even harder to win John Cornyn
is more popular it's presidential year I
hope we can flip Texas but like people
shouldn't delude themselves to think
that's easier to win this time than the
enca Ted Cruz it is probably not yeah
and we don't know for sure but I think
you're right like there's and and some
people are showing that Cornyn has some
low approval ratings
the problem with four-cornered is he's
not known well in Texas as well as Ted
Cruz's but partisanship is partisanship
and once you have an erase where Cornyn
spends a whole bunch of his money on TV
which he will like people will move to
their partisan corners and Corden's
numbers will go up so it's not an easy
and then again like this is why when I
just listed the Senate races that are
important Texas is not the big one to
focus on this time around it is like way
down the list so that's it and then the
only one I mean the only when you make a
case for is actually Steve Bullock in
Montana because they don't have a
candidate Montana right now that's
running against Dane Steve Daines who's
the Senate Republican senator there and
it's a small state and Steve Bullock is
very well known and very well liked and
John tester just won an 18 so you could
maybe make a case for Bullock but even
for Bullock the longer he stays in the
presidential race the more it's like oh
you just decided to drop out of the
presidential race last minute to come
back home in Montana and take this as a
consolation prize it's just not a good
look
also these are human beings again and
they have some say in the matter I mean
like Steve Bullock doesn't want to run
for Senate he doesn't want to commute to
Washington from Montana okay I don't
want a candidate fine I don't want a
candidate who doesn't really want the
because this ends up showing in the race
Scott so there we have it that's our
answer
okay one last question for the fun stuff
but I feel like this is kind of a fun
question already Christina wants to know
what is the importance of the Iowa State
Fair and what is the best thing you'd
eaten there this is definitely fun yeah
I'm going next week I'm gonna be there
can you tell us why you're go the fair
I'm gonna see I'm working on a
miniseries about the Iowa caucuses stay
tuned that's like a news draw have we
talked about I mentioned on the Iowa
show I think um whatever it's I breaking
is an exclusive for the live stream so I
think I'm gonna go see mayor Pete when
he's there I'm like Tuesday most of the
candidate are speaking this weekend and
I can't be there this weekend but I mean
what happened to the Iowa State Fair you
give a speech from like like a bale of
hay this little like area they set up
which is pretty fun Mitt Romney got
shouted down there that's where he said
corporations are people too some things
happen that can be significant so you
can meet some voters and you like eat a
fried Twinkie or one of the big turkey
legs usually like everybody making
speeches or just like a slick oh yeah
they'll almost all roll through I think
and but like well the audience kind of
like if it's some women who are like
yeah the crowd will ebb and flow yo do
also fun stuff you'll see the butter cow
Obama went on a couple rides they did
the bumper cars with Sasha Malia what
else do they do
I remember the Obamas at the Iowa State
Fair so I was with Obama then on that
trip to Iowa and I hadn't been to Iowa
yet I don't think
and Tommy had been there for like you
know months and me I hadn't seen Tommy
in a while and we get to the State Fair
and Tommy the Iowa press secretary was
like the master of all things I always
like bringing Obama to like this local
news reporter than he's getting him to
like count the number price yeah yeah
there's the corn kernel it's like sir
you gotta count the number of corn
kernels in there because that's a big
thing now we're gonna take you to the
butter cow now you got to eat this it's
like you're swearing at some other
reporter you were just owning the Scott
rip them yeah it's super fun really fun
it's just not it's honestly it's an
awesome thing to do like half the people
there will be your Republicans or not
caucus goers or whatever and they just
sort of like I got my way I'm trying to
get you know beer but um it's fun you go
to the beer tent eat some fried stuff
fries best thing fried Snickers fried
Oreos are really good they're like a
little smaller what else that's what I
did I'll double back on this question in
a week I'll bring some fried Twinkies
and Snickers back to a quick and sure I
don't know that they'll hold but we can
do it document remember is that were
you've with me you might not have been
there we're at the Illinois State Fair
no Gibbs went and got a fried Twinkie
and he came back and made it anyone got
a fried Snickers and came back and ate
it and then he went and got three Oreos
and then Ewan got a pickle but he didn't
do it all at once he made four trips
he's if that like offset and then like
Robert Gibbs and David Axelrod would
actually compete to see who could eat
more of the fried at the fair it
was yeah we're both or any like
windpants at that point thanks for
pretty all right on to the fun stuff
which I mean I was already pre fun all
right
hypothetical situation here your small
children Luca and Leo horse after
playing in the yard then all of a sudden
thirty to fifty feral hogs show up out
of nowhere how many do you guys think
you could handle on your own without a
gun
yeah thirty to fifty oh my god any is
there a number in between there I don't
even know what I'd be doing what like
with one feral hog I'm like whatever
might like diving onto it what am i
doing so coincidentally over the weekend
I was reading a story about how in
Europe they have like feral wild boar
problems in a lot of cities so you'll be
like walking down the street in
Barcelona and some like feral wild hog
will charge you so it really has been a
thing but lately I don't this this whole
silly thing happened in a response to
Jason Isbell it was a artist I really
like musician who was tweeting about the
need for gun control and some dude was
like what if 30 to 50 wild hogs charge
you before your
come into players the most absurd
hypothetical scenario ever but I would
dive into I think I just try to grab the
dog say the pilot I don't care if it's
thirty fifty I dive into that pile to
save leo you know I feel like to be
afraid of Luca it reminds me of when
another another hero named Mufasa tried
to save Simba
we all saw a herd of wild beasts wild
wildebeest I believe yeah now his
strategy was flawed because if you just
chilled out and not like made that extra
reach to get him off the stick I think
they both could have just hung out I
mean he's fine under the rock he was
just hanging out on the rock and he was
okay oh he's a treat but then he fell in
he's like under the rock then it's like
oh just stay there yeah I just jump over
you yes and the kill his dad but this I
was poor hard truths here by the way
whoo it's been a bad like couple of days
right obviously like Saturday was really
sad up in the shooting going to
the Lion King for a couple hours and
just hearing how good the remind
yourself that good the music is and then
Seth Rogen and Billy Eichner are so
funny in that movie that it's a great
escape from the reality you did like
them ever did a great job yes it's like
it's incredibly well done the good movie
it's good I feel like I was like oh I
haven't seen this movie I realized just
how long it had been since I'd seen the
movie while I was watching it but I
still was like wow you oh so you went
yeah just great yeah I actually really
liked it I thought Twitter I was like
you guys are annoying yeah of course yes
yeah there's ruin things I was surprised
at how like said I was like oh like I'm
I'm gonna theater it it's quite sad it's
heartbreaking yep stuff like did anyways
alright and other things that have been
going on on the Internet this one's in
our office email we've been talking
about we have a thread going about top
curled cultural moments for a big show
that we have coming up in the Greek
Elijah has been asking everybody so
we're curious what have been your
favorite submissions of the cultural
moments people have been putting in this
reply all email thread which I don't
think was supposed to be reply all but
has kind of become glad it was a bit of
Miltie I gotta take it I may have
started by
pooh-poohing Elijah's request for going
30 years back because I thought that was
a long time and I feel like most people
at this company weren't alive but number
one is Shaniqua McClendon our political
director who
speaking of 30 years ago offered up
Jessie Spano and Saved by the Bell
singing I'm so excited because she
overdosed on caffeine does a great
cultural moment yeah Brian boiler Rekha
put up Prince's Super Bowl halftime show
in there and I was like okay grandpa
what else were you watching and happy
days or something and then I watched it
oh my god he's so good he just kills it
in the pouring rain plays like random
songs was all along the watchtower and
like does Leeds covers this incredibly
he's print the thing people don't know
about Prince is obviously you can sing
obviously he can write in Purple Rain is
amazing but like the guy is a virtuoso
guitar player he's incredible credible
guitar player see no one's talking about
Elijah's submissions which I don't know
if he sent his own email they're all
Jersey Shore moments I threw some Jersey
Shore one in there too we were talking
about this before the note no charms
all right moment I gotta go back and
watch more Travis had Bill DeBlasio
dropping the groundhog ice bucket
challenge is a good one guys were had
some good ones too
yeah left shark oh yeah this Charlie
Sheen winning was kind of a sad one I
don't love it on the couch I don't love
that there were moments where that we're
like Twitter moments mixed in with
iconic moments like princess show
because I feel like our culture has
gotten worse that like the the dress
will remember the dress yep that
was in there yeah Ian Worrell oh yeah I
remember that in our old office that
like day what an awful day it's funny
that winning the same person could send
then yeah the same person can send in
Colin Kaepernick's Annie and pizza rat
and that speaks to the range what was a
very broad question it was very very
thank you I don't blame it all on a job
okay this is like this is like a nicer
question this is less silly this person
on Instagram wants or is in high school
still wants to be as politically
activist
possible what can I do volunteer for
campaign yeah I was think about this
because didn't we have a bunch of high
school kids helping out in Iowa we have
Barack stars
