welcome back to pot save the world I'm
Tommy Vitor and Ben Rhodes then it has
been an awful week what a week we've had
our president is a horrible racist we
are gonna talk about how those comments
are being received globally in one case
may be echoed by a foreign official
we're going to talk about the new asylum
rules and Iran update Vice President
Biden gave a big foreign policy speech
on ghulam Merkel a quick North Korea
update and then the bigoted conspiracy
theory nut being floated to run the
nation's intelligence community no not
Donald Trump a guy named Fred flights so
it really comes full circle at the end
there Ben and then I speak with Army
veteran and US senator Tammy Duckworth
about a whole host of interesting stuff
so do not skip that part it is a great
episode but anyone start with these new
asylum rules yeah so okay they announced
these new asylum rules this week it will
functionally prevent any Central
American from seeking asylum in the US
the new rule says that people from
Honduras or El Salvador would have to
apply for and be denied asylum in
Guatemala or Mexico before you can apply
in the US or putting a step between the
asylum process step Guatemalans would
have to apply for and be denied asylum
in Mexico before they can apply in the
US so this will you know it's it will
pick up in and change the asylum rules
for people from other countries but the
vast majority but the vast majority of
asylum seekers are coming from these
northern try countries so it's really
gonna harm them
apparently Guatemala and Mexico are just
not on board with this plan at all we
should also be clear that these
countries have a zero infrastructure to
house or feed or otherwise deal with
these asylum seekers so to sum it up a
bit
the u.s. is basically eliminating asylum
for the Central Americans who are trying
to seek it most often were angering the
leaders of neighboring countries and
potentially destabilizing them by trying
to force countries with no
infrastructure to take a flood of
migrants what did I miss
well a few things I'd add to that one
this is likely to face legal challenges
because important point there's you know
a sense that this violates both existing
US and international laws around
xylem which established a pretty clear
procedure for someone to be able to come
to the United States and declare their
intent to pursue asylum and then the
judge hears those cases the second thing
is once again this shows that you know
Trump isn't really trying to solve the
actual problem right so the reason why I
mean let's be clear people don't leave
their homes and risk the lives of their
children unless they face significant
harm I mean you know I have a daughter
she's here today actually very quietly
and quietly watching my hanging watching
a movie it's very impressed hopefully
this holds but I mean to be cleared you
know like take them the man who drowned
in the river I mean if you're gonna swim
across the river with your child it's
not just because you want a job it's
because whatever is happening back home
is so terrible that you have no other
recourse you believe you have another
recourse and what we've seen is the
proliferation of violence in these
Central American countries that
breakdown of governance has led to this
crisis of children coming to our borders
of families come to our borders let's be
clear this isn't like the migration we
saw 1020 years ago where it was mainly
men coming to try to work in the United
States these are families fleeing an
intolerable situation if Trump really
wanted to deal with that he would be
trying to provide assistance of those
Central American countries to deal with
their security challenges to deal with
their governance challenges and we've
done that in the past and neighboring
Colombia down in South America where we
dramatically improved the situation over
a period of years because of our systems
instead he's tried to both zero out the
assistance to these countries while also
putting in place these Asylum rules it
shows he's not trying to actually solve
the problem what is driving people to
our borders he's just trying to
demagogue the issue it also speaks to
basically the cruelty of denying these
people and the opportunity to petition
to get into the United States and we
should also be clear Tommy like in the
past some of the populations who come to
the United States because they've been
fleeing violence or risk of persecution
have become very successful in the green
communities in the United States the
Vietnamese
who weary settled here in enormous
numbers at the conclusion the Vietnam
War now a thriving immigrant community
so we benefit as Americans to from
providing a safe haven to people that's
been a part of of who we are a part of
our immigration and foreign policy for
four decades if not centuries and to
just try to upend that for to score some
cruel political point against brown
people as part of your political
strategy you know it really speaks to
the depravity here we sunk to here in
the Trump yours truly and to be so
cowardly and just to hide behind
bureaucracy to make a whole bunch of new
bureaucratic hurdles yeah people like oh
we fixed the glitch Milton you know
you'll no longer get a paycheck it's
like office space if anyone's old enough
to watch that I mean it's like it is so
cynical and so cruel and so far from
addressing the actual challenge we face
it I don't know to in you know the near
term next phase of this migration crisis
is Venezuela collapsing yeah the knots a
little less near-term but not that far
off term version is when climate change
just radically changes your ability to
feed yourself in all these countries so
yeah it's a great point and let's be
clear he's making all these situations
worse he's making the situation in
Central America worse by cutting off the
assistance he's making the situation in
Venezuela worse through the really
aggressive use of sanctions so he's
driving more people to the United States
and if you're really cynical maybe
that's what he wants you know maybe he
doesn't actually want to solve the
crisis at the border maybe he sees it as
a convenient part of his politics
heading into 2020 which is really kind
of grotesque to consider yes speaking of
politics in 2020 let's talk about Iran
for a bit on Sunday Iran's president
gave a speech where he said that Iran is
willing to talk with the US if we lift
sanctions and get back into the Iran
deal so we have a pathway to get back to
square one yeah yeah great on a previous
show we had both talked about how stupid
it was and self-defeating it was for the
administration to sanction iran's
Foreign Minister Javad Zarif well the
administration apparently now has
backtracked first they gave him a visa
that said he could attend meetings at
the UN and then they fully backtracked
and said they won't actually sanction
him at all so that's good
Pompeyo has already spoken out about
Iran's overture and said he's skeptical
of the potential talks
the Europeans are just pissed off and
frustrated with everyone they're
scrambling to save the Iran deal by
saying on the record the preaches that
they have made so far in terms of their
enrichment activity are not a big deal
and can be reversed that is accurate but
Bibi Netanyahu compared that response to
appeasement of Nazis in the 30s yes
standard play being helpful as always so
I mean look I guess it's better than
shooting down drones and the war of
words that followed but time is running
out to save this deal yeah and I mean
what it feels like is happening is Trump
got to the brink of launching Bolton's
war and he blinked as we saw the
Iranians by the way he saw him blink
right so now they know okay maybe this
guy's not gonna pull the trigger and
everybody's looking for a way out and
there was a way out the Iran deal it
feels like now they might be prepared to
entertain some kind of modest relief of
the sanctions that they reimpose in
exchange for Iran potentially reversing
this enrichment step yeah what's amazing
about this is it feels like what they
might be headed towards if they actually
sit down and talk to the Iranians is
something far less in the Iran deal I
know so so basically an incremental step
by the Iranians in response to an
incremental step from us without the
kind of full and comprehensive
infrastructure of the Iran deal in place
it speaks kind of the insanity of their
policy and once again the common thread
here it just feels like they want the
domestic politics of looking like oh I
got out of you know we had the news of
the British ambassador's cable leaking
saying that they pulled out of their ron
deal because they weren't despite obama
as if we needed a leak kaito from the
British ambassador know that right so
they're just kind of looking for some
way to climb down here the Europeans are
frustrated because it the way to climb
down is the deal that was in place and
that was working and they'll probably
settle for some half-measure that
they'll celebrate as some vindication of
their policy when in fact it's not even
as comprehensive as what was already in
place there they're just creating all
the wrong incentive structures right I
mean the Iranians are watching North
Korea
CIMB bad actors and realizing that
creates leverage for you to get
concessions by the way Sunday July 14th
was the four-year anniversary of the
Iran deal so poor went out for the
echo-chamber
yes I remember I remember that day very
well hadn't slept in days and felt like
we'd solve this problem and you know
actually the funny thing about this time
is it should be point out that most of
what Iran had to do for the rondell they
had to do at the beginning mm-hmm so you
know destroying the core their
heavy-water reactor you know pulling out
centrifuges shipping out stockpile so
like a lot of things the situation
improved dramatically Iran's nuclear
program even with this enrichment step
as europeans pointed out it's still far
behind where it was on July 14th 2015
so it gives them this space to operate
in without Iran being at the brink of
having a nuclear weapon so so pour one
out for the Iran deal
thanks Obama but yeah thanks Obama and
here we are again javad zarif the same
guy who negotiated the Iran deal with us
now they're signaling that they want to
talk to the guy you've got you know
people who've been opponents of the Iran
deal suggesting that the fact that Iran
wants to talk to them is a vindication
their policy when in fact it shows that
they recognize the quote-unquote maximum
pressure is not making around capitulate
so here we are but you know it does show
clearly Pompeo has the signal from Trump
I don't want to have a war yeah right
and that's good I mean you know I don't
wanna say credit because we shouldn't be
in this place in the first place but at
least we're not where we are as you said
when look like we're gonna go to war for
some drone yeah and so I just want to
know that just because we think Trump's
Iran policy is stupid doesn't mean we
think the Iranian government is filled
with good guys and here's an example of
why many of you listen to the episode we
did with friend of the pod and former
Washington Post hey Ron bureau chief
Jason rezaian he was held hostage by the
Iranians for five hundred and forty four
days for no reason and none whatsoever
everyone should read his book prisoner
which documents the entire saga that's
fascinating but apparently Iranian state
TV is now airing a TV show called Gondo
that attempts some revisionist history
about Jason's attention it portrays a
fictionalized version of him as some
sort of American super spy sent to
around
take down the government which of you
know Jason is very funny yeah I have not
watched this series but the AP report on
it says the show makes the Iranian
Foreign Ministry look inept and thus by
extension makes President rouhani
looking at because his team negotiated
the deal so it seems like this could be
propaganda from the IRGC or the
intelligence services against Jason
against more moderates in the government
but you know regardless from from
imprisoning Jason to pouring money into
the show to all the bad things in
between like these guys consistently
make the dumbest strategic choices
possible well yeah and and you know and
I you know I don't to put words in
Jason's mouth but I talk to him a lot
about this and I think he would agree
with the fact that it also shows that
there are these competing power
structures in the Iranian government
Saluda to so essentially the hardliners
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard the rgc
they never liked the around deal they
never liked any form of deeper
engagement with the West they saw what
the foreign ministry was doing in
negotiating the Iran deal is a threat
they saw Jason as a reporter who was
seeking to kind of build bridges and
demonstrate a different face of Iran to
the rest of the world as a threat and
this is a twofer for them because they
get to you know get back on their kind
of fake hobbyhorses Jason was somehow a
spy trying to undermine the Iranian
government they get to make the Foreign
Ministry look feckless I should add that
doesn't absolve the farm Minister either
Jason be the first to say the farm
ministry was kind of weak in not
standing up to this kind of behavior and
essentially implicitly going along with
it so yes this speaks to the ugly side
one of the several ugly sides of the
Iranian regime they're kind of hackish
propaganda frankly I think most Iranians
like are somewhat able to sort this out
and recognize what is propaganda and
what is not but at the same time all
that Trump is done is you know empowered
those people because essentially they've
said C was wrong to try to think that we
could engage the West the right course
to take is a hard line here and that's
where we appear to be stuck yeah let's
take a quick break and we come back
we're going to talk about the global
reaction to Trump's racist tweets and
comments including one
very misguided official from China who
seemingly decided to echo him
so our president is a gigantic awful
racist let's talk about him for a minute
I think a thing that's important for us
to remember when these things happen is
that US political news is essentially
global news by default right I mean it's
watched around the world so when are our
dodgy old racist tweets something racist
and stupid about for members of Congress
foreign leaders get asked about it in
the UK Jeremy Hunt and Boris Johnson
took the spineless GOP approach by
condemning the tone of Trump's comments
but really refusing to call them racist
now Boris said some pretty racist things
about Obama back in the day so I don't
particularly care about his take but it
was notable Theresa May called Trump's
comments completely unacceptable in
Canada Justin Trudeau also didn't use
the word racist which is annoying but he
did say a Canadian is a Canadian as a
Canadian and the diversity of our
country is in fact one of our greatest
strengths so I think that's pretty
obvious rebuked so I mean I think it's
interesting that globally Trump's people
think that Trump's comments are awful
but most are still afraid to say exactly
why cuz they don't want to risk his ire
but look as always like this guy is
teaching a global offic awful example
about the POW Mesa Seguin but as always
I mean Trump's comments are global news
they're setting an example for kids in
every country around the world and it's
creating political challenges for
leaders in every country around the
world
it's creating political challenges for
those leaders but more than that it's
basically giving away any semblance of
our moral authority right and any
semblance of our democratic example
around the world you know just to give
you a few examples I was just recently
in Africa and I talked to a bunch of you
know African kind of leaders in civil
society entrepreneurs and they made the
point first of all this comes after the
whole country thing right so if
you're an African you've been called a
 country now you see him
essentially making racist comments about
people of color and what some of these
people said to me is look the Chinese
are coming here to Africa and they're
spending money and they're trying to
move in here and become the key player
in Africa and not the United States and
the advantage of the United States used
to have is we seem to stand for
something different from what China did
China just stood for you know spending
money in trying to
influence the u.s. used to stand for
some democratic values and human rights
and even if we weren't perfect in our
pursuit of those at least we had the
example of a place where you could make
it no matter what you look like right
and Trump is just given that away and
suddenly we're no different from China
we're just another big country that
tries to throw our weight around and if
anything we're worse we've got you know
an outwardly racist president who seems
to not even care about African called
 all countries right undermines our
influence there will have long-term
repercussions for us their businesses
will look to China's foreign students
will look to China that's already
happening right when we seek to if if we
tried to hold China to account for
putting a million people in
concentration camps for instance you you
can bet that they'll be throwing back in
our face the fact that we've got you
know people you know and I don't want to
say it's direct analogy because it's far
more widespread in China but they're
gonna point to those camps at the border
yeah gonna point to that trumps raises
comments and say who are you to lecture
us on anything right yeah and so
countries like China who abuse human
rights will throw all this stuff back in
our face and say we're not gonna listen
to you guys and so the the the the lack
of the United States being able to be
associated with certain values and
instead the United Sates being
associated with people living in deprave
II in camps at the border and a racist
president that has both strategic
repercussions right because it's
alienating huge chunks of the world that
are important to us and it's gonna
dramatically undercut any moral
authority that we have left to try to
advocate for these values so you know
here I know it looks like just another
outrage and you got people talking about
whether this is politically smart of him
yeah yeah they're the kind of outrageous
shift from instead of focusing on the
races and focusing on the potential
political wisdom of the races and kills
me and yet we're losing the thing that
made in America distinct like for the
last 70 years at least if not more right
the thing that separated us from other
countries we were supposed to stand for
something and and we're giving all that
away and I think we have to recognize
you it's not necessary gonna come back
even if we win the election right away
because people are looking at American
thinking like what what had happened
here how did these people like this
person right and why does he continue
you know everywhere I go around the
world people say well why does he
continue have so much support there
right why aren't you standing up to him
more and and so to me it just points to
the stakes and snack selection that that
he has to be beaten and there has to be
a rebuke of this paper if this behavior
is validated yeah if the rest of the
world sees trumping a racist and you
know Trump putting people in camps and
then see some reelected they will
probably permanently change their view
of what the United States is yeah I'm
glad you raised the the China example
because it does seem that the Chinese
have noticed that toxic racism and
Twitter get paired a lot in the u.s.
these days I mean so China's deputy
chief of mission in Pakistan decided to
tweet about this pathetic ridiculous
letter that got signed by 34 countries
including Saudi Arabia and Egypt that
defended China's treatment of Muslims
apparently they missed the news of the
millions of Muslims being tortured in
these re-education camps so this
official
Lygia and zoo tried to say that letter
was somehow a slap in the face to the US
and added quote if you're in Washington
DC you know the white never go to the SW
Southwest area because it's an area for
the black and Latin there's a saying
black in and white out which means that
as long as black family enters white
people will quit in price of the
apartment will fall sharply Wow that led
our former colleague Susan Rice to call
him on Twitter a quote racist disgrace
and shall be ignorant susan does not
mince words who ended up deleting the
tweet but then I have to think that you
know these officials are feeling
emboldened by Trump's tone and as you
said like happy to throw these issues
and racism in the United States back in
our face I mean first of all that never
would have happened three years ago no
right part of what's so infuriating
about this is this guy knows in any
normal administration even if you were
attacking the past administration of
different party with that kind of
language
the current administration would call
you up and be like the you doing
what do you know instead this guy's like
oh maybe this is a way to endear myself
to the Trump and people right okay you
know bashing because he bashed back at
Susan Rice called her disgrace it was
like this kind of weird tit-for-tat no
no you're the disgrace
so you know the fact that they feel this
impunity to the like level these racist
grotesque charges about washing first of
all pretty dumb way of talking
about Washington DC right yeah because
first of all totally wrong yeah well
first of all this guy was in DC ten
years ago there was a black family
moving in the white house I didn't see
any of the the you know rent values
actually rent went up wait wait wait a
black family right in the heart of DC
and rent went up everywhere in DC if I
remember it
Southwest DC's but like one of the
booming parts of the the city so put all
that aside the fact that he's just wrong
but the fact that that this is the
discourse now and that countries feel
like that their diplomats can engage in
this kind of behavior on Twitter and
getting the weird racist Twitter fights
with people is just an absurd way of
dealing with things he's gunning for a
Fox News contributor post um let's do a
little 2020 news because that's more
hopeful so last week Vice President
Biden gave a lengthy foreign policy
speech
I thought The New Yorker summarized it
well as lighter on details heavier on
framing which is not a criticism but
it's sometimes the only way to make a
global foreign policy speech clocking in
under an hour right you gotta make some
choices a lot of the speech was a call
for us together on democracy and values
in order a quote that I picked up a lot
was foreign policies domestic policy and
domestic policy is foreign policy he
called out Trump for coddling dictators
for hemorrhaging alliances one of the
big new ideas he talked about was a
global summit for democracy in the first
year which is interesting idea it sounds
like he wants to reboot TPP and and use
that kind of a tool to deal with China
and trade that he didn't explicitly say
so interestingly Biden is not calling
for the u.s. to bring all troops home
from Afghanistan he wants to leave a
residual presence of some sort to focus
on al-qaeda and Isis as you remember
well Biden was deeply skeptical of
sending a dupe to Afghanistan as far
back as 2009 so it was notable I mean
yeah it's probably what passes for being
current courageous or having the courage
of your convictions to say something
that will be unpopular in a primary
whether or not we agree with that mostly
we don't he also said we should end the
support he also said we should end
support for the war in Yemen
Ben so this seemed like a return to a
more traditional foreign
see to the Obama of foreign policy is
nothing not a ton of huge changes or
ideas but did anything jump out at you
that Mister I do I think this democracy
piece it ties directly back to what I
was saying right I mean cuz people have
said this for a long time farm policy as
domestic policy above all that is
actually much more true today yeah and
he had a long section the beginning
where he said essentially if we want and
once again be the leader in the world
and we want to promote democracy voting
rights at home is a part of that right
getting our democracy and orders a part
of that how we treat people coming year
as a part of that that is very true that
that those are not just platitudes that
essentially we are gonna have to have a
president comes in and recognizes in a
very deliberate way that they need to
show the world we are restoring the
power of our moral example because again
if we're not then we're no different
than Russia and China we're just some
other big country trying to throw our
weight around so I really liked that
Biden drew this direct connection
between investing and democracy at home
and then said I'm gonna take that show
on the road and we're gonna have this
global summit on democracy which again
might have seemed like kind of a you
know hokey thing to do in the past that
is badly needed right now
it's badly needed for us to plant a flag
on the ground and say there's
authoritarian trend around the world you
see a diamond earring from China we've
talked about all the creeps in Europe
and I think the u.s. taking it upon
itself to say we recognize we went down
a pretty dark path we're fixing that
here and we want to talk to you guys
about how to fix this around the world
was a smart thing to do I think beyond
that I was a little surprised cuz yeah
Biden was the the Afghan skeptic there
but you know and I don't agree I you
know we've talked about this I think you
know 20 years after the fact it's time
to get everybody out of Afghanistan but
I mean if you're talking about just a
residual counterterrorism force that's
at least different than saying you know
we need to stay to convince the Taliban
we're never gonna leave and all the rest
of it so it is a yeah it's a more skill
back mission and on TPP I do give him
the courage of his convictions luck if
you want to get smart on China that is
the way to do it if you want to have
trade that can be embedded with
progressive values you can build from
TPP which dealt with labor rights that
dealt with environmental protections
so you know I think it was a lot of
return to Obama but it was appropriately
updated for the things that have
happened in the ensuing yeah three years
and that's why I think it was an
effective approach yeah I should say I
don't know that I heard him say TPP just
he just sounded like creating a regional
approach to dealing with the Chinese on
trade I just want to get a note from
tony blinken who is it would actually be
like yes polite yeah angry missive ever
but Tony would be incredibly polite to
be like a handwritten letter thanking
you yes incredibly incredibly wonderful
warm man with very good hair but but but
yeah if you're talking about a regional
the GBP exists already I mean we bear in
mind like a lot of things Abama did it
stills like Paris continues without a
Sauron deal in some ways can use us the
rest of the countries in TPP are in TPP
and they're waiting for us they're like
hey if you want to come together with us
to stand up to the Chinese and open
markets and trade it's available to you
so I think it was likely and not in that
direction but they may have not wanted
to plant that flag and yeah that pick
that fight in the primary became a thing
in the last primary between Bernie and
Hillary Clinton I mean it's interesting
to me that you know Biden clearly sees
his experience as a strength in the
foreign policy arena it will be worth
watching whether you know Bernie Sanders
and others rejoinder that while you
voted for the war in Iraq how should we
trust your judgment now whether whether
that sticks or the more recent eight
years of Biden's work under Obama sticks
but you know I think I want to see
everybody make a speech like this I want
to hear your worldview and they should
do it sooner than later yeah we've had
Budaj edge we've had warmth had Sanders
I would really like to hear from Kamla
Harris you know she's been on the farm
relations committee this is an area
where you know she's obviously been
impressive of late on the campaign so
this is something where she could stake
out a claim and show that she's you know
ready to lead on the world stage like
this you know with Biden it's
interesting I mean as someone who along
with you really helped make the argument
against all the candidacy voted for the
Iraq war I think that's totally valid I
will say having sat in the Situation
Room
Joe Biden was as skeptical of military
intervention
as anybody on our ministration yeah you
know is against the war in Libya he was
against a troop surge in Afghanistan and
he was kind of an outlier in that
respect right so I actually do believe
that that Biden is instinctively less
inclined to go to military intervention
then then people might think and it was
a really good point and that may be
because like he's been around for a long
time and he's seen these military
dimensions gone bad I would actually say
in general with Biden you know talking
about his evolution I mean we've
obviously seen this on on issues
involving race and crime same thing here
I mean it's it's fair to say he's
evolved and he learned from that vote
and what he learned from that vote and
and the ensuing war is you know to be
skeptical of the value of these
interventions yeah good point
um this is a weird story so turning to
Germany for a minute German Chancellor
Angela Merkel has been seen
I don't know subscribe uncontrollably
shaky yeah I think three public events
now obviously we are not doctors we were
not trying to diagnose her but it makes
me worried understandably and I was will
hoping you could talk about your
experience working with Angela Merkel I
know you spent a lot of time with her
personally what you think her leadership
means to Germany in the world right now
and and what kind of leadership might
come next well look I have a great
affection for on--go Merkel and look
part of this I don't know I'm not doctor
part she's been Chancellor of Germany
for almost 15 years right so the level
of fatigue and I write about this in my
book when we went to see her after the
election she was kind of stricken right
because she knew it was coming Trump and
she indicated to Obama that she would
have likely retired you know not sought
another term as Chancellor she was ready
to kind of pass the torch but the
combination of brexit and then Trump
getting elected made her think that she
almost had an obligation to stick it out
because a lot of what miracles done in
her tenure is try to hold together
Europe not just Germany but Europe and
kind of a liberal order and in the world
you know helping to navigate to the
financial crisis and the Greek debt
crisis in Europe taking in a million
refugees to set an example that Europe
can turn its back on people and frankly
to make amends for some of Germany
history obviously in doing so you know
standing up to Russia and being a leader
with us and imposing sanctions over
their annexation of Crimea a lot of her
leadership has been anchored in how do I
hold the European Union together through
these very tough times
I think if and it remains an if if
Europe is able to weather these storms
people will look back at this period of
time and think Angela Merkel was like
the rock at the center of Europe at one
of the most difficult times in after war
to and and her legacy will be she's
responsible in many ways for holding
together the European project you never
mind the fact that you know Germany has
been very successful under tenure if
she's gone what we're seeing in Germany
it's very interesting and we should
probably a deeper dive at this at some
point in the pod but German politics is
very food right now yeah it's been this
talk of the rise of the far right but
there's also been a dramatic rise from
the Green Party has actually passed the
Social Democrats so you have this
fracturing of the political parties
there
I think if she's removed Germans have
you know not just an election but it's
gonna take them some time to sort it out
in terms of where the balance of powers
in that country what does that mean that
means that France is is the balance of
power and Europe price shifts from you
know Germany which has been at the
center of things for most last decade to
macron and France kind of being more in
the driver's seat in Europe particularly
with the Brits leaving obviously McCrone
can stick around there long well we'll
see what happens in the election right I
mean I think he's in a slightly stronger
position than people might think just
because there's no obvious alternative
right there's the pen on the far right
and so I you know Merkel leaving which
she said she's going to do anyway at
some point right like 21 20 21 yeah I
think that will lead to a lot of
instability in German politics there's
her successor is not that popular a lot
of jockey among these parties some
strange coalition governments I think
Germany will be fine I don't think it's
gonna the way the far-right you know
that's still a relatively small portion
of the the politics there but that means
that Germany's no longer again this
dominant player in Europe and you know
the power shifts a bit probably to the
French and you know we'll see what other
leaders emerge in Europe yeah well
here's the hope in the nagas Merkel
a okay I hope she's okay though I mean
maybe it's just really hot there's a lot
of these events or like outdoors
standing for hours to some other head of
state for some ceremonial thing but it's
what happens a few times a wandering
drama right you know again I think we do
like oh her you know very few
politicians I mean we were there in
other countries were able to take
politically unpopular stands because
they thought it was right and she did it
on all those three things on keeping
Greece in the eurozone even though cost
german taxpayers taking in all these
refugees standing up to russia
she showed real principled leadership
yeah she really did we stand alone
Merkel here a quick North Korea update
so literally no one will be shocked to
learn that Trump's meeting at the DMZ
with Kim jong-un yielded no results
today the AP reports that North Korea
suggested they may call off their
suspension of nuclear and missile test
because of upcoming military drills
between the u.s. and the South Koreans
as we've talked about before North Korea
has always hated these drills and not
Trump has to decide if he's gonna
suspend them again which would be giving
a big chit to Kim jong-un but as we
talked about with our friend Danny
Russel who's a Korea expert he's these
training this these drills this training
it's really important and we would
probably get to a place where no one in
the Korean military or you know in the
US service members who were deployed to
the region had really been trained in
what to do if there was a North Korean
invasion so you know yeah we're great
progress well let's keep him on right
like since Trump had the first summon
Singapore what have we seen we've seen
all this praise from him we've seen this
quote-unquote historic handshake at the
DMZ meanwhile they built more nuclear
weapons they've tested some weapons
they're threatening to test some more
weapons they've extracted concessions
with us on military exercises that
doesn't show a lot of respect for Trump
no you know I mean Trump is lavished
respect on kami on none look at Kim
England's action first of all Kim Jung
hoon ever reciprocate have we seen the
you know Trump always says he actually
has beautiful letters we've never seen
the letters we yeah we've never heard
Kim say these things about Trump and
meanwhile his actions seem to show no
respect for Trump right if you look at
the Iranians increasingly Richmond Kim
Jung
making these threats and continuing to
build nuclear weapons this isn't working
you know this whole madman diplomacy you
know unpredictable America first guy so
it's very important to remind ourselves
that like you know check the results
here the way these leaders act shows how
much respect they have for trial
yeah interestingly I noticed over the
weekend I think our former colleague
former deputy CIA director and acting
CIA director Michael Morell wrote an
op-ed about how a freeze for freeze
proposal with North Korea basically
where we'd give them some sanctions
relief for them to freeze their program
where they are now is a good path
forward Michael Morell is no softy when
it comes to North Korea or you know the
reality of threats generally so I
thought it was interesting to see him
write that piece I think it is a good
path forward I just wish that we had
started there and Singapore you know so
so what's interesting is and not like
unlike Iran where we started this
conversation they're winding their way
around back to like this fairly
incremental deal when they came out
saying that they were gonna achieve
denuclearization and get rid of these
nuclear weapons and three years later lo
and behold you know now they're trying
to settle for half a loaf which is where
you begin the negotiations now where you
end them yeah they are not good at this
okay
last topic Jonathan Swan from Axios
reported that President Trump is
considering replacing dan coates who's
currently the director of the who's
currently the Director of National
Intelligence the DNI with a guy named
Fred flights so Fred flights was briefly
the National Security Council chief of
staff he is permanently a conspiracy
theory obsessed lunatic for years he
worked with a total clown named frank
gaffney at the center for security
policy Gaffney and flights in their
organization think that Islamists had
infiltrated the US government in a plot
to take over the country that is not a
joke they try to push the idea that
there are these Sharia law no-go zones
and Europe that most Muslims support
violence against Americans it's like
vile bigoted Islamophobic stuff that is
their it's their favorite thing to turn
out it's hard to imagine a worse person
to put at the DNI to run our
intelligence agencies than a bigoted
conspiracy theorist
they're supposed to oversee the
intelligence community they're supposed
to call balls and strikes give the
president hard truths hopefully this
doesn't come to pass but I read it was
one of those reports that I read that
was floated for some personnel chains it
actually like stopped me dead in my
tracks when I really thought about how
much of a disaster it would be if this
actually happens this would be one of
the craziest appointments in American
history like let's be very clear this is
like if you went to Thanksgiving dinner
and your uncle at the end of the table
who would show up and talk about how the
moon landing was faked you know like we
suddenly put in charge of all of the US
intelligence committee first of all
these people are yeah everybody should
Google you know the Frank Gaffney and
Fred fly it's scary and in this place
that the this this kind of conspiracy
theory factory that they work at because
yes on the one hand it's cruel stuff and
it's even worse than we're saying I mean
like the stuff about Muslims the stuff
about how you know Obama had a secret
agenda to try to like impose Sharia law
in the United States there's an Islamist
plot behind everything or an Iranian
plot or something else
it's mean-spirited but it's also just
kind of stupid yeah it's so dumb like it
makes you know like like Mike Flynn look
like an intellectual wreck like these
this is like the the the lunatic fringe
of the lunatic fringe right right right
right and if you put this guy in charge
of the intelligence community what kind
of message does that send about what the
US intelligence community is and the
credibility of our intelligence around
the world right you you depend upon the
rest of the world to trust our word we
talked about this when we say that there
were tankers that the Iranians allegedly
set on fire in the Straits of Hormuz if
Fred flights is the guy making that case
yeah
well that guy said Orion is responsible
for everything nobody's gonna buy it
nobody's gonna listen to that guy right
and and part of what we see is it he
just kind of lavished his praise on
Trump he's got kind of like a sub Gorka
like deification of Trump approach to
things like if that's a standard but
like the rest the world tune us out and
how do you like
working these competing for that guy did
you see sub Gorka try to pick a fight
with some reporter bizarre social media
summit could you imagine trying to
fistfight somebody in the Rose Garden of
the way I mean like even like you're
eight I felt like beating up mark
Landler walk into the Rose Garden
I know the idea that I'd walk over with
like a faux British accent you know you
didn't have his Nazi pin on it yeah I
mean he's like yelling at him like you
punk your punk and then there's like a
bunch of like fascist white supremacists
raining like yeah there's like a lady
with a qa9 layering like shouting down
the reporter this is the Rose Garden of
the White House of the United States of
America like what is happening here like
it's like the weirdest thing happened
when we were there was like a turkey
pardon every year right when like we
write like a bonnet is città then like
pardons of turkey and make dumb jokes
well Sasha Malia looked the other day
you know it was honestly the worst thing
that happened in the Rose Garden was
when that goober from the Daily Caller
shouted at Obama middle Porter or for
Tucker Carlson at the Daily Caller
shouted at Obama to Pressman yeah and
the funny thing about that is I don't
even think we like person in that guy's
credential it's like that's how much we
were open to a free press right I mean
while these guys are having like you
know like like WWE mosh pits with white
supremacist and by the way the best
thing is he was trying to attack some
guy for what's foreplay for yeah the
whole thing about it like everything
about it and every now and then like
there's a moment it's not that big a
moment but it like it perfectly captures
just the depraved the the amount of
you're gonna have to clean that place
when the back crop has gone is gonna be
okay fumigate the place and Gorkhas put
on some pounds like you look like you're
barely getting that like triple breasted
suit who's wearing Gorka has parlayed
six months of sitting in some Eurobeat
office with no actual job and no
security clearance doing nothing into a
hell of a career that's all I can say
he's a joke any man will go on Fox News
and scream in some faux accent about
Islam and Democrats like it can get the
red carpet rolled out from the White
House and get all kinds of grifting
opportunities out there like it's it's
not good highly recommend everyone at
home
Seb Korca in his weird leather vest
because that's one of my favorite photos
okay
when we come back my interview with US
senator sorry I'm gonna forgotten one
thing okay ooh I did not uh when we come
back okay
when we come back my interview with US
senator tammy duckworth
you
