I'm John Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later
in the pod you'll hear our interview
with congresswoman privilege I appalling
ttan the co-chair of the Congressional
Progressive Caucus one quick
housekeeping note we're going on tour
there are tickets for upcoming shows in
New Orleans Charleston and Durham will
be traveling to other cities in February
and you can find tickets at crooked comm
slash events come say hi you can also
find tickets there for love it or leave
it it's going back on the road pod save
the people is going on the road in
February so all kinds of touring from us
it'll be fun I'm excited to get back on
the road it's been a long time since
we've done just in a whole positive
America tourists opposed to all the
travel we did around the hbf stuff in
the fall so we could I'm excited
alright let's get to the news there's
been a bit of news since last time we
spoke tin I'm unfamiliar with it because
I've already been well I've already been
following my news resolution um now look
at my phone so in happy John what did I
miss
great I want to tell you cuz some people
have asked me on Twitter like how's your
resolution about Twitter going and look
I didn't say I wasn't gonna use Twitter
or even that I was gonna use Twitter
less I did say I was gonna use Twitter
differently I haven't gotten in Twitter
fights I've tried to avoid getting in
some Twitter fights or weighing in on
some topics that may have gotten me and
just bitter fights trying to be a little
more positive so so far it's going it's
going okay but I have to say you know
2019 is has just begun and politics is
is almost as stupid as ever it's gonna
be tough all right so on that note on
the day it's it's Thursday was recording
this a new Congress is being sworn in
and on this day President Trump refuses
to open the federal government until
taxpayers fork over five billion dollars
for a few hundred miles of steel slats
that he's calling a border wall remember
that just a few weeks ago Trump signaled
that he was fine with funding the
government without the five billion
dollars
the senate-passed just such a bill a
hundred to zero but then a few people on
the president's favorite television
shows got all upset with him for backing
down on the wall so Trump decided to
shut down the government and now 800,000
government workers aren't getting a
paycheck four hundred and twenty
thousand have been working without pay
for the last two weeks parks and museums
aren't being staffed they're filling up
with trash an actual loans aren't
getting processed health care and food
and education or at risk all across
Indian country which relies heavily on
the federal government regular food
inspections are being delayed
immigration courts are canceling
hearings border agents are working
without pay it is not great so yeah some
pretty stupid has happened since
Trump became president where does this
ranked in I mean this is the dumbest
thing that has happened that's saying a
lot
dumb like there there have been
dumb things that have happened but
usually they're just like examples of
Trump stupidity as opposed to something
that actually impacts people right like
there have been really horrible things
that have happened but they're not there
but they're like substantive they're
around substantive battles around issues
whether it's immigration or health care
or Kakarot
this is just we have shut the government
down we are making people suffer all
across this country hundreds of people
working without pay for a fake solution
to an exaggerated problem that everyone
knows when works yeah I mean like just
one thing that hasn't been you know
talked about enough is just the
absurdity of a border wall right like
we've talked a lot about how the border
wall is a symbol is awful it is a symbol
of division it's morally repugnant right
we've talked about other stuff but even
practically it is so dumb the
border is more secure more militarized
than any time in history right now
apprehensions are at a 40-year low 600
miles of fence already exists hasn't
stopped unauthorized immigration because
most unauthorized immigration comes from
people overstaying their visas to build
more hundred hundreds of miles of wall
or fencing as it is now because Trump is
calling it a wall even though it's
fencing it would require destroying
public lands take
people's homes through him in a domain
all of this comes after president Trump
just lost an election lost 40 seats in
the house and an election where the
closing message was about border
security and they lost and now he's
holding up he's shutting down the
government he will not open eight
agencies of the federal government
800,000 people without a paycheck and in
order to get this five billion dollars
which will you know build a couple
hundred miles of of steel slats
including the people responsible for
border security that's right shutting
down it is so bad so let's talk about
our try one more point on this I think
is really important yeah really gotten
lost on the coverage of this is that
Trump's signature campaign promise was
not that he was going to build a wall
right is it he was going to build a wall
and make Mexico pay for so now he has
shut down the government to extort
American taxpayers and do paying for
this law which you know you know even
his own supporters never really believed
that Mexico was gonna pay for the wall
it's just one of those crazy things that
it was like his central campaign promise
and even from the beginning almost
nobody believed that it was true and yet
we all just sort of like went along like
oh well guys crazy let's you
know let's keep going we are let's talk
about how Trump is deftly navigating
this shutdown politico's Jake Sherman
has suggested the Trump might have blown
the politics of the shutdown by doing
absolutely nothing over the last few
weeks except angry tweeting hasn't given
statements hasn't done interviews hasn't
tried to show he's working just a bunch
of tweets such as this one you have
walls and you have wheels it was always
that way and it will always be that way
please explain to the Democrats that
there can never be a replacement for a
good old-fashioned wall sounds like a
 racist dr. Seuss did is it
possible that the great deal maker has
miscalculated on this one or are there
some brilliant chess moves that us
laypeople just don't see
what's going on I mean there's so much
to my backyard for who was that tweet
for yes like what what is the audience
of people who were just waiting to be
told that the pennant pinnacle of human
invention happened when we were steps
removed from living in caves it's like
like what is that like Oh walls wheels
and then the question is when is he
gonna get fire like what is he gonna
remember that fire is also a well-worn
invention so dumb so dumb so that's one
two I was Hallie and I who is you know
but worked in the White House with us
and helped plan President Obama's events
were thinking about what it would be
like if we were in the White House
during a shutdown on the holidays like
all the things that Obama would be doing
right there would be like force to do
like we wouldn't gather people who you
know weren't able to you know access
their health benefits and we would do an
event with that and then Obama would go
out and bring coffee to you know Park
Service employees who are working
without pay like we would do all these
things they're trying to control the
message of the day and put pressure on
Republicans to concede and it takes your
men and you pointed out he did none of
those things and there's a real
fundamental question as to why other
than he is staffed by some of the
dumbest people to ever work in American
politics yeah and I think another reason
why is he actually doesn't
if Trump really wanted the wall if he
wanted a deal he could have made a deal
by now he could have made a deal about a
year ago when Democrats were willing to
give him some money for this fencing in
exchange for daca protections he didn't
want to do it then it's clear he wants
this as an issue he doesn't really want
the wall itself and he doesn't he
doesn't have any interest in really
negotiating because this is a play for
the people on Fox who want to see that
he's tough and strong and the only way
he thinks about this is will I be viewed
as tough enough as strong enough and my
base wants me to get in a fight with my
enemies who are also my bases enemies
and so therefore I just have to show
that I'm in a fight with these people
and it doesn't really matter if I win
in the court of public opinion because
he's never really trying to win over
most of the American people he's just
trying to keep his base happy and all
his base wants to know is that he's
fighting like how do you think I mean
this is projection here obviously but do
you think that fighting and losing it's
still a net benefit with his base or
wall ice isn't sort of how this and
we'll talk about I was gonna end but
there's a very real chance this ends
with this stupid shutdown for some
period of time and then no border wall
and then he will run for re-election
with no border law well like most things
Trump does he he doesn't really think
that far ahead he's not thinking past
the next tweet you know and so I think
that I think what he's what's gonna
happen is if he loses this fight he is
going to pretend that the wall is being
built anyway he's going to say oh that's
fine I got the money somewhere else he's
gonna show some picture of border
construction because as we know the
Department of Homeland Security which
was allocated you know 1.3 billion
dollars last year for fencing is
building fencing as we speak they're
contracting out you know projects for
people to build fencing and you know
they're trying to take people's land for
more fencing which is ridiculous but
they're already doing that so you could
see him trying to like claim victory and
just making up the fact that he built a
wall even as every fact checker in
America and the lead-up to the 2020
election says no that's not true he
didn't build a wall so I think that's
how he's gonna get out of I mean that's
how Trump Trump gets out of things by
just lying right he's just gonna lie but
but politically it's not good no no as
you say politically it's obviously not
working for him something like you know
47% of people blame Trump for the
shutdown 33 percent blame Democrats only
25 percent of the American people
support the shutdown so he's doing all
this not even for his usual base of 35
to 40 percent of the American people
it's only 25 percent so you have most
people blaming a president they don't
like for shutdown they don't like over a
wall they don't like and and this is
again after most people punish the
president's party by a landslide in a
midterm election in which border
security was the close
an argument so how does this end you
know what what and what can Democrats do
to bring it to an it well I mean this is
an important question but I do one other
thing is that you know Trump is
unpredictable in the way that really
stupid people can be unpredictable but
he has over like the one thing that has
been consistent is he is responsive to
bad news coverage right whether that is
even I mean his responses are stupid but
they happen right like it takes him six
months to get rid of Scott Pruett but he
eventually does or when there's been you
know when he'd said something really
really stupid he will at least attempt
to fix it before he then goes back and
double down so he like he'd like there
is a stimulus that he reacts to but he
is not
yeah like reacting here which makes me
think that he thinks he is winning this
battle right like he who's telling it I
think if it example this is he lives in
a filter bubble and when I was flying
back from the East Coast
last week the if you have a a small
child and you're flying across he's
because he spent a lot of time walking
up and down the aisle holding your child
to them entertained and the person in
the seat behind me was mainlining Fox
News for five hours on the flight from
Philly to Cisco and and so I was like
obviously can hear what they were saying
but you could see the chyron and if you
watch Fox News at least for that five
ever period in which I did which we have
now maxed out my factors allotment for
2019 is there is like Pelosi blocking
deal question mark Trump : some
statement like if you watch Fox he
probably thinks he's winning this which
is why he's not doing right he doesn't
seem to be looking for a way out he's
not out there trying to shape public
opinion because in in the world of his
own state sponsored propaganda network
and the supplicants who he talks to on
the phone he thinks he's doing great
he's just like mainlining those
Rasmussen numbers which I assume are
telling him he's winning again yes well
I mean so let's talk about what happens
next Mike Pence floated a compromise to
Democrats of two and a half billion
dollars for steel slats some Senate
Republicans floated a compromise that
would give Trump his five billion
dollars in exchange for protecting
immigrants who were protected by Daka
Trump has rejected both of those
compromises offered by his own vice
president and Senate Republicans he's
saying five billion dollars or nothing
and Mitch McConnell is saying the Senate
won't even vote on anything that Trump
refuses to sign which is also a
excuse by the way because you know if
Mitch McConnell already passed something
a hundred to nothing to keep the
government open then clearly he could
override Trump's veto if Trump refused
to sign some bill opening the government
so using Trump as an excuse oh I can't
pass anything because Trump won't sign
it no you're a co-equal branch
of government of course you can pass
something and if you have the votes to
override his veto we could open the
government tomorrow but that's Mitch
McConnell on Wednesday schumer asked
trump why he couldn't just open all the
other agencies that are closed the seven
other agencies besides the Department of
Homeland Security while they negotiated
funding for Homeland Security and Trump
said it because it's because he would
look foolish if he did that and and he
also said the government could remain
shut down for a long time so knowing
that this is how Trump's operating like
what can Democrats do to bring this to
an end aside from just wait him out I
guess nothing yeah nothing they can and
should do nothing and they have the
political substantive policy moral high
ground here and they should not let it
go and this is only going to there's
only one way for this to end and that is
for Senate Republicans to fold like
McConnell was trying to stay advocate
because he did not want to be the one
responsible for undermining Trump mmm
right he's like as long as he's the sort
like he like it with the never tiresome
turtle metaphor former McConnell he is
he's hiding but he's gonna be a happy
one he's gonna have to be the one who
fixes it has always been the Senate
Republicans who have stopped a shutdown
under Obama it was you know Boehner was
too weak to ever end to shut down
because to to sort of block the freedom
caucus I mean he would get tossed in
some
Connell would have to force the houses
hand and that's what's gonna happen here
because Trump does not care about the
60-some percent who oppose his wall he
cares about the 30-some percent who
passionately care about it and Nancy
Pelosi is cannot and should not give him
his wall and so he's they're gonna have
to someone's gonna have to go to him and
say we're going to Pat like with the
Russia sanctions bill or the Saudi
Arabian sanctions bill but it happened
earlier that we're going to pass
something with a veto proof majority and
you're just gonna have to suck it up
yeah and that's it Louis and because of
that I think this could go on for a long
time and maybe it becomes a fake
shutdown because they passed these these
bills to you know pay the people who are
not working or give like there may be
some things you can do to soften some of
the pain in this musholt run but if
Trump is demanding a wall that he cannot
have then it's going to go on for into
perpetuity
you know there's scary as that is well
next question is how did Democrats
continue to remind the American people
that it is Trump who is shut who's
keeping the government shutdown that it
is his fault because he told us he would
take the blame on national television
because you know I already saw you know
Nancy Pelosi did an interview with
Savannah Guthrie at the Today show this
morning one of Savannah's questions was
well you know aren't you aren't you guys
partially responsible for this if you're
not compromising you're getting like
you're starting to get a little bit of
this in the mainstream media about you
know why shouldn't Democrats just come
to the table and give Trump something
because Democrats you know should care
about all these people who aren't
getting paid you've got some stories I
saw this morning some Reuters story
they're interviewing you know tourists
at national parks and you get some
people who are just like well I can't
they just talk to each other and come
together and do something like how do
Democrats prevent this from becoming
both sides as this drags on
it's going to become both sides
I mean it is because if you look at the
landscape here you have a machi of
Elian partisan hack leading the
Republican Senate and a complete and
utter run at the White House and
so we look at the at the House Democrats
you like you're the only adult in town
fix us right which is it puts them in an
impossible position but you can't fold
here because that it is we cannot put
our stamp on something as fundamentally
stupid and truly and moral as a portal
wall it's so dumb like you don't you
Trump does not guess you have a temper
tantrum to get the fake thing he wants
we just cannot do that and so what I
think Democrats you do here is I think
they should continually like our
position should be we want to reopen the
government for some period of time at
current levels yeah right and we're
gonna send that bill to the Senate every
 day and in McConnell and then
Senate Democrats and go the floor then
your try to break out McConnell's gonna
block it and like that is a comment the
it is you know we know this on the ship
from their shutdowns potential shutdown
so we're involved with Obama when one
side is demanding cuts or additional
where they're demanding something and
the other side is fighting it like then
it's a battle right but here Democrats
are demanding nothing you know just
demanding that the government goes open
they're not asking for anything that
that was not passed by a Republican
House that does not passed unanimously
by a republican-controlled Senate a
month ago right so maybe this is like
their position is so imminently
reasonable so that one is pass a CR
continuing resolution at current levels
over and over again do it for a week do
it for two weeks
make Trump take the in the Senate rubber
take the unwritten most unreasonable
position possible which they are doing
the second I do think I know you say
that people don't care about the you
know that invading believe that Mexico's
doesn't pay from the wall but we should
not let that issue go because we are
being forced to borrow money for China
to pay for and then we have to pay for
it with interest for a wall that Trump
promised Mexico would pay for and I
think we have to continue to hammer that
because that may not help us dislodge
Trump from his base good I think nothing
in testosterone from his base
but it will matter with the broader with
the people who sit in the middle between
partisan Democrats and Republicans I do
think the other thing that Democrats
should do is all the things that you and
Holly we're talking about that a
president should do during a shutdown
which is you know Democrats should start
holding events with some of these
workers who aren't getting their
paychecks with some of these people who
aren't getting government services with
people who are hurting through the
shutdown this shutdowns causing a lot of
pain in the country like people aren't
getting their paychecks and and these
are people who don't make a lot of money
in the first place and they're trying to
support their families and you have
Native Americans who aren't getting
health care and education and I mean
this is some serious stuff going on and
I and I think that Democrats should
constantly remind people every day with
new press events new communications
events whatever that these are the real
life consequences of trumps shutdown so
that it's not just a fight about bills
and continuing resolutions and you know
who's arguing what when they all meet at
the White House
but that there are actually this is a
fight about people and you know the
Trump doesn't give a about people
and the Democrats do which is why they
want to open the government and you're
right it is a perfectly reasonable
position to say okay we have this fight
over border security funding fine
there's a whole bunch of agencies that
have nothing to do with border security
funding let's permanently open those
agency fund them for the year like we
all agree to like a hundred senators
voted to do already and then we can
continue to pass short-term resolutions
to keep the Department of Homeland
Security open so that we can have some
border security and so that DHS is
actually working to protect the country
and as we keep that open temporarily
then we can go to the table and
negotiate over Trump's border security
but we're not negotiating with the
government shut down I mean yeah you put
you put that to the American people
that's gonna be a pretty popular
position the other thing that they
essentially do is pass bills that solve
specific problems the only way is gonna
shut down and then make make Trump
and/or
publicans reject those individually
right so here's the bill to open all the
national parks right here's a bill to
pay the DHS worker you know the it's
quote unquote essential personnel zat
Border Patrol or TSA or whoever else
you've been working for weeks not
getting paid here's the bill to give
them a paycheck right like there is
there and make them reject all of those
two seem even more unreasonable but like
it's gonna take a lot of work because
just Trump has a Twitter account with
millions of followers mostly real people
some box and can you control because its
president can control there's a reason
president almost always won't shut down
because they have the larger bully
pulpit Democrats gonna have to work
harder to even though they have a better
position to may say on top of that
position and don't read like don't
listen to dumb sent respondents I know
that I was bald because there's a giant
like that don't do it the Washington
Post
like our greatest fear here are the is
the Washington Post editorial page which
will almost certainly write some op and
some editorial that will tell Democrats
are compromised and Nancy Pelosi was
forced to have a meeting with like 30
members the new Democratic coalition who
run it on the way to work that morning
in our panic a this is not panic this is
what give the this is Washington
and it's worst because they're all stuck
in Washington the Democratic politicians
are there their staffs are there their
consultants are there they're all
listening to the same people you're
already like we said we're already
starting to hear these reporters asking
the question well shouldn't aren't you
guys responsible shouldn't you
compromise shouldn't you do this no
matter how extreme or stupid the
position Trump and the Republicans take
is there will always be people who say
well okay we know they're crazy but
you're supposed to be the adults so you
give in to their demands that's and and
they're just you're right like they're
gonna have to resist that yeah here's
hoping so let's move on to something
else as the House Democrats are trying
to reopen the government they're also
expected to vote on a bunch of internal
rule changes proposed by incoming
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House
leaders most of these changes are quite
good and popular they bring more
transparency to the legislative process
they strengthen ethics rules but there's
one rule change that's causing some
controversy
Pelosi wants to bring back the so called
pay-go rule it's called pay goals like
pay-as-you-go this rule requires every
piece of legislation that adds to the
deficit to be offset by corresponding
budget cuts or tax increases so if you
want to pass a bill that the
Congressional Budget Office says we'll
add five billion dollars to the deficit
you have to either cut five billion
dollars in spending from somewhere else
or raise five billion dollars in taxes
or some combination of the two
a handful of Democrats including
Alexandria or Cassio Cortez and roe
Khanna have said they'll vote against
the rule changes because of Pago which
they believe will prevent democrats from
passing big bold policies like medicare
for all and a green new deal dan this
provision has been around for many years
why did Democrats embrace Pago in the
first place and why do you think Pelosi
wants to bring it back that is a great
question
pego has been around since then not
since the 1990 budget summit which was
when George HW Bush violated his pledge
he's read my lips pledge not to raise
taxes and it was this idea as you point
out that if you want to spend money
either on spending or taxes then you've
got to pay for and it's been this
principle that has been thought to be
politically popular sort of in a
different political era but was also
sort of a fake law because it will take
principle because it can be waived by a
simple majority house or 60 senators so
basically any any coalition that can
pack you can send a bill to the
President's desk can waive it
and it is also as you point out it's
also a federal law right so regardless
what the house does there is a pay go
along the books and what it really means
is if you do not abide by pango or waive
pay go then there will be mandatory
across-the-board cuts into everything
including Medicare so is this idea that
you would have this penalty that was so
politically unpalatable that it would
trim spending now this is bad politics
and bad economics on both levels but
I'll get to that in a sec but what the
house is doing is not affecting the law
there
simply deciding that they as like as a
body as the Democratic run House of
Representatives will abide by hey go
well well they they will so they decide
they are deciding that they will abide
by a rule that is already law right just
just to get the herbs
we're originally gonna get to the
absurdity of this whole debate but go
ahead
I actually I I don't think this is an
absurd debate you know and I know that
is why but they were put like it seems
like oh that's obvious well why wouldn't
they do that well hey go as a law became
was refined as a law in 2010 when the
Republicans took the house in 2011 they
changed their rules to say that they
would another body by something called
paga they would buy by something called
Chacko or something stupid like that but
the basic principle was that Pago did
not apply to taxes in the house only two
spending cuts which is how the
Republicans were able to pass without
having to come up with any spending cuts
a trillion dollar tax cut and then
Congress with the house in the Senate
waive pay-go
which is why the deficit is skyrocketing
thanks to this bill and so what
Democrats are doing is they are abiding
by the wall and Republicans do and this
will this will make it it's not the end
of the wall but it does in it matters
for two reasons in my view is why I
think the debates on a server which is
Democrats are for limited political
benefit basically our press release
saying we abide by Pengo that matters to
basically no one who doesn't work for
the DLC or third way and we are going to
adopt this view this I think
fundamentally incorrect view of
economics that the deficit spending is
inherently bad right doesn't it's not
inherently bad no because if you were
like borrowing money to do a trillion
dollar infrastructure package or Public
Works package to put people to work or
borrowing money to invest in our workers
is the right thing that we should be
making we should not be accepting the
false
premise of the deficit fear mongers we
should be arguing that bold progressive
investments in workers in the American
economy is the right thing to do and so
it is this is purely a symbolic debate
which is why a lot of progress in terms
of parents in their closeness anyway
but I think it is a mistake right now
the gates to accept the premise an
incorrect premise for that does hamper
the ability to make a populist
progressive economic argument going
forward
it is absolutely stupid economic policy
and and I would argue stupid politics
now so you'd say okay why are they doing
something so politically stupid it is
true and I noticed this when I did focus
groups for the wilderness that you have
a bunch of people sitting around a table
a bunch of voters who will tell you
within two sentences yes I support
Medicare for all but also the government
really needs to rein in their spending
because they waste too much too much
money they waste too many taxpayer
dollars but here's what I want them to
spend it on big infrastructure
investments medicare for all all that
kind of stuff so you had this sort of
discordant view from voters and the
reason they have this view probably is
because of I don't know four decades of
Republicans saying that Democrats waste
all kinds of taxpayer dollars and when
people's lives actually don't improve
and their wages don't grow and yet they
know that they're paying all these taxes
they think to themselves
okay the taxes are being wasted
somewhere so it must be someone spending
too much money that is the wrong view
but that is the view that Republicans in
their propaganda machine have driven
into people's heads for over four
decades so Democrats and of course this
was like you said starting in the 1990s
with a lot of centrists and Clinton
types we're all like well then we should
show that we are fiscally responsible we
must show that we're four screws
principle and so Pago came from that but
like you said most economists will tell
you deficit spending can and has spurred
economic growth and deficit spending can
make possible public investments that
more than pay for themselves down the
road the green new deal will be a great
example of that you spend a lot of money
for the green New Deal and some of it
adds to the deficit well because we're
not going to have to pay for the you
know disasters caused by climate change
or at least more of the disaster
was caused by climate change because
we're about to you know such an
investment would create millions and
millions of good-paying jobs in this
country that's gonna more than pay for
itself down the road so it is absolutely
stupid economic policy but the question
is so it's a mistake for Democrats to
have done this but how big of a mistake
is it because as you mentioned you can
waive pay-go rules with a simple
majority in the house and 60 votes in
the Senate so if Democrats end up
passing Medicare for all or they end up
passing the green New Deal
they will have only been able to pass
that because they had a majority in the
house and sixty votes in the Senate or
because they got rid of the filibuster
in the Senate which is another issue but
either way if they have the votes to
pass either of those bills then they
definitely also have the votes to waive
the pay-go rules right
so technically it doesn't really matter
that much or on the other side of this
like you said it's law so even if they
say pay go we're not going to abide
by it we're not going to abide by this
rule we're gonna pass something that
increases the deficit then because of
the law there were going to be automatic
cuts across the board that's if they
don't have the votes
so like practically it really doesn't
hamper their ability to pass big bold
progressive legislation but as you
mentioned it does sort of hamper their
argument too you know that we should
pass big bold progressive legislation
it's just it's I guess it's a stupid my
view of this is it's stupid for them to
try to include pay-go
but I don't think it is the end of the
world by any means because it is
something that is you can easily get
around yes that you're you all right
look let's be very clear
99.9% of when dancing for some Democrats
are doing in the coming out you know
coming into power is exactly right there
is so much progressive stuff in this
rules package there is like what the
incoming committee chairmen are saying
about how they're going to strategically
and aggressively investigate the
corruption and criminality the Trump
initiation is great the people that
Nancy Pelosi is putting on to the
progressive Nancy Pelosi was putting on
committees to advocate for things like
your green new deal
and medicare-for-all is great so this is
this is not going to be the reason that
medicare-for-all does not become a law
right yes I think it is a bad outdated
instinct of Democrats to allow
Republicans to define the contours of
the argument and this takes me back to
the days of the Obama campaign in taxes
which is in my first many many campaigns
the premise among Democrats was
Republicans always want to tax fight so
if Republicans bring out taxes you
change the subject right and Obama being
having a different view of politics and
that sort of coming up through that that
you know the battles of the 90s and sort
of this you know Third Way moved to the
centric view of politics in that period
didn't accept that premise so we ran
aggressively against McCain's tax cut
arguing that taxes for the middle class
were good and that there should be tax
increases for the malting and we became
Obama was the first Democrat to win
taxes as an issue in the exit poll since
Johnson and 68 and Johnson won on every
issue because a massive landslide win
but we took that on and even though the
problems were able to use legislative
procedures to sneak this bill through
the Republican tax bills one of the
least popular pieces of legislation in
history in part because Democrats have
not been afraid to take on that argument
I think this we have to be we have to
follow the lead I think frankly of
people like Bernie Sanders not saying of
Trousdale Cortez in real khana that
we're gonna have to change the contours
of the economic argument if we want to
ever get to the point where we can put
public support for some of these huge
massive progressive pieces of
legislation and I would say that's why I
hear yeah and I would say that it's a
good sign it's a hopeful sign that we're
at least having this fight and that
there are people like the politicians
you just mentioned who were making this
a fight because we didn't have this
fight when Obama was president and I
would say that we got caught up in the
deficit right like Obama was
figuring out what to do with the
simpson-bowles Commission and how we
could reduce the deficit I don't know
how many speeches we wrote about
why it was so important to reduce the
deficit and I think we put too much
emphasis on it and there weren't many
Democrats back then saying this is
ridiculous to talk
about to focus so much on why the
deficit is such a problem when we have
all this need in this country that
public investment that if we invest in
our roads and our bridges and people's
health care in their education then that
can grow the economy and not just
austerity politics which has now been
discredited so I think it's a good sign
that we're at least having this fight
now and it means that you know the
Overton Window has moved can I say the
thing that Brock Obama would say if he
was here right now in response to you
whose doom he would say that what he was
trying to do was while the economy was
crashing and Republicans were in control
of Congress he was trying to trade
long-term deficit-reduction for a short
term stimulus like a payroll that's
right or infrastructure something like
that because there was no other way we
had to put money in the economy to help
workers and create more jobs and we
could not do that with Republicans where
we couldn't do that without giving
something Republicans now did we lose
the argument places sure did we
sometimes offer too much
absolutely by that with the strategic
thinking that put us down this path even
if we were probably that we did not do a
good enough job making the case for
against austerity politics despite our
really sweet speech attacking Paul Ryan
and I will say because I know that
Barack Obama would add this as well as
he was talking about how to sort of curb
spending over the long term he was
focused primarily on Medicare and not
just making Medicare cuts but slowing
the growth of health care costs which no
matter what we do whether we pass
Medicare for all or whether we don't of
course we need to bring down the cost of
health care for everyone that is not a
conservative position that should be a
liberal position because we spend too
much money on health care without
getting good results we spend more money
on health care than anywhere else in the
world and so yeah there is no matter
what kind of health care plan we adopt
whether we eliminate the private
insurance system altogether we still
need to find a way to bring down the
cost of health care so that's focused
more on quality so that was what he was
focused on but you know when you're
dealing with the Republican Congress and
John Boehner and all these people who
just want to cut cut cut you do get a
little too cut up in deficit politics
but anyway so yes Pago dumb idea
but it's not something to completely
freak out over because it will not stop
the passage of big legislation if we
have the votes to pass that legislation
that's the important thing to understand
ok let's talk about the latest 20/20
news poof on Monday of this week
Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren
announced the formation of a
presidential exploratory committee for
2020 in her video announcement Warren
said that America's middle class is
under attack and then it's time to fight
back
she'll be touring a group of cities in
Iowa over the weekend and also announced
some big hires in that state Warren has
been a consumer advocate for most of her
career she came up with the idea for the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
while she was a professor at Harvard Law
she was later recruited by the Obama
administration to actually create that
agency after which she went back home to
Massachusetts and ran for Senate and now
she's the first democratic top-tier
contender to launch an exploratory
committee dan what you think about
Warren's announcement I think that was a
nasty shot at Julian Castro you just
took hey man you know I'm just
everyone's a contender she is merely the
most well-known San Antonio and Obama
said Secretary is great and the is great
and maybe more people will know him as
the months go on but he isn't a
difference here they Alyssa's won at
least in terms of name recognition and
so yes it was great she did a good job
like I mean no one wins and wins the
election or their announcement I guess
you could theoretically lose it but she
liked Elizabeth Warren the field is
better for and we'll probably saying
this for almost everyone getting to
almost everyone but she makes she makes
it a better more interesting smarter
primary by being right I think yeah the
thing about her that is really important
is that she I guess two things one is it
she might have the most finely honed
most widely which on again most finely
honed most popular economic message of
any of the Democrats running
right and I think some people may say
Bernie but I think elusive one has maybe
with the widest appeal in him in her
economic message so the second thing is
is that perhaps with all the people
running she may have thought the hardest
and the most creatively mostra teach
equate about innovative solutions policy
solution to complex problems like in the
run out she's probably I think probably
won her had the best the most
interesting policy that she's in rolling
out with her it's all foreign policy on
government reform on dealing with the
growing power of corporations you know
in this in the run-up to this
announcement so I think like the more
policy centric the debate in the primary
the better yeah I mean we should talk
about that you know she's she's for
Medicare for all she's for green new
deal but as you mentioned she has some
pretty big ideas of her own she's
introduced a very strong anti-corruption
bill a very interesting plan to give
workers a much bigger voice on corporate
boards by allowing workers to elect I
think up to forty percent of the members
of a corporate board which is a would be
a huge change a serious investment in
housing affordability and most recently
a plan to allow the government to
manufacture generic versions of
prescription drugs so that people have
an affordable choice of medication it's
basically a public option for
prescription drugs so like you said
she's got these really great well
thought-out ideas but like as you said
at the beginning you know for me I
always ask these candidates I think that
every presidential candidate should have
to answer two questions why me and why
now and she has the clearest message
maybe of anyone who's announced so far
and you want to even who may announce
you know why she's running she says it
in the video very succinctly a marries
America's middle class is under attack
billionaires and big corporations and
listed politicians to help themselves
get richer they rigged the game they've
created a corrupt system and they've
propped it up by distracting and
dividing us with fear and hate I fought
them all my life I'll fight them as
president
that's why Elizabeth Warren is running
you know it you know it in one sentence
I mean I said this look what however you
feel about Bernie Sanders
when he ran in 2016 the first line of
his announcement speech was something
like you know I believe we need a
political and economic revolution in
this country boom that's his message
Barack Obama in no way talked about
change not just change from Bush but
change from the way that politics has
been practiced done right people Donald
Trump had a pretty clear message
it's a repugnant one but it was pretty
clear wanted make America great again by
returning to an era of more whiteness
okay
very clear message from the candidate
but I do think then an especially in a
crowded field especially in a media
environment like this you have to stand
out and the way you stand out without
acting like an like Donald Trump
does is by having a very clear message
that people know who you are what you
stand for and in Elizabeth Warren's case
her message flows from the policy that
she advocates which flows from her
record and her bio you know she believes
what she's saying you know she wants to
fight and that's it and that's a pretty
that's a pretty strong asset to have in
a crowded primary I think and like you
said it happens to also be and we know
this from years of looking at polls and
focus groups and all the rest her
message her economic populist message
happens to be very popular and have very
broad-based appeal you know you'll hear
some people say oh it's divisive people
always say that messages are divisive
that you know our populist and take on
wall street all the time but I will tell
you that those messages are broadly
popular not just among progressives not
just among Democrats not just among
independents but also among some
Republicans yeah I mean I think that
some interesting like pressure points I
think that will come you know presuming
that Bernie Sanders runs is Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren like to
fill a lot of the same way they've been
allies yeah a lot of very progressive
economic legislation pushing Democrats
to be more populist over the last
several years together and Bernie
Sanders identifies his Democratic
socialists and Elizabeth Warren has been
very specific about the fact that she
has a capitalist ruined
I think is the is her language or
something like that and I think that's
gonna mean like what is the difference
between a Democratic Socialist who
supports Medicare for all free college
etc and a quote-unquote democratic
capitalist or some other personal
capitalist who supports Medicare for all
free college like where what is it what
does that fundamental difference mean
doesn't mean anything at all and that
will be an interesting conversation that
happens during this primary presuming
all people we expect to run run yeah I
do think that is probably one of her big
challenges will be if Bernie Sanders
does run are they are they fighting over
the same kind of voters and do those
voters sort of split their preferences
between Sanders and Warren so I do think
that's that's one thing she'll have to
deal with so I hate even getting into
this but in the wake of Warren's
announcement Politico published a piece
with the headline Warren battles the
ghosts of Hillary the whole article
hinges on a narrative that the biggest
obstacle in front of Warren is her
likability and that she shares too many
of the attributes that sank Hillary
Clinton the evidence for this within the
piece is nothing actually it's it's
basically reporting that some Democrats
privately say this quotes no one on the
record as saying this at all I don't
know what did you think of this piece
and and I guess what did you think of
the coverage of her announcement overall
I got very worked up about the piece and
in fairness to the reporter the piece is
more balanced than the headline in the
tweets the overall premise is stupid
by she does include quotes from people
that convey counteract the premise but
the idea the idea is stupid because the
thing that Elizabeth Warren and Hillary
couldn't have in common is that they are
both women who served in the Senate like
there's this nothing it's just stupid
it's just so stupid and but it's
indicative of a larger coverage which
was all these stories about Elizabeth
Warren's
one more framed through two particularly
stupid frameworks
we're frame to choose particularly
stupid windows one they
is the idea that Democrats are engaged
in identity politics because we have
women African Americans Latinos running
for president that we we're engaged like
that somehow our pot that we are trying
like the idea of all politics identity
politics in the sense that you're
building a coalition of different groups
of people to get to Alpher ality or
majority or WT to win right but when the
media disgusts identity politics if they
treat it as like Democrats are trying to
cheat by like it is normal to get white
people to vote for you particularly
white men then anything in addition to
that is some sort of electoral trick
like getting dead people to vote or
something it it's and so it's like
Democrats are engaged in identity debate
about who you know who represents them
women or african-americans or Latinos
and if you're going to use the identity
politics framework to describe Democrats
then you also have to use it to describe
Republicans who are making an explicit
appeal to white men to vote for that
yeah a very explicit race may seal
Democrats aren't making a race-based P
Lauren generation they're just trying to
have inclusive set of policies in an
inclusive message to encourage as many
people do that as possible and
Republicans are trying to take one group
of very reliable voters and scare the
living out of them and it's like
the framework there is a structural and
fairness in the backward-looking way
than even some of the you know younger
more worldly reporters approach politics
it is like we are writing like it is
1968 over over and over again and that
is a that it makes it hard for Democrats
because we are forced to swim in a swamp
of stupidity Democrats are practicing
the exact opposite of identity politics
we are trying to build a big tent
coalition that is African Americans
Latinos white people young I mean like
it is so silly that the party that has
been practicing identity politics for
the last couple decades and has finally
perfected it under Donald Trump is the
Republican Party which is a party made
up primarily of white man into a lesser
extent white women but
white people that is the the fact of the
Republican coalition right now Democrats
are a party that looks more like America
that's just a fact and that's and
they're trying to build a big tent
coalition that is what Democrats try to
do that is how we win that is not a
value judgment that is just the facts of
what the coalition looks like it's so
ridiculous but anyway back to the
Politico piece I mean I have a few
thoughts on that which like you said
Elizabeth Warren and Hillary Clinton are
both women they both served in the
Senate and they are both Democrats that
is where I think the similarities and
like I just I think they could not be
more different in their approach to
politics in their approach to policy
even though they're both progressives I
think Elizabeth Warren has staked out
positions a bit further the left and
Hillary Clinton is particular on Dec
anomic the way she approaches politics
is different the way she explains
politics speaks about politics is
different her style of speaking is
different like they are so very much
different I'm sorry they are so
different as people I think it is
obviously sexist to have a headline like
that do you have a story like that even
if it wasn't the intention of the report
to do that is a sexist frame with which
to look at this problem but I will also
say as we think about how Elizabeth
Warren navigates this environment and
other candidates navigate this
environment and we as activists navigate
this environment like I saw that article
because I you know I was scrolling
through Twitter everyone is freaking out
about it I opened my nuzzle app which of
course you know gives you all the
articles that are most shared by the
people that you follow on Twitter and
this was like the number one story that
was most shared by the people that I
follow on Twitter and it wasn't shared
because people thought it was a good
piece it was shared because everyone was
so angry about it that that's
all they could talk about and I do think
there's something to be said for like
this is one piece and one headline in
Politico they're probably very very very
few people would have read and we I
think we do have to consider like what
it means to start sharing and freaking
out about these pieces that are going to
be written they're gonna be stupid
they're gonna be sexist they might be
racist there'd be all kinds of bad
things at the expense of talking about
what these candidates are for their
policy agendas their values their
platforms the big debates they're gonna
have like I just I am I am a little
concerned as we head into 2020 that the
outrage machine is gonna take over and
we're gonna be sort of absurd
Elizabeth Warren's announcement was this
great announcement she had a clear
message we should we should talk about
and we did you know we started by
talking about the substance of her
policy and why she's a good candidate
other things like that but so much of
her announcement coverage was taken up
by this one piece in Politico
yeah I was one of those people who
shared it without rage which is the
exact like if you had done it I would
have been told you we shouldn't get so
worked up about what the mainstream
media says so do as I say not as I do
obviously you're right it's you know I
think you make the point that I think
it's what we should not you should not
be glossed over in this which is that
the framework by which a lot of the
media treats female candidates is
inherently sexist yeah he's really
 unlikable Donald Trump right no
one likes get an entire convention and
the entire the only time anyone said
anything nice about him was one of his
billionaire friends got to ride on this
helicopter like no one likes him as a
person people may like him as a
president or his policies or ass
wallet everybody is unlike me you know
we don't read stories about how unlike
Emily is right that's not a thing that
happened with Warren has been in the
race for seven minutes and she is quite
likeable she is I mean she will get to
make that case for the public but there
has some like 30-year history of people
saying she's on Michael was just it is
just a sprint retreat the press treats
women and the public it's not just a
prop I guess it's this society that puts
a set of expectations in a set of
conditions on women that they don't put
on men and I do think we have to find a
balance between getting outraged in
twisting around the axle about thought
and pointing out when these things are
happening in the hopes that over the
course of the long run
you're not going to fix all of it but
you can make it more challenging for you
no poor dude you should challenge these
is the right thing to do to challenge
these unfair stereotypes that are placed
on on the women Canada traffic American
candidates or Latino candidates or
anyone and so that that is sort of the
balance which is we're going to have to
simultaneously fight against these
things and build up more thoughtful
progressive outlets in opera and media
opportunities to have a better
discussion about politics yeah I mean I
just say take it from the perspective of
Elizabeth Warren's campaign I don't know
what their conversations were when you
know about this Politico story but you
think to yourself okay we live in a
world that is unfair that is where the
media environment the political
environment is in some ways sexist
Hillary Clinton had to deal with that
and now Elizabeth Warren and and maybe
Kamala Harris and maybe Kirsten
Gillibrand maybe Amy Klobuchar will also
have to deal with that as they run how
do you operate in this environment when
there is a story like that when there is
a comment from Donald Trump that is
sexist what what do you do in response
and I do think that the way it was
before and handled this is probably a
good indicator of how you should handle
it you know I think she took an
Instagram video of her on the on the
train on the way I don't know where she
was going but she said a likable woman
sit in the quiet car and it's like you
know it was funny
she laughed it off and then she moved on
she went on to Rachel Maddow show Rachel
Maddow asked her substantive questions
about her policies as a good journalist
does she had a great conversation about
it she didn't have to talk about the
stupid Politico story it's probably a
good way to handle it it's a good
balance you can't completely ignore
these things but you can't necessarily
obsess over them and if the candidates
and the campaigns are gonna be very
disciplined about how they handle this
kind of stuff I think the rest of us in
sort of the activists Twitter world
probably have to think think to
ourselves like how can we be a little
more disciplined in how we shape the
conversation as well it's just a thought
that I have
that is really there's a partner that
you are right but what you said was
really was mildly depressing to me which
is those of us in the activist Twitter
world that's what I meant
activists slash twitter world it's that
either way here we are the White
House and now we're the activist man you
know the thing that I think is important
here is the lesson for this for every
candidate whether you are Elizabeth
Warren or Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden or
Carmel Harris is tell your own story do
not live in a world where you're very
wild yes ordinary times or even puppet
America to tell your story find ways to
tell your story that are on your terms
and if you can do that if you can
control your narrative to the public
control your message to the public you
are going to be much more successful
than relying on a mainstream media that
has all the wrong incentives to main
Germany and Trump frankly to tell your
story do not let Trump in the media to
find the four corners of your story do
it yourself that is correct all right
before we get to our interview with
privilege aya Paul let's talk about a
brand new member of Congress from the
great state of Utah Willard Mitt Romney
he's come to save the Republican Party
from the clutches of trumpism with his
op-ed pen writing in the Washington Post
on Wednesday Senator Romney said that
Donald Trump quote has not risen to the
mantle of the office with the nation so
divided resentful and angry presidential
leadership and qualities of characters
indispensable and it is in this province
where the incumbents shortfall has been
most glaring he also said I will support
policies that I believe are in the best
interest of the country in my state and
oppose those that are not I do not
intend to comment on every tweet or
fault but I will speak out against
significant statements or actions that
are divisive racist sexist
anti-immigrant dishonest or destructive
to democratic institutions dan how much
does this matter if at all does he at
least get credit for saying publicly
what most other Republican politicians
say privately I would like you to wake
me summer of 2020 okay and Mitt Romney
steps on the stage of the
publican convention in primetime to
offer his ringing endorsement for Donald
Trump's reelection I was I saw you tweet
that yesterday I think I could take the
other side of that bet I don't think he
will be at that I don't think he will
speak at that convention in support of
Donald Trump you know who this we're
reliving this is where the seven years
of seniority or so I have won you are
very critical power six years something
else our world you are but is that this
is like Bush McCain in right when at
this point in 2000 right Brandon McCain
because Romney probably wants run for
president again and he's going to and
that isn't require in campaigning for
Trump to run for reelection he's gonna
campaign for him he 100% is and wait on
I think in McCain spoke in primetime on
the in the 2004 Commission in favor of
Bush who he said was playing deep like
and much of the same lesson a moral case
against Bush is a substantive case the
McCain had and he completely flipped it
and campaigned for bush and ran as a
foolishly as they sort of continuing the
bush legacy in 2008 so anything is
possible
look look to be fair saying it is better
than not saying it right right right I
mean like that is that's great but my
comment was gonna be wake me up when he
actually uses the power of his office to
stop Trump in some way I think this this
is another debate that is so
silly to me like everyone's focused on
like should he be applauded should he be
condemned should he be believed should
he be not believe I don't know we don't
know like we said like we can place a
fun bet on the 2020 convention who the
 knows what he's gonna do
he might you know he could be is he knew
Jeff Flake or is he something else
although I will say in Flakes case at
least at the very end even though it was
quite belated flakes top judges because
he was trying to get a bill to protect
robert muller and romney who you know
was interviewed by Jake Tapper on CNN on
Wednesday Tapper said are you gonna you
know stop judges like like Jeff Flake
did and Romney's like oh I don't know
that I think that might be unproductive
and you know and then he said he'd vote
for the border wall and again it's like
I understand that you can be
conservative have conservative policy
positions and still take action to stop
some of trumps worst impulses and
actions right that don't have to do with
being a conservative yeah I think that's
that's possible I guess I guess that's
what Jeff Flake was doing when you stop
these judges but Romney liked the border
wall isn't an example of that right now
because even though Romney is
theoretically for a border wall like he
knows how this whole situation
is he knows that the Senate voted a
hundred to nothing to keep the
government open and that five billion
dollars for steel slats is complete
 and yet he doesn't want to take
a stand
even in this first issue of keeping the
government open because I don't know why
I don't know because he he doesn't
really want he wants to write an op-ed
about it and not actually stand up to
Trump so you know it I don't know
whether whether Romney will rise to the
occasion or not whether we're doubtful
about it doesn't really matter let's
just see what happens
either he acts or he doesn't if he acts
good for him like you know please come
join us in stopping Trump's madness and
then vote for your conservative policies
whenever you want fine we don't agree
with you but that's your thing
but if you're not gonna do anything
you're just gonna write op-eds then you
know great good for you it's
like is currently a monument to
principled consistently integrity is the
perfect example of how in the land of
the blind the one-eyed man is king yes
like Mitt Romney is someone who is in
flip-flops named after him he was the
pro-choice governor of Massachusetts who
passed the model for the Affordable Care
Act who then ran for president and ran
far to the right disavowing everything
he ever stood for then changed his
positions again to run again in 2012 ran
is an immigration of hardliner
in order to beat in a way that was a
model for Trump in order to beat Rick
in the primary who was then a fierce
advocate against Trump who then was
willing to be trump Secretary of State
which I think was okay but then when
running for Senate in Utah say this was
all the idea that he'd ever been
quote-unquote never Trump so I like
let's see what he does but if past is
prologue this is not gonna go well yeah
he doesn't actually not a lot of
evidence that Mitt Romney has some core
core principles and beliefs yes I do not
like Mitt Romney I have not liked them I
hate him in 2012 the rest of you people
who've applauding him I still don't like
him I am never gonna like him Mitt
Romney is bad I'm done truck well so
Trump Bobby I thought what said more
about Mitt Romney is Mitt Romney and
like yeah I feel the same way like I
said I don't I don't wake up thinking
about Mitt Romney that much I don't
really care I don't think he's gonna
have a big impact on our public life I
thought what it said about the
Republican Party was more interesting
Trump obviously fired back as that's
Trump which was a funny tweet here we go
with Mitt Romney but so fast question
will be is he a flake I hope not I won
big and he didn't be a team player and
win and then the rest of the cult's got
upset Rand Paul went after him pretty
hard after Romney pretty hard this is
the same Rand Paul who called Trump a
delusional narcissist and an orange
faced windbag who was less qualified to
be President than a speck of dirt Rand
Paul Finck says he was upset that Romney
attacked Trump and Mitt Romney's own
niece the Rada formerly known as Romney
McDaniel chairwoman to the Republican
Party attacked her uncle via tweet
calling his op-ed disappointing and
unproductive cool party huh dad I just
like these people like he wrote an op-ed
basically saying I will vote for just
about all of trumps policies I am a
conservative through and through don't
worry about my vote but I'm gonna say
that the guy is offensive and degrades
the office once in a while which is what
all these Republicans say privately one
Republican congressman went on
background as they often do to The Daily
Beast and said oh yeah what he said was
100% true but we're just upset that he
said it out loud like this party is just
so they are
I don't know I've run out of adjectives
the the other thing is it's an important
context of this is Republicans don't
like Mitt Romney young do not the public
elected officials think he is full of
 they thought it was full of
they didn't really want to you know win
in 2012 they thought he ran a shitty
campaign they thought they've always
thought he was in 2008 the big
thing was the only thing that unified
the Republican primary field was they
all hated Romney and then 2012 if you
remember Republican voters tried so hard
to give the nomination of someone else
and we was Romney in a collection of
clowns and they were like well do the
Romney or Gingrich so maybe we'll try
Gingrich before you light himself on
fire
well Gingrich blew up so let's give
Santorum hashanah publicans are forced
to choose between two people they do not
like like they don't I think they
probably all think Trump or Romney are
we on top against their just somehow
their last two nominees yeah I don't
think yeah there's clearly not a lot not
a lot of love for him in the party but
it also just shows I think that this is
it really is a cult of personality
around Donald Trump and you know the
never Trump or dream that some
Republican like Romney is going to rise
to the occasion and run for president
and primary Donald Trump in 2020 seems
just that a pipe dream that's not really
gonna happen or if it is that person is
not gonna get much support in the party
because it's Trump's party they all love
him
they love his politics they love his
policies he is the head of the
Republican Party as it has been for some
time now and that's where we are you
know anyway that's Mitt Romney on that
note on a more hopeful note we will be
right back with our interview with the
co-chair of the Congressional
Progressive Caucus privilege I appalled
you
