welcome to pod save America I'm John
Lovett I'm Dan Pfeiffer
it's a Jetsons Flintstones crossover Dan
happy Halloween
celebrities are apologizing for their
costumes how you doing I'm great who's
apologizing for their costume well I saw
an athlete apologizing yesterday it just
sort of comes up in your Twitter moments
just so-and-so is apologizing you don't
even you have to click to find out the
costume and I don't click do you have a
costume I am wearing rainbow pants but
that is the extent of it I think my
costume is wearing rainbow pants that's
because that's because it's Wednesday
today on the pod we are talking about
Trump's final play to the fears of his
base by floating the repeal of the 14th
amendment the executive order which is
not how that works we'll look at where
we stand in the fight for the House and
the Senate and because it's been a very
long two years and we deserve it we're
going to take a moment to discuss a
bizarre scheme to frame Robert Muller by
a real Trump Hunter Kent which is uh it
was too stupid for words yesterday Dan
you'll also hear from Amy McGrath an
exciting Democratic candidate and former
fighter pilot running for Congress in
Kentucky six district also we've got our
final midterm special for HBO this
Friday night in Irvine California so
tune in for that Dan I'm excited you
excited I'm very excited our last one so
we're finally getting the hang of it so
now we have to stop we have to stop for
a bit you know maybe they'll be more
maybe there won't be who knows also we
just wanted to thank everybody who went
to vote save america.com slash donate
because we were able to raise a million
dollars for twenty House candidates in
some of the closest races in the country
our friends at civis looked at the
polling looked at where dollars would go
the furthest in media markets and they
had identified the top 20 races where
your dollars could make the biggest
difference and we thought we maybe get
$250,000 we thought we'd maybe get to
$500,000 we were able to raise a million
dollars for those races and you know
we've been hearing from the campaigns
we've been hearing from the candidates
that it's making a huge difference we
were so gratified by the response that
we wanted to do it again so if you go to
vote save america.com slash donate right
now we have identified the ten races
where your dollars right now can make
the most difference where the polls have
narrowed where they're in media markets
where the dollars will go the farthest
and so if you go to vote save
america.com slash donate you can go
donate to those ten races it's actually
ten plus one because we've also added JD
Scholten because his race against Steve
King is so important and new polling
shows that he's really got a shot so if
you go to vote save america.com slash
donate you can help these top ten plus
one incredibly competitive races where
your dollars will go the furthest and
and we'll see how much we can raise for
them in this homestretch also you can go
to vote save america.com to check out
the voter guide where you can get an
early look at what's on your ballot and
even fill it out so you know what to do
when you actually vote you're not voting
on votes save America calm all right I
don't think I need to say that but just
in case you're not actually voting
you're feeling your ballot and then once
you finish your sample ballot you can
use our makeup plan feature to pick a
time and date that works for you find
out your closest polling location and
where you need to go if you're voting in
person if you'd like you can get subtle
very chill reminders by email or text so
you don't forget to vote all right all
right you need if you need the reminder
I hope you don't but maybe you do all
right
so go to vote save America calm make
your plan basically the more people who
make plans the more people to vote
knowing how you're going to vote it
makes it more likely for you to actually
do it so get it done I don't know how
much can we beseech you honestly go to
vote save America calm and one last
thing Dan I know you have an
announcement about your book and about
how people can get involved in the
closing days before the midterms so like
the week before the election sucks so it
is very hard and stressful as we know so
we're gonna give away our 150 copies of
my book yes we still can
so to do that you go to yes we still can
book calm we're calling this promo you
appreciate the poor pun here yes we
still canvass and if you post a photo of
yourself and your friends canvassing
with the hashtag yes we still canvas
that would be great and if you go to the
website give a chance to win a free a
free book something to pass the time as
you are looking at 538 or the upshot or
whatever else in between canvassing
shifts and from
shifts or the pod save America live
stream or the Fahd save America live
show that's correct so Dan this is it
we're in the homestretch four candidates
I'm picturing Jesse Owens racing toward
the finish line they are throwing Axios
in front of him they're throwing a
caravan in front of him the throwing
attack ads in front of him and like
Jesse Owens if we win the race the Nazis
will be pissed that is your most
extended sports metaphor ever yeah my
ability reference sports ends around
1952 all right so let's let's start with
trump's last-ditch effort to refocus the
election on anything other than health
care and his response his abysmal
response to national tragedy in an
interview with Jonathan Swan and Jim
VandeHei of Axios Donald Trump claimed
he could end what's known as birthright
citizenship with an executive order
don't want to spend too much time in
this because it's a ploy but
it's worth touching on the it's worth
touching on the substance of this how
AXI has handled the scoop and then
finally the political implications let's
start with the substance Dan what is he
talking about what is birthright
citizenship and can the president end it
with an executive order birthright
citizenship citizenship is the idea
constrained in the 14th amendment that
if you were born in the United States
you are a citizen and the 14th amendment
was put into reverse the most odious
Supreme Court decision in American
history Dred Scott which ruled that
slaves were not citizens even if they
were born the United States and so this
is at the core of cleaning up some of
the most the worst parts of American
history
legal scholars have looked at this for a
long time and believe that it is very
clear with what was meant by the
Fourteenth Amendment Trump is suggesting
in a very clever ploy that instead of
going through the long and very hard
process of changing the Constitution
which requires 2/3 of Congress rather
being ratified by state legislatures in
2/3 of the states that he would just do
it with his pen which seems challenging
to me but you know who knows yes so so
the 14th Amendment says all persons born
or naturalized in the United States and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof are
citizens of the United States and of the
State wherein they reside
according to virtually all serious
constitutional scholars from across the
spectrum constitutional lawyer lawyers
Paul Ryan Ted Cruz George Conway
right-wing Republicans and long
establish a prima Corps president the
meaning is completely plain and
uncontroversial if you're born here
you're citizen and the jurisdiction
language right which is what they hang
their head on is their to accept the
children of diplomats and the children
of foreign occupiers which thankfully we
haven't had to deal with for a while
even the Federalists the Federalists
which is Breitbart if it went to
Dartmouth rat apiece which ran a piece
saying ending birthright citizenship
will make Republicans look like the
party of Dred Scott so this is not a
complicated issue clearly this is
pissing Donald Trump up just this
morning he tweeted Paul Ryan should be
focusing on holding the majority rather
than giving his opinions on birthright
citizenship something he knows nothing
about our new Republican majority will
work on this closing the immigration
loopholes and securing our border so he
is frustrated that a lot of Republicans
have not rallied to his side although he
does have the support of people like
Lindsey Graham who thinks this is a
great idea what do you make of Lindsey
Graham's fringe views on this issue I
would like to know what position Donald
Trump could take and the run-up to
Lindsey Graham's 2020 Republican primary
that Lindsey Graham would not adopt yeah
I mean it's just like he's me when
Lindsey Graham goes in he goes all in
and he has decided that being a trump
sync event is the best way to maintain
political power so he's doing that I had
a question for you on this which is do
you think this was intentional from
Trump like that this was part of his
closing playbook you know I don't know
the answer to that actually that brings
us to the to the Axios of it all because
what's what happens in his interview is
something that has happened with Trump
in the past which is he's asked a
question and the question didn't
necessarily give him the idea but if you
go to Donald Trump and they say and you
say hey some people think you have the
power to do this racist thing
your base will love do you he never says
no he never ever says no to that
question you know it's just it really
does speak to something
so sad about the state of our politics
that the idea that there could be a
debate as to whether or not the
president can do something by Fiat which
is what an executive order is or and
which is the lowest threshold for action
right it's the one there's no act of
Congress it basically just says it's
rooted in the president's power or it
could require a constitutional amendment
the most onerous way to make a change in
our system so so like when he's asked
the question he just says yes you could
tell Axios was pleased that they had
this scoop Jim VandeHei tweeted siren
exclusive Trump to terminate birthright
citizenship you know it seems like this
might you know I I think I saw Jonathan
Swan basically saying like this was
based on reporting the fact they were
gonna do this he wasn't leading Trump to
this it was based on the fact that this
is something they'd be considering
something they've been discussing it
something Trump knows about is willing
to talk about has talked about in the
past and of course that's that's true
and yet it did seem like this was a it
it's not clear to me that Trump went
into this to try to make the
conversation about an executive order on
on birthright citizenship what did you
make of the Axios interview and how they
made news around it well I think I will
I take Jonathan Swan at his word that he
was reporting this and someone had told
him that this is something Trump wanted
to do so I don't I think Trump seemed
legitimately surprised the Jonathan Swan
asked him about it and so I don't think
that like on some whiteboard in Stephen
Miller's office they had a list of like
racist cards to play before the election
and they were just and like Tuesday was
the day and I turn over the birthright
citizenship card so I think they sort of
stumbled into yet another way to stoke
white anxiety before the election I
think the challenge with the way Axios
did it is when you when you treat when
you say like Trump to end birthright
citizenship reduce that's not something
he can do and like the problem like
we're in this weird world of media where
everyone has to condense everything to
280 characters but everything with Trump
requires context either fact-checking
or the actual reality of what he can and
can't do Trump said he would do this but
he can't and almost no one believes he
can and that is as important in the
headline as the fact of what he said and
then both Trump and
like 17 both Axios like 17 other news
organizations tweeted out the things
that Trump said about the u.s. being the
only country in the world that does this
or whatever else which are totally false
and they just sort of pass along what
Trump says without fact-checking
Axios to their credit fix that but I
think that this is Trump you know you
always use the term he's like the
Raptors testing the fence and this is I
think this is one of those examples of
you could sort of see in his eyes as it
was asked like he can sort of do the
calculation of how many white people he
can scare into voting as this is
happening and he decides to leap on it
full-bore even though it wasn't part of
the plan
I think the Ryan the Paul Ryan response
to this suggests that we kind of know
like this tells us the racist line that
mainstream Republicans won't cross it's
like we will run incredibly racist ads
against minority candidates we will
stoke fears about disease and you know
and gang members in a caravan of
thousands of miles away but we will not
be the party of Dred Scott like that's
the line that causes people to respond
to Trump's which is I guess instructive
you know interesting if not instructive
yeah it is interesting
yes so in turn on the press front it was
there was this sort of range a lot of
places did cover it well they would they
immediately say that this was a fringe
view that most people that the vast
majority of scholars and experts
Republican a Democrat disagree that he
has the power to do this but then you
also did see others pass along with you
know pass along credulous Lee this claim
that no other country does this when
thirty other countries more like thirty
other countries have birthright sitting
in the in the sense that if you're born
in the country you can easily get
citizenship so it's just not true and it
was frustrating to me but the activist
interview is they they were very
invested in getting the news but not
invested enough in the subject of the
news to be able to push back against him
in real time and as always like this is
the art critique of Axios which is
incredibly smart reporters incredibly
well source reporters they do great work
and yet at times you feel as though they
don't understand the implications the
human implications for the politics and
the
bait around politics we have everyday
you know even if this is a fringe idea
even if this is a silly notion that will
go nowhere when the president says it's
acceptable to say if you're born here
you're not necessarily a citizen that's
really dangerous which brings us to the
political implications on the one hand
this was a ploy it was Donald Trump
taking advantage of a moment to make
this about immigration and yet on the
other hand it is important when the
president united states attacks the
fundamental tenants of American
citizenship which is the basis of all of
our our rights and our quality and our
dignity as human beings so how do you
think Democrats should respond are there
Democrats that you think have responded
well of the Democrats you think it
responded poorly what do you think I
think you know you raise a really solid
a really important point about the human
implications I was at a fundraiser last
night for an organization that's raising
money for all of the Obama alumni who
are running for Congress and I talked to
a number of people who are affected
would be affected by this policy and
it's it's not that they were afraid of
their citizenship since they you know
they were obviously poor in this country
many many years ago but the idea that
the pricee nighted states even one as
odious to all of us as Donald Trump
saying that you were somehow less of a
citizen is just like that matters to
people and we should not lose that for
the ups and downs of how this affects
the horse race etc so now I will talk
about the UPS what are the ups and downs
and how does it affect the horse sir yes
for that moral caveat so I can I feel
better than the average rider I think
they're like the wronged I am not super
concerned about the short-term political
implications of this because I think for
the most part it's gonna be a little bit
of a flash in the pan for the reasons
that most press covered it pretty well
which is like he said it doesn't really
matter nothing's happening
it's probably a net negative for
Republicans in the sense that now Trump
and Paul Ryan are in a fight and just
divisions you know five or six days
before the election it's not great it
does matter in the long run because you
like Trump has an ability to take
extreme positions they generally sort of
live on the edges
you know reddit sub threads and move
them to the mainstream of the Republican
Party and and so I think that we are
going to be involved in a long debate
over the next between now and 2020 about
birthright citizenship and Trump is the
ability to rally mainstream the
mainstream elected Republicans like
Lindsey Graham but also Republican
voters to these positions and so I think
that that is the real danger of his
remarks reason this issue in such a way
the second thing is it like in the short
term of this election Democrats have to
be just as disciplined about this as
many of them have been about the caravan
which is to point out that this is the
Republicans trying to distract you from
the very real fact that Republicans if
they may maintain power will jack up
your premiums and cut your Medicare to
pay for the the massive tax cut they
passed for billionaires corporations and
Wall Street traders it just like we want
it they want us Trump wants us to chase
them down every single rabbit hole and I
think one of lessons of 2016 is when you
do that you lose the narrative thread
for voters and so we have to be strong
and disciplined about what are the
messages that we know works and not
react to every shiny object yeah I think
that's right and that doesn't mean that
it's not really important and dangerous
what Trump is doing it's not saying that
you're diminishing the threat of what
Trump wants to be our policy to say he
is doing this to rally his base he is
doing this to make this election about
immigration as opposed to his failure to
respond to national tragedy his position
on health care his position on taxes it
it these are it's not an it's not um
saying that's something saying that we
shouldn't fall into a trap is not to say
that what's in the trap isn't I don't
know a bear I'm not sure how the trap
worked it doesn't matter I think the
bear is the one that gets trapped who
knows but so so that I found very
frustrating because you know you saw I
think um you know it whether it was a
it's funny there's been so many
different racial racist appeals from
Trump and even in the past week and a
half I'm honestly not sure if what I'm
thinking of is Andrew Gilliam and better
work responding to this particular
example or a previous example but
basically saying this is yet another
example of Donald Trump trying to appeal
to fear and division rather than our
better natures is a reminder of why we
need change and as a reminder of why we
need a better kind of politics and by
the way this is an effort to keep us
from focusing on what really matters to
people which is their health care their
jobs etc etc etc so I think that there
is a way to talk about why this is
dangerous without falling into the trap
yeah I think you're this is a very
important point because in an old the
wrong way to think about this is Donald
Trump is trying to place this wedge
issue in here and the way to nullify a
wedge issue is to accept it right and so
and you see Democrats have done this in
the past right where say well this is an
interesting debate we should have the
debate or there are strong feelings on
both sides or I would help Trump fund
his wall or whatever that is is the way
to deal with a wedge issue and polarized
politics is to call it out for what it
is and then pivot back to what matters
right and I think we should be people
should point out as I saw better work
did this in his town hall last night and
other Democrats have is we should say
that it is that Trump is wrong but you
don't think my word for it take the word
of Republicans Democrats Paul Ryan
constitutional scholars Kelly Han
Conway's husband like you can point out
you like you can isolate Trump by
pointing out the wide bipartisan
ideological the wide bipartisan
opposition to this idea and then move on
and then point out why he's doing it you
know we don't have to accept the premise
that it is okay or it is not very very
dangerous around American and you know
I've even seen some Democrats try to get
around even answering the question right
refusing to take a position trying to
dodge it and I don't I get that but but
come on like whip where are you that
feels like a really old way of handling
this you don't need to simply evade the
topic to get to the topic you want to
talk about you just have to you just
have to be honest just be honest about
the politics of this moment and that
honesty gives you the ability to talk
about what you want because everybody
knows what's going on here no people
aren't stupid
yeah and I mean even if you needed a
pole to give you an iota of moral
courage this was polled last year and
large bipartisan majorities disagree
with Trump's position on this so you
like there's the moral thing to do
there's the there's the easy political
thing to do it's just don't be cowardice
is never a good strategy in politics
particularly in the trump era yeah
before we leave this topic there has
been a hopeful sign new polls have come
out showing friend of the pod JD Shelton
who joined Monday's episode in a very
close race within striking distance of
Steve King the most openly white
nationalist racist member of Congress
which was a competitive category
actually the chair the chair of the
National Republican gresham Committee
tweeted that Steve King's recent
comments actions and retweets are
completely inappropriate and that we
must stand up against white supremacy
and hate in all its forms
the NR C C is no longer supporting him
Kent Kings campaign and neither is Land
O'Lakes a giant agricultural business
that's backed him in the past
he lost Land O'Lakes Dan he also lost
Purina but wait I have a joke you ready
oh sorry even even butter has turned on
Steve King uh does that work better by
saying eat what's the joke wait half of
this even butter has turned sour on
Steve King how about that Steve King
hasn't changed Steve King has been a
racist conspiracy theorist for a very
very long time it's the only way he
knows how to be what has changed do you
believe Dan that it's finally happened
have Republicans grown a conscience no I
know Dan come on that's what's going on
here they're waking up things are
changing
I am very I would love to know more of
the backstory about Steve Stivers the
NRCC chairman who did this in that
there's a political story about it this
morning or yesterday I guess that said
that he did this tweet without and made
the decision to stop funding Steve King
without telling anyone else in the
leadership
the White House not Paul Ryan not Kevin
McCarthy and I am very curious as to
what happened is he facing donor
pressure from all these NRCC donors or
like why am i writing my corporation is
writing checks to your organization and
you were using our money from our public
corporations to fund just a racist cloud
did he I mean like you would say like
well maybe he just looked in the mirror
and said I can't do this but at the same
time his committee is running some of
the most racist ads possible against
Antonio Delgado in New York Andy Kim in
New Jersey off top perv all in Ohio and
so it's like it's very unclear are those
things very notable that
political went and called the offices of
Paul Ryan and Kevin McCarthy to ask them
if they agreed with Steve Stivers and
they refused to respond once again
 Ryan in Kevin McCarthy are still
100% fined with a white nationalist in
their party and I would note that Paul
Ryan made Steve King the chairman of the
Subcommittee on the Constitution
I would also know that every time we
wonder like where Donald Trump came from
it's remember that every week for many
years mainstream Republicans go and eat
a sandwich with Steve King and pat him
on the back and court his endorsement
and everything else also I would note
that it was two days at three it was
four days ago that Paul Ryan was on
being interviewed on Face the Nation by
John Dickerson and and lamented the
state of our politics and posed as if it
was a rhetorical question how do we make
an inclusive inspiring politics more
strategic a better choice I how about
stop supporting Steve King how
about show one ounce of backbone you are
leaving Congress you are done you're
going to Wisconsin to make money for
pharma or something can't you just tell
the truth
you are leaving you're not even running
all right Kevin McCarthy he wants to be
Speaker of the House if damn if
Republicans keep the the the chamber or
at least he wants to be in the
leadership
he Paul Ryan you're leaving you are
leaving giving exit interviews about how
you lament the state of our politics
Steve King is the cause of the state of
our politics and you can't say a
word it is laughable it's look I don't
you know you said like maybe Stivers
looked in the mirror are there no
mirrors where Paul Ryan lives are there
no mirrors at the gym is it doesn't he
work out in front of a mirror
it's so I mean it is Paul like this
sounds extreme to say but Paul Ryan is
as responsible for Donald Trump being
president as anyone else in America
because this like Steve King is the most
famous of the Republican the pre Trump
Republican races but when when Donald
Trump the reality star was do it was
pushing the birther conspiracy
I don't remember Paul Ryan standing up
and telling him just to pipe down Paul
Ryan was has coordinates Steve King
every Republican candidate courted Steve
King Paul Ryan and Mitt Romney when they
were the 2012 nominees were endorsed by
Donald Trump and campaigned with Steve
King and there is a white nationalist in
the mainstream of the Republican Party
and everyone just seems to think that
that is the price of doing business a
nice Republican Party and it is mind
boggling and it's important that we call
it out and I would also note there are
some other political implications here
which is in Iowa for rod Blum is the
perhaps the one of the most endangered
Republicans in the country and Steve
King has sort of been an issue in all of
Iowa Potter's could in that race and in
the Iowa governor's race Kim Reynolds
who was the lieutenant governor who took
over when Terry Branstad became the
ambassador of China
great job choice he/she has made Steve
King one of her campaign chairs and has
been under a lot of pressure from Fred
Hubbell who's running a very competitive
race there too about that fact and so
Steve King is becoming an issue and that
is that is a good thing and we'll see if
the Republicans respond to that since
morality and decency is will not cause
them to respond yeah I wonder also if
what we've seen in just the past week of
all of this violence propelled in part
in large part by racist xenophobic
propaganda
has drawn new attention to Steve King
because they can no longer act as though
this fringe doesn't have real-world
consequences and they can't totally
ignore it or pretend they're not
complicit in it as well as they could in
the past so which brings us you know
we've Dan we've accidentally talked
about Paul Ryan but which which brings
us running out of time we only have a
few more weeks left of this I know yeah
there's a there's so much left to say
I'm really I'm really sort of doing a
nationwide search for who will be my new
Paul Ryan come next week all of this is
happening as we are days away from the
midterms Donald Trump's schedule in the
final week of the election has been
touching down in eight states for 11
rallies bloomberg reported that Trump is
passing over opportunities to campaign
in competitive house districts in favor
of stopping in states with competitive
Senate and gubernatorial races like
Florida Missouri and Arizona dan what
does that tell you about the state of
the race and what people listening can
do well I think first off if you are
listening and we certainly hope you are
all of this is interesting but all that
really matters is that in the final
weeks you vote you volunteer do
everything you possibly can if you
requested a ballot mail it in find every
friend you have and make sure they vote
double check go to vote save America all
of the action items that we constantly
tell you to do because everything else
is just like sports commentary to what
is actually happening but I think it is
Trump's schedule is interesting in some
ways it does speak to this view of there
are places where Trump is tremendously
helpful or at least the many Republicans
believe that these are these Reds the
red Trump states the states where he has
done better than previous Republicans
and there are states where he is
such an anaphora that if he even flies
over them it could affect the ability
Republicans ability to keep the house
and so he's staying out of the states
that Hillary won get him out of my
airspace get this guy out of my
airspace all right he's flying over
suburbs
get em oh-- you keep him over the
Mountain West you keep him over rural
areas I do not need him over exurbs I do
not need him over changing suburbs with
educated Republicans he he has to stay
keep the Air Force 1 approximately 700
miles from any Whole Foods or Panera but
so I think this is what is interesting
about this is stay near the cracker
barrels Trump all right it's the
Republicans if today you can maybe go to
a I love but Rutgers all right
I'm I'm salt of the earth sorry Dan
what is interesting is that Trump has no
ability they probably decided Trump has
no ability to save the house because the
seats that will decide 2018 or happening
in States Trump can't go to and won't go
to it whether it's California New Jersey
Virginia etc what they think he can do
is prevent huge losses in red de states
so the difference between the Democrats
winning you know 23 28 30 and Democrats
winning 35 or 40 and that he can help
save the Senate and I saw several people
in their analysis today say that we are
headed towards a split decision
where Democrats will win the house and
Republicans will win the Senate and I
will say two things about that one don't
listen to those voters go vote because
these same people who said those
musician also told us that two other who
would win so don't listen to them and
second if Trump loses the House and
governors races it literally raises all
across the country but hold on to the
Senate even because he had the most
favorable map in the history of Senate
races and the press covers it is a split
decision I am going to melt the
down because that's exactly what
happened in 2010 when Barack Obama was
president and no one covered it as a
split decision they covered it as a
massive rebuke to President Obama yes I
would also say the fact that they do not
necessarily believe Donald Trump can be
helpful or as helpful in the house
doesn't mean winning the house is a
foregone conclusion at all it does not
mean that at all it
just means they believe at this moment
given the map given the distribution of
voters given who Trump appeals to it
makes more sense for him to go to the
Senate races that they're still vying
for even though we're talking about deep
red states whether it's you know Montana
or Missouri or elsewhere we've also seen
these competing stories on the one hand
we've seen in the past few days this
worry that the Democratic lead may be
evaporating that there's no blue wave
the Democrats overplayed their hand and
then at the same time you saw a story in
the post saying Republicans are
scrambling to save suddenly vulnerable
candidates in congressional districts
that President Trump won in 2016 as
Democrats have charged deeper into
conservative strongholds in their bid to
win the house dan what does that tell
you about where we're at I would say
several things about this one
everyone who was talking to reporters is
lying they have an agenda
it is Democrats spinning something
Republicans spinning something no one
knows anything the only poll numbers
that like internal poll numbers that the
reporters writing these stories have
seen are the ones that campaigns decide
to show them and they only decide to
show them if they have an agenda and
Republicans have an incentive to go out
and spread panic in these stories
because one of the things that we saw
earlier this year was that Republicans
sort of living in the Trump Twitter Fox
News bubble thought the blue wave was a
fake thing and therefore they work in a
trance and now you're trying to scare
them you have Democrats out spending
Republicans because of grassroots
enthusiasm from our donor base and so
you have there the real incentive for
Republicans to tell to communicate with
their donors through the press that we
need money fast because it would be like
oh my god all this Democratic money's
coming help us so they can get those big
corporate checks in the last week and so
no one who is saying anything knows
anything and so we just have to be very
we just have to go into this knowing
that all that matters is what we do over
the next six days and if you have any
confidence in winning the house or
you're getting tired and you don't you
don't you don't want to sign up for that
last candy
shift this weekend or or phonebank
tonight after work whatever it is I
would think about this you look at all
these rosy predictions about Democrats
taking the house from 538 up shot every
every place that now has some sort of
needle or something the Democrats take
chances of taking the house are less
good than what we thought Hillary
Clinton's chances of winning the White
House were and I don't know if you
remember how that turned out John loved
it but it wasn't great so all we can do
is just run through the tape here and do
everything we possibly can in these last
few days to make sure that we win the
most important midterm election in our
 lifetimes absolutely I do
remember Dan it is seared into my memory
because I was doing a live streaming the
what do we what are we doing on election
night where we're gonna touch that same
hot stove so yeah I would also say look
the polling does have value right in the
sense that it has helped us figure out
where should we put resources who should
we donate to in the homestretch I mean
we started the show by talking about how
we raised a million dollars for
candidates based on the polling and
other information saying that these
races were the the places where your
dollars would go the furthest at the
same time if we knew how elections would
turn out election night wouldn't be
suspenseful no matter what happens win
lose or draw there will be surprises
there will be House races that we didn't
know we could win that will win there
will be House races that we thought were
were were a layup that we're gonna lose
the same may well be true of the Senate
wherever you are right now there is a
house race that you can make a
difference in and that house race may be
the race that surprises people in
letting us take back the house we really
don't know I mean one of the things
about this map for the house is that
there are so many races in play the fact
that there are so many races in play
doesn't make it more likely that we win
but it does make it more likely that you
can help in a way that makes the
difference I mean that to me is what I
take away from these stories about the
widening map not that somehow this has
gotten easier but that that we know that
we can't know where the house will be
won or lost because there's too many
districts in play because the politics
of this moment are transitional because
we have learned in the past two years
that we
are at an inflection point in this
country and his inflection point about
who will turn out will it be this
electorate this older whiter more rural
electorate that boot that sees its power
in some sense slipping away that feels
the appeal of racism that feels an
anxiety about what is happening to this
country that that has been stoked and
prodded and made frightful and angry by
Donald Trump and Fox News and the
Republicans in Congress or will a
growing electorate a younger more
educated more diverse more urban
electorate that we believed when Barack
Obama won two elections was the the the
powerful future of who will determine
the outcomes of elections in this
country will it show up in a midterm in
a way that it hasn't before and will
they be joined by the kind of people who
may have either stayed home in 2016 or
decided that politics was so broken that
they couldn't support someone like
Hillary Clinton and that they voted for
Donald Trump will they have been so
turned off by Donald Trump that they'll
come out and vote to rebuke him and vote
for a check and and to me you know we
just don't know the answer I don't care
what the polls say I don't care what I
don't care what the data says we just
don't know because there's never been in
a midterm election before where Donald
Trump was president and we were facing
such a headwind with gerrymandering with
voter suppression and a massive
propaganda apparatus from Fox News to
the Adel's to a Tolson and all the money
being dumped on these candidates so
nobody knows anything and
everybody has to do their part yeah
everyone do everything and I last thing
I'd say on this is the other like to
just put a finer point on what you were
saying about the map getting bigger is
this is the firt because it's not just
that the house map is getting bigger
which it is which is very important
which means more people in the country
will have an opportunity to determine
whether Democrats take the house back
right like if you live in Kansas you
have an opportunity to deliver not one
but two seats to that Democratic
majority which is not something you
would say very often if but it's also
for the first time in recent memory you
have Democrats running for everything up
and down the ballot all across the
country
so even if you were in the reddest state
you have the opportunity to send a
Democrat to the your state legislature
to send a Democrat to your school board
and so like this is these you know I've
been in politics for while now and these
these elections where there is a
potential for a wave don't come around
very often and they have consequences
that extend long after the election
itself and so this is a generational
opportunity for Democrats to put in
place people at all levels of power all
throughout the country and we know from
the special elections we've seen thus
far Democrats can win everywhere they
can win in North Dakota they can win in
Oklahoma they can win in California and
so no matter what state you live in your
vote may never matter more than it has
then it will on Tuesday
absolutely and I'd even add on top of
that that we have these ballot measures
in places like Utah and Idaho for
expanding Medicaid we have a we have I
believe we have minimum wage ballot
measures in Missouri and Arkansas there
are and we have Stacey Abrams in an
incredibly close race in for the
governorship in Georgia we have better
o'rourke in Texas every state is a swing
state in this mid term and California
the house may hinge on what happens in
California
you cannot point to a state in this
country Montana Jon Tester I mean we
could go through the entire map of this
country every state is a swing state no
matter where you are in this country you
are part of this election that's exactly
right last but not least an all right so
all right so that's our that's our
that's our midterm appeal I think we've
bludgeoned people enough I swear to god
damn if people are listening to this I'm
assuming everyone listening to this is
gonna vote or has already voted or has
their ballot in their hands and is going
to mail it back even though Dan we have
seen numbers that across the country
there are a lot of people with mail-in
ballots and there are more Republicans
sending them back so far than Democrats
which is shameful I'm not going to blame
the people listening because I'm
assuming you're voting I need you have
to do more if you're listening to this
and you're not planning to canvass or
phone bang this weekend get it together
that's right
I bet I just know my dog back literally
an hour ago so yeah because you knew I'd
get like this I wanted to make sure that
I had that box checked before I got it
before I got on this podcast and as a
reward for all of you who have voted
planned to vote will mail in your ballot
have mailed in your ballot will be
canvassing this weekend I do want to
take one very brief moment to talk about
one of the stupidest and yet also most
frightening stories we have seen in
quite some time which is an effort to
frame robert muller by one of the
dumbest human beings ever to attempt a
scheme like this Brian and Priyanka did
a great job summarizing this scandal and
the what a day newsletter notorious pro
Trump grifter Jacob wall got caught
organizing a fraudulent scheme to
falsely accused special counsel robert
muller of sexual assault the plan
involved approaching multiple women who
have since told reporters they were
offered money to publicly accused muller
of misconduct the problem Muller got
wind of the ploy and immediately
referred it to the Justice Department
for criminal investigation because it
may constitute wire fraud and
obstruction of justice it is honestly
too dumb to go through all the details
of this it may have been it may have
been an attempt to frame Muller it may
have been an attempt to frame
journalists but similarly did Devon
newness you cannot be this dumb and try
to do schemes at the national level this
was a high school level scheme maybe a
middle school level scheme my favorite
part of this is as Jacob wall who
drummed up this story and denied
involvement was facing blowback they
looked into the company involved and its
phone number went to Jacob walls
mother's voicemail I have always thought
that when this period in our politics is
over and HBO does their limited series
on the rush apply just the group of
laughable criminals around Trump it
should be titled conspiracy of dunces
Jacob wall is like the fourth how many
Trump siblings are there he's like the
fifth Trump's if Lange he like he really
his in his he really could just be there
with Don and Eric he really is the third
stooge of that group and you know what
honestly that's a custom
I'm sure Donald Trump jr. is his idol
there is before look this was a very
silly story
the Pope hat because we live in a world
where we know people like Pope hat on
Twitter replied to him and basically
said I'm gonna do a good deed for you
shut up and do whatever your lawyer says
just shut the up and do what your
lawyer says and I don't know why I'm
trying to help you but I love it yep I
love that Pope hat tweeted at him and I
read South Paul's analysis of this we
live in a weird weird world honestly
where and those are the good guys this
series Jacob Jacob wall could have used
an alias in this process yeah yeah and
also just all the all the photos from
the fake company trying to do this it's
just man you bit off more than you can
chew it's all that you got it feels like
also like get it can make a friend you
know get off the internet the Internet
is there are some people whose brains
who just can't handle being on the
internet go outside throw a frisbee make
a friend learn live live amongst the
people your brain is broken
alright but before we move off for this
because it is it's obviously very silly
but there is a serious implication here
you know Brian boiler wrote a great
piece about this a while back it was
very prescient for crooked Komori
basically talked about the fact that
that Republicans and Republican
operatives will at some point weaponize
me too that they will see what Democrats
liberals what the culture has said is a
reckoning around believing women and
recognizing prevalence of sexual assault
sexual harassment sexism in the
workplace and they will take that as
permission to turn it into a political
weapon and turning the fact that that we
believe in believing women into a
political tool and this this example may
have been too stupid to stand on its own
two feet but that won't be true in the
future you know we saw during the
Cavanaugh hearing so many were so many
conservatives either believed or decided
it was in their interest to believe that
Democrats were framing Kavanagh by
drumming up these stories by by by
getting people to make things up and
what it felt like at the time was
project
because they recognized that this could
happen on their side so I do think that
that as much as this is silly it's also
a bit of a warning shot don't you think
oh absolutely and I think what we saw
with you saw sort of how this could work
with how the Republicans handled
Kavanagh right which is one to
disbelieve women on its face if the and
then second also if you remember at the
end when Republicans would take all of
the craziest calls that came into their
tip line and put them out as a way to
put these crazy these crazy accusations
out there is a way to dilute the
attention and the credibility of the
very credible accusations and so I look
I think this is where we have seen that
there is almost no wine that Republicans
won't cross and particularly the people
who the Trump grifters like boy genius
Jacob Wall and so I think that this is a
we're gonna see some very dangerous
things going forward and it's also a
warning sign not to bring this back to
the north of 2018 election but I'm sure
Trump is not particularly
he probably applauds the the go get if
nests of Jacob wall for doing this and
that if we don't win these elections it
will not be some like Trump grifter who
tries to get rid of Muller it will be
Trump himself and let's not forget that
one of the things is the stake in this
election is whether Muller has got to
get to finish his investigation or not
yeah I mean if if reporters hadn't
caught wind of this and kind of
preempted the smear by saying that this
was out there if it had been handled
with even a little bit more
sophistication then the right-wing sites
that originally had put up the
allegation wouldn't necessarily have had
to take it down and if it had stayed up
there it would have absolutely done what
these kinds of smears are meant to do
which is to go from the swamp to the
shore to the to the the more mainstream
Republican sites to Fox News to the
president's Twitter until you know
because this was so thoroughly debunked
so quickly or at the very least so
thoroughly mocked
and exposed so quickly it didn't make it
into Donald Trump's Twitter feed this
morning but that was a close call and
way closer than I think it's being
treated as because it was so silly
yeah just someone who was slightly less
stupid than Jacob wall and we would this
would be a massive story in this
election that the entire right-wing
propaganda apparatus apparatus and the
White House press office would be
jumping on and and that no crazier than
what Devin Nunez has tried to do to
various members of the Justice
Department absolutely and it's a
reminder that if this were to happen
again it really matters who
holds the gavel in the house it really
matters who's in charge of the
Intelligence Committee it really matters
who's in charge of the Judiciary
Committee it really matters who's in a
position to call hearings issue
subpoenas on the hill because our
ability to fight back require some power
and that's the power we can get if we
win the house great great close
very close thanks Dan I was trying to
build to a finish when we come back
we'll have our interview with Kentucky
congressional candidate Amy McGrath
she's also somebody who released one of
the best ads of the cycle she's one of
the best candidates running so stay
tuned for that
