be on the lookout for titles Thanks
mm-hmm finish that delicious Howard
Schultz drink okay Wow welcome to pod
save America I'm Jon Favreau I'm John
Lovett I'm Tommy Vietor
loved drinking Starbucks and talking
 about Howard Schultz he's a
complicated person it's a complicated
space is a map of the world what are we
talking about Jon I don't know we were
playing that song later in the pod love
it talks to the Washington Post Dave
Weigel about Bernie Sanders in 2020
we're also going to talk about the
latest efforts to stop Trump's national
emergency declaration former deputy FBI
director Andrew McCabe's pressed tour
and the announcement that bernie sanders
is joining the ever-growing field of
candidates vying for the Democratic
nomination
wooof well of it how was the show on
Thursday I hear there was a love there
was a proposal we had a fantastic
congratulations we didn't awesome love
it or leave it with megyn kelly travell
Anderson Michaela Watkins we also had a
proposal at lover leave it you should
check it out it was very moving it melt
and melted our cold hearts I'm glad
you're two for two on the proposals I
like hopefully one of them doesn't go
badly someday well you know a Lisa
whenever somebody we've now had two
proposals a lever to leave it and
whenever a Lisa gets wind of one she
calls the person who's going to do the
proposing and grills them like puts them
through a full psychological workup just
like marriage is a social construct you
don't need to do it so the person
proposing has to ask permission of their
partner's parents and Alisa's yes just
like are you is this real or is one of
the situations were you proposing to a
stranger at a football game
you know yeah well everyone knows
everyone check it out um all right let's
get to the news sure shall we on Friday
Donald Trump declared that there's a
national emergency on the southern
border in an effort to bypass Congress
and get the money for his wall the White
House says they'll be taking the money
from military construction like housing
and hospitals from efforts to stop drug
trafficking from all kinds of projects
that the president is simply not usually
authorized to take taxpayer money from
and what I gathered from Twitter was a
real
sharp press conference was on the plane
so I missed it you got something to fill
me in the president acknowledged that he
was likely to be sued over the decision
and then bolstered the legal argument of
the people suing him by saying quote I
didn't need to do this but I'd rather do
it much faster did I miss anything else
before we get into it did I miss
anything else from the press conference
you should just note that he did sing it
like yeah so that I heard I knew that
because then I had sued
I saw Alec Baldwin do it so then I was
like what is how like Baldwin doing I
had to go back to the original
impression I see I see you're like
you're like memento for that I'm just I
was just you know low information voters
that's the original was very weird
all right so a few questions to kick us
off here weird is the power to declare a
national emergency come from how unusual
is it for a president to declare one and
what are the potential consequences of
Trump doing this the power comes from
Congress in 1976 they patched the
national emergencies act I believe is
what it's called which allows presidents
to declare national emergencies to do
certain things it's happened a lot of
times Bill Clinton did it 17 times Bush
2 to 12 Obama did it 13 if you look back
at the Obama declarations most of them
are like sanctions because of political
unrest in Burundi
that's one literal example this one is
very unusual because it's actually
taking money and using it to build
things that it was not appropriated by
Congress in fact Congress specifically
said we will not appropriate funds for
these means so this is very bad part is
unprecedented it's well it's not
unprecedented it's happened twice bush
use a national emergency declaration
after 9/11 for military construction and
then it happened one other time
previously I can't remember what is the
Gulf War yeah it wasn't say but what's
unprecedented is not that so there's two
times the construction projects have
happened with the money
what's unprecedented is a president has
never declared national emergency to
spend money that Congress specifically
rejects absolutely so that's that's that
so that's the new territory and it's a
very and it's a very big deal it is a
very big deal and it shouldn't be sort
of I I think it doesn't deserve to be
put into the category of
Oh presidents have been expanding
Authority Authority for a very long time
which is certainly true this is a new
level because Congress being in charge
of the money Congress being in charge of
the purse strings as people in DC would
say however the purse it is fundamental
this is why we have a Congress it is the
it is the organizing principle of our
government that the president is
powerful but he can only spend money he
can only use money that Congress has
given him permission to use he's not in
charge of the bank like that is a very
important to think I mean we are gliding
over it's in the Constitution that you
know the president's job is to
faithfully execute the laws not to make
the laws that's what Congress does
Congress appropriates the money
they don't think so now the the legal
chiming that we'll talk about the legal
challenge later but I guess what's messy
here is the fact that this national
emergencies act existed in the first
place right which basically Congress
says it's very vague it doesn't say it
doesn't define exactly what an emergency
is there's not criteria to define in the
law passed by Congress what a national
emergency is in in general the courts
have been pretty deferential to
presidents about what they're declaring
a national emergency unlike they're not
the courts aren't usually calling balls
and strikes and saying you know what
that's not really an emergency therefore
you're you can't do that you're you
don't have authority here so but I mean
just real quick before we move on like
there's a 3.6 billion comes from
military construction mmm I just want to
point out that the DoD budget is big and
bloated but military housing is really
bad you know in a lot of instances there
was a poll of military families living
in base housing and it found that more
than half of respondents said they had a
negative experience living in privately
managed housing some reported living in
dangerous conditions that included mold
lead paint faulty wiring poor water
quality mice squirrels like lead
poisoning is permanent that permanently
damages your child's brain if they get
lead poisoning so like you know this is
not a small thing and you know over the
weekend Lindsey Graham was asked about a
bunch of money that's going to construct
a school and in Graham's gross response
was those kids they don't need a new
school first they need a safe border you
know like the the rationales are crazy I
was gonna bring that up I would say it's
better for the medical skids and I'm
sorry I would say it's better for the
middle school kids in Kentucky to have a
secure border than a school yeah
Kentucky yeah in Kentucky the border
down by Mexico that's what you talking
about if a Democrat said that the art
like that would be the quote that
Republicans would paint the entire
Democratic Party with for an entire
campaign and and we should like that is
the dumbest and and it's hard to dumb
Trump's quotes well all the dumbest
people are coming out with their dumbest
stuff
it is like open mic night for so
Matt guys yeah public in a Florida human
frat paddle gigantic he said I
don't want the next national emergency
to be that some Democrat president since
we have to build transgender bathrooms
in every elementary school in America so
that was him actually opposing the
national emergency which is hey hey hey
buddy stop helping yeah this is the guy
by the way who threw out a father of a
student tried to throw out a student
father of a sorry this is a guy who
tried to throw out the father of a
student who was shot in parkland from a
hearing that's how about a human is is
is very very bad so if you know if the
courts say this is okay I mean the
potential consequences long term for
this are incredible way in a very bad
way right like that means that a
basically future presidents can declare
that something some threat is a national
emergency and then therefore spend money
that Congress has told them not to spend
right and you know people have said some
of these Republicans who have opposed it
are giving that as a reason for saying
like you know as Matt Gaetz did which is
a ridiculous one but there's a more
serious one which is you know climate
change which is a national emergency and
it's a global and an actual one gun
violence the United States gun violence
United States right these are these are
real emergencies the water crisis in
Flint you can come up with an imagined
of them and it's and look legitimate
it's like we've said this and we've been
tweeting this like oh great next
president can next Democratic president
can do a green new deal by executive
authority and we're sort of joking
because I don't I don't think it's a
good idea for any president to be able
to spend money but Congress told them
not to spend that is a autocracy
that is not it's not a representative
democracy with checks and balances no
it's very dangerous and the only reason
we are
not correct like I think that there has
been two kinds of reactions one is this
is this actually is this fascism of just
fascism for the TV cameras and of course
with Trump it's always both and I think
we're all relying on the fact that oh
he's doing it to save face oh he's doing
it because it's gonna be tied up in the
courts and all of that is true but the
next Republican will be better at this
yeah and everything that's happening now
you know we've talked about this in the
beginning like what are the what are the
you know what are the rules he's bending
that will Bend back and what are the
rules that he's bending to the point
where when you try to get him to be
shaped like a hanger again you can't
hang a coat on it you know the other
thing it's worth mentioning is no one no
one believes not Donald Trump not the
white house not the Republicans not
anyone else that there is a national
emergency at the southern border it is
this thing that we're all talking about
but like no one who's mentioning it
believes it attempted crossings are
their lowest level in nearly four
decades most drugs are intercepted at
the ports of entry there is no invasion
there is no like everyone knows this and
you saw Chris Wallace of Fox News
trying to confront Stephen Miller with
these facts on Sunday and Stephen Miller
just did his thing where he just like
yells and gets me angry I'm single I did
Congress can take up a resolution to
block this national emergency
declaration and rising Democrats should
do is say Republicans this is your
chance you believe in the Constitution
you believe in your authority to do what
you were elected to do let's block this
otherwise this is now precedent and we
will be doing it when a Democrat is a
United States period that is the reality
limit means we cannot play by two
different sets of rules can't happen and
that just reminded me you know in terms
of what the courts will do originally
the National sorry the national
emergencies act just allowed for a
Congressional vote of disapproval and
then it would stop the national
emergency and then in 1983 the Supreme
Court gave presents the power to veto
the Congressional resolution of
disapproval so that's not a great time
for what the courts are gonna do at
least the Supreme Court in 1983 but but
that's there too so let's I want to talk
about the reaction from we started
talking with us a little bit but the
reaction from the
party that spent eight years calling
Barack Obama alala socialist tyrant who
abused his power Senate Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell who spent the last few
weeks advising Trump against declaring
an emergency immediately announced on
Friday that he's now for it so far
according to account by 538 there are 19
Republican senators who are supporting
Trump on this there are a couple others
who haven't decided yet why do you think
McConnell and a bunch of these senators
are backing Trump on this and would you
say this is the most hypocritical thing
Republicans have done in the Trump era
or where does it rank it's up there I
mean what they're trying to do I mean
one of the arguments you see is you know
it's just such a shame right there
they're not coming out against it
they're not specifically saying they
like the national emergency but what
they're trying to do is claim because of
Democratic intransigence you have forced
Donald Trump to do this right you're
putting Donald Trump in the position of
having to declare this national
emergency and then on the other hand you
see a bunch of kind of soft very
lukewarm statements of you know I'm
concerned I'm concerned and we should we
ought this ought to give us pause Marco
Rubio said something similar and you
know it's the story of the last three
and a half years just total capitulation
totally yeah I think that they know that
their base wants the wall because their
base wants everything Trump wants and so
they're scared to oppose him I think
that they don't want him to shut down
the government again and they think that
he's unhinged and he's partially
unhinged because people like Lindsey
Graham are making the even crazier
suggestion that he tie funding for the
wall to the debt ceiling I don't know
which could explode the global economy
so this is the path of least resistance
this is the way out of this mess that
Ann Coulter's mean tweets have led Trump
to bring us into everyone should read
Adam gentle syns op-ed in The New York
Times about Mitch McConnell which i
think is fantastic and I'm sure general
Tsin has been writing most of his life
he was former chief of staff to Harry
Reid so he knows McConnell quite well
and Heep sort of pushed back on this
notion that McConnell is some sort of
institutionalist right who jealously
guards the Senate power and less than
its power works like this latest move by
McConnell follows holding the seat open
for Garland
getting rid of the filibuster for the
Supreme Court he's back you know he
challenged campaign finance laws wanted
to make Barack Obama one-term president
proud obstructionist wouldn't sign off
on the Russian interfere it's like Mitch
McConnell his basic will be known for
handing the Republican Party over to
Donald Trump in order in order to let
Donald Trump do its bidding
there is one got a bunch of judges
through that's a there is one
counterexample of that which is the
Mitch McConnell has not removed the
legislative filibuster sofa I would love
people who know this who know these
things to tell me why image but it's
it's a fascinating thing because it
really does run ground run counter to
that argument there is whatever whatever
he's actually done there is some
interior logic for him to talk to
himself about himself yeah and I guess
the the most charitable interpretation
of why McConnell decided to back Trump
on this is he just wanted to avoid
another government shutdown as he knows
it's politically unpopular he thought
all right Trump's either gonna shut the
government down or eyevac him on the
national emergency and that's it and so
I might as well do that he wants power
he wants to be in charge I mean the New
York Times profile with him was like
just ten thousand words of celebrating
cynicism from from from the garland
Supreme Court seat to today I mean
that's what he wants to be in charge and
he will do literally anything and can
you mentioned blocking campaign finance
reform he didn't really care about
campaign finance reform he thought maybe
it was a maybe was good maybe was bad
but he knew that if he threw himself in
front of that train it would pay him
huge political dividends on the road and
he could take a bullet for members who
didn't want to fight or we perceived as
fighting hard against it so like he's a
cynical Washington fixture yeah I also
do think there is there is they're not
acting upon it because I think they're
Craven but there is age I think there is
a bipartisan consensus behind closed
doors that the national emergency powers
are being abused by this president that
it's wrong that it's dangerous they are
worried about Democrats at vote me in
the future that is all real which is why
I think even though the President does
have the ability to veto this I guess
Democrats in the house should force the
Senate to vote to uphold or not uphold
the national emergency
it needs to put them on record that was
gonna be my next question I mean so
there's eight Senate Republicans who are
publicly opposed to the declaration and
about fifteen more who were in the I
have concerns but eight opposed is quite
a bit yeah and that would be enough with
the Democrats to have the resolution
pass and then I mean Trump's first ever
veto as president would have to be
vetoing a bipartisan resolution of
disapproval on him declaring a national
emergency to spend money that Congress
already told him he can't spend so even
if it doesn't work because they don't
have the two-thirds majority in the
House and the Senate and to then
override Trump's veto you got to think
it's worth doing
yeah and it's worth noting too that this
is something where Mitch McConnell
doesn't have the ability to stop a vote
yeah which is fascinating Daisy has to
so it it's a it's a it's a the the
national emergencies powers are really
interesting so the house can decide the
house can for if the House passes a
rejection of the national emergency the
Senate has to take it up there's no
there's no way from McConnell to get out
of it so his members will have to be on
the record and there is I do not
understand any argument against making
that vote happen that vote has to happen
yeah yeah I agree
and then like bigger picture Trump is
giving Congress the finger every single
day under the Magnitsky sanctions he was
supposed to submit a report to Congress
believe last week that that indicated
whether he'd put sanctions on the Saudis
as a result of khashoggi murder and why
he just blew it off he just gave them
all the finger and all the the sad-sack
Marco Rubio tweets and protestations did
nothing so yes put them all on the
record if these eight got if these eight
senators vote with the Democrats on the
national emergency that creates a
protocol political problem for them with
the Mogga base in their re-elections
it's good for us period
yeah I'm interested to see what all the
Republicans who are vulnerable in 2020
how they vote on this Joni Ernst and Tom
Tillis and and that crowd if the
legislative strategy fails there's also
a legal strategy on Monday a group of 16
states filed a lawsuit in a California
federal court arguing that trumps move
is unconstitutional according to the
suit contrary to the will of Congress
the president has used the pretext of a
manufactured crisis of unlawful and
aggression to declare a national
emergency what are the legal experts
saying about the chance these lawsuits
will succeed and what are they hoping
for at least in the short term I think
it's complicated I mean Trump's little
singsong e-assessment what would happen
was pretty good spot on right I mean
it'll go to the ninth circuit first and
they'll probably side against him and
then it could go up to the Supreme Court
eventually and they're likely to go with
I mean there's a near term challenge
which is getting standing to hear the
case because it's not clear whether any
of the fencing would be built in
California or New Mexico to the states
in the lawsuit that would have to show
that they are being harmed by this
decision therefore get a hearing
obviously there's not gonna be harm in
New Jersey or New York which are their
states in the litigation so there's a
bunch of near-term steps but I don't
know I didn't go to law school you took
the LSAT what do you think yeah I mean
the thing is frightening about this is
ultimately you know judges are very
reluctant to step in and adjudicate the
facts of whether something is an
emergency it's a it feels very much like
a political question and a question that
they will defer to the president on and
so I think you know it's all just we'll
have to wait and see we'll have to see
what Congress does we'll have to see
what happens with these cases I don't
think anybody knows yeah I think you
know Vaux talked to like 11 legal
scholars who all seemed mostly doubtful
though some said you know the judges
will either decide Congress did approve
this by passing the national emergencies
act in the first place either said that
and say you're right we can't define
what it is or they'll say they'll just
look at the precedent and be like we
cannot have a situation or Congress
which controls of the purse says we will
not fund something and then the
president says I will find it anyway by
declaring something at some urgency when
and by the way when you declare
something a national emergency what
you're saying is you know I want
construction funding for to help the
military with something well the
military is not the military would be
used to help build the wall the military
is doesn't need help right now you saw
Stephen Miller's a little shitty attempt
to get around this by saying well now we
have troops on the
border so they need to be protected with
the wall which is why we're stealing
money for their kids schools right build
a stupid wall at the border where we're
forcing them to go and again I would not
underestimate I mean we all joke about
this because he just Trump says crazy
things but saying I didn't need to do
this but I wanted to do it faster it
really does undercut the argument in
court
look I you know the facts are the facts
right he he had control over both houses
of Congress for two years didn't pass
this he shut down the government to try
to pass this he couldn't pass it he
tried to pass it again couldn't pass it
and that's when the emergency begins
right the koomer there's no way to look
at the facts and not come to the
conclusion that this is a fake emergency
the question is whether or not judges we
willing to do that and to your point
John whether they'd be willing to go so
far as to say I'm gonna step back from
this specific example and look at what
we're saying here which is that the
president could just spend money anyway
that he wants no matter what Congress
says which is incredibly dangerous but
again like as has been the case from day
one we are we are in a position where we
are waiting for Republicans in Congress
or judges with lifetime appointments
many of whom were Republicans on their
way up to the Supreme Court which is
controlled by Republicans to be
courageous and to show great moral
character fortitude and love for the
country good luck everyone yeah so uh so
let's talk about the politics of all
this was this Trump's smartest political
move ahead of his re-election his
advisors are saying that the new slogan
is finished the wall which they said
really means finish what we started and
is about the entire trump presidency
it's a whole it's a poll you get the
whole picture
you know don't switch horses mitt all
also uh they also say that he'll use
issue to run against the establishment
in DC I don't I mean he has a base only
strategy and so everything he does is
designed to make its hardcore base happy
Fox News had a poll that has 50% fifty
six percent of the country opposing the
national emergency declaration 38
percent approving it of it so that would
track pretty well with an all based
strategy I think this silly dance of can
keep building the wall when they haven't
built a single square inch of wall is
laughable on its face but so was the
idea that Mexico is gonna pay for it so
I'm sure it'll work with the same people
I mean the question I have is whether
the Ann Coulter's of the world
teeing off on him calling the salon I
seeing the national emergency is
actually the fact that he's an idiot
correct will will you know cut off
little bits of that base that he needs
to actually win and so that that was my
question is I I wondered if but if he
hadn't declared the national emergency
then he runs by saying you need to send
me back to Washington and send a bunch
more Republicans with me right that we
can build this wall he does the national
emergency if it's held up in courts he
doesn't get it done now it looks like
he's just feckless in a whole bunch of
way it's rigged he couldn't get it done
to Congress you know I mean I don't know
who knows but the one thing we do know
is he did try this political strategy
before about the wall and he did it in
2018 again we always forget that last
month of the 2018 election was all wall
all invasion all Caravan Caravan he'd
had the whole conservative propaganda
machine with him he had ads the
Republicans are running in every single
state every single race and it didn't
work it certainly worked with his base
but the base was not enough in 20 we
want it we want to we want a Senate seat
in Arizona right where where there's
gonna be another race we almost picked
up a seat in Texas if we almost won in
Georgia where the only reason Stacey
Abrams isn't the governor right now is
because of shenanigans we'll heard
probably only one that seat on the
border in Texas because he was against
the wall you know and it was a massive
landslide so you know I don't know how
you know trying to attribute too much
thinking into their strategy Donald
Trump would rather look Donald Trump
likes talking about the wall he likes it
he doesn't totally understand why he
thinks it helps him with his base he
prefers talking about that than the
investigations into him this all
domestic agenda the actual doing of the
job of president which he has no
interest in so you know yeah his staff
constructs a strategy around his actions
ex post facto it's like um it's a bit
like basically Donald Trump broke into
he Donald Trump it's as if Donald Trump
is a baby and he found a paintbrush and
a bucket of paint and he's been running
around an empty warehouse throwing paint
against the walls and Kellyanne Conway
and that guy Brad parse Cal and all of
his advisers are following
behind like naming
each section of the wall is called
president right this is called this is a
the the delightfulness of being alive
this one's a darker piece this one's a
story about loss like he's just walk
there walking around as he spit you know
I think that's not unlike how things go
at like Christie's and some of the fine
art and warehouses but it is annoying
when you see these tracking polls when
you see his approval tick back up to
sort of where it always has been
post shut down but it's a reminder that
it's incumbent upon us as Democrats to
use the shutdown and all the crazy stuff
he does as a proof point in a broader
case about Trump being temperamental II
unfit for the job or corrupt or whatever
it has to be we have to make it right
yeah well on that note - how should
Democrats talk about the wall in border
security in 2020 this week Republicans
have been happily pushing around better
or Roarke's answer to a question about
whether he'd take down the existing wall
in El Paso - which he said yes the wall
hasn't made them any safer and in fact
it's made it more dangerous for people
who want illegally petition for asylum I
don't know I mean I think what betos
referring to is the fact that back in
the day before the wall workers would
come up from Mexico to the United States
to do jobs that no Americans wanted to
do and they'd work for a six months ring
you know some sort of agricultural
season and then return home to their
families and then we built the wall and
we made it so hard to get back and forth
that people just started staying and in
remaining the United States undocumented
so there is this like original sin of
our immigration policy of these
draconian steps we took that made things
worse not better
I don't know I think there's probably
the best argument is some kind of you
know that we need you know walls and
fencing in some places and technology in
in Border Patrol and in the middle of
the desert we obviously don't need a
wall and there's been our point I think
that's the interesting things right it's
like there's it's a 2,000 mile border
and people like Beto people who live on
the border represent the border and this
is true of some Republicans like will
hurt as well know that this is a comp
like real security and a real solid
immigration system along the border is a
combination of some fencing some
security some human resources some like
letting people come live and work and
then go back to my like it's so much
more complex and the question is can
Democrats talk about this in the nuanced
complex way
in an election where you know Donald
Trump's gonna say either have the wall
and everyone's safe or you tear down the
wall and they're all coming in and
they're gonna kill everyone and abolish
ice hoping they'll say I apologized the
you know I I think part of this is about
finding me to talk about the border and
talking about the wall but also making
sure that you're never just talking
about that you know we do have a broken
immigration system
you know we it's like it's like we keep
winning we spent 30 years you know
making coming to the United States
illegally more and more attractive while
trying to make it harder and harder to
get in we've built this crazy system we
don't punish the people who are
responsible we only punish the poorest
and and least able you know we only put
we only punish the the poorest people
the people working the hardest the
people who bear the brunt of the pain of
the immigration system we're just doing
it to try to get a job so I think as
long as people are talking in a broader
way about their vision for an
immigration system in which all the pain
isn't visited on undocumented people
just trying to build a better life but
actually you crack down on companies
abusing immigrants you crack down on the
system that pits American workers
against undocumented workers if you make
it about trying to have a sane rational
system that doesn't that doesn't lead to
a massive buildup of security along the
border while millions and millions of
people have to live in Unites States and
the shadows if you're talking about it
in that way I think we're winning I
think whenever we're spending all of our
time talking about a wall even if our
argument is better than his in the wall
even on the issue itself we do better
than Donald Trump when you ask people
about it it means we're not talking
about anything else
yep bigger than the wall bigger than
nice yeah all right let's move on Donald
Trump spent his Presidents Day accusing
his own Justice Department of treason
and an attempted coup against him that's
very very cool very normal presents a
funny dude get a sale on a couch what
set him off was a 60 Minutes interview
with former FBI deputy director Andrew
McCabe who's out with a new book like
everyone else McCabe confirmed a New
York Times report that immediately after
James Comey was fired the FBI launched a
criminal investigation into whether the
president obstructed justice and a
counterintelligence investigation to
determine whether the President did so
because he was compromised by the
Russian government I mean
mccabe also told 60 minutes the Deputy
Attorney General rod Rosenstein who's
now reported to leave his job in
mid-march once discussed the possibility
of wearing a wire to record the
president as well as invoking the 25th
amendment to remove Trump from office
a spokesperson for Rosenstein said that
McCabe's account is quote inaccurate and
factually incorrect Tommy what is Andrew
McCabe up to here how credible or his
claims about Rosenstein and why do you
think he's making them now I mean it
would be great if one of these brave
former Trump official truth tellers did
so when they weren't hawking a book so
let's just be real honest that he's hot
he's out there Hawking a book I have I
don't know Andy McCabe I have nothing no
reason to like or dislike him but I
don't you are not some hero pal you are
making money off this the most troubling
anecdote in that interview to me was
McCabe saying Trump wouldn't believe his
intelligence team when they said North
Korea has missiles they could hit the
United States because Putin told him
that was fashion Eckerd the quote was I
don't care I believe Putin that is nuts
that is like not that is very knowable
intelligence whether or not those the
North Korean missiles can hit you're
talking about ads this podcast our
Lindsey Graham at this is my second this
is my new ad just an ad that just has
Donald Trump saying I don't care I
believe Putin that's the that's the
Trump slogan for I don't care I believe
Putin it's all so clear like McCabe
hates rod Rosen Stein and maybe he has
reason to Rosenstein has clearly been
lying to us for months and months and
months about this anecdote where he said
he would wear a wire to the White House
or try to invoke the 25th amendment and
you know what Trump has every right to
be pissed off if his Deputy Attorney
General was trying to invoke the 25th
amendment against him also
how stupid are these JV
sub-cabinet official idiots colluding in
their little DOJ meeting about wearing a
wire on the present States in invoking
the 25th amendment here's what really no
your ol buddy rod Rosenstein didn't even
bother googling what happens when
you try to invoke the 25th amendment
he's counting up cabinet officials this
has been a thing and people on Twitter
do this to this our resistance folks do
this on Twitter guys here's the deal
with the 25th amendment yes it's
counting up the cabinet members right
and if a majority of the cabinet and the
Vice President vote
to remove the president from office they
can do that well then the next thing
that can happen is the president can
send a letter to Congress saying no I am
fit for office and then you know what
happens it goes to Congress to vote and
you need 2/3 of a majority in both
houses to keep him out of office just
like you do with impeachment so stop
talking about the 25th amendment
it's the dumbest thing no one's
ever gonna do it it's for a president
who's incapacitated and can't send that
letter back to Congress um
counterpoint I respect their moxie I
respect a couple of guys in the in the
DOJ one of whom rod Rosenstein is who
helped Trump come up with the insane
rationale to fire Comey which is another
weird part of the rod Rosen Stein
Wikipedia entry that you know buddy can
really make sense yeah my question was
going to be rut Rosen Stein hero-villain
or neither of course neither yeah and
into Tommy's point you know maybe that
maybe the Dismal part of this future is
the truth only does come out in book
tours maybe that is where most of our
most of the most of the whistleblowing
will be done before a book reaches the
New York Times bestseller lists and yeah
the what's really unclear what's been
really unclear about this story about
the 25th amendment about wearing the
wire from the beginning is there was one
allegation that I was actually just
joking around it's never been totally
clear as serious it is it still isn't
clear how serious it is I I don't feel
as though what we're hearing is the
truth like I think that their versions
of the truth is parts of the truth but
the story doesn't make sense the way
they were talking about it doesn't make
sense I can't tell what was just an
offhand comment versus a serious
conversation what is clear and what has
been true about mckay / very long time
is and this is I think the most
important thing which is a bit lost when
it's part of this book tour is
early in the Trump administration there
was a moment of genuine panic that this
could be the worst possible version yeah
that what we could be seeing is the
worst possible version of an election
compromised by a foreign government and
that the President himself was
compromised legally compromised by you
know bite
compromise legally compromised by a
foreign leader for some personal reason
or some secret and that there was a
legitimate concern amongst career
officials who were seeing something they
never saw before and I think what's
pretty clear now is they didn't handle
it well we'll get thought experiment for
you guys imagine if instead of going to
a conference room with rod in McCabe in
you know kicking around ideas doing a
college bull session about the 25th
amendment they'd walked out of the
building called a press conference and
publicly aired these feelings and
concerns then I think it could have been
actually pretty impactful in that period
of time so here's here's what I've been
thinking about it like McCabe seemed
very alarm obviously Rosen's time was
very alarmed they seemed to learn
because they're like well what if he
fired call me because he's compromised
by the Russians right that's just a kind
of a crazy thing to just throw out there
unless there is underlying evidence and
and things that they know that we still
don't know and to me I wonder if this
goes back to just how bad Mike Flynn was
right because remember this all started
with they you know Mike Flynn had to be
fired but before that Trump told Comey
or after that at some point sorry how
bad Mike Flynn was right remember Trump
told Comey
please let him go and then when he
didn't let him go
he fired Comey and so whatever Mike
Flynn was involved in and we know now
you know Marcy wheeler was reminding us
of this the other day that a judge was
so alarmed by Flynn's misdeeds and the
judges the first one outside the judge
Emmett Sullivan is the first one outside
of Muller's investigation to really see
who exactly was going on with Flynn that
he said you've basically sold out your
country you betrayed your country so
Flynn clearly did something so bad that
for Trump to then try to tell Comey to
let him go and then to fire Comey
something that they know that we don't
yet
I hope otherwise it's just you know
random alarmism like made then you know
Comey and then Rosenstein and then
mccabe very very fearful of exactly what
you were just saying yeah yeah which is
one little thing
so mccabe ultimately got forced out
the FBI because the Inspector General
did an investigation about his contacts
with the media and it was determined
that he had been untruthful about those
contacts with media so like two quick
thing isn't that one Trump basically
sought retribution and had him fired the
day before his pension kicked in that
alone is a big scandal I think you
shouldn't be able to personally destroy
someone's life in financial future like
that it's up but - so McCabe got
in trouble for leaking to the press that
he was trying to push forward on the
Clinton Foundation investigation over
the objections of Obama's DOJ so again
the leak made McCabe look good
Hillary and Obama look bad it was a pro
Trump leak that is always lost in this
well that was also part of the insane
rationale remember that was one fire in
Kobe right and that that that and that
that's why Kushner thought Democrats
would be cool with it because he was
firing Comey for being too hard on
Hillary Clinton again none of which has
ever made set Jared associate every yeah
everyone was fired for being too too
hard on Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
yeah and they're all but but yet it's a
conspiracy and a coup to overthrow
Travis oh that may make sense yeah so
also breaking this morning the New York
Times is a story that Trump told Matthew
Whitaker the former acting Attorney
General to put Trump a lie Jeffrey
Berman the US Attorney for SD NY
Southern District of New York in charge
of the Cohen case even though Berman had
recused himself the hush money payments
case Whitaker refused which good for
Matthew Whitaker I guess though he
testified before Congress that the White
House never asked for promises or
commitments concerning the special
counsels investigation or any other
investigation so here we have another
example of remember the Michael Cohen
crime Michael Michael Cohen and federal
prosecutors not just Cohen's word
federal prosecutors have implicated
Donald Trump in a campaign felony and in
that investigation Trump wanted his ally
to then take it over I mean we have a
whole nother obstruction case here
Mia thousand obstruction cases bloom
Trump do you trumped in this case
reminds me like he's just there's
there's an episode of the
Sopranos where where Tony is going to
buy weed killer and he goes up to the
guy at the counter and he's like I need
some weed killer and it's like oh we
have this guy's like no no I want the
hard stuff give me the DDT give me some
that illegal and I feel like Trump
just walks around to people in an orbit
just like hey well crime for me if I did
you say it that way because there's some
parsing on the denial from Whittaker
right which is never ask for promises or
commitments like Trump being like what
do you think you can do that I got a
crazy idea what if we obstruct justice
in New York - yeah thoughts comments
Whitakers such immediately in response
he released his like deadlift said from
the day he's just up cut
that joke didn't exist ok I think we
often talked on the show about how
Trump's tweets if they were emails or
calls they would be skipped more
scandalous and they were treated we
finally found out what the emails and
the calls say riots long very long New
York Times story the kind of weaves
together a whole two years of attempted
cover-up including obstruction efforts
into one beautiful little narrative and
again and and this obstruction is even
more at least publicly known sorry and
this it's instance of obstruction is
even worse at least what we publicly
know then the rush investigation so far
because he obstructed a case in which he
is being implicated in a crime so it
wasn't like the the explanation that
maybe trumps just doing this because
there's political reasons that he
doesn't like the rush investigation
because it makes his politics bad no no
this time he wanted to obstruct because
he committed a crime right like there's
this is doesn't get more clear-cut than
that can you help me I may be in trouble
with the law
I would like to obstruct it from taking
I would like to use my power to make
sure that this investigation into my
crimes doesn't have in a way like I'd
like to build like a I don't know some
sort of a wall or obstacle for the
prosecutor some kind of an obstacle that
justice can't override jersey barrier
perhaps some kind of an obstructing
jersey barrier anyway
like what what last point all the time
no no one last point just I think that
there's something that
all these stories together which is
crimes after Trump is gone sooner rather
than later we are gonna have to figure
out how to safeguard our government from
a president who feels no shame and no
scruples and no respect for precedent
because that is true of what's been
happening with the national emergency
that's been true of what's been
happening with the Justice Department so
we're gonna have to find a way
fewer norms more laws you were norms
more law contrast the lesson of the
Trump absolutely and it and it's gonna
take a lot and it's gonna require laws
that stand up to a Supreme Court which
is why we got to figure out that whole
Supreme Court thing too
people don't know what norms are anyway
get rid of him make them lost yes loves
boss loss all right we have a new
candidate running for president who was
it Vermont senator Bernie Sanders
announced he's joining the field this
morning with a video and a longer
interview with CBS's John Dickerson the
77 year old socialist runner-up for the
Democratic nomination in 2016 begins
2020 is one of the frontrunners as polls
consistently show that he's in one of
the top few spots in his video this
morning he promised quote build an
unprecedented and historic grassroots
campaign that will begin with at least 1
million people from across the country I
know we're gonna have a more in-depth
conversation about Bernie between Lovett
and David Weigel but what are your first
impressions of Bernie's rollout his
strengths his challenges let me let me
start by just saying and I think it's
important I am for every candidate for
about two to three hours after I've
watched their announcement video soccer
front I love announcement video Bernie's
announced a video it was fantastic I
thought he did a great job arguing for
the rationale of his candidacy I think
it's thought he did a great job also
making clear I think one question I had
at something I talked to her to Wagle
about as well is you know I think in
2016 he vacillated between somebody who
wanted to be president believed he could
genuinely win this thing and somebody
who was in it for morally totally
valuable reasons of luck I want to get
in here and I want to move this party I
want to make it I want to stake a claim
for a different kind of politics and I
want to push this party the left which
he achieved and deserves a lot of credit
for but what I took away from this video
is that this is somebody that is in the
race because he wants to win the race
yeah I did too
I mean there was a lot of Bernie content
this morning to the point where I kind
of had a hard time sorting it out the
short version of the video which is
currently pinned to his Twitter feed is
really good and makes a compelling case
for all the ways he has moved the party
to
left on issues like medicare-for-all I
think that is not only smart to point
out because it speaks to the power of
his candidacy last time but also the
feasibility of his ideas and the Kennedy
itself right because yeah people like us
said there's no way he could be elected
you know free college is crazy and you
know you can't pay for whatever all the
things that people said in 2016 the
Dickerson interview reminds you how the
CBS John Dickerson interview reminds you
how consistent Bernie has been and how
funny he can be in a moment I'm gonna
play just by teeing up my laptop his
response to a question about Howard
Schultz that had me laughing my that is
the perfect response that is just the
right amount of dismissive about this
putz who is trying to you know hold the
Democratic Party hostage by saying
nominate a moderate or I'm gonna ruin it
for everybody yeah I mean look in all
these announcement videos or
announcements in general I'm always
looking for you know this is an
incredibly crowded field why are you why
you why are you standing out at this
moment and Bernie answered that question
in the video in a smart way by saying
like all these things that all these
Democrats are proposing now this was
this was me but then he mixes it with
another message was I've been waiting
for some Democratic candidate to use
Elizabeth Warren has done it a little
bit and you see potential candidates
doing it like Beto did this in the
Senate race you see possibly khamel it
and Cory Booker doing this too but it is
this is about a movement right yeah to
dickerson to said whether it's me
whether it's any of the other candidates
none of these people none of us are
gonna be able to get all these big
policies passed just by electing us it's
going to require a movement of Americans
pushing over and over and over again and
he's emphasizing the movement and that I
you know I think eventually the question
because we talk about how hard you're
gonna fight about things right like are
you gonna remove the filibuster or are
you gonna be the type of person who says
you're going to work with Republicans
right but ultimately we know that
all of these policies that we're talking
about none of them are getting passed
without mass mobilization of people that
continues long after the presidential
race is over and I think Bernie at least
recognized that in that interview
challenges for Bernie Sanders
he's a front-runner seriously yeah
Bernie's a front-runner I mean it's
always hard to be the front-runner of
this early a lot of people have glommed
onto his major policy positions or you
know like or let's say nicely
sincerely have believed these policy
positions for a long time and have
gotten into the race people like
Elizabeth Warren well that's and I think
that makes him also a victim of his own
success right I think I think there's
two I think there are two big challenges
coming for Bernie at once and they have
to do with the difference between 2016
and 2020 in 2016 basically he said his
rationale is you want an alternative to
Hillary and you want someone that
advocates for a more left-wing vision
for the country and in that context he's
somebody who was getting between 40 and
60% of the vote in these races right he
was a very popular candidate he ends up
with 45% at the end of the primary
starting from starting at the beginning
of that race back down by 50 right now
he gets into race where a lot of his
ideas have been adopted and there's a
there's a anyway have you got it I think
I think what his challenges is he is one
of the frontrunners now he's and in
these polls you see basically Biden and
Bernie and in kamala sort of in the top
three spot yeah I would say he's a
front-runner unless Biden jumps in and
right changes things but that's right
for someone who only in a recent poll I
think 16% of people had never heard of I
mean this is if this is an issue with
Biden - both of them both Bernie and
Biden have incredibly high name
recognition and yet their numbers in
these polls are at the top of the field
but not great 26 percent 25 percent
something like that which means that
there's a there's a whole bunch of
people Democratic voters who know
exactly who Bernie Sanders is and what
he stands for who knows who Joe Biden
isn't what he stands for and yet are
still either thinking I'm not ready to
be with them now and I'm also looking at
other candidate yeah and I think what
Bernie has to figure out is
built this coalition in 2016 and that
coalition there's some composition in
that coalition some of those people are
diehard Bernie fans and they are gonna
be with him right now they are part of
this movement and they're gonna be with
him in 2020 and then there were a group
of people who voted for Bernie because
they did not like Hillary Clinton for
whatever reason and the question is that
group of voters that was with Bernie in
2016 will they be with him again in 2020
or are they looking around at Kamala
Harris at Elizabeth Warren at Joe Biden
at any number any other number of
candidates who may not have had the
baggage that Hillary had for some
reasons that are not her fault at all
but some reason you know so that's yeah
and and and but also on top of that and
does that matter in a race where there's
gonna be 12 15 who knows how many
Democrats what is it going to take to
win you know it I think it's I started
to hit me more and more just how how
hard it will be to understand let alone
predict the dynamics of what's playing
out in each of these votes it is it is
going to be a chaotic process and we
don't know sitting here right now if it
is the winner of the Democratic primary
gonna be someone who's winning early
states with 20% 25% 30% 18% I know and
that's a and those differences really
really matter and thinking about it was
the first time I really thought about
that hard this morning when I was
watching Bernie cuz I was like this it
is totally unpredictable what might
happen because we have this is maybe the
first time we've had a field this large
with so many really really strong
contenders not just you know people here
in the dozen a was pretty strong truth
it was pretty strong but even that
boiled down to Edwards Hillary and Obama
right right now dot is the three really
strong contenders in 2008 and I think in
this field you could have maybe five or
six in the top tier I agree and those
people and all those all of those
candidates are building up a real fan
base bernie has a fan base you can see
kumla developing a fan base now and some
of her crowds and then there's other one
it's like that as well Warren as well
and so how that plays out over the
primaries with these votes and
who wins is its it also means relatively
small percentages of voters in a given
state could have a huge impact and so I
think there's going to be a real
challenge for Bernie in that a lot of
hard core Hillary supporters in 2016
still blame him as well as their loss
and in in or maybe less for their loss
but they they are very angry at him for
what they feel was a refusal to stop say
abuse from his supporters online look
I'm not refereeing this and saying it
did or didn't happen I'm just telling
you that that there's a very strong
undercurrent of former Hillary people
that still have deep-seated heart
feelings and he's gonna have to heal
that wound because that could be a huge
chunk of people in a primary and I will
say and it's tough to figure out you
know how much of this is the
conversation online and on Twitter how
much of it has real life in real life
when people pull the field we have a
field of Democrats that are well liked
by most Democratic voters a very few of
these people have very high unfavorable
ratings and that's true Bernie Sanders
that's true of just about everyone else
so it seems like everyone is well liked
by most people but you can talk to a lot
of Hillary supporters and and we've seen
it to Bernie Sanders supporters on I've
met many Bernie Sanders supporters and
campaign staffers in real life wonderful
people like fast care who just got named
campaign manager who's a brilliant great
guy brilliant and you know when you want
a lot of these people are just great
people when you meet them online
Bernie support Bernie supporters and I
know some some people are just BOTS
right but like some of the supporters
can be quite difficult to say the least
and that is the charitable
interpretation of it and you know I saw
some you know women tweeting this
morning Hillary supporters like I didn't
even want to say anything about Bernie
because I knew my mentions we're just
going to get just attacked by people all
day long and it is look if you are and I
would say this to Bernie supporters in
all and every candidate supporters if
you are looking to build a movement if
you are looking to bring more people in
you need to persuade people and to
persuade people you need to be somewhat
respectful of them convince them that
your argument is correct you know like
don't call everyone maybe an eel or
corporate shill i I just think that's a
hard way to support a coalition it's
also um I think that there's it's uh I
think it's Elsa and Bernie doesn't do
that
no I also think it's a kind of failure
to recognize success in that there are
kind of I feel like there's two ways
that this persuasion to pull the
Democratic Party to the left have played
out one is with a positive vision right
and one is by by kind of relentlessly
criticizing democratic orthodoxy for
being too centrist for being enamored of
an old-fashioned way of viewing the
electorate for failing to recognize the
change in the country failing to take
intellectual up failing to take
intellect up failing to take economic
inequality serious enough failing to see
the trends that would lead to someone
like Trump and I think that there was a
real frustration there there's a vent
there's about validation there and what
we've seen in the past few years but
that alone is not half that is just one
way of talking about an issue right
there's what it is criticizing people
anyway
sorry I'm losing the thread that is that
is one way of this I was gonna talk
about that so that is one way of
persuading people and it has a real it
has real value but I think when it runs
to its logical conclusion and you're
accusing every single person who maybe
even agrees with you on policy grounds
but then worries that oh maybe it's not
practical or maybe there is some
reticence on the part of voters or maybe
that Dave waggle reports that on the
campaign trail he finds people less
ideologically conflicted than there are
on Twitter that even pointing that out
having a conversation about that as
somehow seen as giving in or not being
progressive enough and I think it's very
frustrating yes we should never make
policy decisions based on you know what
the insurance company is gonna say or
what Republicans are going to say we
should never be scared of corporate
interests or what Republicans might say
but that doesn't mean there's not room
for policy disagreements based on
substance not everyone who disagrees
with you on a policy is doing so because
they are in the pocket of corporate
interests or because they were afraid of
what Republicans are going to say
sometimes good faith people just have
good faith disagreements on the best way
to come up with a policy and people who
believe
that their goals do the most good for
the most people as quickly as possible
come to the conclusion that say a public
option or a Medicare buy-in for 50-plus
will help more people faster than
pursuing single-payer right now because
they don't necessarily view it as
something that's achievable you can
disagree
you can argue on the politics but you're
not gonna come around and tell sherrod
Brown that he's not a progressive give
me a break there's some value
there is some value took I believe in
single-payer I like Medicare for all I
support Medicare for all
there is also value in showing a little
bit of respect for people who want to
say something as simple as I'm for it
but maybe it's harder than you think
maybe the transition is more difficult
than you're imagining because we haven't
done this before and those of us that
were in the fight and so how hard it was
just to get Obamacare through and what
it took to get through that and the
backlash to that have some legitimate
questions about the right way to pursue
it and a debate about how best to manage
that transition is a good one to have
feel like you're getting some personal
effort chest Wow yeah I didn't even know
where that was coming from I don't check
Twitter anymore so I already went
through this with me before the show so
basically it's a graph about it's a
graph of a logistic map it's a camp it's
a chaos theory diagram that shows you
what happens as a system that is stable
as you introduce as you get further
along gets more and more unstable and
I'm looking at I will share it on
Twitter but basically I think it's a
metaphor for the totem it's a metaphor
for the Democratic primary here's how
you can predict thing when there's one
candidate oh it's not so hard to predict
when there are two candidates now
there's four candidates oh
nothing's clear see sick crap it was a
graph that basically just says when
there's a lot of Kennedys you don't know
what's gonna happen it's a metaphor can
tell the future all right when we come
back we will have Lovett's conversation
with the Washington Post's Dave wigle
wigle time what do you call s then
something funny waggle let's get ready
to wag oh I don't know talk tonight okay
you
