on the line is Lauren grower go the
campaign manager for Stacey Abrams the
Democratic gubernatorial nominee in
Georgia Lauren thank you so much for
taking time out of what must be a crazy
week to talk with us I'm happy to be
here thank you so much for being
interested in the topic very interested
in this topic so for people who haven't
been following what's happening in
Georgia close to thee what is the latest
in Stacey's campaign against Brian Kemp
where do things stand as of what is it
morning California time on Tuesday sure
before I get into the details I'll just
step back and say that this entire
campaign since launching in June in
southwest Georgia in 2017 has really
been about reaching out to every single
voter in particular voters who hadn't
been engaged in the electoral process
before talking to them about the issues
they cared about meeting them where they
are and putting together an
unprecedented grassroots campaign and so
why that's relevant to this particular
moment is that we have such a voters
vote it matters
exercise your power and by that we were
essentially saying trust the system
yes it's stacked against us and stacked
against working people and low-income
people and communities of color in so
many ways but our campaign has said come
with us believe and let's have this
two-way conversation build this
grassroots effort and we can win now we
knew once it was Brian Kemp came out of
the Republican runoff we knew that the
deck was stacked against us and even a
bigger way he's been the secretary of
voter suppression and he is well
documented and using every tool in his
toolbox to make it harder rather than
easier to vote so coming into this race
we were acutely aware of that he had
come after us in the past he has charged
people for felonies for registering
their family members to vote you know
from precinct consolidation to voter
purges to the exact match you name it
it's very well-documented his attempt to
make it harder to vote just overall yes
so we knew that to perform well we were
going to have to out organize him out
communicate him
work him just in every single metric I
think the good news that I can say is
that we exceeded our expectations
Stacy Abram had over 1.9 million votes
that is historic it is not what the
Republican Party ever expected in a
million years we saw incredible surges
in african-american Latino Asian
American young people white liberal
turnout that really brought us to this
point where we're in this too close to
call so that that is sort of my table
setting to say that is why we are here
fighting for every vote because it's
actually the whole integrity of the
system that is now at stake that these
same voters over 1 million new voters
came into our electoral process this
year over four years ago and after this
sort of rigged corruption that we saw
out of Brian camp his bold-faced attempt
to steal this election right in front of
the world we know we have to fight for
every single vote to be counted we saw
just unbelievable large-scale
irregularities through absentee voting
into three weeks of early voting in
person and on election day and we can go
through those in more detail but today
in Georgia with almost four million
voters only 20,000 595 votes
stand away from us forcing this race
into a runoff because in Georgia
there's no outright win when there's
three candidates that often happen you
got to get to 50 percent plus one Brian
Kent has barely edged us out he's just
over 50% and considering the number of
provisional ballots the unprecedented
problems on Election Day the tens of
thousands of emergency paper provisional
problematic absentee ballots our demand
is simple count every vote and we're
using the courts reasoner field campaign
we're using paid mediator mediate we're
using every single asset this campaign
has built over the last year and a half
to demand that every vote is counted so
those numbers I gave you Tommy are the
most up to date from this morning we
were still getting votes in last night
and they're starting to trickle in today
I'll have more updated numbers later
tonight but that's the most updated well
speaking for the the team here Pat
America we absolutely think you guys ran
great campaign and should be fighting
for every vote and it is completely
outrageous what Brian Kemp did I just
want to get to this point early on the
interview like what can people who are
listening do to help you guys both in
this legal phase and if it goes to a
runoff because I know a lot of people
care a lot about this election and want
to do their part to pitch in well thank
you for the question first I will say to
any Georgians listening
nearly every Georgian I know if they
didn't have an issue a neighbor a friend
or family member a co-worker had an
issue we want those stories so we
continue to be a massive story
collection operation so if you're a
Georgian listening we need you to call
our voter protection hotline at
1-888-201-1014 all ballots filled
registration questions and so we're very
much still in this fight for Georgia
voters so part one if you or your
friends or family are Georgia voters
please push that out we need those
stories we're continuing to build all
different types of legal arguments as we
work to push this and then I would say
broadly Georgians or anybody listening
there's sort of three general areas
first we are doing large-scale text
banking of voters in Georgia to get
these stories and then make sure that
voters are ensuring their vote gets
counted and so our campaign has shared
with positive America the link for that
but you can hustle for us and you can go
to our social media fees to get those
links you can text from wherever we're
also doing phone banking at times and so
we are updating any kind of voter
contact that you can do remotely just
look at our social media feeds that's
great the second piece is volunteer
lawyers volunteer paralegals
etc from anywhere in the country can
help us as well and so again we have a
link on all of our sites that you can go
to again you can either
to Georgia come to Atlanta or do it
remotely so that is incredibly helpful a
third area is overall social media
amplification retweet our posts share
them widely beat this drum of count
every vote this is about our democracy
we need a resounding just unbelievably
loud for here online and all of our
channels to make that point and to push
our elected officials and just not let
this thing go away and not get lost in a
24-hour news cycle and the final piece
is low dollar donations you know we are
continuing to fully fund our massive
operation you know we have about 200
staff we just have added more lawyers to
our team we are just building out a
continuing to build out our operation so
those five dollar contributions those
ten dollar contributions are another
part of the story on why we're even here
today fighting fighting this fight is
because of unbelievable low dollar donor
support so those would be the top things
I would say listeners could do to help
that's great in in in terms of financial
contributions if you go to vote save
america.com slash donate we have put up
a page that allows you to donate to four
very important races the Abraham's race
John borrow mic SB then potentially Bill
Nelson if when he's requiring a recount
in Florida to help aid those efforts if
you want to get directly to the Abrams
campaign I'm sure they can just go to
white directly to your website that's
right just Stacey Abrams comm okay great
so that's an important piece of this um
so let's talk about Brian Kemp for a
second he ran for governor without
resigning a Secretary of State so he was
in charge of the election where he was
on the ballots that seems like a problem
he finally resigned a Secretary of State
after election day why do you think he
did that and do you have faith in the
information you got and will continue to
get from the Secretary of State's office
this would be funny if it wasn't so
corrupt
it's almost farcical what happened last
week on Wednesday of last week Brian
Kent as Secretary of State his office
sent out a press release to the media
that said he had won the race asserted
there were 21,000 outstanding
Provisionals provided no data and no
detail on that number he just pulled out
of his hat and then this is the part
that I will never get over
he had a campaign staffer and a
consultant do a press call with the
large paper here and the major local
news network
where they got on the phone live with
the media and said that he won so his
official office a Secretary of State
says you know he did it
his campaign operatives get on the phone
with the media and we're all just
supposed to say oh great it's just
another day I absolutely expect that it
is unbelievably bold and outrageous what
they did and then the next morning he
stood at a press conference with his
wife and the governor and that's where
they attempted to formalize it so his
last act of Secretary of State was
issuing that release having his campaign
consultants get on the phone with the
media the next day he stands next to the
governor and resigned so of course we
take no number coming out of the
Secretary of State's office as credible
and what we had seen is that yeah he may
have resigned but as all of his staff
are still over there the staff the
Secretary of State's office not all of
them but many of them the most you know
sort of public facing staff have been
acting as an arm of his campaign from
the beginning they have not been giving
basic nonpartisan election information
to campaigns or to the media they have
literally been a tax-funded
arm of his campaign so the breach of
public trust here the complete and other
abuse of power is beyond anything we can
expect in this country and that we would
all just sit around and say sure yeah we
accept all of this we'll just take the
resignation and go on our merry way
everything nothing to see here
it's obviously a complete outrage that
we don't accept and the voters don't
accept it we are getting an outpouring
of support and not just from Democrats
but also from Republicans and
independents who say this is just
undermining the entire system here the
way they have opera
and they continue to put out numbers out
of the Secretary of State's office
without backing up the data and but let
me get a little bit more detailed of why
this data is not reliable because Brian
kinda underfunded and completely
mismanaged the election system in the
state we have 159 counties in each one
of those 159 counties they administer
elections slightly differently and the
Secretary of State never issued guidance
to them on things that were entirely
predictable
for example we knew we receive historic
turnout for a midterm in the early
voting period a normal functioning
Secretary of State's office would have
issued guidance to the counties going
into election day and said things like
you should have some extra machines
we're seeing unprecedented turn on make
sure you have adequate backup paper
ballots we're seeing you know these are
16 year old machines that we're seeing
aggressive aterna they did none of those
things and so my team over the past week
has been driving around all 159 counties
and photocopying and taking cell phone
pictures of these hand written paper
ballot lists provisional ballot lists
they're all stacked up in my office and
what they look like it's literally
handwritten first and last name with a
two digit code they're barely legible
and that's the only data we have on how
many people actually voted those
provisional emergency backup so we have
been going around in hand collecting
this and data entering it so there is no
way in God's green earth that the
Secretary of State's office or that
anybody know how many are actually out
there we thought tens of thousands at a
minimum we could probably at least up to
30,000 Provisionals were cast that this
has never happened in the state of
Georgia and they just weren't equipped
to deal with it at the technological
level in any in any respect so that's
why that's one of many reasons why the
data coming out of Kemp's office it's
just not credible and why we're just
making our demands with the courts that
every vote be counted and I have good
news on that we've been winning our
court cases we took a case to federal
court in South Georgia last week around
Hurricane impacted counties we won that
federal judge said there was too much
you know there was an undue burden we
won
case last night common cause when a cage
around absentee ballots this morning we
won another one we're about to be in
court in about an hour and ten minutes
we think we're going to win another one
around Provisionals we these are not
hyperbolic outlandish cases these are
rooted in very simple facts and what
happened and that's why we're winning
because the courts see that literally
the fundamental constitutional rights of
Georgians are at risk of being trampled
here with the way votes were handled
yeah and we should add that that's on
top of you know african-american areas
around Atlanta seeing lines of up to
four and a half hours I believe to vote
I've read a story about how thousands
and thousands of voting machines were
just sitting in a warehouse downtown not
being used because they may or may not
have been tainted in 2016 by Russian
hacking efforts I mean it seems like if
Brian Kemp is showing that he can handle
an election as part of his attempt to
get a promotion he failed pretty hard
here oh absolutely
what we saw at the end of early vote and
on election day in terms of lines and
machine breakdown in particular and
Democratic and particularly in African
American parts of the state is nothing
short than a catastrophe to expect
people to wait in four to five hour
lines with their children the wages that
they were giving up students for missing
class and what's even more horrifying
about what happened and in some of those
polling locations where they had these
long lines and only had a couple
functional machines the database issues
a temp secretary of state database when
they would come to the front of the line
there we have numerous reports that we
are compiling they wait for four hours
then they get to the front of the line
and the elections official says oh no
you're not something or not at your
correct polling location and we have
many reports of folks who went to vote
at a polling location that had always
been where they had voted and all of a
sudden being told to need to drive
across town and so we are just having
problem after problem after problem with
the way elections are administered and
there's absolutely a disparate impact on
communities of color which is where they
were under-resourced with machines and
they were under-resourced with backup
paper ballot
because because again I go back - yeah
sure counties administer elections but
it's on the Secretary of State to
provide the guidance to provide
additional funding and you need to sell
them on the job I mean it's just
extraordinary and and again that's where
we saw the lines on Election Day where
those types of communities yep I think
it's safe to say that he sucks you
tweeted over the weekend that the
Secretary of State's office has removed
data from its website what data was
removed and why did they do that
well I can only speculate but it appears
because of litigation that US and others
are filing that there's a some kind of
information lockdown going on Kentucky
sheriff's State's office and we may
someday find out this was well intended
to try and get their arms around it who
knows they have had security breaches on
their website the weekend before the
election it came out that that there was
a complete open door to the voter
registration file we don't fully
understand what's going on there with
the website and they obviously have not
been transparent what I can tell you is
they pulled down all this old vote
history data before 2018 and you know
luckily we had already downloaded all
that and most people already had who are
looking closely at this it it is in a
pattern of a lack of transparency out of
that office there are a set you know
most information in that office is
subject to open records requests we have
filed many allies have filed repeated
open records requests try and get access
to data in emails they continually drag
their feet on it and are just not
transparent with the public so it
appears to be in line with that pattern
of behavior of sharing as little as
possible either to protect themselves
from lawsuits or who knows what's going
on because there have been serious
issues with how reachable and hackable
their website and databases are I mean
it's very well documented everything
that went on during the AUSA special
election server way it's the accidental
release of personal you know information
etc etc yeah last question for you what
happens next I mean when do you think
we'll have more information about a
recount and a runoff so that people who
are listening and care deeply about
Stacey and this campaign can figure out
how to help and get involved we don't
really know
timetable so I think folks need to stay
tuned there is a delay now a Court ruled
last night that the state cannot certify
any earlier than Friday the state's
deadline is November 20th to certify and
but every day is your additional court
decisions slowing down the process to
ensure votes are counted you know right
now it looks like we'll have all you
know we will know some things on Friday
in terms of county and state
certification but again you know we're
back in court this afternoon it's hard
to say exactly how long this will go you
know we had to take it no options off
the table and are pursuing every
possible thing we can to make sure all
those are counted and that we can come
out of this on the other side feeling as
though everybody voices were heard who
cast a ballot so that's our mission I
would say keep stay tuned every day this
week there's a lot moving and happening
and we'll hopefully hopefully know a lot
more in the coming weeks I mean does the
runoff happen December 4th if it happens
come hell or high water or could
litigation push that date out well you
know that has not been discussed yet
publicly any sort of movement of that we
expect the runoff to occur December 4th
we have a Secretary of State selection
up control runoff John Barrow is a
Democrat running in that race I would
encourage listeners to get engaged in
that race we also have a public service
commission rates that made it to a
runoff with a strong Democratic
candidate running there so those are
scheduled for December 4th you know we
are going to fight like heck to get into
that runoff but you know ultimately our
mission is to count every vote and if we
count every vote and we don't make it so
be it but we're really going to fight to
count every vote got it Lauren thank you
so much for doing the show thank you for
running an incredible race we are with
you on this one and also you know we
were lucky enough to get to spend some
time with Stacey in Atlanta when we were
there for a show and she is so smart and
nice and impressive and would be an
unbelievable governor and so we hope
that you guys win in this effort to
count every vote and then kick butt in
the runoff because that will be exciting
well we really appreciate it thank you
thank you for covering the issue of
course in it thanks again have a good
one
