on the pod today we're welcoming back
Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gilliam mr.
mayor how are you what's up guys I'm
doing pretty good just in a little
fighting shape down here in Florida as
we you know keep the fight up to count
every vote man yeah you guys making it
interesting again so yeah obviously you
know your race is in the middle of a
recount but what kind of reflecting have
you done on the results as they stand
now obviously this is a much closer race
than almost all of the public polls
showed at the very least yeah yeah well
first of all you know I I tried to keep
telling people as we moved around the
state during the general election not to
sweat the public polls I mean we have
been deceived by them before in fact if
people were to believe the public polls
I was seven points behind my frontrunner
opponent in the primary election and we
ended up three points ahead so I know
well that you know those polls may tell
us something but they don't tell us
everything which is why you know in my
opinion it was just so important that
people got out there and voted and you
all to probably assess this but a
typical midterm election in my state
produces about six million voters in the
presidential we approach nine million
votes we had eight point two million
people vote and the general election in
a midterm in the state of Florida we
blew the roof off of the number of of
people who went out and voted your
question was sort of where I am right
now at this stage and it quite frankly
is really just fixed on you know how we
make sure that we don't send a sign to
those people who went out there who
stood in line who completed those
ballots and mailed them in and affixed
their signature or through no fault of
their own had ballots held up you know
at a at a at a at a post office box
because you know the bomber who was
sending you know bomb mail bombs to
Democrats around the country have sent
them dude you know that that that same
post office so I just want to make sure
that those folks don't lose hope that
these elections will result in their
votes not being counted
I am curious sort of your reaction when
you either see Donald Trump or Marco
Rubio or other Republicans tweeting
claiming fraud that Democrat lawyers are
trying to steal the election what's your
reaction to that well I mean well the
truth is it's just not evidenced right
and and and as I you know said once
during the debate you know that I hit
dog hollers that you know the kind of
protesting that these folks have been
doing with no evidence I mean the fact
that the sitting governor you know in
the in in the evening stepped out of the
governor's mansion you know dark all
around him and said some big liberal
conspiracy was at work to undermine you
know this these elections here never
mind that the Supervisor of Elections
that he was taking a mat was actually
appointed to that office originally by
Jeb Bush a Republican here in Florida
you know the same with the president you
know look go back to election night and
just count those votes and forget the
rest well listen the reason why we have
a curing process the reason we have the
process that exists all do albeit
imperfect and I'm assessing some of
those imperfections right now is to make
sure that we provide every opportunity
at least that's the goal we hope for for
every vote that was legally cast to be
legally counted and the fact that these
folks would want to hold up that process
to include military ballots overseas
ballots challenge ballots and in those
ballots that that we you know we call
over and under votes you know to just
get rid of all of that in an election
we're in my race we're 0.4 points apart
percent apart we're in the race for for
the US Senate is 0.25% apart this is a
definitely a close election in the
Commissioner of Agriculture's race the
Senate race and obviously here in my
race for governor and as we've said you
know from day one I didn't say count
every vote that exists in a democratic
County I said count every vote period
and that includes votes that may not go
my way because that's what elections are
or to ensure that the will of the people
based off of their expression through
the vote is counted so when you and I
when you and I talked before Election
Day we talked about the kind of race he
ran in Florida how you were trying to
expand the electorate in your state get
people to participate who might not have
been engaged in politics before a lot of
other candidates might have tried to run
your race differently play it safe run
to the middle what do you want people to
have learned from how you ran your race
well I mean what I want people to know
is you can run as yourself this whole
you know the debate run left run right
run Center
you know I we suspended with that I mean
when I decided that I was gonna run for
governor of the state of Florida I made
the decision and informed everybody who
was in my circle it was a pretty small
circle at that time nobody thought we
could really run and win this thing but
that that small circle was look ya'll if
we're gonna do this we're gonna do it
honestly I'm gonna run as Who I am I'm
not about to get out here and become
somebody else simply because we've been
told that that is the recipe for winning
in Florida every time we've attempted to
modulate ourselves or try to run it as
our most conservative versions of
ourselves not only have we lost these
elections but in some cases we've lost
them pretty substantially we've you know
if we just took the numbers as they
exist today before we get to the you
know 80,000 or so you know under-over
votes and and and the other votes that
are outstanding we've gotten closer than
any Democrat of running for governor of
the state of Florida in a generation we
won Duval County a feat that eluded a
number of Democrats and presidentials as
well as in statewide races we had you
know more turnout than then-then-then at
any point we've ever seen in the history
of our state in a midterm election we
the people of the state of Florida
passed the amendment to Rhian franchise
about a 1.4 million people who had
previously had their right to vote taken
away because of a felony conviction
right and so
listen y'all you know and I'm sure you
know both of you know John and Dan that
nobody wants to win this thing and be
the next governor of the state more than
I do but I will tell you more than
anything that I want right now I want
people to one have their vote counted
but to not be turned away if the
candidate of their choice and in this
case if it's me if if I'm not able to
get over the Gold Line I don't want
people to assess one that the process
doesn't work for them or two that are
progressive and somebody who's
unapologetically so can't compete in a
state like Florida off the merit of who
they are and what they represent and
when if I'm not the victor here I don't
believe it is going to be for the fact
that that that that that I was too
unapologetically progressive and
therefore it turned off 30,000 you know
voters and therefore they did not choose
me the truth is is that as animated as
Democrats were as animated as the left
was the right was also animated I think
the President of the United States
probably visited our race for governor
and weighed in on my race for governor
more than he did in probably any other
gubernatorial race in the country you
all could probably assess the facts of
that but I certainly felt like I was
running not only against Ron de santis
but against Donald Trump and and and and
the truth is is is is is we're still
hanging pretty close here mr. mayor
the stipulating that midterms are
different than presidential elections
and that you know every candidate runs a
different race
if the 2020 Democratic nominee could
come back and talk to you for advice on
how to win in 2020 what would you tell
them win in Florida well it depends on
if I win right I think regardless you
know you obviously learned how this
turns out you learned a lot about you
know you ran a fascinating race and
learned a lot about show don't show
people a lot about how to run in Florida
so I'd be curious what you would say to
the Democrat who's gonna try to flip
this state back in the Democratic column
in 2020 well honestly I would let them
know to to run as their authentic selves
people aren't looking
for perfect they are looking for what's
real that all of these you know sort of
consultant driven and no shade to any
consultant that's out there but if
you're getting into a race for governor
or rather in 2020 for president and you
need a whole team to define for you who
you are what you stand for you probably
want to reassess whether or not this is
the thing you want to do my pastor puts
it in terms of the thermostat versus the
thermometer obviously alluding to the
fact that a thermometer can easily tell
the temperature but a thermostat sets it
and whether you're setting that
temperature and it's consistent with you
that maybe you're a little bit more
fiscally conservative than I was going
out and running and proposing a
corporate tax rate increase for the 3%
of the wealthiest companies that exist
in my state that same percentage who
walked away with six point three billion
dollars thanks to the Trump tax giveaway
maybe that isn't your cup of tea but
whatever your cup of tea is within that
lane be honest about it be direct about
it be unapologetic about it make your
case for it I don't know that this will
come down to whether or not you're you
know middle-of-the-road or centrist or
left or right as a Democrat I think it
will come down to whether you're real
whether the people trust you whether
they believe you're gonna get out there
and fight unapologetically on their
behalf
I think if you do that people may
forgive you whether or not they line up
with you 100 percent of the time on 100
percent of the issues but they're not
gonna take I certainly won't be
accepting someone who gets into this
thing convicted more about whether or
not they got a run to suit some you know
theory of what it means you you gotta be
in order to run here in the state of
Florida and win as a as a moderate or
something like that that doesn't move me
what's going to move me as somebody who
is gonna talk about the issues that
matter who if they believe that health
care ought to be a right they're gonna
get out there and they're gonna talk
about it and and we'll get around to
what it is that their policy prescript
is
beat in order to make that happen but
I'm not you know I'm not gonna be easily
swayed just as a consumer just as a
voter by somebody or consultants telling
me that this is the type of graph that
is gonna win a state like mine because
the truth is is I didn't fit in any
other type of graphs I certainly didn't
fit a type of graph of what it meant to
be the Democratic nominee and in this
race that I ran for governor the reason
why I'm not prepared to say that I got
you know a real set of regrets here are
there things we could learn from and do
differently absolutely but I wouldn't
change it because Iran is Who I am and I
let voters see me and assess me for who
I was and I went to read areas in blue
areas in purple areas of my state not
make an apology from my position but for
letting people know why I believed what
it was that I believed and trying to do
my very best to recruit them to agree
with me at every turn and if they didn't
at least respect me for having a theory
of change and a belief system on how I
make my state the state of Florida a
better one for all of us mr. mayor Dean
and I were just talking about also how
you run against someone like Donald
Trump who is able to control the media
environment control the media ecosystem
he throws out he says something racist
something sexist something xenophobic
and you know the Democratic candidate
sort of the incentive is to respond to
him immediately so you get in the new
cycle too and then you're in this sort
of tit-for-tat with Donald Trump on his
terms and since you ran against the
nation's mini Trump in Rhonda Santos you
came really close to what you know a
race against Trump would be like in in
2020 what did you learn about how to
deal with a candidate like Trump and how
to sort of avoid getting pulled into
that person's vortex well I'll tell you
I mean I tried not to allow for the the
attacks to be thrown and not to be
responded to but I never just left it
there it was always my intention to yes
push back and punch back
but also give it lift again
and my debates you know my opponent
through a lot of mess out there I tried
to deal with it in the first 15 seconds
first 20 seconds of it and then move the
rest of it back to what it was that I
wanted to talk about so the reason why
my opponent didn't want to talk about
health care and his plan there is
because I knew his record I knew that he
had voted to allow for people with
pre-existing conditions to be
discriminated against when it came to
coverage he didn't want to talk about
that and so he wanted to talk about
Hamilton or he wanted to you know call
me a socialist or say that I was you
know cop hating or whatever it was I
knew that I couldn't allow for the
insult to sit unanswered because there's
a whole group of people within the
listening and the beauty viewing
audience who didn't know one way or
another what my position was on that so
I didn't want them to walk away thinking
Andrew Gilliam hates cops so I had to
hit that but then I had to move it back
to a higher plane and I think that we've
got a honestly it's a it's it's probably
more of an art than it is a science and
I certainly cannot fashion myself an
expert in this way because I'm just I'm
a data point as well now on the on the
gradation of this thing and so what I
would say is what I felt confident about
and what I felt confident in and
there'll be plenty enough people out
there to analyze whether or not it was
the right thing or the wrong thing as I
felt comfortable saying I'm prepared to
punch you back if you punch me but I'm
also prepared to then kick it back to a
higher level so that folks were able to
hear you know what this thing is not
about what he's talking about it's about
the fact that these folks are voting at
every turn are working at every turn to
disenfranchise you to silence you to
take away your healthcare - you know
pander to the 1% and the major corporate
interests and aren't doing a darn thing
to help improve your live condition your
family your children's outcome whether
or not you're able to work one job
instead of two and three jobs in order
to make ends meet and I think at the end
of the day people do want to know what
you're going to do for them and so the
back-and-forth with Trump or the Trump
Lites only gets you so far
I think the rest of the way has to be
and us talking about what we're going to
do for people but we cannot draw the
conclusion
we're gonna be able to let them
continuously throw punches and blows at
us and that we take this you know
quote-unquote higher road without
without letting people know that we've
got a fight in us too that says we're
not wrong about this and we're not going
to accept your pejoratives and your
insults without answering that and then
also getting back on message and back to
point around what it is that we're going
to do to help you and your your home
your family on your job and in your
communities
that's what I think the mix has to be
and as I said I don't think it's a
science I think it's probably more of an
art I think that's very good advice mr.
mayor thank you so much for joining us
we really were pulling for you in the
recount if there's anything we can do if
there's anything our listeners can do
please let us know and listen y'all keep
keep doing what you're doing I'm such a
fan and I'm just thankful that voices
like you all are out there to make sure
that we don't all fall way of a few of
the Talking Heads without really
assessing what's happening in real time
on the ground with real people I think
that's how we're gonna have to transform
this country by staying in touch with
those folks and you all do an excellent
job we're bringing those voices to the
table well thank you and and we're big
fans of you too and we've all been
inspired by your race so take care and
please come back again soon
you
