welcome to pod save America live Q&A
with me here John loved it Priyanka err
bindi
we're ready to go we had we just had a
hearing explosive weird we just had an
explosive hearing bombshell where did
these people learn to ask a question
what where did they learn questions I
thought the questions were pretty good
some of them all right we have a little
setup case you're just joining us guys
are wearing your headphones Oh weird
it's done it's done Lovitz Hara is
already set so we can't now we're taking
them off I'm saying now we're taking
them off no now we're just taking them
off great thought I was doing the pot
you're not doing a pot still look great
can someone get mr. Lovett a comb but
Travis we fly it can we fly in a comb
okay so today under subpoena special
counsel Robert Miller testified before
the House Judiciary Committee about the
obstruction volume of his investigation
and then he went to testify for the
House Intelligence Committee about the
rush of volume so he's back to back
hearings so we have a few clips that we
want to show you guys that will be like
a little bit some big moments from these
hearings from the Judiciary Committee
first a big moment was when chairman
Nadler asked about obstruction and
exoneration the report did not conclude
that he did not commit obstruction of
justice is that correct that is correct
and what about total exoneration did you
actually totally exonerate the president
No all right
mood lighting all right and then a big
moment from the hearing before the
Intelligence Committee was this line of
questioning from chairman chef on
Russian interference
under mullah your report describes a
sweeping and systematic effort by Russia
to influence our presidential election
is that correct that is correct and
during the course of this Russian
interference in the election the
Russians made outreach to the Trump
campaign did they not that occurred over
the course yeah that occurred apart from
the Russians wanting to help Trump win
several individuals associated with the
Trump campaign we're also trying to make
money during the campaign in transition
is that correct that is true Paul
Manafort was trying to make money or
achieve debt forgiveness from a Russian
oligarch generally that is accurate
Michael Flynn was trying to make money
from Turkey true Donald Trump was trying
to make millions from a real estate deal
in Moscow to the extent you're talking
about the the hotel and Moscow yes yes
when your investigation looked into
these matters numerous Trump associates
lied to your team the grand jury and to
Congress number of persons that we
interviewed and our investigation it
turns out did lawyer Mike Flynn lied he
was convicted of lying yes George
papadopolis was convicted of lying true
Paul Manafort was convicted of lying
true al-manna Ford was in fact went so
far as to encourage other people to lie
that is accurate
Manta Ford's deputy Rick Gates lied that
is accurate Michael Cohen the
president's lawyer was indicted for
lying true
he lied to stay on message with the
president allegedly by him and when
Donald Trump called your investigation a
witch hunter that was also false was it
not I like to think so yes well your
investigation is not a witch hunt is it
is not on which other when the president
said the Russian interference was a hoax
that was false wasn't it true Russia
committed federal crimes in order to
help Donald Trump when you're talking
about that computer crimes in charge in
our case absolutely the Trump campaign
officials built their strategy their
messaging strategy around those stolen
documents
I'm generally that true and then they
lied to cover it up and generally that's
true all right so these are some of the
standout moments I know they're
certainly not all of them I'm curious
about your primary takeaways from all of
us and our first question going into
this is how effective do you think the
Democrats were today in laying out the
case for the American people and how
will this affect calls from in for
impeachment from Congress and the public
I think I think that the Democrats were
almost as effective as they could be
given the circumstances of this
testimony which I think are really
important to talk about before we get
into anything else robert muller did not
want to be here he did not want to give
testimony he said when he closed the
special counsel's office the report is
my testimony I I don't plan to give any
further testimony because I'm not going
to add to anything that I said in this
report he seemed to not want to be in
this decade it's terra-this kind of
politics in really sure and really who
can blame him and so I think number one
Muller's reluctance to say anything that
wasn't already in the report including
which I guess they just recently told
the Democrats on the committee
Muller's people before he testified that
Muller would not even read segments of
the report which seems like sort of a
all right there in his tweet taping up
with the news John seems like it seems
like a suspect decision that's not based
in any tick-tock I can't
unbelievable tick-tock
somebody's tick-tock got into my
feet see I'm reading about the report
continue anyway
 tick tocks you know you can't
count on you can't this world with tick
tocks in it now the now the explanation
for the distraction is longer than the
distraction itself all right so continue
there was no reason that robert muller
couldn't have read poor
of the report in response to questions
he just decided not to and so he took
every effort to make sure that he could
not be used by either side as some you
know for partisan purposes at least in
his mind so I think his decision on this
was a little bit the other
thing that was hanging over this entire
hearing and it's one of the reasons why
I think the Intel hearing at in in the
afternoon went better and was more
effective than the judiciary hearing in
the morning is what hung over all of
this was this decision I'm sorry this
policy by the office of legal counsel in
the Department of Justice that you
cannot indict a sitting president and so
we get into this early right and be
color basically says and he walks this
back later but Muller basically says the
reason we did not decide make a decision
either way on whether Trump committed
obstruction of justice is because we
could not indict a sitting president but
he didn't say if it weren't for the
policy that you can't indict a sitting
president we would have charged him
because as he said there are principles
of fairness and if you say we can't
charge you because you're a sitting
president but wink wink if you weren't a
sitting president we'd be charging you
it's unfair because basically it's
accusing someone of a crime without
having any kind of trial for that person
to defend themselves so because Muller
was caught in this mix where he had all
this evidence of obstruction of justice
but could not go further than sort of
the evidence itself and saying this
meant this meant that the president
obstructed justice for sure you have him
trying to avoid questions you have him
not wanting to say much in the afternoon
when it was about Russia interference
and all the lies that the Trump and his
campaign told and everything else that
they did and them being unpatriotic and
all that's kind of stuff like he was
much freer to say what he wanted to say
because there wasn't a specific crime he
was trying to avoid charging the
president with because of this decision
yeah
it's um it's a level of care that
Muller's taken and a control over what
he says that I think officially goes
above and beyond like probity like it's
it's a level of caution that I think
is not justified I understand you know
the OLC fracas is I think a good example
of this right so the OLC memos says the
president can't be indicted they
recognize that memo as accurate Lew
asked him if not for the Olson memo
would you have indicted the president he
says yes and then he says wait wait wait
wait wait I need to say this exactly the
way I say it in the report we did not
come to that conclusion because if the
OLC memos says you can indict then you
can't even say you would have indicted
but for the OLC memo because of this
level of of caution that he has taken
refusing to read from the report all of
it does to me speak to a kind of refusal
to let the two stand behind his work I
mean he stood there he sat there very
quietly through a lot of conspiracy
theories and misleading testimony of
Republicans and I understand the desire
to let the report speak for itself and
he still managed to make news despite
that but there's a kind of um he's uh
he's uh trying to defend the rule of law
with like both of his hands tied behind
his back and I find it frustrating yeah
I mean we should say that the
questioning today did lead to Muller
confirming quite a bit of information
that I do think is pertinent to whether
the president should be impeached he
confirmed that Russia interfered in our
election to help Donald Trump made
numerous offers of help to multiple
members of the Trump campaign and no one
reported those contacts or interference
to the FBI instead he confirmed that the
Trump campaign welcomed Russia's help
the president encouraged Russia's help
and then they lied to cover it up he
confirmed that the lies by the Trump
campaign and administration officials
impeded his investigation he confirmed
that Trump asked staff to falsify
records relevant to the investigation
and he confirmed that Trump's written
answers were quote
incomplete and untruthful that's a big
deal that last one is new so a lot of
the a lot of this is simply stating
plainly what's in the report but saying
that the president's written testimony
so obviously so there was a there was an
interesting line of questioning around
whether or not about why Muller didn't
a subpoena Trump and it seems to really
been kind of a practical decision around
accepting the written answers and
allowing that to speak for the president
in part because they felt as though
they'd be in a protracted fight without
end over the subpoena but now we find
out that not only did they allow Trump
to provide answers under oath in written
answers to the special counsel but that
those answers were in some way
untruthful generally right that's what
he said they were incomplete and
untruthful generally and then Muller
said generally okay so we have a lot of
specific questions coming up sure clips
to roll and whatnot but I'm wondering if
you are a person who did not spend the
entire morning and then your afternoon
watching this what if you're tuning in
right now like should your big takeaway
from today be is there a singular one
are there multiple pieces of information
that you should walk away with like to
me the takeaway is Muller's message to
Congress and the American people is I
collected all this evidence that the
president United States obstructed
justice I could not charge him with a
crime there are other constitutional
processes for dealing with a President
of the United States who has committed
crimes while in office I can't make the
decision on whether you should pursue
that option for you I cannot he's
telling Congress I cannot do your job
for you I you can lead a horse he's led
the horse to water and he cannot make
them drink it they have to decide on
their own in life I think also like
Democrats might have been sort of
looking for an easy way out here like
it's always like Robert mother is gonna
save us you know I always think that's
sort of overstating things but in this
case it's like oh well Robert Muller is
gonna testify and there's gonna be some
bombshell or explosive new information
that's gonna help us decide whether we
want to pursue impeachment or not and
mothers basically like there's nothing
more I can tell you all the informations
out there all the evidence is out there
you either decide to impeach this guy or
you don't but don't look at me I'm not
the one who can do that for you
yeah I'd say also the big message I
think we're in the afternoon from the
from the Intelligence Committee hearing
is that Robert Muller
and by extension all of us should be
incredibly worried about interference in
our election and that it was an
unpatriotic dangerous precedent that he
seems to be worried has been set and
maybe repeated maybe he actually his
quote was they're doing it as we sit
here about foreign interference in our
elections and and he was asked you know
are you worried that this is going to
set a precedent and and in someone who
was tight-lipped and who and who mostly
saw questions repeated to him over the
course of this hearing was right then
unequivocal that yes he's worried about
that he's worried about this being a
precedent and his willingness to
describe it as unpatriotic his
willingness to kind of try to ring the
alarm as much as he seems to want to
ring an alarm at all I think is telling
yeah for what it's worth those were
standout like very striking moments to
me as well yeah you referenced this
earlier we have a clip of rep Escobar
questioning Muller about impeachment
yourself and well I shall play it for us
now and we can chat about it you wrote
in your report that you quote determined
not to make a traditional prosecutorial
judgment end quote
was that in part because of an opinion
by the Department of Justice office of
legal counsel that a sitting president
can't be charged with a crime yes
director Muller at your may 29th the
2019 press conference you explained that
quote the opinion says that the
Constitution requires a process other
than the criminal justice system to
formally accuse a sitting president of
wrongdoing
end quote that process other than the
criminal justice system for accusing a
president of wrongdoing is that
impeachment I'm not going to comment on
that in your report you also wrote that
you did not want to quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct end
quote for the non lawyers in the room
what did you mean by quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes
I'm not gonna try to explain that that
actually is coming from page one of
volume two in the footnote is the the
reference to this
what are those constitutional processes
I think I heard you mention at least one
alright so what we as we saw at the end
of that clip Muller basically is saying
you referred to one of those
constitutional processes and this
person's asking basically is that a
direct referral to impeachment while
he's under questioning from rat baska
bar I'm not crazy right does that matter
or change anything I mean again he this
is one of those cases where Muller did
not go as far as at least his footnote
went in the report like I don't know why
Muller didn't just say yes impeachment
is one of them yeah and that is one of
the constitutional processes and then
someone said do you think he should be
impeached and then he could have just
been like that's up for you to that's up
to you to decide like he didn't he was
so he was terrified of even saying the
word impeachment in a in a context that
wasn't a normative judgment on whether
we should have impeachment on his part
which is certainly hard to me
objectively true that it is one of the
remedies available to Congress it was
also like a little too cute by half when
he was like yes that is one of the
processes that I think I heard you
mention one of the processes earlier
like it was the word impeachment so he
the one thing why do you say so much of
like that uh The Simpsons where Lisa's
at that terrible Jazz Club in the and
the person she's with says now listen to
the notes he's not playing okay so
Muller confirmed in his testimony that
Trump asked staffers to falsify
documents that were relevant to the
investigation how the hell is this not a
smoking gun for impeachment all of this
 is a smoking gun for impeachment we
see through the smoke from all the
smoking guns for impeachment it is that
that's the kind it's like it's all in
the report
right like there's ten instances of the
president obstructing justice
they have laid out the evidence in each
instance to why this constitutes
obstruction of justice or why does
may constitute obstruction of justice
because of course they didn't determine
it falsifying records is one tampering
with witnesses the other pressuring
witnesses and another one trying to
impede an investigation is another one
like the president there's evidence that
the President did all of this and
it's right in the report it's yeah it's
um it's worth stepping back to and
remembering that a lot of this is
Gaslight yeah all the Republicans
they're all but a very very select few
Republicans approach this hearing not as
an opportunity to learn anything but as
an opportunity to kind of drum up
conspiracies about Muller changed the
subject talk about the FBI text lovers
and and and and the dirty dossier and
all the rest and and oxygen to be honest
I think a lot of Democrats I think
rightfully based on what Muller said he
wanted to do and his reluctance to
testify did approach purchase not as an
opportunity to learn something's very
new although many did manage to get new
information but just elucidate what was
in the report try to give the report a
platform which I certainly deserves and
I think that's a noble goal but stepping
back everyone talking during that
hearing Muller the the Democrats on the
committee the Republicans on committee
the reporters covering the hearing the
hearing everybody understands that
Donald Trump committed multiple acts of
obstruction of justice there's no
question about that it's undeniable and
all of this is a game to either make
that someone's an eyeball that we end up
at an impeachment or to undercut Muller
and undercut the hearing and so enough
confusion and so enough to out and talk
about the optics and what-have-you to
prevent that outcome so a lot of this is
one step removed from the actual debate
because there's no debating you look at
that report you look at Trump's conduct
you look at what happened over the past
three years there's no denying that
Trump is committed impeachable offense
offenses every Democrat that's against
impeachment admits that he's committed
impeachable offenses and Republicans
behind closed doors say the same thing
to reporters all the time so one thing
that got a lot of attention based on you
know people I was looking at while I was
watching this was this clip actually
that Elijah will play of a line of
questioning during the Judiciary
Committee hearing about charging Trump
after he leaves office
could you charge the president with a
trim' after he left office yes you
believe that he committed you could
charge the president nine states with
obstruction of justice after he left
office yes all right so is that answer
from rep buck about indicted after
leaving office really as big of a deal
as Twitter is making it to be asked this
person as much as I want it to be about
Trump it seems like more of a general
response about the legal process what
did you guys make of this when you're
watching I think it's not a big
difference whether it's a general
question about any president or about
Trump because what the question was is
could Trump be indicted after leaving
office and so I was like yeah of course
he could but he's not sitting president
anymore and the rule only says that
sitting presidents can't be indicted so
like I I think everyone I think that the
Moller walk back of his original comment
ted Lieu about whether he didn't charge
because of the OLC memo and this are
both being overblown it's all the same
problem which is you can't indict a
sitting president when he's in office
but at the same time you can't then
publicly accuse him of some crime saying
with a wink and a nod because it's
essentially he doesn't have a court
process to defend himself right like he
can't say right it's saying I could
saying that I could charge Trump after
he leaves office for the specific
offenses is the same as saying I could
charge him with a crime is the same as
saying I could charge him with a crime
but for the OLC memos are all the things
that Muller is trying to avoid while
clearly telling us in virtually no
uncertain terms that's virtually doing a
lot of work that obviously Trump
committed obstruction of justice I mean
if the end of his his report it just
said and therefore I refer these this
information to Congress to investigate
as to whether or not Donald Trump should
be impeached if you just added that
sentence to the end of the report it
would all completely make sense as an
impeachment referral the words like the
missing notes of jazz our men are we're
supposed to experience them in our mind
all right so we have a bunch of
questions here but I'm throwing in one
of my own
cool I'm wondering what your well I have
a couple first I'm wondering how the
message gets across to people like how
do you think the takeaways from this the
obstruction what not like how does that
get conveyed to the public at large and
then coupled with that I'm wondering
what your take is on how the media at
large pundits etc are presenting what we
learned today so far I think in the
first question if you're just watching
this at home or like most normal people
we're not us you didn't like watch every
minute of this fly yeah your work but
you were just catching clips later if
you caught some of the clips that we've
been playing here just since the
livestream started you would think it
was a pretty bad day for Donald Trump
and and his cronies so you know I think
that the in the moment it seems like you
know we want Mahler to sit up there and
be like he's guilty impeach him today he
ordered the Code Red
right and that's like never gonna happen
you're damn right I did but when you
look at the entire five six hours as a
whole and you cut out some of these
clips that we're doing like you realize
it's pretty damning now if reporters and
at media outlets just simply talked
about what happened and showed those
clips we'd be fine and to be fair a
bunch of them are doing that but then
there are the you know pundits
and pundit reporters or reporter pundits
hundreds hundreds whose job is reporting
but whose hobby is poetry on Twitter
rapunzel let down your takes right then
you'll say the optics the objects are
horrible the objects are bad now why are
they saying the optics are bad why they
stopped your badge because Robert Muller
was like you know at times he didn't
he's he had to refer to the report he
couldn't understand the question right I
don't know what else you are they were
trying to make it out to be like a dotty
old guy no he's mild-mannered he asked
for many questions to be repeated he was
very careful he did not raise his voice
he did not forcefully rebuke
any insults that were directed at him or
his investigation he did not forcefully
articulate any larger case against
Donald Trump he was he was very measured
he spoke in little little partial
sentences and therefore did not provide
the kind of apex of drama that I think a
lot of people were hoping they might see
that we've seen in many past hearings
that's the truth we we if we were doing
the livestream or our podcast under oath
and we were walking this very fine line
that Robert Muller is walking with this
OLC memo and Justice Department like and
people are asking us a bunch of
questions we probably suck because we
would be a lot more careful and every
word that we said like you can either
think about your performance or you can
think about making sure you don't miss
state something under oath and that you
don't go beyond what you said in the
report because you believe that it is
either you believe that it's it's wrong
to go beyond what you know yes and look
you don't you don't go you go to
impeachment with the Muller you have you
know they're not the Muller you want to
I personally as a not just as a Democrat
but as kind of whatever more inherently
bellicose political person do I wish
that Muller brought brought some more
you know Cholula to the events
sure sure I do and I actually think he's
um made a mistake you know he's um on
the on the he's uh his uh his Geiger
meter is just pointing a little bit
towards Comey and so like there's just a
little bit too much different
differences a little too much we're
trusting the process to let the words
speak for themselves I think that that's
why it was a mistake he would it's a
long-term buek bar by giving that
statement and letting bars words speak
for him for so long and that's why I
think today he could have gone a little
bit further and a little bit harder but
that is the calculus Muller has made to
defend what he views as the long term
interests I sincerely believe this that
he views what he is doing as being in
the long-term best interest of the rule
of law in the United States we can argue
with that but
that is what this person who I do
believe is sincere took to be his duty
and it's incumbent upon us given what he
gave us to make the best argument Jerry
Nadler and Adam Schiff and Nancy Pelosi
were not given you know Shakespeare in
the Park
they weren't they're given something
much smaller but that doesn't mean their
duty is any different okay so now we've
talked about what the what they
discussed over the course of today I'm
curious about if there are any things
that you think lawmakers should have
been asking about or opportunities that
they missed and weren't talking about I
don't know like I really think they
covered just about everything I do
Brian boiler notice the noted this too
at the very end there when Muller
basically said that generally the
president was in complete and untruthful
in his written answers you do wonder if
that's the case why didn't that appear
in the report because Muller stuck to so
many things that were already in the
report you didn't want to go beyond that
and it seemed like he went beyond the
report in that instance I'm wondering
like what was going on there why they
didn't probe that a little bit more but
knowing how Muller is boxed in or
decided to box himself in as he did I
don't know what else Democrats could
have done I think there's like stylistic
things which is you know Schiff and
Nadler and a couple other folks were
very good at you know one sentence
questions to get Muller's yes or no or
usually a yes some other members I think
like because Muller wouldn't read the
report himself like sped through
paragraph and the report and then be
like isn't that correct yeah and I felt
from other at that point like they just
spoke really really fast we can hear the
mic because the mics around we can hear
at home
I'm watching on TV very clearly in the
room and a couple of reporters were
saying this in these rooms you can't
necessarily hear the questions in the
room and when someone's speaking that
fast like it sort of gets lost so I
think yeah a couple more members of
Congress could have pared down their
questions into like you know one
sentence questions but that's sort of on
the margins yeah I mean the only the one
thing I the one thought I had and I
think this is like very much
a cure of armchair quarterbacking
because I don't I do think what John
said is right you know Muller created a
lot of difficulty really really did set
the boundaries around what he would talk
about which I think in those but inside
of those boundaries I think for the most
part they did fine I I do think there
was maybe room to explore a little bit
more of Muller's broader views you know
let him let him talk a little bit more
about the integrity the Justice
Department let him talk a little bit
more about the integrity of
investigation because it does seem like
that is an area where he is willing to
you know wax patriotic and I do think
that that would have been important like
I would have perhaps like to hear
someone ask him do you think it
undermines the rule of law when justice
Barban investigations are attacked in a
partisan way for example right questions
like that that might have gotten him to
just to speak a little bit more openly
but that said you know they were bound
by five minutes and you don't know till
the end of your five minutes that that
use of five minutes to try to get at
some specific and important aspect of
the report wasn't gonna work till the
end so I understand not I it's hard I'm
not I'm normally quite willing to hammer
Democrats for how they perform in these
hearings and I can joke about the
questions but I don't have that
criticism okay so we know that Nancy
Pelosi Adam Schiff Jerry Nadler holding
a press conference and about 10-ish
minute but before then who knows what
they're gonna say there what do we think
the path forward from today is if the
impeachment dam isn't breaking what
level or type of pressure is needed to
get house leadership there after what
we've seen today after what we've known
for all this time
what do you think making calls right and
letters going to their town halls in
August as Dan said when we were on the
road last week focused on the judiciary
members because if the Judiciary
Committee by a majority votes to open an
impeachment inquiry it happens you don't
even need the whole house but you know
pressure your House member anyway
because if a whole bunch of House
members are for it then it's more likely
the Judiciary Committee will make the
decision to go forward with an
impeachment inquiry but I do think I
believe the only path forward
is impeachment impeachment or drop it
all because I don't think where are the
investigations leading us it's it's
going to be the same dynamic that we saw
today with Muller is that the facts are
known the information is there at least
I'm sorry the most damning facts and
information are there high crimes and
misdemeanors and so yes we might uncover
more information and more facts
throughout these investigations but I
don't think anything is going to be as
damning is the president States
obstructing justice into an
investigation of how Russia attacked our
election and obstructing an
investigation into the fact that he was
involved in an illegal hush money scheme
those are pretty big deals yeah you know
if not this president which president if
not these crimes which which crimes if
not now when
yeah not if not us who beautiful in case
you want to read that to your lawmaker
the phone number is 2 2 2 2 4 3 1 2 1
lines are open - OH - 2 2 4 3 1 2 3 1 2
1 there you go all right well switch
gears a little bit before you know we'll
see if this press conference comes on
then maybe we can throw that on well no
because um I the tiger will start in the
Capitol press gallery and Nancy Jeri and
Adam in their robes their matching robes
will just sort of come out way in there
will be a puff of smoke bomb all right
bomp bomp bomp not a bomb bomb bomb
question okay
all right so question I'm done I'm done
God all right about impeachment going
into 2020 is it more dangerous for the
Democrats to start impeachment
proceedings and become the quote/unquote
anti Trump party to those on the right
or to remain divided on the issue and
continue to have infighting highlighted
in the media Joyce I sort of think that
Democrats being the anti-trump party is
pretty baked into the equation yeah
yeah I think if you're voting for a
Democrat or you're thinking about voting
for a Democrat it's probably because
they're pretty anti-trump and it's like
I realize that was sort of flippant but
it really is like I it speaks to what
some Democrats are really concerned
about right that they look they look to
anti-trump but it's like that's the
Democrats being the anti-trump party is
why we have a historically large
majority in the House of Representatives
right now and won the election by a
historically large margin it wasn't
because Democrats for some it were
accommodating of Trump or said that
Trump has some good ideas but he's just
not great on other things that's not why
we won the house yeah look and I I have
my own view on this which is I actually
think impeachment this fall is the
compromise position that if you are
worried about spending all of next year
talking about investigations then
concentrate those investigations now in
a formal impeachment inquiry that gets
all the information on the table and if
you believe that you owe it to the
Democrats who came out to vote and who
are been pushing for Democrats to win
the house because they want a Trump held
accountable then that also argues for
doing it this fall so you know I am
sympathetic to the counter-argument but
I I just I can't believe anyone views
our current condition of Trump being
semi almost impeached as Democrats argue
and squabble amongst themselves and to
some look feckless and to others look
week is a great place to be going into
2020 got it impeachment is a compromised
position I like it
okay before we get to the fun stuff we
have one other question this is like the
vegetables before dessert sure the
looming budget deal has taken some blows
from the right and many are concerned
about the rise of deficit the deficit
spending limit do you guys have any
opinions on the deal I think it was a
overall pretty good deal in the sense
this this is why for those who don't
know about the debt ceiling it is the
stupidest law rule that we have
right now which is basically that every
so often Congress has to quote unquote
raise the debt limit we
means which essentially does it does not
mean that Congress is asking to borrow
more money to pay for it means that
it is authorizing the Treasury
Department to pay the debts that we have
already incurred as a nation if you do
not authorize the Treasury to pay those
debts we will default on our debt
eventually as a nation and the entire
global economy will collapse that is
what is at stake with raising the debt
limits literally like what if what if
there was just a ticking time bomb under
the foundation of your house and you
don't want to go off nobody wants it to
go off but every morning at I go
downstairs and reset it for 24 hours and
you better not forget where your house
blows up if if you don't want Congress
to spend more money and to rack up more
debt the option should be or the the
remedy should be to not pass laws that
spend more money right that you can do
once they've spent the money the idea of
having this magic thing called a debt
limit that doesn't allow them to to
actually pay back the debts that they
are the money that they already borrowed
is crazy
and yet we and it's not necessary and
it's not been around since the beginning
of our country it's something that's you
know happened over the last couple
decades and now it is a tool that
Republicans have used and they used
during the Obama administration to hold
the president ransom for more cuts so
the fact that we made a deal it
basically says you know we have this
debt limit thing which could destroy the
global economy if people are playing
chicken with it and we have Donald Trump
as president so the idea that we made a
deal to potentially remove the debt
ceiling from the equation for the rest
of trump's presidency potentially if if
we get him out of office to me that's a
good thing that's good news that if we
beat Trump that that means that for the
rest of his presidency he can't
around with the debt limit and possibly
cause the collapse of the global economy
also by the way Republicans agreed to a
whole bunch more spending not just
defense spending but domestic spending
on things like education transportation
that we all like so yeah I think it's a
pretty good deal basically Donald Trump
is a toddler in a playroom and
Democrats and Republicans just snuck in
and took the active grenade that was
sitting in the ball pit and snuck it out
of there and hid it till there's another
president ya know and now some Democrats
and some folks on the left are
criticizing the deal because they
basically lifted the debt ceiling until
July of 2021 and I thinking okay if we
get a Democratic president in there that
means that in the Democratic president's
first months as president Mitch
McConnell could then now use the debt
ceiling in July to say to the president
no Green Deal or you know we're gonna
let the debt we're not gonna raise the
debt ceiling if if you insist on pushing
your progressive agenda and so like
Mitch McConnell can use it as a tool to
hold the Democratic president hostage
yes he might be able to yeah but I don't
know that they were ever that we only
control one house of Congress I don't
know that there were ever the votes
there to say let's 11 eliminate the debt
ceiling altogether though maybe someone
could have pushed for that or at least
let's push the debt ceiling two years
five years six years down the road maybe
they could have pushed for that too I
don't know if necessarily know that the
votes were there yeah that's the one
criticism of the deal that you could
legitimately make but again we take we
teyla we took the nuclear weapon away
from the toddler yeah yeah it's um the
debt ceiling every once in a while these
are that just so you guys every once in
a while will just be like we would just
be sitting in there and be like what's
gonna happen what's gonna happen with
the deaths and the debt ceiling was a
was Chekhov's gun on the mantel cuz
there any final analogy on that I have
started to draft a speech during the
Obama administration about how the
Treasury would pay its debts if we did
not raise the debt ceiling and it was a
speech about figuring out like who gets
Social Security who doesn't when our
troops get paid when they don't like the
government suddenly has to move around a
bunch of money stop paying our
commitments stop like paying checks and
it's really scary yeah all of a
sudden the federal government becomes
Ray Liotta and the final act of
Goodfellas all right how'd you like it
imagine Mick Mulvaney running into
Donald Trump being terrified that he
flushed the cocaine down the toilet you
guys just made me think of this article
I was reading today about the guy who
invented the retweet and he basically
described the same thing he handed a
loaded weapon to four-year-olds and oh
yeah I saw that yeah why
to be like I'm so sorry everybody the
retweet I didn't know I didn't know what
it would be copy what he said I didn't
know what it would become
yeah um all right so we're on to the fun
stuff now and we have a guess a guest in
studio the question is love it comment
on a recent article about you testing
your jokes in the office here with us
today who was the article was about
Shaniqua McClendon blue animal director
come join us at the table
come sit Shaniqua Shaniqua not us I'm
banished to the couch but you can sit at
the table why whatever you like it's
we're live so it could so theoretically
the jacket not theoretically in reality
the jacket has already been broadcast to
they can see the tens of people
now she niqab thank you for being here
thank you obviously I wish that I please
speak into the microphone I wish it
could have been under better
circumstances says it's on do you hear
okay Elijah - can you please tell
everybody what you said in the article
uh the question was what is something
that distracts me mm-hmm and slack was
one of my answers what was your other
answer John loved it coming out to focus
group his jokes mm-hmm you know that's
something you find distracting well it
just takes my attention I enjoy it do
you consider Australis an answer that
you can get an answer that you can give
as I refer you to the article do you not
like it when I test love it or leave a
material out is that I just I thought it
was fun I thought it was we had a tweed
laughs you know it's a bullpen
sometimes all right I think it's good to
test your joke so that the oh so
everyone's getting a quality show thanks
uniqua I enjoy it everyone enjoys it um
that's how we all stop we look up now
you've also also claimed that pundit
doesn't like you
I don't think she does thanks for
joining the show because she does like
you only when you make her like me she
runs to you when you got doubt you know
you and Justine we're standing there and
she ran right to you and twice she went
to Justin but maybe that's because it's
a self-fulfilling it's a vicious circle
where where the two of you are can't
cross this boundary because she thinks
you're you don't love her you think she
doesn't like me he doesn't deny it
hurtful saying anything
what a sick body listen
obviously there's been a lot of
accusations leveled at pundit today that
now you tell me that that's not the
drama that we wanted from this hearing
thank you for joining us Uniqua thank
you I'm sorry for distracting you yeah
Wow all right I should equal thank you
for joining us guys everybody give it up
for Shaniqua political director she
loves working here she is created to say
what she is paid to say Wow
all right uh let's see this this is
another one directed I love it let's
switch it up what are you guys on this
new tailors fixing have you also been
the Archer in the prey I don't know what
that means I've been listening to it
have you listened to a job haven't we
all been the archer in the prey at some
point listen
let's do it a couple times in the way
home because Emily Favreau Taylor
Swift's number one fan is obviously very
excited that another song has dropped
yeah the the when a new toy swings when
a new Taylor Swift song comes out bells
ring in their home like a princess had a
baby uh you know the more I listen to it
it's okay
and we usually her entire albums are
better than the singles that drop early
from being in this industry yeah
Taylor's with punditry
Taylor Swift punditry at which I have
been involved in now since meeting my
wife many years ago all right
thoughts on the new Taylor Swift song
I'm reminded of an episode of The
Sopranos in which Hesh and Adriana are
managing a band and Christopher
Moltisanti screams where are the
choruses I almost liked the song alright
I almost like the song Priyanka got it
and it could have been her time after
time cut and I felt as though I felt
this other chorus to me I felt like
another verse that's my honest reaction
I listen to this so I might almost loved
it and I do like the lyrics that's it
gonna walk right out of here and do that
after this visit are a couple questions
left which of Travis's nicknames are you
rooting for in his ridiculous poll oh my
god yeah
squid squid is not a bad one dingbat I
forget which one I was corn thief
there's some other Riptide to you or
something what um even what's his name
senator schatz wait on yesterday crazy
Hellraiser
Hellraiser razor which mm that's a
little too generous come on wait for
some other ones Oh hambone I kind of
like that squid or squirt oh I think I
voted squirt I think I'm actually now
that I see it yeah well spurt is winning
62-38 percent so it was a rooster in
Corki I definitely got a Corki on that
one I me but you're voting on this I
thought we all were just like this is
happening we're ignoring it oh no I've
been voting I don't have a lot of other
okay Durant vote for Travis's
nickname please don't vote viewers of
this please don't do that okay last
question love it what are your thoughts
on Marvel potentially introducing a gay
superhero in Eternals
so I I saw the report that they were
going to add at a gay superhero
in
Thor : god of thunder right I thought
I'm confused
I'm very excited about Marvel adding a
gay hero I am sad that the only gay
character in the full run that ended in
the most recent Avengers movie was a
character who appears in one group
therapy scene and mentions the fact that
he did go on a same-sex date I found
that very disappointing that said it is
time for some more gay superheroes gay
kids love superheroes too and every
especially thirteen-year-old kids who
are looking out there and looking for
heroes to have and you know it's
genuinely necessary to let everyone see
the world through a gay characters eyes
which is what you do when you see a
superhero movie and so far we've only
done it through straight eyes also uh
Trump is talking now on CNN I don't know
if we're cutting away for ending the
stream what we're doing here he's giving
his first comments Reata alright I think
we're gonna hear him yelling alright
we're out of questions we're out of
questions alright we're gonna go watch
Trump and then watch Pelosi Nadler and
shift announce it they're going to be
impeaching him
