I am honored to have in our studio here
in Los Angeles Wendy Sherman the author
of not for the faint of heart
lessons encourage power and persistence
and and frankly one of the most
experienced diplomats not currently
working for Donald Trump although you
know the really experienced folks who
know someone who has negotiated with you
know adversaries served in the Obama
White House for the Clinton ministration
just an incredible career so we are so
grateful that you are here today great
to be with you and Ben Tommy thanks um
so I mean you have this remarkable
experience of not just working in
government but going to far-flung places
to negotiate with people that you've
been called the axis of evil or on
enemies lists over time you negotiated
the Iran deal you negotiated with North
Korea I was hoping you could kind of
take us inside that experience a little
bit like you landed North Korea for
talks what happens where do you go where
do you sleep what do you eat with like
who are the goons you're talking to how
does this work North Korea is like
unlike any other place I've ever been in
my life it is pretty much a Potemkin
village Pyongyang is actually visually
very beautiful because there are
monuments all over the city to the
leaders of North Korea and parks
you see people but in the capital of
Pyongyang they are dressed when they
know people are coming to visit when I
went through the first time with Bill
Perry who had been Secretary of Defense
and President Clinton had asked him to
do a North Korea policy review and so a
small team of us went to Pyongyang we
went to a rice paddy to see how the
revolutionary workers were getting the
job done with an ox cart uh-huh with
signs along the paddy field with
revolutionary slogans on them and sort
of like at a campaign stop an entire
brass band in white band uniform at the
other end of the paddy field playing
revolutionary songs this was of course
it really felt like you know I'd done a
lot of presidential campaigns and Senate
campaigns this felt like
you know the advance team has arrived
because they knew we were coming it it
was very sad in many ways it was sort of
pathetic we had a performance where they
sang songs in English and had a
electronic Chiron across the top of the
stage with the words in English - like
my Clementine now of course everybody in
the audience neither spoke red or
understood English so it was for us
right right yeah it's spontaneous
erections
sometimes but and extraordinarily very
much the Hermit Kingdom yeah a lot of
buildings with no one in it you don't
control your schedule I think secretary
Pompeo found that out yes he went to
meet with Kim jong-un only to not meet
with Kim jong-un you don't get to decide
so you were conducting these talks on
behalf of the Clinton administration I
mean obviously they didn't and their
nuclear weapons program
they to the contrary they poured gas on
the program and to this day but what do
you think that those talks accomplished
like what's the value of that kind of
diplomacy even when the long-term goal
isn't achieved immediately I want to
make sure people know the facts in this
situation during the Clinton
administration there were no nuclear
weapons there no were no long-range
ballistic missiles in fact there was
enough fissile material that's the stuff
that goes inside of a nuclear weapon for
one or two nuclear weapons but that
fissile material had been produced when
George Bush 41 was president so during
the Clinton ministration there was no
progress as such the the agreed
framework which was negotiated by Bob
Gallucci
a great diplomat foreign service officer
had a lot of problems but it nonetheless
kept their production of plutonium one
of the ways you produce material for
nuclear weapon in check for the whole
administration and what we were
negotiating towards the end and what I
got very involved in was trying to stop
them from testing long-range missiles
you may recall that in 2000 we had a
little bit of a presidential election
problem yes
we thought we should brief the incoming
administration on what we were working
on the presidential election sort of
didn't keep getting over didn't keep
getting over it didn't get over till
December well we thought that was a
little late to try to make a transition
and President Clinton was trying to get
peace in the Middle East which also
proved elusive but we then proceeded
after the Clinton administration to
President Bush trying some things found
out that in fact the North Koreans had
started an enrichment program in secret
things went off the rails and now we
have a North Korea with many nuclear
weapons and the missiles to deliver them
yeah well you know it's an interesting
parallel to look at Iran you know as
with when you were talking to North
Korea when you started leading the
negotiations with Iran they had not yet
reached the point where they had a
nuclear weapon but they had a nuclear
program they had an enrichment program
they had a plutonium path potentially to
nuclear weapon but the context was
different obviously given that there
were multi-party multiple parties in
that and I wondered just to set it up
how how would you compare the
differences between kind of entering
into the negotiation with the Iranians
in the middle of the Obama
administration as against what you were
doing when you went to North Korea as
you described well in both cases even
though there weren't other countries
literally at the table in North Korea
having constant consultations with South
Korea Japan and China and Russia for
that matter was a critical part of the
negotiations and in fact when Gallucci
negotiated the agreed framework the
South Koreans and the Japanese were
literally sitting in the next room yeah
so that there could be constant
consultations I think most listeners
probably don't understand these
negotiations a lot of the work doesn't
happen in the negotiating room it's all
the consultation all the time that it
takes you know that down from your own
experience particularly on Cuba what it
takes to do these things so it was
certainly different to have all the
parties around the table
though I think one of the things that
was clear in both instances is although
there were other interests other parties
they could veto nothing could get done
without the United States of America
yeah and that was true in both
circumstances the North Koreans are more
transactional yeah the Iranians are much
more complex and sophisticated
negotiators so that is quite different
and obviously in North Korea you do
negotiations through translators yeah
though there are now some North Koreans
who speak good English and madam che
speaks with everybody in English in the
Iran situation when a command in Assad
was president I'll allude Jalili was the
negotiator they spoke in Farsi we spoke
in English it was very tortured yeah
during the Iran negotiations after
rouhani was elected as Arif took over
he'd lived in the US for 30 years and
every one of the negotiators spoke
perfect English
yeah well makes it easier and save some
time
although the tick's time with the
Iranians and I think I mean not to to
make this to leading of a question but
one of the things that struck me in the
Iran context when I was back in
Washington and you were out leading your
team is you put together this this
extraordinary team that was almost like
a national treasure it had scientists
you know people who knew nuclear physics
it had sanctions experts it had
diplomats it had community lots of
lawyers right this huge team that had
these constant negotiating sessions and
in between the negotiating sessions
there back the drawing board to come up
with solutions to problems and as
someone who's looking at the North Korea
negotiation today under Trump it is kind
of opaque but I don't all I see is
Pompeo all I see is occasionally you
know the occasional surprise statement
from the administration the tweet from
the president what do you see
looking at this with all your experience
from the outside in terms of who are the
team of people that they have working on
this
and how can they actually address the
complexity of nuclear negotiation in
North Korea without that kind of pick up
team that you put together I think to be
slightly fair they've gotten slightly
better in that secretary Pompeo named
Steve vegan who is a very talented very
capable tough negotiator it was in the
private sector for Ford Motor Company
for many many years he was on the NSC
worked at state worked up on the hill
and he's a smart guy doesn't know Asian
didn't know North Korea but he's tough
yeah and he has put together a little
team I don't know all the people on it
he gave a speech recently at Stanford
and laid out on his way to a meeting in
Seoul laid out sort of the context for
the next summit that the president's
supposed to be having and look I
supported the president having a summit
because both he and Kim jong-un think
they're the only ones who matter yeah so
I thought well maybe they will be able
to make a breakthrough in this very
difficult circumstance but only if it
was well-prepared it was a strategy they
were to your point there was a team
there was gonna be follow-up and of
course none of that happened
yeah so to think that between the time
the president said there was going to be
a second summit and the summit was about
looks like about six weeks to think that
you can do all you need to do with a
team that's just getting off the ground
in six weeks is absurd you don't think
that love letters and tweets are
sufficient
yeah yeah you know bromance is a
wonderful thing yeah but probably won't
just do the job the US intelligence
community said recently that Iran is
still complying with the Iran deal
despite Trump pulling out of it the
Europeans have been trying desperately
to to keep the deal alive by providing
some economic benefit for the Iranians
one did that surprise you that they they
would stay in the deal and - do you
think that this deal can outlast the
Trump administration really good
question yes I thought they would try to
stay in the deal because they've
invested a hell of a lot in it yeah
because they want at least small and
medium European companies to try to stay
in and because you know I talked about
Iranians as
liners and hard hard liners not as
moderates and the hardliners who worked
on this deal want to be able to survive
and the hard hardliners got a step up
when the u.s. pulled out because they
could say see we told you not to trust
the US they don't respect us they
withdrew now we can go off and do every
bad thing we want to do in the Middle
East with impunity and so I think the
hardliners are trying to hold the center
in their countries such as it is and I
think you know in spite of having been
called bad names by secretary Pompeo
from having meeting the Iranians since I
left government oh yeah
nonetheless my sense out of those
meetings is that they'd like to try to
hold on if they think Trump will be
there till the end of the administration
maybe they can keep going and then start
again with a new administration I think
if they think that Trump is likely to be
president for another four years after
this term they will not stay in this
deal and what do you make of the
European efforts to keep them in I mean
it's challenging right when we've
reimpose sanctions from the US they're
trying to find these kind of creative
solutions to work around our sanctions
do you think the Europeans how do you
assess the efforts that they've made to
date to try to keep this on life support
they've tried really hard I think
everybody understands this facility that
was just set up recently will help with
some of the humanitarian trade but
probably won't do a lot for real
enterprise yeah but at least it shows
that the Europeans are making an effort
I think you know one of the things
people haven't talked about we all ought
to be really careful about is if the
Europeans our ostensibly best friend yes
her best allies find a workaround to US
economic sanctions yeah what's that say
yeah this is a big deal yeah way beyond
the Iran deal yeah so quite quite not
great at all no speaking of tough deals
what do you think the best possible deal
is the Trump can get with North Korea a
lot of analysts I read seem to think
that denuclearization to the extent that
that's a defined term is in
feasible do you agree is there a is
there a you know best we can get option
that we should be shooting for at this
point you know when President Obama said
that we should work with Iran to ensure
they never get a nuclear weapon we
didn't know how long that would take or
how many steps it would take to get
there another problem having the
objective be the denuclearization of
North Korea that should be the objective
how we get there what steps along the
way whether their interim pieces to the
deal are quite likely because this is
pretty complex to do as Ben pointed out
Iran never had nuclear weapons and look
how hard that was right this is many
times more difficult yeah because it's
really the only hand they have to play
Iran had other hands that could play
this is the only hand Kim jong-un has to
play is this nuclear weapons and he
plays it really well so I think it's
pretty tough I think there will probably
be interim steps along the way look it's
good they're not testing however they
probably are far enough along that they
can use computer simulations to do
whatever they need to do now and there
are credible reports that they are
continuing to build up their nuclear
weapons production and their missile
production that's of great concern I
think what's gonna be really interesting
here is how this will all get sequenced
what the first steps might be what the
president will be willing to do it was
interesting in the speech that Steve
beacon gave at Stanford he said we're
willing to do this in parallel yeah and
that is of concern to me because yes you
can orchestrate and sequence steps so
everybody can save face but the person
who has the bad behavior here is North
Korea yeah yeah well I mean it's it's
one of a few complex challenges the
administration faces North Korea to Iran
to Venezuela to China trade an on down
the list you know you served in really
the position that you know so people
know that the job you were in as
Undersecretary of
was kind of the number three job in the
department but really kind of the the
tip of the spear for the diplomatic core
of the department and I'm wondering what
you make of the kind of hollowing out
we've seen of Foreign Service officers
retiring you know I think some of our
listeners you follow this you know they
they're aware that there's been this
exodus of diplomats some of them were
purged under the kind of restructuring
and Reform that Tillerson was doing some
a lot of them have just kind of left
because they either don't agree with the
Trump administration or don't feel like
their service is valued what is the cost
of that to US interests you know what
why does it matter if we have all this
experience walking out the door I think
for some for some people that they
recognize intuitively well this must be
a problem but I think kind of putting
that into perspective for folks might be
helpful first of all I think then you
were really generous to say what
Tillerson did about reconstruction I
think it was structure the department I
mean he and I truly don't understand
eviscerate your own work exactly and why
would you push out 60% of the senior
foreign service these are folks who have
served Republicans and Democrats they've
served people they agree with people
they don't agree with but they took an
oath to the United States of America to
the Constitution it's just totally
baffling to me
yeah the result of that however is a
State Department that doesn't have the
capacity it should I mean one of the
things I think about the potential of a
second shutdown is I don't know how
Donald Trump goes off to a second North
Korean summit yeah if there's a second
shutdown good point
it requires diplomats not only working
on the summit itself but working all
around the world
yeah to reinforce what's going on at
that summit yeah
what diplomats do yeah occasionally
you're a reception and drink a glass of
wine which is I think the perspective a
lot of people have what they think of
but most of the time you are really
doing tedious
difficult work to try to represent the
interests of the United States of
America yeah and that's really tough to
do when you've destroyed the workforce
um out here in California in part
talking to students and you know I'm
urging them to go into the Foreign
Service go into the civil service I mean
look at those TSA workers those FBI
workers all the folks who went to work
even though they weren't being paid I I
dare say a lot of us wouldn't go to work
if we weren't being paid yeah amazing
amazing one what you know one of the
thing and again Wendy's book not for the
faint of heart is something every should
look at if they want to know about what
it's like to be in the frontlines of
these negotiations but also just an
extraordinary career that will have next
acts as well but you know you've worked
in politics and diplomacy so you started
in Maryland politics you were a key aide
to Barbara Mikulski a longtime senator
worked on presidential campaigns and
then also had all these jobs in
government and by the way if it folks
out there I haven't heard of Barbara
Mikulski Google won a first floor
speeches watch she says I was really
lucky to run her first campaign for the
US Senate she was the first democratic
woman ever elected in her own right and
as she said she was at a 25 year
overnight success and well given that
experience so you know we're obviously
entering into a campaign season where
you see the debates are dominated by
thus far you know health care and the
shutdown domestic issues but given your
experience straddling politics and
foreign policy you know what are you
looking for out of these Democratic
candidates in terms of how they
articulate not just criticisms of Trump
but but an alternative approach to the
world you know I'm now director of the
Center for public leadership at Harvard
and a professor of practice of public
leadership and the reason I decided to
do that is because we have a leadership
deficit around the world and a lot of
the great energy for the future is
coming from young people well whether
those are the
kids who took the tragedy of parkland to
Chicago and joined up with the Chicago
kids who face violence every single day
to try to get folks to register to vote
and young people to vote whether it is
all the women who took to the streets
and so many women who ran for office the
diversity that's come into this midterm
Congress it's really important and
leadership should be about helping
people to get through this staggeringly
rapid technological and social change
that we're all experiencing this is
gonna be unlike anything I've ever lived
through and much more profound in fact
than the Industrial Revolution what
artificial intelligence will do to the
labor market what climate change will do
how it will increase the inequality yeah
between the rich and the poor and the
rich in the middle class for that matter
it's these are big challenges and so
leaders oughta help people navigate that
you should have a vision for the future
that's inclusive that helps people get
through that as opposed to really go for
their fears and their grievances yeah
much of what I think the president Trump
does is he just plays on people's sense
of grievance and it's not that people
have grievances they have legitimate
grievances but you try to solve those
problems you try to take them to a
better place and I really think the
energy among young people to do that
that sense of hope and inspiration is is
what it should all be about yeah the
three of us logged a lot of hours in the
White House Situation Room many times
every monster will for you listening I
was a JV backbencher like literally
there's a there's a table and a back
bench where the with very little space
in between where people like me sat but
you the two of you were at the table
with powerful people making very
important decisions and you in the book
not for the faint of heart
you wrote this powerful chapter that you
also adapted for political magazine
about the challenge of wielding power as
a woman in Washington in one line that
really jumped out of me was women need
to stop thinking that power is a dirty
word what did you mean by that
women have a really strange relationship
with power sometimes we're tend to be
more comfortable or at least
traditionally with informal rather than
formal power years ago I did a study
when I was in Social Work school I'm
trained as a community organizer revelry
for radicals and all that and what I
found out in that study of community
organisations is they were most often
started by women to get a light at a
school crossing safe drinking water deal
with something in their community but as
soon as the donors arrived or grants
were funded money showed up somehow or
other you guys yeah there you were in
charge and you came to run the
organization's we built so I've tried to
say to women power is not in and of
itself a bad thing it's a great thing if
it's used for good purposes I when I'm
speak without a doubt the first three
questions will be from guys in the
audience and then I'll stop and I'll say
I'm not taking any more questions do one
of you smart women raise your hand and
you know what some of those women have
told me because we've talked about it a
lot they've said to me well I'm sitting
there trying to think of a great
question and how to frame the great
question so I don't just raise my hand
and I say don't you understand the guys
raise their hands they haven't a clue
they just figure by the time they the
person comes to them they'll think of
something brilliant they'll sound smart
also during the situation room exactly
my point exactly true same thing in the
situation room
well you as a Maryland you know as
someone rude in Maryland politics you
know the daughter of a baltimore mayor i
think a lot of Americans saw woman
comfortable with her power extremely in
a way that you know some people had
never seen before really the last few
weeks just emerging as the most
comfortable person in the country
wielding power truly what is it like to
watch Nancy Pelosi in this this latest
act
fantastic I mean I've known her for a
long time obviously and her family her
both her father and her brother were
mayors of Baltimore and it's interesting
both she and Mikulski Gerry Ferraro
Barbican le all went to all women's
colleges hmm
that's not true for everybody anymore I
started at a women's college as well
where women are expect to trace their
hands there is none of you guys are
around yeah so I think that watching
Nancy not only does she rock but she is
just so clear she's so skillful she
really said to those who doubted whether
she should be the majority leader
because she was the speaker cuz she was
too old and she was the past not the
future that if you want to get to the
future better have somebody who knows
how the hell to get there yeah and she
certainly does yeah so I think a lot of
listeners of the show are pretty young
and I think some of them wonder should I
go into foreign service should I join
the intelligence community so I joined
the military and my experience in
government was working with a lot of
cool powerful dynamic people right Susan
Rice Heather Higginbottom right like Ben
Jake so all these like great people but
Ronan Farrow worked the State Department
before he was hired hunting creepy
executives in Hollywood
my book I'm very grateful but um I don't
know that the State Department has the
reputation of being cool the way the CIA
does because the movie says Vargo
whatever what's your pitch to young
people listening or why they should join
the Foreign Service why it's a
meaningful exciting career first of all
yet to live all over the world yeah I
mean what's cooler than that now
you may get sent to someplace you don't
want to go some of the places are really
tough to live in mm-hmm but it is
experiencing the world it's just amazing
even if you're a brand new foreign
service officer and you're sitting on
the visa line in a country you are
absorbing everything in that country
what it's like to live someplace else
how other people think we all live in a
world that's so interconnected and so
close you have to know what else is
going on
outside of your own little world and it
gives you a chance to do that the State
Department's gotten better because it
needs to about giving people more agency
more ability to do cool things
I certainly had a lot of young people
who worked with me on the Iran
negotiations were my control officers
that ones the person who sort of follows
you around and make sure all your
logistics work it's a great title
but yeah controlling me yeah good luck
but that person the way I did things got
to sit in on everything when we had team
meetings at the beginning of the morning
at the pallet cobourg in vienna those
last 27 days that control officer sat in
on the meeting I got to hear all the
inside stuff yeah and they were you know
a first tour career foreign service
officer the civil servants at the State
Department are equally terrific and a
lot of the new areas like climate
economics non-proliferation are a lot of
civil servants because they've learned
that and they aren't they're generalists
that some of the I our international
relations Foreign Service guys are and
gals so I I hope people come in the
president won't always be president
right if they come in now by the time
they're in a place to make a real
difference because they're the
policymakers life will be very different
we need them yeah yeah I think there's a
huge opportunity for the next president
to kind of take advantage of all this
energy that has been building in the
country and and kind of galvanize a new
influx of people in public service
rather than the Foreign Service or the
parts of the government or national
service in this country yeah we should
because kids do it anyway and you know
whether you take that as a gap year
before you go to college and do some
service or you do it after college it's
fantastic yeah last nerdy question that
I forgot to ask you before President
Trump has decided apparently to pull out
of the INF treaty which is a
non-proliferation treaty that presumably
will keep us from a nuclear war with the
what do you make of that decision and
how concerned are you about the broader
non-proliferation regime and arms
control regime being unwound by Trump
and Pompeyo and Bolton I'm very
concerned about it you know NATO has
supported him in saying that within six
months he will formally withdraw but has
announced the suspension of the INF
treaty which is about cruise missiles of
a certain range and certain kind of
cruise missiles and and ground-based
launchers and the reason it's a problem
is once you get rid of the treaty you've
started an arms race again and you
basically are saying that we can develop
weapons which means that Russia will
develop more weapons which means China
will develop more weapons and Senator
Chris Murphy I saw put it well just
because someone breaks a law you don't
throw the law out good point so why are
we throwing out a treaty because Russia
has in fact not fully complied with it
we need to keep as many constraints on
proliferation as we possibly can so to
me it makes no sense that we would pull
that I think we are ultimately going to
put NATO in a really tough position in
Europe in a really tough position
because my sense is that at the end of
the day in six months Trump will
withdraw completely and that is going to
be terribly dangerous for Europe because
you're basically saying Russia do
whatever you want yeah the book is not
for the faint of heart
lessons encourage power and persistence
Wendy Sherman thank you so much for
coming to visit
crooked media HQ I'm sorry that my
little fluffy dog barked to you for some
reason she barked at Ben on the way and
I don't know what's this look cranky
time something stuck in a crowd today
but well I just I didn't want your
listeners to know that these two guys
worked really hard in government
sometimes they were a pain in the ass
but really cool guys and as somebody
who's just slightly a whole lot older
than they are
they're pretty cool well we learned a
lot thanks guys thank you and everyone
should read the book and then join the
Foreign Service yeah that's the deal we
fun yeah yeah no big
you
