welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John love entire Vitor we're back
hello
good job love it good job in our absent
honeypots Alyssa was fantastic good job
Alyssa I'll tell you over the pot I
haven't told you in person yet yes a lot
of the chemistry with you and Dan was
electric electric you get you could boil
water on it I can't pretend I listened
welcome back guys it's great to see you
we missed you
two pods in a de Blasio oh yeah how was
bill you know he's very tall no we had a
great conversation
it'll be out on wins out on Wednesday
right later in this pod my interview
with the hosts of the political podcast
hacks on tap our friend David Axelrod
and Republican strategist Mike Murphy
few quick housekeeping notes we already
did the de Blasio one that remember
that's Wednesday that pot will come out
also pot save America and love it or
leave it
are on tour this month again some
tickets are still available for our
shows in New York City San Jose in
Portland
check out crooked comm events for
details and tickets how's that how's
that lover leave at Radio City show I'd
almost sold out yeah almost sold out
this week we are gonna be announcing the
guests and guess what we finally got
some yeses
I don't even know who gets exciting we
have some very get those tickets
finally our good friend Adi Barkan is
out with an excellent new video series
called uncovered where he interviews the
Democratic presidential candidates about
health care no one better to talk to
them about health care today he's
released interviews with Bernie Sanders
and Cory Booker which you can find at
crooked comm slash be a hero all one
word be a hero and be sure to follow adi
on twitter for more episodes as they're
released in the coming weeks he'll be on
this pod talking about the series and
his new book on thursday so you don't
want to miss that check it out all right
let's get to the news over Labor Day
weekend President Trump canceled a trip
to Europe with other world leaders to
commemorate World War two so he could
stay home and monitor hurricane durian a
category 5 storm that's already caused
catastrophic damage to the Bahamas and
is still threatening the east coast of
the United States
Trump's hurricane monitoring
included two rounds of golf and more
than a hundred and twenty tweets where
he attacked the media Jim Comey Debra
Messing and others was a whole new cycle
with Debra Messing missed that one What
did he say she congratulated me when the
apprentice got picked up I don't even
remember I just saw one pair I saw it on
Twitter all over over over vacation I
saw two things on Twitter that I was
glad I wasn't a part of something about
bedbugs and Brett Stevens and then Debra
Messing popped up and then I threw my
phone in the ocean was like great yeah I
will say one of my one regret it's a
small regret in my life but I was at the
upfront promoting a little show called
1600 Penn and Trump was there promoting
The Apprentice and he was like he was on
the other side of the room and I really
did at the MoMA be like I'm gonna walk
up that
and basically you know launch in because
of the birther stuff and you know I just
didn't cool story about how you were
almost a hero
I was listen I'll have Kyle have
conversations at a cocktail party I'll
do it
I just didn't do it that day so he was
golfing he said all these tweets out
some of trumps angriest tweets were in
response to a Washington Post story
about how the president's own advisors
and allies characterized these last few
months as a lost summer that was a quote
filled with what they described as quote
squandered opportunities self-inflicted
controversies self sabotage and a
president who was quote crashed through
the remaining guardrails doesn't sound
like the Trump we know does it guys no
I'm trying to think of something like
rot boy summer dump Trump summer
workshop it see if you can get it
through at some time during the podcast
it's a cuffing time now is nothing new
thing everyone's saying I don't know
what that means google it okay so I want
to spend some time on the lost summer
story but first I know that we never
liked the media's obsession with optics
when Obama was president but how much
should it matter that Trump was playing
golf and rage tweeting in the midst of a
hurricane threat and we haven't talked
about yet another mass shooting in
Odessa Texas that left seven people dead
I mean the old rules of politics
said it mattered a lot right yeah you
know I mean listen can you monitor the
track of a hurricane from a golf cart
yes absolutely
but it's also true that when the
president in the United States gets all
the relevant people in a room and is
barking orders at them and is demanding
to know like what what's been done to
make sure that the people of Florida
have taken care of things get done
faster and he's obviously not doing that
he also canceled a trip to commemorate
World War two and then congratulated the
people of Poland for being invaded did
you guys so it's like the guys just
banging around through the world
screwing things up left and right and
then around on the golf course I
mean it does speak to the fact that he
just doesn't care about the job yeah and
there was him saying that he'd never
heard of a category-5 hurricane before
multiple times saying like oh we've
never seen that one before which is
crazy since there had been multiple
category 5 hurricane since he's been
president and he also threw out false
information about the storm when he said
that Alabama was in the path even though
Alabama was about 250 miles away
National Weather Service corrected him
these actually was look out look out
Missouri the storm is coming for you
don't vaccinate your children I think
that the the tweets are probably as bad
or worse than the actual golfing you
know it's it's as usual with Trump when
he actually sometimes when he doing
nothing is is better than doing
something because when he do when he
does something it's always damage right
I mean I'm out I'm slightly torn here
about my own analysis because he could
be in a meeting demanding that we
nuclear hurricane I know yeah right
another stupid controversy that happened
when we were gone or he could be
tweeting classified satellite images of
Iran's you know missile program I don't
know it's yes it made me think and you
know acts always talks about this it
talks about this during our interview is
um it's like the exhaustion theory of
Trump you know that that at some point a
lot of voters are just gonna be like you
know however they how do they feel about
issues and ideology they're just gonna
be like can we just wake up to a
president when there's a storm coming
and there's a mass shooting who was at
least quiet about it tries to bring the
country together tries to talk like a
normal person and doesn't just Cree
fifteen other problems you know
just because he's like angry and
tweeting yeah it's pretty amazing how
not boring he is and how much of this is
happening all the time you know there
was a there's a story and we'll talk
about it but that talked about how bad
Trump's summer has been but one thing
that was so surprised just surprising to
me is it said you know it's been a long
time since Trump's July 4th military
parade and I just sort of sat back two
years ago that was July that was eight
weeks ago that feels like a lifetime ago
they've been so many mini scandals since
that mini scandal yeah I mean the post
story captures the fact that when you're
elected president you have four years to
accomplish things and put points on the
board really you have about half that
amount of time but you know technically
you're four years and not only is he not
doing smart strategic things in this
summer this August recess period or any
other time he's actively upsetting
people who might otherwise support him I
mean well I was going to think of like
things he could do that wouldn't make
sense he could go do a whole bunch of
events in you know like right-leaning
states about all the conservative judges
he got through it seems like he would
enjoy that it's something that is his
base would get behind yeah or go to some
of these swing districts where Democrats
just got elected and put pressure on
them to vote your way unlike immigration
there's so many obvious things he could
do and I'm not even trying to like you
know do the thing where you say
president Trump if he act like a normal
president these are like basic things
that he might even enjoy in his little
addled brain because he likes getting a
Jew Latian yeah so let's get into this
piece I mean I agree I thought it was
really smart and well reported because
you know it notes how the summer and
fall before an election year is a
critical time for president to notch
some legislative and political victories
and also build a case for his reelection
campaign Trump has used the time to go
on racist tirades against various
members of Congress and the city of
Baltimore botched the response to white
nationalist terrorism that was inspired
in part by his racist talk of an
invasion flip-flop on gun safety and
continue losing a trade war that is now
threatening our entire economy so the
question is how much does all of this
The Post said that according to an
average of seven polls that they did
Trump's approval rating slipped from 43
percent in June to 41 percent in August
but as you just pointed out Tommy it's
not just about the things he's done
wrong or badly but it's sort of about
missed opportunities an opportunity cost
question I mean I think that people
don't like the erratic tweeting and they
don't like the unpresidential behavior
and that's just something that we've
seen show up in polls for a long time
even while his approval rating has held
pretty steady the thing that would
really worry me if I were in the White
House or in Trump's reelection campaign
is the trade war because you're seeing
real economic indicators that
manufacturing might be down that the
trade war is impacting like Germany for
example in other countries and that
there might be some global repercussions
to what's happening so if I'm Trump and
I think a percentage point could get
shaved off of GDP because of this trade
war that I've launched for no reason
with no endgame that's like an
existential threat to reelection
yeah and and look you know this you can
overstate the importance of you know
this summer before an election year
because you know we all remember in in
2011 the summer before Obama's reelect
in 2012 it was probably Obama's worst
summer of his presidency it was the debt
ceiling crisis the you know the US
credit was downgraded partly because of
the debt crisis his fight with the
Republicans his approval rating was that
it's as its lowest and of course he went
on to go win reelection but one of the
reasons Obama went on to win is because
he began to lay the case for his
re-election and he basically he
basically did two things one we
introduced a jobs bill in the fall and
we knew that that jobs bill probably
wouldn't pass Congress because the
Republicans were obstructing everything
but it looked like Obama was fighting
like hell to fix the economy and to help
people and we had that refrain in the
jobs speech passed this bill passed this
bill do something for people you know
and then we decided to lay out the case
for his reelection early and said that
the defining issue of the election was
going to be economic and equality in an
economy that still wasn't working for
people even before we knew that Mitt
Romney would be the opponent but we
suspected maybe he would be and Obama
sort of set the tone for what that
campaign would be like by saying
is gonna be my message this is the
contrast I'm gonna draw with the nominee
and you do think that some barely
competent set of advisers in the Trump
White House and barely competent
president would at least be thinking
okay let's use the summer and this fall
while all the Democrats are fighting
each other in a primary to set up what
the message is gonna be for the Trump
campaign going into 2020 and they just
don't seem like they're able to do this
well I don't even if they wanted to they
don't have the ability to do it with
Trump I think there's two things
happening one you know this is a bit
like the opposite side of the the flip
side it was again this is a flip side of
the coin to what happened in 2016 in
that Donald Trump takes all the oxygen
out of the room so Hillary Clinton gives
a long speech about the economy but what
they take is the fight she had with
Trump over whatever the crisis of the
week is you know Trump does go on these
rallies and he gives a very lengthy
speech and he does mention judges he
does issue I think what is the kind of
30,000 foot message for his campaign
which is love me or hate me you have to
vote for me because of the economy
because of all these things I did
because these other side is crazy the
other side is the squad like there is a
kind of message he's trying to put out
there but he stands at that podium and
speaks for two hours and five or six of
the things he says whether they're semi
prepared or off-the-cuff are so
controversial that they become the story
for it for a couple of days that's the
first message never breaks the message
never breaks through and then the second
part is core to his message is the fact
that you know even if you can't stand me
look how good the economy's doing but in
part because of the trade war in part
because of larger dynamics in the
economy he may not have that he may not
be able to make that argument
successfully so I think those are the
two political problems that anyone
trying to get Trump to campaign is gonna
face even if they did have some master
plan Tommy you mentioned a few things he
could do or could have done to make the
summer better what are some other sort
of steps that Trump could have taken on
some of these issues that would have
made us even more nervous than we are
heading into 2020 or or what might he
still do I mean we could go through some
of the issues like just on guns for
example I was gonna
yeah so guns is a I think a signal
example of what has been kind of a
repeated Trump pattern from the
beginning I think that there was a fear
a lot of us had in the early days of the
administration which is what happens if
he really does deliver on this idea of
an unorthodox populist Republican
president right what if he comes in and
does an infrastructure bill yeah what if
he comes in and does make a grand
bargain on immigration and what's been
fascinating is I think he changed the
Republican orthodoxy on immigration he
has bucked the Republican orthodoxy on
trade but otherwise he's been pretty
lockstep so what happens is there's a
terrible shooting Trump starts talking
about background checks he starts
sounding like he's gonna pursue some
kind of moderate deal with Democrats and
he's gonna buck the NRA but of course
that doesn't last and he ends up walking
it back which he's done on a host of
issues I mean fundamentally Trump has
never been willing to buck the
conservative base of the party to get a
win and I think we are politically I
think that that has been valuable it's
sad for the country on issues like guns
but I think politically it has put him
in a box yeah and I think I mean the two
issues you just were you just said he
has bucked Republican Party orthodoxy
he's bought to the moderate part of the
orthodoxy on both immigration and and
trade
he hasn't bucked it in a way that would
lead him towards getting something done
with Democrats you know on immigration
like he's gone further to the right than
a lot of the Republicans were on
immigration during the Obama era or at
least maybe half the party at that point
and on trade I mean you could see right
now he's trying to negotiate with Pelosi
and the Democrats the NAFTA to deal
right and like you could see him getting
some trade deal and that would help him
out but I don't know that that's gonna
happen right I mean the trade isn't she
won I mean he he ran around saying that
NAFTA was the worst deal ever negotiated
and that he alone could fix it and they
they renegotiated some like really minor
changes to the bill that might help like
dairy farmers or you know change the way
auto manufacturing standards are in
Mexico but then he now he doesn't seem
to give a about the thing he's not
pushing forward to get passed in
Congress he's not pressuring Democrats
to fix it and the China trade war is the
same thing I mean the things that
I assume we're fighting for when it
comes to our trade relations with China
are like protecting intellectual
property for corporations that doesn't
help some guy in Wisconsin that helps
like Apple it helps major corporations
and shareholders and other rich people
so the the things he's doing are
misaligned with the priorities of
working people who might have actually
been hurt by the policies of the past
when it comes to trade but he's not
doing for them yeah feels like
we've zoomed past that exit on the
highway of the like deal you know
haggling over intellectual property
issues and trade words you know like I
mean he could I suppose he could still
back down from this trade war with China
but I don't even know if he has the
capacity to do that in his own anymore
because the Chinese are probably
thinking well where we're winning this
thing and we're winning the politics in
the United States so why would the
Chinese back down at this point no III
don't think I mean I think that they are
I think they've walked away from some of
these negotiations and are actively like
giving him the finger and making it
clear that they're not gonna - they're
not gonna do in Mexico did which is be
seen as pliant when it comes to demands
the other thing that I think NAT
Iglesias and Ezra Klein pointed out that
a lot of the things Trump is fighting
for when it comes to rule changes with
China would actually are likely to lead
to more jobs being outsourced in sent
abroad not fewer because they're just
helping corporations so in a sense what
he's fighting forward likely harm
workers I think that's part of it yeah
that as long as the trade war is ongoing
the trade war is the source of all of
these ills it's the source of job losses
it's the source of economic dislocation
it's the source of your misery it is a
scapegoat for him to point to along with
immigrants and if he does back down or
achieve any kind of a deal all of a
sudden that's the victory and who's the
victory for all of a sudden the thing
you claimed was a solution turns out to
not have been won so he really is stuck
in that as long as it's ongoing he's in
his comfort zone which is attacking
China claiming he's fighting but to
Tommy's point two other points it's it's
it's not possible for him to win because
he's promised a bunch of different
things that are actually in
contradiction like you know keeping jobs
the United States and then achieving a
victory on IP right these are things
that are don't help everybody I just
think he's also ultimately I think his
whole goal is just to look tough
and look like he's attacking somebody
but when the when looking tough leads to
the economy faltering and people
actually getting hurt I don't think
that's gonna work anymore and then you
to come around on the back end and say
well actually it's Jay Powell the
chairman of the feds fault here like no
one knows what the hell he's talking
about yeah so we've talked about this
before but it almost seems like Trump
and his campaign have sort of given up
on trying to improve the president's
political standing and they're just
hoping to win by disqualifying his
opponent and Maggie Haberman reported
this weekend that a Trump adviser
recently told her that Trump wants
voters to feel negatively not just about
his opponents but about long-standing
institutions like the media and you know
most of his rage tweets over the last
couple days have been directed towards
the media what do you think about that
strategy yeah I mean I can't I can't win
but you can lose strategy basically is
what he's doing it right and you know I
think this is if you're inside a Trump
campaign and you're trying to figure out
how to be useful it's not gonna be
making Trump different it's not gonna be
about right making Trump more popular
it's gonna be about tearing down your
opponents let me about dragging
everybody down to his level because
that's that's what I did in 2016 it's
the only bathroom it's the only way
because the other option is for Trump to
become a different person and that's
been promised for a long time yeah that
tweet about attacking institutions rang
very true to me but it also didn't seem
particularly new you know I mean they're
literally funding organizations
apparently the Trump people to dig up
things journalists said and feed them to
 Breitbart so they can you know
try to take the Washington Post down a
peg and you know they know this is an
asymmetric fight because then you have a
bunch of journalists on Twitter
complaining that bet O'Rourke didn't let
Breitbart into one event as if it's sort
of like a yeah you know is if there are
actual news gathering organization and
not just an arm of the Republican Party
like the the Trump people are are
telling us misty Bandhan work there it
doesn't it doesn't matter um but the the
broader fight against institutions is
basically been where Republicans have
done for decades right they want to
undercut our faith in government they
want to make it harder participate in
democracy and in so doing they can win
with a smaller and smaller group of
people actually voting for them yeah
I do think that in this strip within
this strategy of trying to make everyone
you know sorry
within this strategy of trying to
disqualify his opponents and the media
and saying don't believe anything bad
that you hear about me is basically his
strategy there's a clue for how
Democrats need to take him on which is
like this is not about whether what
Trump is saying is true or not whether
the media is lying about him or not just
forget about what you can't believe your
own eyes right like what is your life
like right you know and this trade war
and we know we saw this when we were
testing messages and was constant in our
change poll like talking about Trump
starting a trade work with China losing
it and then trying to bail out big
agribusinesses including some in foreign
countries because he's up this
trade war so badly and hurting dairy
farmers in Wisconsin was one of the most
powerful messages because you know
whatever Trump says whatever he's lying
about whatever he's yelling about
whatever other people are saying about
Trump he can't avoid what people are
feeling in their own lives and what
people have seen in their own lives and
so people know that he hasn't gotten
anything done on guns even though you
know ninety percent of the country wants
background checks people are gonna know
if the economy starts turning south
because they're gonna feel it right
people are gonna know when they read
stories about some of the more extreme
things he's done on immigration that
those things are happening right like at
some point he can keep telling us that
everything the media is saying about him
is a lie but he can't fully avoid the
effects of his policies on actual people
yeah and you can tell you can tell he
knows that and he's a little bit worried
about it yes he will for example tweet a
lie about the China negotiations to
briefly juice the stock market and try
to you know fix the general impression
about the state of the economy right so
like there's little windows into his
psyche here yeah but I think it's it's
it's incumbent upon Democrats to
continue to draw the lines between what
Trump is saying and doing with the
actual effects on people's lives love it
we were talking about this before the
but you know that whole situation last
week about Trump promising pardons to
AIDS right who get whatever who do
whatever it takes to get the border wall
built I mean my first reaction was yes
this is another impeachable offense yes
the pardons are outrageous but I think
was probably the most politically
effective and talking about this is
Trump wants to go steal your land like
like if you illegally land you a pardon
you
pardon anyone who does the cry but we
sort of get into these like it's
impeachable and and it's bad conduct in
its the pardons all those kind of stuff
which is all important I agree but we've
got to start talking about the real
effects on people's lives like you live
by the border and you're just going
about your business the federal
government under Donald Trump might just
want to come and steal your land with no
due process nothing whatsoever like
those are the connections that I think
that Democrats have to keep drawn if we
if we hope to be successful all right
let's talk about 2020 the Washington
Post Dan Balz had an excellent piece
over the weekend about the electoral map
and which states matter most
he writes quote just four states are
likely to determine the outcome in 2020
each flip to the Republicans in 2016 but
president Trump won each by only a
percentage point or less the four are
Pennsylvania Michigan Wisconsin and
Florida many analysts point to Wisconsin
as the single state upon which the
election could turn so the piece quotes
former Obama campaign manager Jim
Messina who we all worked with saying
quote because of the partisanship of the
country and the president we're now
looking at the smallest map in modern
political history first just so people
know what does it actually mean for
campaigns to compete on a map to compete
in a small map when you're talking about
which states you compete in and and do
you guys agree with Jim's assessment
here just so people know when people are
talking about the map and which states
campaigns are gonna play in what does
that mean to sort of play in a state
just so people people know oh like
actually go there spend time spend money
put up TV ads have have a full field
staff in the state like yeah it's a
significant expenditure of resources
basically yeah I think what people might
not realize is you know a campaign has
finite resources right you can't just
look at a map and say oh yeah all these
states look good so I want to compete in
all these states you have to decide
where we gonna put our organization
where we're going to
our candidate and then how much money we
gonna spend on on television ads and you
know in certain states in certain media
markets it's very expensive to run
television ads and in other states it's
relatively inexpensive so it's not like
you get to choose everything you do have
to make decisions on a campaign about
which states you want to bet on to win
but so do you what do you think do you
agree with with Jim's assessment that we
are we are down to these four states I
actually was thinking about it I
actually just philosophically don't
totally understand what it means in this
sense it is true that there will be
maximal campaigns in Michigan Wisconsin
Pennsylvania probably also Arizona right
there will be huge amounts of resources
devoted to those the candidates will go
there and then the question is well what
will happen in other states and that
will play out in part because the
campaign's will do a dance with each
other about where they put money where
they match each other so I you know if
if it is quite possible that will boil
down to a very small number of states
but it is also quite possible depending
on what each campaign decides to do that
we will end up with tens hundreds of
millions of dollars spent across twelve
thirteen fourteen states I think we just
don't know the the the field of
competition will be based on a kind of a
game theory a version of game theory
that plays out over the course of the
next year you know head fakes trips
things like that and over time we will
come to the see based on polls where
candidates will go and where they won't
where their money will go where it won't
go right I mean I think it's certainly
safe to say they won't start that narrow
which is why I was surprising to me to
see people predicting with such
confidence that it will be this tiny map
it's also surprised that that Dan who's
one of the smartest reporters out there
didn't have Arizona higher up it's
discussion of what the Democratic
strategy will be like you know I'm also
look it's it's a tough that pill to
swallow that Florida is potentially the
centerpiece of this whole thing is
Florida is where you can see Trump has
actually had a pretty clear concerted
and probably smart strategy to peel off
Democratic voters right I mean they're
trying to scare the out of older
Jewish voters they are trying to be
tough on Maduro to a
appeal to the Venezuelan population
they're even considering giving
Venezuelan voters a temporary protected
status so they don't get deported so
they're their undoing everything Obama
did on Cuba to reach the older hardline
Cuban population so like I can see what
they're doing in Florida if you were to
tell me what he's done to improve his
chances of winning Michigan again I
couldn't tell you really anything and
one other small point about this too is
that states move together you know
Florida to Tommy's point if if the
results are coming in and it looks like
the Democrat is winning Florida I think
that augers really well for a bunch of
other states I think wow we're
performing better than we expected or
performing well if it starts to look
like we're not winning Florida that
doesn't necessarily mean the election is
over it is true that because of
Geographic polarization over the last
several years there are far fewer states
that are decided by just a couple points
than there used to be there used to be a
lot more states that were like five
points or less or ten points or less and
now there's fewer of those states so
that I understand that said you know we
all remember that at the beginning of
the general election in 2008 David
Plouffe sat down our Obama's campaign
manager and said we are not going to be
up on election night waiting for one or
two states to come in we're gonna have
multiple paths to 270 and try to add up
as many states as you know to plane as
many states as possible to get to 270
and I think that's still wise advice
right now and I think partly because
look there's many different demo we've
been having this debate and the primary
you know which which demographic groups
to Democrats need to win do they need to
win back the Nollan college-educated
white voters in the Midwest and the
Obama Trump voters do they need to
increase African American turnout in
some of these Midwestern states or
should they look to the southwest and
the Sun Belt and you know rely on more
college-educated white voters and former
Republicans and independents and more
Latinos so we've been having this debate
about you know which groups Democrat
should go after and I think the only way
to solve that debate is to try to play
in as many states as you can that are
still within you know the realistic
scenarios here so I do think air is
which Hillary only lost by three and a
half points in 2016 and Kyrsten Sinema
just flipped in 2018 has to be in that
map Florida like you said which has been
has only been within one point over the
last maybe three or four elections
obviously is still in that map as well
but look we were disappointed in Florida
in 2018 Gilliam and Nelson both lost so
I don't think we could be count you know
I think there's a good argument to be
made Dave Wasserman made this argument
on Twitter the other day that Democrats
win Arizona before they win Florida
mm-hmm I think North Carolina is another
one in there too Obama won North
Carolina in 2008 we know there's more
college-educated white voters and
African American voters especially
around the Research Triangle that state
had been trending blue for a while
Democrats should compete in that state
as well you know right and then I think
all of this all this also boils down to
resources and part of what will
determine how big the map is for the
Democrat and where the Democrat is
competing is how much money they have
and how much money how much resources
they can devote to states outside of the
there'll be the you know the the core
few states where everybody will be
playing and playing really hard but then
it'll be you know can we devote money to
North Carolina should we devote money to
Georgia what other states people decide
to reach out to and that'll be based on
how people are donating what outside
groups are doing how much money though
the the billionaires like the Koch SAR
dropping into states across the country
there's just a lot of things that will
determine where Democrats are competing
yeah and obviously the candidate right I
mean like Castro or better or ork they
might have a better chance of competing
in Texas and some of the other
candidates but you know so that will go
into consideration before you drop
twenty million to be up on every media
market in Texas right so you know the
article was interesting it's an
important way to think about the
challenge we have ahead of us I do think
it's just too early to know the strategy
I do think I mean my ranking of states
in order of states that we could
probably flip back would be Michigan
Pennsylvania Wisconsin Arizona Florida
North Carolina I think the more
interesting decisions for Democrats are
going to be do you still play seriously
in Ohio and Iowa which have swung pretty
hard against us and very big questions
do you compete in Texas and Georgia now
if Texas
were smaller states with the populations
they have you'd say yeah of course you
do but the Atlanta media market is very
expensive and Texas is the most
expensive of all so those are really big
bets if you're gonna compete seriously
there and then the other interesting
thing about that piece is that you know
Democrats will have to play defense or
the Trump campaign is gonna try to make
them play defense in four states the
Democrats won in 2016 New Hampshire
Minnesota Nevada and New Mexico I think
New Mexico is a little ridiculous here
because Hillary Clinton wanted by eight
points but New Hampshire Minnesota and
Nevada were all decided by a closer
margin so you could see you could see
Democrats playing there as well yeah I
hope they spent I hope the Trump's
people spend mightily in all those other
states because they have a big financial
advantage and it makes me worried yeah
there is also by the way and in Dan
Pfeiffer brought this happened the other
day there is such a nightmare scenario
where we win back Pennsylvania Michigan
and Wisconsin I'm sorry we went back
Michigan Pennsylvania we don't win
Wisconsin Arizona or anything else Trump
wins that one district in Maine again to
get the electoral vote we win that one
district in Nebraska near Omaha to get
that electoral vote and it's to 69 to 69
by the way there's other scenario
there's other scenarios too right where
now the Senate hinges on a on a runoff
out of Georgia
right because Isaacson's yeah so there's
all there's all kinds of worst-case
scenarios out there for you to ponder as
you're falling asleep but I think that's
I think it goes back to the answer is
you know Democrats and the candidate and
the party need as many resources as
possible to play in as many states as
possible and have organizations on the
ground in as many of these states as
possible so we are not dependent on one
or two states but at least at the outset
we're playing on a very big map in a big
field okay when we come back my
interview with David Axelrod and Mike
Murphy
you
