and we're back I can't believe it yeah
it's just me and Lois just kara heard
that we were gonna talk about the Oscars
and she ran away fled Carmen Sandiego
style hopped on a plane to Paris at the
top of the Eiffel Tower bragging that
she's there uh but the Oscars are
literally in two days with us yes
yeah um you're gonna be there I can't
believe I am going to be there yeah the
Oscars uh and I are teaming up I'm gonna
be hosting the Oscars all-access
red-carpet feed that you can watch on
Twitter before the ceremony and then
I've got to figure out where I'm
watching the Oscars because that's a
very significant portion of my year
because I here's my tactic I'm gonna go
there be very respectful to everybody I
interview and then I'm gonna go tweet
snarkily about them Wow a real
backstabber right Oh The O'Jays sure
yeah that is the song that made me want
to open a strip club oh yeah do you know
what song I love based on the ode that
song is Angie stone wish I didn't love
that song yeah Angie what happened to
her I think Jill Scott murdered her
there could only be one she was like I'm
the number one lady detective look like
I don't think so well the Oscars are
coming up so I figured that we could
talk about some people who really
deserve to Oscars mm-hmm but did not get
that I mean one of my favorite things
about the Oscars is that not every time
the person you want wins like that
that's why there's an urgency to the
Oscars is that there's a sense of
justice that you want to prevail but
guess what everybody has a different
feeling about what that justice means so
sometimes somebody wins that you didn't
really care for I can think of a couple
of wins that upset me I'm not a big fan
of Kim Basinger winning for LA
Confidential when I was your trash
that's right oh you loved that way I
love Kim Basinger I mean I love Kim
Basinger Kim been bathing oh well okay
what else would she have won for correct
surviving dealing with alec baldwin and
all those movies and that may
I guess but in that movie she just has
her hair over her eye that's all she
does and their guy's a rabbit right yes
or the the villain that meg Ryan played
in Captain Planet oh my god oh I can't
believe I can't doctor something white
white yes all right I gotta give you my
first year where I was upset with Best
Actress race okay
1997 so that's Liza Minnelli one for
cabaret and I bet you're talking about
Diana Ross and Lady Sings the Blues I am
I'm a brilliant person how about that
yeah it is an awesome movie so good in
that movie i won listen I love cabaret
mm-hmm I love it music that Diana really
pulled out that I want to say also that
that is the only Screenplay nomination
that a black female screenwriter has
been nominated for it's also the last
time two black women were nominated for
best actors at the same time that's
exactly right because it was her it's
Cicely Tyson also a sounder yes which I
feel like I'm seeing right I know the
book I feel like everyone's sort of seen
that movie I feel like we wash it into
school as a kid uh-huh it's never been a
movie that I'm like I want to revisit
sounder right it's also a weird movie
for Cicely Tyson's only nomination to be
for like it's not signature Cicely Tyson
for me you know racism right that to UM
mind you I do love Liza Minnelli in that
movie because she's giving you I mean
people forget to associate her with raw
sexuality and in that movie there's a
desperation that's believable there's a
talent that's believable in a way she's
almost too talented for that role which
is supposed to be purely trihard in
certain ways but lots of iconic
performances that year yeah um I think
what am i I think one of the most
notable snubs ever I want to hear what
you think of this is Oprah in the color
purple we have to say Oprah Winfrey in
the color purple in 1985 you called her
Oprah Winfrey
and she lost to Angelica Huston and
Prizzi's honor have you ever seen that
movie I have not seen Prizzi's honor
it's not a movie people talk about
anymore here's the problem
so opera gives a tour de force in the
color purple' which if keep it listeners
haven't listened to the color purple
what have you been doing with your lives
I don't understand
but Angelica Houston in that movie is
giving you a saucy black humor I'm a
Cobb spirit and also every goddamn look
is the most iconic thing you've ever
seen she just some people just look like
paintings and so Angelica Houston
fulfills a glamour that I think is very
rare so I think that's one of the best
matches in a Best Supporting Actress
history and while I'm sad Oprah didn't
win for that guy's Angelica Houston is a
prize I mean from Addams Family to The
Grifters to I left her small role in
fifty-fifty so I'm happy for that win
but Oprah that's probably one of the
most significant snubs ever okay I think
that you know who my most heartbroken
snob is this 1996
oh no I was thinking Marianne
jean-baptiste for secrets and lies and
though Oh Angela Bassett and what's that
got to do with it she lost to Holly
Hunter in the piano yes that is a movie
about stablished I don't like movies
about pianos every single one of them
every single one Wow unless they make
piano lessons can be murder into a movie
which is a goosebumps book for anybody
who is new to the Brad of the show yes I
mind you what's love got to do with it
is just a harrowing movie I mean it's
really I mean one of the most
significant scenes I remember is a like
dragging Tina Turner around a room like
you're watching actual violence occur
it's wild that you know that Angela
doesn't have multiple nominations know
the amount of people who are just
agreed-upon geniuses who only have one
nomination Tilda Swinton has one
nomination I mean she did win for it and
I would describe her as maybe the
definitive pain actress ever like nobody
conveys pain on film better than Tilda
Swinton we can only nominate her for
that movie in which she's the only lady
and it's I mean not that Michael Clayton
isn't amazing but just God the amount of
time she's been fabulous like Angela
Bassett
so here's my thing I would say that
Angelo should've won in 93 mm-hmm for
what's love got to do with it okay
don't give it to Holly Hunter in the
piano I know you're not hearing that she
should have won for broadcast news
because I do think that cher deserves an
Oscar for mostra I just saw moonstruck
again last week and she she's gorgeous
in that movie and she's so likeable and
perfect and Susan the close cage yeah Oh
everybody in that movie Olympia Dukakis
Vincent gardenias the dad is so
hilarious I mean you know her but I
might have given it to her for I bet
you're gonna say the same thing thirteen
mmm no I was gonna say the next year 88
when Jodie Foster won for the accused I
would have nominated Holly Hunter for
raising Arizona I want to say raising as
Arizona is technically 87 still cuz she
did that and broadcast news in the same
year yeah
also 88 is a distinctly interesting year
because show Jodie Foster is up against
these two up-and-comers Meryl Streep in
a cry in the dark and also Glenn Close
and Dangerous Liaisons and I think that
should have been the year Glenn won
because here's what Glenn Close does
well two things one frostiness and two
evil and they are both on full display
there and we wouldn't get that
combination again until damages which
was roughly 20 years so we have owed
Glenn Close a lot and rarely given it to
her I guess they did come out the exact
same year mm-hmm I said sir well yeah
because broadcast news came out December
16 1987 yep right an amazing Arizona
came out in March mm-hmm broadcast news
also has a great small performance by
Joan Cusack in it which reminds me of
one a snub I think about that by the way
gay men have really jumped on at least
via Twitter in the past couple years
have you seen I already brought up this
franchise Addams Family Values yes of
course I think a lot of time when people
talk about snubs everyone's seen them
that mean the most to them at the Oscars
it usually involves comedy performances
because they are
barely rewarded or the movies themselves
don't garner enough acclaim to really
get themselves in the conversation you
know but in Addams Family Values Joan
Cusack with just a perfect yellow white
Bob and as we've said before I'm a big
fan of Bob's
is so deliciously evil in that movie in
a perfectly cast film great yes it's
just it's a it plays well again and
again and again and if you put her up
against I believe Anna Paquin won that
year for the piano
good performance Pierre the piano
is all of them IRA is more opposed to
the concept of a piano than the film the
piano I think she could have competed
unless they make a movie from the piano
lesson which they haven't done we're
good one uh-huh I think there's like a
taped play version there's a tape player
version of everything I'm in several
tape versions yeah Andrew Garfield is
Louis well we're talking about
screenplays I think that Spike Lee for
do the right thing I think yeah yeah
listen I think Dead Poets Society is a
good movie but I think it's more in the
performances than it is in the script
no nothing about that movie is like
inventive no it has a charisma about it
more than it has you know particularly
innovative writing yes um also speaking
of Kim Basinger do you remember that
year she stood up at the podium and she
said she talked about how do the right
thing was snubbed at that ceremony this
isn't something that took years for
everybody to understand people knew then
that it was a huge snub and Kim Basinger
went off-book off script to say that on
the air is pretty rad that's why they
love Kim Basinger oh yeah I'm sorry I
was shady to her I can think of a good
snub in recent years okay all right now
here's the thing I don't think it's that
cool to hate la-la-land I think it worst
it's a b-minus I think their conflict
between Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling
where I guess she's going out
town or he's going out of town and they
can't hang out as much not that
compelling to me but the movies okay
otherwise but the acting nomination yeah
and a win for Emma Stone against Jackie
and also Isabel who pair have you seen
how I've seen o L is a I mean here's an
overused adjective of mine say me movie
yeah listen parent love a knee yes Greta
guys I'm first in line for
grotto I'm standing on the roof of the
arc light right now waiting for Greta to
open but you would never watch
la-la-land
and L back to back and think Isabel who
pair did less than Emma Stone did in
that movie you would never think that
and I think at least with Natalie
Natalie Portman's performance there's an
argument that it's it's it's a
provocative performance that you can go
either way on you can think like oh it's
too over-the-top or something with
Isabel who pair she's both she's
hilarious she is dark in that movie her
dad is a dead serial killer and she
feels convincingly like that person's
kid she there's lots of sexual violence
in the movie there's a lot she has to do
and she delivers it with such believable
and weirdly charismatic dark humor it's
just it's a astonishing performance and
a one-of-a-kind movie listen it reminds
me actually have this interview with um
Kiki Lane from it Beale Street guitar
another many snubs this year for that
movie well what's in that movie Brian
Tyree Henry amazing yes which i think is
a movie that people are gonna revisit
years from down and me like that so
gorgeous car and Regina might win ham
yes deserved for cinematography Oh God
everything so lush I will say that Kiki
reasonably said that like in an
interview arm there's such a lack of
opportunities in terms of great roles
for black women especially when you look
at women around my age because you see
like Emma Stone Jennifer Lawrence
Saoirse Ronan
they have multiple Academy Awards and
nominations and then you look at
actresses like viola Angela Bassett they
have like maybe one or two or like not
even a win and Angela's case right and
it's a thing where it's like it's
in general that Emma Stone has won that
award over Natalie Portman and Isabel
who pair but the Oscars sort of does
that they reward like a young yeah Janu
actress which is so weird in a way that
you can't get that as a black actress
yeah like violas not didn't have those
as a young age Angela didn't have those
at a young age and it's like I would
argue that Kiki Lane did as much if not
more than Emma did in la-la-land in it
feels so you could talk right it's also
interesting to think about I mean this
isn't no shade to Jennifer Lawrence who
was a legitimate actor and movie star
but in her 20s she garnered more Oscar
nominations than any black actress has
in her entire career right now so I mean
just that's kind of telling right we get
we can turn around and dish gloves right
oh my god American Muscle although she
she is the only part in that movie I'm
thinking about that movie yeah I have
probably said this a couple of times
that's a movie to me that feels like
they made a movie around the characters
and guess who glasses a mustache well
guess lastly what are we looking forward
to at Sunday's ceremony to be honest in
this day and age with the Oscars I'm
looking forward to any welcome surprises
it's just so rare after a season anymore
that like we don't fully map out what's
gonna happen in all of the major
categories and this is I don't mean to
root against Regina King who I think is
really good in if Beale Street could
talk she gets two very good scenes
actually like her the most in the first
scene where she gets into that fight
where there's a fight and she deals with
it oh yeah that that in that entire
scene is why I think that
yeah but man Rachael vice in the
favorite I just love deadpan women being
absolutely cruel and also queer you know
it's it's so interesting because you
know I feel like I'm reading so hard for
Regina King because just you know in my
mind I'm like will she get another
nomination right you never know yeah and
she's such a sort of force but it's also
like so are many of the other black
women
didn't rack up other nominations I
finally watched support the girls with
Regina Hall recently and it's just in
any other year it feels like that would
have been a contender to wit and you
know just at just a tremendous
performance so it does feel like you're
hedging on whether or not how many black
actresses in a year can be nominated you
know we've never had a year where all
five were you know yeah uh let's get
that year yeah let's get Regina viola
Angela like let's get them all up in
some hot movies and get some director
he'll be kidding some awards you know
that's what I that's that's the time
when you know like you're never like oh
my god like these white actor directors
need to like do like a black movie or
things like that but it's also things
where it's like Damien Chazelle you know
like you can't work with a black lead
you know instead of like Ryan Gosling
again right that movie seems more
interesting than first man like the
black the scene where the black people
were protesting in first man was one of
the more interesting oh right yes what
would that story a bit I feel like we
didn't have any conversation about that
part of the movie now that's also I'm
confounded about that movie because I do
think technically it is amazing and it
feels like it feels like the way space
travel would have felt in 1969 which is
to say a rickety roller coaster made of
wood but the Viper yes oh yeah Six Flags
Great America that's for all our gurney
listeners uh but the domestic stuff felt
a little too quaint to me and I just I
Claire Foy performance with that temple
grandin accent real strange I guess we
just need more opportunities for
filmmakers like Barry Jenkins and Spike
Lee to make movies mm-hmm for black
actors because nobody else was doing it
yeah I'm rooting for this woman Chloe
Zhou is her name who did that movie the
writer here yeah I'm really looking
forward to where she's a Marvel movie
right yes get your coins girl please do
you think Best Picture is gonna be Roma
that's my guess I think it's gonna be
you don't really I would be I mean that
would be rad as how I would love
the shock the shock wave in the
auditorium would be amazing it's sort of
like the year that Toy Story 3 was
nominated for Best Picture I would have
been cool with that winning just so we
can prove yeah we we are capable of
giving Best Picture to an animated movie
and one that is totally a claim that
Panther has to be the most acclaimed
comic book movie of all time
right so if we gave it Best Picture that
would be affirming in a way that I would
find totally bearable even though you
know I don't understand capes and powers
I'd get it you know and it would be a
 you so like the people who like
have their anonymous Oscar ballot who
are like I just think that superhero
movies are like trash or something you
get at the gas station and then later
admit it I have not seen Black Panther
that really is where that's Hollywood
Reporter yeah where do they find these
people who wander who've won think this
 and two are like let me get on the
phone right let me recount how much I
said honestly there's always some person
with some racist comment or some light
or the person who's like I'm voting for
green but cuz I hate being told what to
watch you have no opinions of your own
just resentment just resentment it's
like did you enjoy oh my god
I fell asleep during green bug sleep
well I've watched it nine hundred times
that's our episode thank you for
listening to the first keep it brief and
we'll see you next week
you
