so these were my first I think
significant earthquakes as a California
and I have not grown up in this place
this wonderful place that shakes every
once in a while a kind of deep and
profound way but now that I'm here the
Richter scale it's not intuitive because
it's a 6.4 and a 7.1 all the news
reports it as a pair of earthquakes
right that's just the natural way we
talked about it yes we know that there's
something involving logarithms and we
find out later in the report that a
seven point one is actually five times
as much thinking as a six point four but
it's still covered as a pair of
earthquakes because the men because the
measure isn't intuitive so the opacity
of these numbers bothers me it bothers
me as someone who is new to being in an
earthquake zone all the time but I am
NOT an expert and I kind of thought it
would be cool if I could maybe ask a
seismologist about this and here's the
cool thing we have this show so there's
a seismologist here is going to help
help me figure out what we're gonna do
about this logarithmic scale I'm a got
some other questions as well but I'll
probably keep bringing it back to this
so we on the right we have a new scale
I've named it after a scientist named
Meyer who is the first scientist to say
yes to being with seismologist on this
show thank you with the fact that
earthquakes come in little tiny bits and
huge scary things but I have a solution
okay I have a solution we're gonna name
a Meyer is going to be equivalent to a
magnitude 5 earthquake okay
all right won't go long long it's a
pretty good earthquake okay now if an
earthquake like what we had the other
day hits like a 6.4 that's gonna we're
going to go up the scale to around 25
Myers right because that's 20 times more
forceful than the front right because
we're gonna set our we're gonna set our
scale at a 1 out of
because I recognize that 20 earthworms
are very tiny big earthquakes are great
big now what do we do about these huge
earthquakes I have a solution for that
too
once we hit our magnitude 8 earthquake
guess what
welcome to a mega maaan okay the biggest
earthquake ever recorded was 32 mega
Myers all right that was the 9.5 that
hit Alaska based on Wikipedia because
again I did this alone over there a one
or two on the new scale guess what I'm
introducing something it's called the
Miller so now so look you had a six
point for me a seven point one what if
the news said hey guys there were two
earthquakes one was a 25 minor but the
next one was so much bigger it was a
hundred and 25 mega hunter 25 Myer it
was five times as big which is totally
intuitive because we converted the
logarithmic scale to a linear scale
while dealing with the myth the big
numbers of the small numbers by
introducing a unit such as the Miller
Minor and the mega Myer is there any
downside to what I'm talking about
other than the fact that we will have
help people better understand
intuitively how dangerous earthquakes
can be so that perhaps they might be
more muttered and think more about it
have more water and actually get down
into their table
am I am I crazy in saying that this
might help people understand how
dangerous
earthquakes are because especially
because now we have another thing those
super crazy earthquakes they're not 7.8
their mega quakes their mega quakes
they're Megas like that Chuck I'm so
you're so that you're all in
[Applause]
