now it's time for okay stop you know it
works we'll roll a clip and the panel
can say okay stop at any point to
comment after the Moller report came out
lots of people were sounding the alarm
about preventing foreign adversaries
from attacking our election in 2020
including this is true Sean Hannity but
here's the thing
he is Sean Hannity so let's take a look
we should all all of us be concerned
about the integrity of our elections and
the fact that this government has been
hacked repeatedly for decades by hostile
regimes okay stop are you making some
sense can't be probably isn't let's keep
watching we need a top to bottom killer
defense procedures against these hackers
that's why Hillary Clinton's email
server is a real threat to our safety
and security okay stop okay
present-tense hurt her messages in
Chappaqua about making dinner
reservations I hope there's a table for
Hillary Clinton at the one Italian place
how good is she at emails she's so good
at them I'm just saying cuz she is at
the same age as like you know woke for
grandpa so it's like how good is she
technically at the emails
what I find fascinating is in the same
way that the people who watch Fox News
will not learn how the new remote works
they're not ready to learn the
Alexandria Acacio Cortez is the new
villain who they should be fearing like
they're just gonna keep like essentially
Hillary is like CSI they're just going
to keep watching that until they die
and then they're not going to know what
liberals to hate then we got it's like
when ABC cancelled everything to have
Regis biltman do Who Wants to Be a
Millionaire every single day and then
when people stop liking that they had
nothing they were like oh no oh no all
our eggs were in the Regis basket
they're all in the Hillary basket leave
that that place was hacked by at least
foreign six foreign entities this was
all weaponized in the press inside the
deep state to bludgeon Donald Trump
behind a curtain
we got lies so it's time to investigate
the investigators that means Silla okay
stop we investigate the investigators
that means Hillary Clinton she is a
retired public official I am sure
reading books catching up on things
probably catching up on some emails I
like the fact that he was like behind
the curtain I was like what's in front
of the curtain I feel so sorry for the
deep state least they're just trying
really hard to make us not blow
ourselves oh we don't really have time
to undermine elections these days I hope
they get themselves a planner or
something well the other thing too about
the deep state is what we learned from
the mall report is the what was sporting
Donald Trump in his efforts to undermine
the investigation fire the Special
Counsel intervene in various
prosecution's get the Justice Department
to prosecute Hillary Clinton which
apparently he tried multiple times to
actually get people to do what was
stopping him was not
nonpartisan officials long ensconced in
the the intelligence community it was
his own people who had of cowardice and
self-defense decided not to act on his
illegal commands and the fact that that
investigation was rigged then they tried
to rig a presidential election and they
tried to undo a duly elected president
and the media stopped considering that a
Democrat is not president crushing the
game
so effective you know all of the things
that we're doing right there rigging
that we're doing right we've done sports
we are so bad at rigging things for
Democrats Oh what I wouldn't give for a
competent deep state thankfully the
president's fighting back just today the
president filed a lawsuit against the
Democrats latest on now they want to
embolden the IRS releases taxes
explaining that the ploy has no
legitimate purpose you see what's going
on they're out of ideas there's no
vision for the betterment of We the
People they seek to a psychotic a stop
because they're implying that
Republicans did any real legislating for
two years you know I didn't mean they
sat around like with their one tax cut
the tax bill that like we all just did
our taxes are you guys happy with what
happened me like I'm gonna need cab fare
John is what I'm saying and so so like
it's just what nothing happened when the
Republicans were fully in control there
was also no vision oh why why should
they be following the money to figure
out if our sitting president received
emoluments from a foreign power when
they could be talking about the fact
that you were a tan suit like Obama did
it is amazing right because it is this
closed-loop like if you get if you watch
if your experience of the world is
having an early dinner and then being
angry that your kids are trying to
switch you from a car to a golf carts
and and then you turn on the television
and you get your dose of Tucker and
Laura and Sean it is a self-fulfilling
prophecy you haven't heard of any
democratic ideas you haven't heard an
interesting Democratic proposal
described to you in fairness for forever
like it just doesn't happen on this
network
the only time you hear it is when it's a
socialist boogeyman or described in the
most unfair terms possible so of course
you would agree like of course the
Democrats have no ideas I've never heard
one I mean I sit like when I watched
this it just feels like feels like a
tidal wave of just washing over
me just slowly and I was like I could
see how one we get hypnotized and
rise by the message the audience again
liked what you were saying the audience
is the you know old people who turn from
the king you're talking about my mom for
the record she's like a little woke
immigrant lady and but like we're
talking about people who just got on
board with capri pants so it's gonna
take them a minute to be like women's
equality you know to mean so like I
think that's how simple these messages
are because that's the audio so are you
suggesting that we should have a
separate MSNBC that is like simple
English Wikipedia that is just like a
remedial MSNBC let's try to get them on
board
I think that's a good idea I think
that's a good idea because I think there
is a key demographic of people we could
reach who like Fox News viewers are very
frustrated by the kinds of lettuce
they're finding in salads but don't hate
immigrants you know no and I just want
to say like my mom is one of the you
know my parents are like you know senior
citizens and but it's all about exposure
right it's all about exposure like my my
husband is a black man I'm an
iranian-american Muslim like all of you
and my husband is black and when they
met him at first they were like oh wait
do you date black people you know what I
mean and now they're now that we're you
know American Way gay by my grandkid um
there my mom went from being like five
black people to like black lives matter
you know I mean and all
because of exposure so they do need a
single button cell phone version so they
can't get that exposure on the other
hand - I think sometimes we do let first
of all - everyone listening especially
my baby boomer friends know that if
you're listening I'm not talking about
you because you're listening as I've
explained to you talking about the
people you know who you think um
immediately complain about I get emails
so often to the to the crooked email
that goes like this I'm a baby boomer
you need to stop insulting baby boomers
you have plenty of people out there who
are baby boomers who are out there
marching and supporting it I've been
protesting since we were 55 for since
before you were born and I'm sorry for
all the other baby boomers who are
terrible but I also think sometimes we
let Fox News viewers off the hook
because I was thinking about that part
of 1984 where describes what it's like
to just accept propaganda and it is a
choice it's easy right it's very easy
just to decide to stop fighting it and
just be like yeah just like sink into
Fox News it's like a warm bath right
like it takes a like it that's what they
do right they did they give up on the
idea of questioning it and then all of a
sudden it's very comfortable it's a hit
of CBD oil yeah
[Music]
