welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett ami Vitor later
in the padang his conversation with
Warren Binford one of the attorneys
who's blown the whistle on the appalling
conditions in the detention centers
holding migrant children near the border
before that we'll talk about the latest
in the census rigging scandal Nancy
Pelosi versus AOC and some concerning
new 20:20 polling love it how'd your
fourth of July spectacular go we had a
great time it was me and love it or
leave it
all-star Emily Heller for the full hour
talking about why we're patriotic
talking about big little lies talking
about some of the all-time best debate
moments it was a truly fun episode that
you won't want to miss check it out also
a new episode of this land is out this
week's episode is titled at the
postponement it's going to discuss the
Supreme Court's punt on a decision on
carpenter V Murphy to the next term and
what this means for the tribes mixed bag
with this term the Supreme Court yeah
pretty mixed yep not not a ton in the
bag that's great
yep real real trick-or-treat situation a
couple couple Raisinets in there too
many sweet tarts and a reminder that we
have our big live show at the Greek
Theatre on August 17th it will be guest
hosted sorry it will be guest co-hosted
by Jamel Hill and will feature
performances by Amanda seals best coast
and Jim James will be donating the
proceeds to vote.org election protection
the national redistricting foundation
and think social impact tickets are
going fast so make sure to head to
crooked comm slash the Greek to secure
your seats
come see us it's four for good causes
come on the Greek is a great theater
here it's outdoors we're gonna have a
good time look good what are you gonna
do nothing you don't do it you're doing
nothing
you know waste another night of
your life wasted just piss it away wow
is there another dystopian movie on
Netflix just for you oh yeah look at
those out-of-control teens on HBO let's
check back in with them I missed it last
night I got a guy I'm always in the
first one it was I nearly got vasectomy
after but here we are yeah okay let's
get to the news last week after the
Supreme Court ruled that Trump's reason
for wanting to add a citizenship
question to the census was a complete
lie
Justice Department lawyers
the decision was made to eliminate the
question once and for all so we thought
that was that there's a little victory
mm-hmm
that was until Trump tweeted fake news
and said he intends to add the question
anyway potentially through an executive
order that may come as soon as this week
and on Sunday night the Justice
Department announced that a new team of
attorneys would be taking over the
matter guys what's going on here why
isn't the Supreme Court decision the
final say on the matter here Tommy I
think the big picture answer is because
when Republicans used to put forward
blatantly racist and political efforts
they would dress them up with a phony
pretext to mask
how did Craven it was like if Ted Cruz
were doing this and he probably would
have he would have said that it was
patriotic to declare that you're a
citizen on the census Hayden called it
like the Liberty
you know promotion Act or some
Trump has dropped the pretense
they say the quiet part out loud the
racism is part of the political strategy
and identity so they're their long-term
goal by getting this question on the
census is to help States redistricting
on counts of only citizens in their
states so they are going to go as hard
as they possibly can
they're going to ignore the Supreme
Court because this is a is a craven
power grab well this is the reason the
Supreme Court is not the final say in
the matter is because the Supreme Court
left them an out here well if you wanted
a technical answer well so what the
decision was pretty complicated but it
seems that there's five justices that
that ruled which is unfortunate and and
scary now five justices basically ruled
the conserve I've conservative justices
including John Roberts that the
administration has very wide latitude to
add whatever the question they want
but in us in another opinion
Roberts sided with the liberals on the
court and said yes you can add a
question but the rationale needs to be
real and it can't be a complete lie
called it a preacher and what you did is
you lied but what what that leaves open
is Roberts basically said if you can
come back to us with a real rationale
for this an honest rationale and prove
that it's an honest rationale then you
know perhaps
could go forward well that's the other
thing about it too is it's it's look at
it you're like wait I'm sorry
what's your what what are you suggesting
you need to come up with a rationale
that is the real rationale funny funny
situation they're in because of course
we know what the real rationale is the
real rationale was what we found from
you know it's from Crisco Bob and Steve
Bannon in that day guys hard drive that
basically said this helps you first of
all to Tommy's point move toward that
long-term long-term goal of counting not
people but citizens too you know
redistricting a way that once again
tilts the favor towards rural areas
towards white areas against urban areas
against diverse areas against Democratic
areas toward Republican areas but also
will help you under count and make sure
that your your citizenship your and make
sure the census favors Republican areas
and white areas that is their actual
rationale of course they can't say that
so the directive from the supreme court
is come up with a more believable fake
reason and what I think is so chilling
about what's happened is this isn't
Trump this is Republicans this is this
is the this is intellectual Zamboni's
around Trump coming in and trying to
smooth over what he did and give him a
better basis this is Hugh Hewitt with
the legal argument this is people like
former federal prosecutors former judges
coming in and saying you really
this up here's the way you get this over
on the Supreme Court here's the smart
argument that John Roberts would accept
so that we can do what we need to do
which is undercount people of color and
undercount Democrats and cement our
minority real status in this country
this is my point I mean they did this
with the travel ban they asked for a
do-over they're getting a do-over here
and they did it with the travel ban
where they said ignore all the previous
statements where we call this a Muslim
ban no it's not it's about these other
things they're asking for a do-over in
this case they want the courts to ignore
all the previous statements and lies
about how the citizen questioned somehow
had something to do with enforcing the
Voting Rights Acts it was like clear
like is if that had been a priority and
anything else's administration had done
Roberts basically struck down the
relevant parts anyway but and they won a
newly constructed legal argument now no
human being in an argument would accept
this happening right but in a legal
proceeding they might be able to make it
why we don't know but like this is my
point they are craving enough that they
don't care about how it looks they're
just gonna proceed yeah well so what's
gonna happen next you know a lot of all
the legal experts like no one really
knows I guess there's a couple
possibilities here right like some
people you can make the argument that
okay it's going to be hard look you just
said love it to come up with a rationale
that is true that is not just you know
inherently like we want an undercount of
the census right which is not a
rationale that they would accept because
that yeah but III I'm a little worried
that they might go with something that
is close to the truth which is we want
to do this because we want data on who's
a citizen and who's not because by the
way we want a district and draw the maps
based on who's citizens and not based on
population which is what Republicans
have been trying to do for a while and
that is a rationale that is somewhat
true and yet as we just saw in the
gerrymandering case that was handed down
Republicans basis I mean that the
Supreme Court the conservative majority
basically said that it is okay to draw
maps based on partisan lines well that's
also and and and I guess in I think it's
in Alito's in one of Alito's footnotes
it says basically you could say you're
doing this because you need to know
about immigration policies you know
about various rules Alito gave them that
gave them the right the big picture is
that basically the Trump administration
got a little bit cocky and didn't
understand that they needed to do a
little bit better and all the
sophisticated conservatives around this
administration and think this is part of
the reason it's not the case has been
 reassigned inside the Department
of Justice we were saying like you
 morons
you half-wits here's how you
 do it here's how you make a
sleazy goddamn argument well that's the
other thing is that you know obviously
that's sending an announcement that
they're gonna have a new team of lawyers
there's two reasons why they'd have a
new team of lawyers right the first
reason is that some of these career
attorneys which was mostly in the first
team decided we're not going to lie and
come up with this awful rationale
humiliate ourselves but the second is
that they've that the first team of
attorneys has already lied and he will
need to themselves in front of the court
and so if you're gonna say oh yeah we
gave
you rationale that was pretext there
wasn't it wasn't right but we actually
meant this original rationale when we
said Voting Rights Act that was like a
slip of the tongue
we actually meant was immigration policy
potential redistricting and a bunch of
issues about entitlements yeah you need
a new team before that just the other
thing for people to know about the the
sort of attempt at a good faith argument
that John was making that maybe maybe
there is a rational reason why you want
to know how many citizens or
non-citizens there are in the country
okay
the census is actually a very bad way to
count people it turns out that
statistical modeling and mathematics is
advanced since the Constitution was
written and you can you know use
regression analysis and other like
advanced ways to figure this out
other data sets right they are only
doing this because they know it will
lead to under counting of minorities
which will lead to an advantage for
white Republicans yeah they know their
their rationale is clear what's the
concerning part is that Supreme Court
decision I mean the real story here is
that five justices including Roberts
said to the administration look people
have added partial citizenship questions
to the census in the past even though
the citizenship questions were directed
at certain demographic groups like long
long time ago and the administration has
wide latitude to add questions if they
want and literally the only problem was
this rationale now Roberts also might
have been thinking well this is gonna be
you know if I say you need a better
rationale they're not gonna come up with
one because also the government lied to
the court and said this has to be taken
care of by July 1st at the latest or we
can't print the forms and now the
government's saying oh no no no well
print the forms anyway and we'll add an
addendum if we win yeah I mean the
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross
perjured himself in furtherance of this
argument so you would think that that
would have some political fallout but
yeah don't hold your breath yeah so
we're gonna so I guess what happens next
is you know they could have an executive
of the addition Trump could issue an
executive order this week it will
probably but we'll see what the new
rationale is it will end up back at the
Supreme Court and we'll see you know the
one thing that they that the Supreme
Court has not decided and they didn't
decide in the last case is they haven't
decided any
on whether the question was added with
the intent to discriminate on the basis
of race one of the cases right now
against the census question is in the
Fourth Circuit I believe and that's
basically saying that this would violate
the 14th amendment by discriminating on
the basis of race if that the Supreme
Court has not decided either way on that
so that is and we know at least on
gerrymandering they decided favorably on
okay you can't jerem it you can
gerrymander on a partisan basis but you
can't gerrymander on a racial basis so
there is some hope that maybe they could
rule on that and again this does go back
to the fact that there really is like a
smoking gun piece of evidence from one
of the architects of these policies that
basically says this is a way to favor
white people in the outcome of the
census so there is there is I don't
think anybody there's a there's a lot of
reasons to be cynical about what's gonna
happen next but I do think it is
premature to claim you know how this is
all going to no we don't know no not not
at Norwood either but there you know
there's another smoking gun which was
Trump at the press avail the other day
saying that you need this to figure out
congressional districts I mean he's too
stupid to hide the volume right well
that but that it was when he said that
that made me think oh like they've done
this in the past where it's like that is
sort of an odious thing that he just
said and admitted but I'm like maybe
that's just gonna be their ration it
might be but their Solicitor General
previously called a conspiracy theory
nonsensical Kevin on its own terms quote
so no but I would say love it is forget
about us predicting like I was reading
about all this last night there's very
few people who are even trying to
predict how this is gonna end no because
we're in such a weird territory it's
also like this sounds so in the weeds
and just minutia I mean the census
controls I believe 880 billion in
federal funding and where it will go and
the process of the census is like it's a
massive undertaking that's a print
100 1.5 billion distinct pieces of
material to conduct a census no small
thing to start it late it's also I mean
you know we used to be at a place where
we were debating whether or how or by
what path we offer the 11 million people
who are here who are undocumented
citizenship in this country
this is yet another example the Trump
administration wants to move towards not
literally just erasing the idea of these
11 million undocumented people from this
country right like if you don't count
them as citizens if you don't draw
districts based on where they are if you
don't give political representation to
the communities where undocumented
immigrants are if you don't give federal
funding to communities where these
undocumented immigrants are but you know
all their information you are eventually
getting to a point where they're
figuring we don't count them in the
country and we're trying to do whatever
we can to deport them I mean that that's
what they're that's what they're doing
they want to have a think about what
this would mean for them politically
forget forget even you need to get that
far this is so that Republican members
of Congress can waive a piece of paper
and say there are 30,000 undocumented
people right here in our district and
they're not paying taxes and we're
giving them health care this is a
business about giving every single
Republican member of Congress a cudgel
for them to use in their reelection
before you get even to the major policy
shifts they'd want to use - based on it
if this is party / country - I mean it
would hurt states like Texas and Florida
but Republicans in those states see that
there would be a greater good for the
National Republican Party and their cool
screwing over their own states in the
short term it's very bad and it's
especially dangerous because this is not
a two-year problem before your problem
you know as we know the census is every
10 years so well we will be stuck with
this until 2030 and and some of the
effects could be permanent so very bad
all right let's move on to the latest
episode of Dems in disarray love that
maybe we should just you just say it
again
and then we will in post add something
blowing up cool
all right let's gotta say it again oh
just say again the latest episode of
Dems in disarray
I'm glad you made the noise so they
never think it's high tech here parts of
America up so for reasons that I cannot
fathom Nancy Pelosi thought that a lunch
with New York Times columnist Maureen
Dowd was a good opportunity to get some
things off her chest I want to make
before we get into the substance there
is one fact in this article that
delighted me which is midway through the
lunch while they were talking Nancy
Pelosi reaches across the table and
Forks some of Maureen Dodds potatoes her
home bras just those just to reach
across an eight
Maurine dad's plate and I love that so
much
it is so intimate it is a Power Move it
is so aggressive it is so personal yeah
it's also something that the second she
did it she should have known the maureen
dowd is going to write about that
because that is the detail that Maureen
Dowd lives for and if you're telling me
that Ann suppose he did it knowing it
would go in the story I like it even
more so more important than that yeah
when asked about the criticism because
you know Nancy Pelosi didn't order
potatoes she's not gonna
potatoes on her plate all right she is
gonna have fruit or maybe sliced tomato
but she wants one potato respect
the hell out of it sorry last time I
interrupted
I hope you all dragged him on Twitter
for this some comments Earl a table for
mr. Lovett here just thinking it through
so when Pelosi was asked by Dowd about
the criticism that followed a recent
vote on a border funding bill that
failed to satisfy House members like
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes receded to
leave Vienna Presley in Ilhan Omar
because it didn't include enough
protections for migrant children Pelosi
said the following quote all these
people have their public whatever in
their twitter world but they don't have
any following sorry let me do that again
all these people have their public
whatever in their Twitter worlds but
they didn't have any following there are
four people and that's how many votes
they got AOC responded by tweeting quote
that public whatever is called public
sentiment and wielding the power to
shift it is how we actually achieve
meaningful change in this country so
before we talk about the wisdom of the
Dowd interview itself and doing such an
interview let's start at the beginning
over the fight over the border funding
bill that led to this whole controversy
in the first place
what did Democrats like AOC want in the
bill and why couldn't they get it they
wanted language that would have done a
few things they wanted to ensure the
release of unaccompanied migrant kids
from these temporary facilities after
three months they wanted lawmakers to be
able to visit without having to give
notice which is ridiculous that these
you know unelected officials can bar
them from entering a facility I don't
understand how that's possible it's
crazy and then they just wanted basic
standards for humanitarian treatment for
these kids like two square meters of
space to sleep it not being freezing
cold in in a facility where there's no
blankets the lights go off at
night so you can sleep so they wanted
basic accountability to be tied with I
think everyone would argue some pretty
desperately needed funding to expand
services or facilities or access for
these kids but they rightly don't trust
what Stephen Miller's gonna do with that
cash I wouldn't either yeah I mean I
thought we should so we've made a good
point in some piece where she said you
can't tell me that the administration
doesn't have the money the reason
there's no toothbrushes the reason
there's not enough beds is because the
administration just doesn't have the
cash you know and so they wanted
innocence they wanted to include these
standards in there why couldn't they get
these standards included in there here's
the rub John that's where the debate
begins yeah I mean so so I don't think
anyone argues with them on policy right
I don't think anyone's disagreeing with
the fact that Democrats have a better
policy position and want a better
treatment for these kids and wanted a
bill that did more the question is did
they have the power to achieve that in
these negotiations some of lay this at
the feet of Nancy Pelosi but others have
said we'll hold on a second this is what
came out of the Senate out of Mitch
McConnell's Senate and it is not totally
clear what could have come out of the
Senate that would have been it is not
clear how Nancy Pelosi could have gotten
to a better outcome in the house based
on what had already taken place in the
center so yeah I mean so you read all
these stories about the back-and-forth
of what transpired over these few weeks
and these negotiations right and I do
think it's important like number one the
reason that we don't have these
protections in the bill is because of
Mitch McConnell and Donald Trump like
that we should all keep that in mind the
question then is could Pelosi and
Schumer have fought harder to try to get
some of the stuff in there to negotiate
and you know and who's to blame right
lovey you just said it passed the Senate
but it passed the Senate with by a wide
bipartisan margin so the Senate
Democrats do bear some responsibility
absolutely Chuck Schumer does bear-like
a lot of the lot of this is focused on
Nancy Pelosi like Nancy Pelosi had to
turn to her caucus after Chuck Schumer
decided to go along with the Senate bill
and a ton of Senate Democrats went along
with it as well that's my point that's
my point that it everything it's not
just McConnell no of course not but what
it's it's it's
what came out of the Senate and was
handed to Nancy Pelosi and it's hard to
it's hard to look at this and and view
it as a problem that took place in the
house when so many Democrats went along
with what happened now that now where it
gets to Pelosi is the Senate sends over
the bill and the original plan was for
Pelosi to attach all those protections
onto the Senate bill and then you send
it back and then you negotiate before it
goes to the White House she intended to
do this she wanted to do this and then a
bunch of Blue Dog Democrats and the
problem-solvers caucus said no we're
nearing the break we are we're not going
to get this stuff in any way because
McConnell's never going to allow it and
Trump's never going to allow it so let's
just vote on the clean Senate and
reportedly they were worried about being
seen as cutting ice funding this is
super important because love it you said
I don't think anyone disagrees on policy
grounds on the protections of Tom you
mentions that's true but there's a bunch
of moderates in the house that said okay
some of the liberals want to include a
provision that literally cuts ice
funding by I don't know tens of billions
of dollars and we are not going to sign
on to cutting ice funding because we
think that could be used as a cudgel
against us in our elections right so
while everyone was for the protection
that's what everyone policy there was
this this policy disagreement over ice
funding they didn't want the fight they
did the part of the house didn't want
the fight over the parts / Democrats
don't agree Democrats agree on the
treatment along the border where the
attention has been drawn where Democrats
didn't want the fight is on the issues
ancillary to them yeah and there's a
suggestion that moderate Democrats in
both the House and the Senate wanted to
do something before the July 4th recess
where they go home and they see tons of
constituents and might get asked about
this etc I don't know if that's true I
haven't talked to them but you hear that
often here's what I think about this
like I agree that it's very unlikely
that Mitch McConnell or Donald Trump
would have allowed even some of these
protections into the bill but you don't
know if you don't try yeah yeah and I
think you know we always used to have a
saying in the White House get caught
trying right like you they could have I
know the July 4th break was coming but
imagine a scenario where the House
Democrats and the Senate Democrats stood
together and said
we are not going to leave here until
there are the most basic protections in
this bill the things that Tom just
talked about right health and safety
standards making sure that these kids
are actually with that we follow the law
and that these kids are transferred
after a certain amount of time making
sure they have enough feds making sure
they have toothbrushes like making sure
that members of Congress can visit these
things like those are very party you
those are not like swing district issues
those are very popular those are not
complicated message events either no no
I mean you can explain to someone that a
kid needs a toothbrush and maybe you
lose anyway and you know I have to say
there's a good likelihood they would
have lost but imagine if there were
scenes of these House Democrats and
Senate Democrats staying in Washington
over the break holding these events
making a big deal out of this I don't
know I think it's yeah I wonder I mean
the thing that I find hard to parse is I
think it's similar sometimes to
critiques on the media sometimes Nancy
Pelosi is takes the criticism not for
the positions she holds but for
understanding the positions of her
members right and so I don't I don't
know exactly what what happens if
Democrats pick that fight when the bill
has passed the Senate with so many
Democratic votes and she doesn't have
unity inside of the caucus well this is
an important point in that there's so
much focus on Nancy Pelosi is it is she
betrayed you know I saw a piece that was
like if you you know up you need tips re
I saw if you say it's not just enough to
oppose Trump you have to oppose Pelosi
too now because she's fighting against
the interest of the party like it's a
little over it's a lot over done okay
because it's not just Nancy Pelosi it's
Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer a bunch of
Senate Democrats and they're not just
like Blue Dog Democrats in the house
there's a lot of Democrats that in the
house that we all know and love who we
just voted for in 18 who were new young
members it's not just the old one you
know like I was looking at the list of
people who ended up voting in favor of
the bill you know Lauren Underwood
Antonio Delgado Katey Porter like some
of these people that we that we really
like like that they they're all involved
in this and I sort of think that's the
point Pelosi was trying to make -
Maureen Dowd yes maybe we get to that I
mean
I haven't read a transcript of the
Maureen Dowd interview but I have staff
some of them I have been the victim of
some of her columns she is a master of
doing this she can find ways to get you
to speak a little more loosely ways to
set up a question way to excerpt a quote
and then a controversy is born
that said the phrasing from Pelosi
seemed very condescending and dismissive
and it's not the first time that she's
talked about some of these freshmen
lawmakers in this way and it would have
pissed me off I mean you know she talked
about the green dream when she met the
green you deal right a little too eager
to kind of stop but I do think that
Nancy Pelosi's worldview is entirely
through the lens of how many votes you
got right you telling me you got a bunch
of tweets and four votes get the
out of here like that's kind of her her
point and so I'm not defending that I'm
not saying that's a right way to view
the world but it's like brass knuckle
politics and it's kind of why we also
love Pelosi at times because she kicked
the out of President Trump on some
fights because on these same grounds
there was a very legitimate easy answer
for Nancy Pelosi to give Maureen Dowd as
Maureen Dowd was egging her on to cause
trouble which was I'm out of town that
morning right no that's number one
you're right she should have never said
never sad to sit down with Maureen Dowd
in the first place this is not to say
anything against Maureen Dowd like she's
too good Maureen Dowd's job is to get
you to say something controversial so
she writes a column it's controversial
that's her job she's very good at it
Nancy Pelosi's job is to not give her
that stuff is to not do that Nancy
Pelosi when it when asked about this
could have very easily said you know we
disagreed on this one
they had their views they didn't
persuade enough people to go along with
them so they didn't have the votes so we
had to move in another direction but I
respect them and I respect their views
that's it and you have the disagreement
and some people would have still been
annoyed with her but I don't think she
would have gotten all this and she
shouldn't have gotten all you know and
she didn't she wouldn't have deserved to
get in all this like we are in a
environment right now where every word
every one of these Democrats whether
you're running for president were there
in Congress everything they say could
like screw up another news cycle
on the way until from now until 2020
like we have to exhibit some message
discipline as a party from now until the
election because every day
a counts and Nancy Pelosi is just too
smart to you know let herself slip like
that yeah it's also um even inside of
this argument it's like this is a
there's a there's a there's an important
part of this debate and there's an
unimportant part of this debate to me
there's a really important part of this
debate which is where do you draw the
line
how are you fight hard you fight yeah
and we're battle yeah your and and you
know this issue and I don't think that's
an easy enough not anyone the the issue
is clear the issue is black-and-white
the treatment of these children is is
clear and black and white the fights are
harder because our goal is to win
obviously on these incredibly important
issues to make sure we hold the trump
administration accountable to protect
those kids right now that is an
emergency but we're also in the middle
of a long-term battle in which we have
to make choices about when we fight and
when we don't not put this put this
moment aside there is a dispute inside
of the Democratic Party about should we
fight on impeachment right should we
should we be more aggressive with
subpoenas should we be for single-payer
or not for single-payer these are
incredibly important debates about how
far we should move to the left whether
we side with the moderate parts of the
caucus or the more liberal parts of the
caucus that's an incredibly important
fight to have the second part the part
that's less important to me is this kind
of ego part of this where you have
arguments over who's allowed to have a
position who should fight it who should
I do think it's a weird pattern of her
being dismissive of these new members
yes and it would be much smarter of her
to recognize the fact that she's got
some rock stars in this caucus and bring
him into leadership bring him into the
tent try to find a better way to work
with them and and harness the tools that
they feel like don't don't mock getting
retweets right it's it's a primary way
that we communicate the present itíd
states communicates primarily through
social media so we should do that and I
I think what's important to realize here
is Pelosi was the one who screwed up by
making it personal in that column and
the person who handled it in a much more
adult way was a OSI and her responses
because she made it about the fight in
the substance and she did not take a
personal shot at Nancy Pelosi no in
response which I think bodes you know
says a lot about her it also was
the only weird thing in the column like
the term self impeachment that was
ill-considered
and then I know Brian boiler was it
drove him completely nuts yeah an
impeachment and then the response to the
Eugene Carroll rape allegation against
the president I thought it was a odd
tonally off yeah wait a minute deal with
the fact the president United States was
accused of rape that's not a blow past
there's a fact which is we Democrats do
not have the power to impeach and
convict the president we do not have the
power to force better standards at these
facilities right now we control the
house we do not control the Senate we do
not control the presidency that is that
is a fact
right and so the question is when you
know that you don't have the power to do
these things what is the fight look like
and how hard should you fight and and my
argument on impeachment has been it's
more of a media play in a message war
play than it is about you know doing the
morally right thing or convicting him
right it's about grabbing the megaphone
away from Donald Trump and similarly I
think if they had fought over this
border bill it's not about will they get
the bill that they want it's about the
Democrats who voted who put these people
in power saying you know what they
fought really hard they lost the fight
because McConnell and Trump are still
there but these people are fighting for
me and they are fighting for this
country and I feel pretty good about
that and you know it doesn't matter as
much as having power but it matters
because that might be how you get power
and it's also I I think going back to
the eg Carol point to I think what some
of the new members have been pushing
against is a kind of learned
helplessness there's there's choosing
your battles and then it's deciding that
well you know because we owe because
he'll get away with this best not to
fight but of course because you're not
fighting you make it easier to get away
with it you guarantee and you guarantee
it so I guarantee it it's a it's
frustrating it's it's frustrating and
none of these are easy questions because
ultimately you know you can't fight
every fight all the way to the end and
you you know Donald Trump has been
accused of a serious I mean look at what
we're talking about at once we were
talking about the president United
States being accused of a rape and we
were talking about human
rights abuses against children at the
border of our country and we need to
fight on all fronts but we and it's and
it's hard and it's hard and it's hard to
know where you'll where you'll strike a
blow in and win and where you'll have
wasted time that you could have used to
fight on some other on some other front
these are incredibly difficult questions
at a time in which what we have is one
branch of the one half of one branch of
the government yeah I mean it's it's
what we said with impeachment you either
believe that we are in a national
emergency and you act like it or you
don't say things like that yeah you know
all right let's talk about 2020 uh
according to a new poll from the
Washington Post and ABC News President
Trump is currently receiving the highest
approval ratings of his entire
presidency among registered voters 47%
say they approve of Trump while 50%
disapprove in April his approval was at
42% with a disapproval of 54% again this
is registered voters Trump is basically
running even when matched up against
Warren Harris Sanders and Budaj edge
while he trails Joe Biden 53 to 43
Biden's lead over Trump is due to a
seven-point edge among independents
while the other Democrats are even or
trailing with this group he also has a
28-point
edge with moderates and the other
Democrats have a much smaller advantage
among moderates the poll was taken in
the days following the first two
Democratic primary debates so with all
the usual polling caveats in place
snapshot in time just one poll blah blah
blah
how alarmed are you by these numbers
Tommy my sir I mean I just think that
this poll let me sir I'm alarmed I'm
alarmed every day because I think that
we all just need to realize that despite
the news cycle the latest poll or what's
gonna happen that most presidents are
reelected and there's actually a lot of
structural advantages for Donald Trump
that we don't talk about every day like
fundraising right he just raised about a
hundred and five million dollars yeah so
regardless of what this poll says
regardless of what a poll says in two
months after he had a bad news cycle we
have to realize that we have to get our
 together as a party we have to have
a nominee that's not too banged up that
comes out strong
and that we have to work twice as hard
as we did in 2016 if you want to beat
him there's no guarantee we think he's
the worst president the world half the
country doesn't it's a fight for the
middle it's a fight for turnout I don't
know that that's you know that's gonna
be a rinse repeat for me yeah it's one
poll and it's terrifying it's a
terrifying poll it's a poll that says
Donald Trump is very much in sight of
being reelected president despite all
the work and all the effort and
everything everyone we despite despite
how much energy we have despite how
terrible a president is that he can be
reelected and we should be terrified of
that and one thing I would look at this
poll and think about is what is the news
bin like what have we been talking about
what if our debates been over the last
several weeks and months that would
leave for him to see an uptick in his
approval right and to me what I see is a
kind of twilight endless conversation
amongst Democrats about whether or not
to impeach him this kind of semi process
semi and peach situation in which we're
not talking about health care very much
we're not talking about policy very much
we're talking about Trump and we're
talking about whether or not it's the
right thing to do to impeach Donald
Trump and and when I look at that I
think we got to find a way out of this
kind of a conversation and I think part
that now there's a debate I think to be
had as to whether or not through
impeachment or just putting a peach pit
aside my argument would be we've got to
do the impeachment thing or this will be
hanging over us till the end of the
election and we have to make our case
and put it out there because what the
the kind of kind of stalemate we're in
right now is one in which we're not
talking about anything at all I slightly
disagree only because that this poll was
in the field immediately following the
democratic debate so what we were
talking about we actually haven't been
talking about a Pietschmann in a couple
weeks now well we've been really what we
were talking about when met this poll
was in the field was what happened the
democratic debate the positions the
Democrats took like that was all news we
saw this we saw this in 2016 we saw this
in 2018 when the new cycle is about
Donald Trump and Donald Trump being
awful and also him doing something awful
he actually does do a little worse when
it's about the Democratic Party
Democratic in fighting his opponent
where there was about Hillier
Clinton then he tends to do a little
better if he were seeds into the
background a little bit he tends to do a
little bit better in this polling but
people are just left with the daily
experience where how bad could he be my
life is pretty normal
well and so that's a key stat in this
poll 65 percent say the Trump has acted
unpresidential unfit for office all that
kind of stuff but majority gives him
credit for the economy so the question
is if you have a bunch of people who are
like yeah we're used to his awful
behavior we feel like the economy is ok
then what are you left with I mean the
other thing I think we really have to
dig into in this poll is Joe Biden
leading by 10 points among registered
voters when matched up against Donald
Trump and both of them have very high
name ID so it's you know that's that's a
pretty that's a number you can really
take to the bank or at least one that's
real because it's been repeated in
multiple polls over time now
and you can look at the other candidates
and for sure on some you can say okay
their name IDs a little lower than Joe
Biden so give him more time to get known
and that number could close Bernie
Sanders you can't say as much because
his name ID is nearly universally known
but he trails by de nin that matchup and
so then the question is who are these
people out there who when it's Joe Biden
say they're gonna vote for Joe Biden and
the Democrat when it's not say they're
gonna vote for Donald Trump or say that
they're undecided that's not to say it's
it's you know these people have a
certain ideology that it's they're more
moderate that they're more than that we
don't know any of this yet but it
there's something there's something
about that that should at least give us
pause and make us think I do think
though that Joe Biden has more than just
name ID and if he and Bernie had 100%
name ID he still has been able to tell a
story about himself for the past eight
years very far bigger that is about his
values and vision in an association with
Barack Obama that is gonna be hard to
wear off whoever we nominate is gonna
get the kicked out of them by the
Republicans in the RNC and they'll try
to define them as the worst thing they
can think of but that person will also
have a convention and TV ads and more
debates and a chance to tell a story
about him or herself that hopefully will
counteract the kind of thing you're
talking about it is undeniable that as
of today before
votes have been cast or caucus-goers
caucused that Biden has an advantage
yeah and I would just say there has
there is a consensus among opinion
hammers on Twitter and some on the left
that Democrats do not need to win
moderate voters go after moderate voters
go after independent voters independent
is tough because you could be
independent for reasons that aren't
ideological but that we don't need those
letters at all we need to do is there's
a whole bunch of voters 4 million Obama
voters who stay at home in 2016 and
they're younger and they're more likely
to be people of color and they're more
likely to have more liberal values and
if we just you know are progressive
enough we can bring all these non voters
in and we can win that way and we don't
know that that's definitely true like
we've been saying it's not either/or
words both in you have a Democratic
nominee has to be able to appeal to
moderate voters to independent voters to
swing voters and they have to be able to
excite the base of the Democratic Party
at the same time you have to be able to
do both and I think to completely
dismiss this idea that we don't have to
worry about folks in the middle at all
is just it flies in the face of a whole
bunch of evidence yeah I don't also say
put aside candidates that you want right
exactly who does like canvas you want
just think about the argument use this
as a way to come to kind of to think
about what argument is playing out for a
lot of people all right we're gonna
debate if you just should get new voters
versus independent voters or moderate
voters suburban voters whatever you want
to call them let's just talk about what
what happens when you see it what let's
talk just let's think about what it
means that there are these people out
there that are willing to vote for Trump
but who might be more likely right now
based on being asked vote for Biden
whether it lasts whether or not and to
me what I hear when I think that is that
Biden is safe you know what you get with
Joe Biden yeah right you get a kind of
you get you get something you're quite
comfortable with familiar with the years
that we had before Donald Trump was
president I've said this before but I I
always think it's worth coming back like
we talked about you're listening to this
you are you are in the fight you know
why Donald Trump is not fit you are
fully aware every day of the machination
Xand malevolence and incompetence and
chaos and cruelty and racism of his
administration but there's an implicit
promise Donald Trump is offering to a
lot of people who aren't paying
attention as closely which is Yamma dick
and I'm a liar and I'm kind of racist
and I say some you hate some stuff
that makes you uncomfortable maybe some
stuff you secretly agree with but you
know is maybe not totally on the level
but how bad am I really how bad could
things be when the economy is doing fine
you have a job your community looks the
same I'm not chaos I'm not crazy
everything is fine or I am pretty bad
but what do you care
yeah what do you know hurt in your life
not hurting you all right and you know
all this crazy talk about how evil I am
corrupt am Rasha all the rest it's all a
big show for the cameras it's all a big
DC thing that doesn't really affect you
think about your day to day experience
how bad am I really do you really want
to mess with what's going on with the
economy doing well you really want to
 things up I don't think so don't
take a chance on these crazy people yeah
don't listen to them when they say how
terrible I am it's all a big show I'm
fine you are fine okay with what's
working there's two and there's and
there's two ways to handle that one is
to have a greater focus on just how bad
and dangerous and unstable Donald Trump
is and what he might do if he is elected
another four years which is another
argument for you know having a bunch of
impeachment hearings that focus on his
crimes and misdeeds it's also a focus on
just you know every time every time a
foreign policy disaster happens I think
to myself that's an opportunity for
people to say Donald Trump selected for
another four years really awful things
could happen
so there's upping the stakes in the
election and then there's doing what
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are
doing which is make a larger structural
argument about yeah maybe the economy's
fine on the surface the numbers but
below that people are having a really
hard time in this country and and the
news is not paying attention to all the
people who are really struggling and I
don't think that doing both of those
things is really important for Democrats
I do think the third piece of that too
though is a policy argument I think
probably weren't in health care some
other issues that say look at what he's
going to do if he wins re-election if
you give him the mandate he's gonna come
for your health care all right he's
gonna he's gonna continue to tilt the
tax code again so he's gonna he's gonna
 with the things that you rely on in
your day to day life I think that has to
be a big part of this because I think
that works for both the kind of people
who don't want to rock the boat who are
afraid of losing their health care and
are afraid of Donald Trump's policies on
health care and for those who
our part of the Democratic base all
right let's talk about some of these
candidates Joe Biden spent his fourth of
July trying to right the ship after a
tough debate in his speech in South
Carolina this weekend by an apologized
for fondly recalling his work with
segregationist senators
quote was I wrong a few weeks ago to
somehow give the impression to people
that I was praising those men who I
successfully opposed time and again yes
I was I regret it I'm sorry for any of
the pain and misconception I may have
caused anybody Biden also said quote I'm
not the same person I was as a 29 year
old elected to the Senate America has
changed and I have to
and then pre butted other potential
attacks on his past votes for the Iraq
war the bankruptcy bill in the crime
bill tell me what do you think Biden was
trying to do here and do you think it
was effective the speech was interesting
I mean I think like on its face he was
trying to set the record straight in his
opinion about his record on civil rights
and race and I don't I can't judge from
here whether it worked or not we'll see
but I think what was odd about the
speeches he goes on to try to defend a
bunch of other policies that he was
criticized for for example he talked
about an Iraq war vote again and said
yeah I voted for the Iraq war but then
Obama told me to be the guy to manage
the process to wind it down and I
thought that it was strange to hear
these other unrelated issues in the
speech and then I still don't think that
Iraq answer is particularly effective I
think the challenge for Biden is that
what hurt him in that moment was not
necessarily a debate about busing policy
or a debate about race it was that he
looked like he got his clock cleaned on
the debate stage and I think that's why
you've seen Kamala Harris jump up in the
polls is because she looked poised and
smart and effective and like a
prosecutor that could take down Donald
Trump right so like a lot of this is
performance art as much as we all wish
it were not um we will see if Biden's
numbers with african-american voters
continue to go down or go down at all I
don't know yet but you know I think look
big-picture I'm glad he seems to have
internalized the criticism and that and
knows that it wasn't just bad faith
political attacks that there were some
people who over many years had been
genuinely hurt by a weird relationship
with Strom Thurmond or conversations
about segregationists about as if they
were just kind of okay guys you had to
work with that that bothered a lot of
people and
that night wasn't the first time we had
heard this having worked with Biden yeah
and look and I totally agree with that
and it showed me that he has a team
around him that knows what the right
message is that knows when you should
apologize that knows what you should say
and what you shouldn't say and that this
is about him internalizing it because if
he had said some of these things on the
debate stage he would not have had a
couple of weeks that he had and I again
knowing his team knowing people like Ron
Klain and Anita Dunn who prepped him I
am sure they had a lot of these exact
lines from the speech in debate prep
ready to go and he couldn't execute and
there's been sort of a slowness from the
Biden campaign in general to sort of
like correct these things as they go
wrong and you have to be unbelievably
nimble and quick in this environment
especially when we get to a general
election against Donald Trump you have
to be able it's not just about
performance it's about like reacting
onstage in a debate or having your team
be able to put out a response to some
controversy within you know a couple
minutes and not having it go through a
committee of 50 people and all that
 like you have to be fast yeah
yeah it's um I think I think that what
to me happened over the weekend is Joe
Biden entered the primary a bit you know
there was a quality of a little bit like
you know he's got these he's got his
he's got this great team about him but
he's like you know he's sitting on the
couch and he's eating Cheetos and he got
a train there's gonna be like a pretty
big fight all right we got it like lace
up and like put the gloves on and do
some sparring and get ready for the
fight he's like I'm fine like I've been
doing this a really long time and these
guys can't they're gonna land a punch on
me I'm good I'm Joe Biden I'm gonna be
fine
you know moves over to the pork rinds it
relaxes puts on a little bit of weight
puts the gloves on and goes after the
bait gets ready to take throw some
punches think it's gonna be a great time
and just by the end of it is just
crawling off the debate stage bloodied
and battered gets down to South Carolina
I can barely get on his feet
so I think what we have now is somebody
who's like okay this is a real fight I
got a train I gotta get up I got a say
the things I'm supposed to say I've take
this seriously I'm not gonna be handed
this thing it's going to be it's going
to require genuine learning and being
live and and and not just trying to kind
of eke out a victory he
but actually do the work and try to win
yeah he's basically got a two-pronged
strategy here now which is one he wants
to make every debate about the future
because he doesn't want to talk about
all the past weird stuff and if people
do want to talk about the past he had a
line in the speech it's as if my
opponents want you to believe I served
from 1972 until 2008 and then took a
hiatus for the next eight years they
don't want to talk about my time as vice
president a knight states and then he
said of Obama quote he selected me I'll
take his judgement about my record my
character my ability to handle the job
over anyone elses which is an is a
pretty powerful line and one that I
imagine a lot of people who you know
Barack Obama has a 96 percent approval
rating among Democrats will think to
themselves yeah Obama did pick
themselves certainly less complicated
than understanding du jour a versa local
bus I like it is high level and can be
used rinse repeat we'll see if he'll be
able to shield himself from other
attacks with it but I thought in the
speech it was an effective line now
there's also if we should point out that
it's not a guarantee that even in a
debate about the future he can avoid
stepping in it you know he was asked
about would you consider appointing
Merrick garland again if as a Supreme
Court justice and he said sure I'd
consider it you know the headlines
managed to be like he proposed Merrick
Arleen you know but he didn't say sure
I'd consider it and you have to think to
yourself okay
in the political environment where in
the next Democratic president comes
around is he going to appoint a 66 year
old moderate Merrick garland now if if
she or he has a Supreme Court
appointment now you say I'm gonna put a
OC through law school and get that 31
year old on the poor Dan
Pfeiffer said yeah you've run the
Harvard Law 10ks you who wins and named
that person yeah and then you know uh
and then you know Joe Biden has to do
what every candidate does when they want
to kind of make a moment for themselves
attack better or work well it's funny
but next to be but like the lesson that
these candidates learn for sure's debate
free and more so than the Beto Castro
thing that Kamala of course Biden thing
is just go after someone ya know it's
you
and the moment well I don't know is the
it's it's a good short-term incentive in
the primary it worries me
longer-term about the party mixing it up
the I wonder but it's fun it is an
interesting question right because Biden
can't go on the stage now and be like
hey Kamala Harris I'm back you know and
I've learned some new moves your store
called
but he's got to go after somebody and
you know I just it depends on that draw
you know who could it be maybe it's
maybe to be dumb stack well it's good at
CNN's holding a live drawing like it's a
 draft in July for the next to do
a live draw I did not know that
that's ridiculous okay classic sure fine
yeah so finally the New York Times
published a piece on Sunday about how
Camilla Harris and Elizabeth Warren have
challenged the frontrunner status of Joe
Biden and Bernie Sanders and about how
Harris and Warren's campaigns are
viewing each other I thought that was
the interesting part of this piece yeah
it notes that Warren's camp wonders
whether Harris can quote sustain the
energy she has generated with set peace
moments like her taped out of mr. Biden
and Harris's advisors are quote
convinced that MS Warren will ultimately
suffer for her fixation on her policy
agenda and relative lack of interest in
going after mr. Trump directly and it
also says well they have distinct
political bases miss Warren and Miss
Harris are both relying on the support
of women and educated liberals to propel
their candidacies that strategy also
means they are dividing a powerful
constituencies that could in theory make
one of them a dominant figure one's
messy ones nee terrible but yet as
roommates they make it work they
complement each other what do you make
of the assessments of each camp of the
other camp I mean I rolling spin like
whatever whatever gets you through the
call with Jonathan Martin good I'd say
I'd say our strengths are our strengths
and her strengths are her weaknesses
yeah I mean look here here's some
relevant data that we do know a Warren
just raised 19 million dollars this
quarter which is pretty astounding given
the limitations she's put on herself in
terms of fundraising and Kamala Harris
raised 12 we'll see if that number gets
a continued boost from the the afterglow
of the debates look I don't know we
don't know anything yet I mean there
shadowboxing each other I do think that
Warren has really built a amazing
operation in Iowa and is invested fully
in the state early on Kamala seems to be
piling in a little bit later knowing
that you will need to do well there
probably to keep going in the process so
I wonder if that wouldn't give Warren a
bit of a political advantage but we'll
see I think there is some truth to the
assessments of the other campaign just
from what I've seen before I read that
which is that again Connell Harris has
done particularly well during these
set-piece moments her announcement every
time she's in Congress questioning
someone at a debate and we have said
many times here that what has been
missing is more of a a cogent rationale
for a candidacy that wraps it all up
which is something that Elizabeth Warren
has in spades and the on the war in
front I do think fixation on a policy
gent is ridiculous like oh no she's she
just cares about her policies and planes
too much that's that's gonna really trip
her up but I do think this the the
reluctance to go directly after Trump
you know Warren had this this moment I
think in 2017 where she was and sort of
during the Clinton camp at the 2016 race
where she was going toe-to-toe with
Trump all the time and sort of sucked
into the vortex and I don't think that
worked for her very well she may have
now over corrected to the point where I
mean we were all we all had this
reaction watching the debate with with
Hamelin Biden it wasn't necessarily the
substance of what Colin was taking on it
was oh I'm watching Carla Harris on
stage and I could see her go after Trump
like that because she's not afraid to
mix it up and she's a fighter and stuff
like that and Warren her message and the
way she is could be a message for 2016
for 2012 20 like it's this larger
structural to be about the economy but
you might you might have to bring Trump
into it a little bit I think to sort of
round it out and just show people I can
go after this and I can do this
my guess is no no that that's exactly
that's that you're right it's you know
the the background the the the quotes
directed each other give it gives each
of them a set of marching orders how to
flesh out their candidacy Elizabeth
Warren people they know they trust her
on policy right they know she's really
smart they wonder if she went yeah and
that's gonna take set-piece moments
where you pick fights throw punches in
the debate where what have you that
shows that she's tough she'll fight and
she can win the fight well look a good
healthy primary makes the ultimate
nominee better because that nominee sees
the other strengths of the other
candidates and starts you know improving
I mean so it could work you know well I
guess is Warren is seeing a bunch of
data in early States that says voters
want to hear what you're gonna do for
them they don't want to hear about Trump
all the time they're sick of that so I
think that her strategy is smart and
right and I don't think she needs to
focus on Trump necessarily and I still
think you can conduct that kind of
strategy while mixing it up at debates
with your opponents and looking tough
because we all think Kamala Harris could
kick Trump's ass now because she was
really tough on Biden right she turned a
longshot
she turned Biden into an avatar for
Trump Warren can do that on the debate
stage she can do that in another fight
she can do that with a banker at a
congressional committee well yeah we're
right we're all those enough to beat
Rosen have to be Trump but it but that's
the that's what we learn from that
Camilla fight yeah okay when we come
back we will have Tommy's interview with
Warren Benford
you
