now it's time for a game called okay
stop but today's version is gonna be a
little different because it's about
brexit
[Applause]
across the pond
Prime Minister Teresa May has been
desperate to leave the EU with a deal
but everything she proposes has been
roundly voted down more and more it
looks like the United Kingdom it's
either headed for a No Deal brexit which
would be horrible for the economy of the
UK or a second referendum to remain in
the EU we wanted to highlight just how
chaotic things have gotten in the debate
if you want to comment about what's
going on in the clip instead of saying
ok stop today we're gonna be saying oh
it was all this then oh it's so bad
Fiona I miss you and I love donkey
cancel the show they're not gonna let us
do more podcasts after this let's roll
it yes Gabe they all nodded and then
took one tiny step in unison like a
little I don't know what their dressage
yes it was a kind of a horse can
synchronize it was synchronised nodding
and then one little proud step like a
little pony who's in a show right
310 who knows to the left
310
you the eyes to the right 310 the nose
to the left
310 order in accordance with precedent
then I'm sorry he I can picture this guy
like at 11 12 years old he's this this
boss is a fat little bully for sure and
I hate him
Wow decisions should not be taken except
by a majority I cast my vote with the
nose donkey okay just before we move for
I just have to clarify this is Harry
Potter
no it's we're not matching we're not
watching everybody no I know it sounds
like Harry Potter cuz the accent but
actually it's a parliament and none of
them are magic I guess they're there one
there one trick might be destroying
England okay so I just got stopped you
there it's not a trick is this bell okay
sorry I don't
okay if we're gonna watch Harry Potter
you gotta respect the world of Harry
Potter okay you can keep playing here
but err
Briggs it is already costing the UK
around a billion pounds a week in lost
growth that fault lies with the Prime
Minister who is the architect of the
withdrawal deal so can she finally
concede to the house she is liable
responsible culpable for the chaos which
is of legs into battle and when she will
be resigning
is that how great would it be if once a
week Donald Trump had to get in that car
drive over to the house House of
Representatives and just get
yelled at by Nancy Pelosi and Steny
Hoyer that would be magnificent as he
knows we are continuing to work to
ensure that we can deliver brexit for
the British people and guarantee that we
deliver brexit for the British people
other options would lead to delay to
uncertainty and risk never delivering
brexit the only problem with the Prime
Minister's answer is that her deal has
been twice defeated in this house by in
one in one case the largest than in one
case mr. speaker the largest accent
thing so I'm just gonna say fish and
chips does that work yep you can do it I
just want to point out like the one
black person is finally on screen she's
in the background she's not speaking but
we're there I also just like that it's
like it's part of their great tradition
that when someone is speaking everyone
should be very rude it's like this is
our government and it's time to lead
which means being very rude to people
you disagree with like interrupt them
with like mocking tones and just be like
[Music]
we don't do that in the US and maybe
it's a maybe it would help you know let
off some steam and it's like way worse
 yeah we do like it's like you know
who there was that caning around around
the Civil War but it's been a while
since they came to anybody down there
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
what's all this then this guy what a job
I went from hating him to loving him
he's what I love about this guy is he is
in on the joke he's got a smile on his
face he loves that this is his job is he
does anyone know who he is is he a
member of parliament this old red
screaming man is giving me life
[Laughter]
[Applause]
difference of opinion is of the essence
of politics there is an elaborate
combination of finger wagging and head
cheek why what's all this
I love the idea that he is yelling order
order at a group of screaming old people
and then decides to make a very
complicated and sophisticated argument
about the nature of politics like Oh duh
difference is what makes us great we are
all coming together to argue about what
makes us different and that's good well
look all the like all the like blood
vessels in his eyes are like birds yeah
like that yeah we went we went to the
same acting school together
[Music]
