you're dead directorial debut yes how
does that feel it feels so good it
actually feels like I have found my
voice like I I think I've always really
loved being this business and telling
stories and I love acting I think it's
so cathartic and it's fun it's therapy
but it is very isolated is it's an
isolating experience I think some actors
really like that they kind of like to be
in their own heads I like to be alone I
found that after growing up on set
spending 17 years on set my joy came
from the collaboration I loved being
behind the camera I loved kind of
working with all the department heads
learning about what they did and the
part where I had to go and like sit
alone in my trailer was just sort of sad
and I was like what is this process like
we get creative for five minutes and
then were sent away like can I stay
we're all the creativity needed to
happen so I slowly realized like
directing is where it's at for me but I
it I took awhile to kind of gain the
courage and to kind of feel I was worth
it because I didn't go to film school so
in my head that was always kind of
repeating in the back of my
consciousness like you didn't go to film
school you can't possibly direct and
then I realize like wait I've grown up
on set now I've shadowed so many great
directors essentially I have gone to my
own kind of film school and why do we do
that to ourselves we get in our own way
of our dreams we're like I can't
possibly have what I want yeah I thought
a man has never had in his life
absolutely everyone thought oh I didn't
do this
qualifying thing yeah please Podcast
score for a 15 it is about finding your
happy place and then realizing you
deserve to be there like I started with
a short film and then I started
directing music videos and people who
knew me who were on those sets were like
dude I've never seen you so happy this
is what you're meant to do and I do feel
that it's like putting on a pair of
shoes that actually fit for the first
time you're like oh this is walking so I
feel really good I'm hooked I want to do
it a lot more
[Music]
