I am here with senator Cory Booker of
New Jersey who is running for president
good to have you here it's great to be
with you man thank you very much for
taking some time with me yeah so after
you announced last month I watched
street fight for the very first time and
for those who don't know this is the
documentary about your first run for
mayor of Newark Oscar prominent nominee
for an Oscar and then lost to march of
the Penguins that's and so it's about
your that are narrow loss to sharp James
who was the mayor of Newark at the time
and I have to say I have never seen a
nastier campaign and run against anyone
I mean he said you know you were really
black you were accepting money from the
K I mean some of the things he said was
just crazy intimidation harassment
thuggery bullying by police it was
amenable and I watched that and I my
question after watching that was how
does how did you come from that
experience and come in general from an
experience where you have lived in an
inner city for so long with so much pain
as you talked about and have a politics
that's about civic grace and radical
love because I think to myself like
after running a campaign like that and
having a campaign like that run against
me I might be pretty angry all the time
like I'm wondering how how politics in
Newark sort of shaped your views so
Newark has been the life experiences
I've had I've lived there more years and
I've lived anywhere and moved there when
I was very young and still sort of
shaping my whole view of the world and
you immediately get confronted with what
exists everywhere from suburbs to farm
towns it's just a brokenness of life and
you meet these unbelievable people who
have far more rights to be hateful than
I might you know the tenant president
the projects I lived in for almost a
decade miss Virginia Jones really one of
the greatest heroes of my life tough as
nails five feet in a smidgeon but
couldn't he be able to intimidate you
more than a you said linebacker her son
was murdered in the lobby of the
building I lived it I would move into in
the project
and you know she never left and she
worked for the prosecutor these were
low-income housing became public housing
and she could have moved in a lot of
different places and she taught me one
of my best spiritual lessons that Hulk
is the active conviction that despair
won't have the last word and when you
see the people in a point of utter
brokenness evidence a transformative
love like we saw when the mother Emanuel
shootings happened in South Carolina to
stand there and say through pain and
hurt that I forgive you to this white
supremacist when you see people in my
community who have had their addiction
treated with jail over and over over
again and then they start a non-profit
just to focus on young people in their
community Newark is this town where
every day when I'm home just walking my
block and now I've decided to make
reporters who want to do profiles on me
to come to my neighborhood where people
neighborhoods are people ignore or don't
want to don't want to focus on to walk
with me around my community inevitably
these incredible human beings will come
out their cars or or I'll knock on doors
and bring people in to meet of families
that speak to the kind of resiliency and
fierce love that people want to say love
is is soft and namby you know sort of
just sort of like oh this kumbaya
sentiment yeah I think it's the most
ferocious tough hard force there is and
it has transformed Newark New Jersey how
do you balance sort of the anger that
people have at the system right there's
so much anger there's so much cynicism
out there and you hear a lot of people
say like I just you know someone needs
to go blow up Washington right
somebody's to change everything with you
know your view right that I think you
believe you can absolutely work within
the system and create partnerships and
find cooperation like how do you how do
you bow well there's two things first of
all I just want to really focus on terms
as I've learned to do and my days in New
York anger is a very good emotion right
right if you're not angry about what's
going on in America then you have
some moral dislocation inside your
spirit you should be angry and in fact I
worry that there's just not enough anger
it should not have taken Donald Trump to
trigger the anger and the taking to the
streets yeah because in my neighborhood
before Donald Trump there's children
that could find more easily find
unleaded gasoline than unleaded water in
in my neighborhood that whole criminal
justice system lost legitimacy when
people see folks having a systems Brian
Stevenson says it treats you better if
you're rich and guilty than poor and
innocent you want to be angry that you
live around Superfund sites like we do
where because of this Grover Norquist no
tax system even though Ronald Reagan
reauthorize it Mitch McConnell voted on
it and back in in the day we didn't
reauthorize that small tax on chemical
companies and so now super funds which
were going down are now proliferating
and we now have longitudinal data that
shows that in the United States of
America you're born around a Superfund
site I live around to that you're a
chance and they're mostly around
low-income communities
disproportionately minority communities
that your chance of being born with
birth defects or autism go up about 20%
I mean I can go through the things that
well before Donald Trump that should
have had us marching in the streets and
so but the other word you used is a word
I don't like its cynicism which I think
is this sort of surrender right to
what's going on like I can't do anything
right yeah what I think American history
is a perpetual testimony to the
achievement of impossible things by
people who didn't surrender to the
seduction of cynicism who said screw
Washington I'm not gonna wait for you
know Strom Thurmond to come to the
Senate floor and say I've seen the light
it's time for those Negro people to have
some rights no these were folks that
said I don't give a damn
despair is not gonna have the last word
hate it's not gonna have the last word
I'm going to do extraordinary things for
this country and so for me worried that
politics has become more cynical because
it worries me I hate cynicism too but I
worry that it's I thought it would I
thought it was cynical when Obama ran in
o-72 know is like a lot of cynicism out
there and now ten years later I'm like
oh but we're all responsible for that
yeah I mean this finger-pointing I mean
come on I've campaigned for lots of
presidents
I've was a city councilperson right
getting call to campaign for lots of
presidents and I was show up in black
communities and I would hear the same
thing that we say when we see
politicians suddenly come into our
community which is why we only see all
around election time right and we wonder
why we have 50 percent voter turnout so
and we think it's a great thing when it
gets up to 60% yeah because we're not
speaking to people where they are and
we've seen the Democratic Party and the
Republican Party screw us and so if you
want to combat cynicism we need to have
more people that are speaking to the
truth of the experiences that we're
having out there and so you said
something that Corey you want to work
within the system i I do I have two sort
of views of this I do what I have to do
to get done right and when I was
mayor I was unapologetic whether it was
with my children or with my communities
you know there were we I remember the
trust Republic land came to me and said
you're the most under parked city in
America like they were like just like
you guys have no useable green spaces
for your kids and so my my staff was
making fun of me they said you will pimp
a park anywhere you go I will neighbor
swing after you because give me and we
created the largest parks expansion in
our city in a century
now this parks all over the City of
Newark from pocket parks to the largest
city park we build nine acres and we did
that because we were just on apologetic
working within the system but I also
knew that we had to change the freakin
paradigm where Newark was literally the
butt of jokes on national TV and and and
if I couldn't change the whole system
and get people to reawaken a moral
imagination about urban places then we
it wasn't just working within a broken
system which I will do but it's about
changing people's view which is the same
way I view this election right now yeah
if this election is just about one
office and one guy and everybody thinks
we did it we got rid of Trump and go
right back to doing the stuff that we
were doing and those 2013 2012 2010 are
gonna be okay we're not only not going
to be okay but those things I listed
before environmental injustice economic
injustice criminal injustice we'll still
be doing something we have to figure out
a way to expand the moral consciousness
and it's the same thing in the rural
areas I've started my campaign in the
States going to the rural area
you know we see an existential crisis in
this country when our suicide raise
opioid addiction are having a life
expectancy go life expectancy is going
down for all Americans going out for
white men the farmer suicide rate is as
high as it's been since since the Great
Depression
the vast disappearance of the
independent family farm I'm down in
North Carolina in a black community
where they're dealing with one of the
most horrific environmental and justices
I've ever seen and in Duplin County
where you have these massive K foes and
corporate agriculture and and and they
take these massive lagoons of pig
and they spray it over fields it
happened to be in black communities I
could take you down there and show you
the stuff misting into neighborhoods
where people crowded into a room to tell
me that they can't open their windows it
can't run their air conditioning they
have respiratory diseases cancers but
those farmers there their contract
farmers they're one step short of being
a sharecroppers because these
corporations Smithfield one of the
biggest ones now a international
conglomerate Chinese owned company has
put the farmers in a situation where
they're so deeply in debt they're just
struggling to stay ahead and they're
trapped in a broken system and so what
one of the things what happened in
America in this slice and divide culture
what we have is it the urban voter or is
it the rural voters at the factory we we
talk in ways that slice and divide our
country and we are forgetting that
that's these systems now the suffering
of that contract farmer or the rural
african-american person is directly
connected to a broken system so that why
my folks who work full-time jobs and
catch extra shifts and still go to my
corner bodega and use food stamps and
and and find a Twinkie product cheaper
than an apple we are all caught in the
same broken system and it's the fact
that we have the delusion of
separateness the dangerous delusion that
we are separate from each other that is
undermining our whole a civic space and
our ability to solve problems and so
what I'm telling people in this election
is not only as a guy who went through a
street fight not only do we need to beat
Donald Trump but the way to beat Donald
Trump is not to do Trump like tactics
you know
the incredible youth the young people
that marched against Bull Connor in May
of 1963 in Birmingham they didn't bring
their own fire hoses and their own dogs
they call to the moral consciousness of
a country that got folk woke so that
after their very first protest thousands
of people suddenly celebrities and
incredible Dick Gregory Joan Baez
everybody was running down to Birmingham
and in segregation fell within days they
were able to awaken the moral
consciousness of this country because
the one of the biggest things I worry
about in America is our tolerance we
preach tolerance in America we're a
tolerant nation go home tonight and tell
someone you live with it you tolerate
them right and and and to me I think the
problem is tolerance number one it is a
a cynical aspiration at on country but
but I'm more concerned about the fact
that we've grown too tolerant with the
suffering of our neighbors thinking that
that somehow is not affecting directly
your life and so for me this if this
election is just about Donald Trump fine
I want to beat him if I'm president on
on the first day with my pen I'll
restore the trend transgender of
military service I'll go back to some of
the things he's done
mercury Rouge methane rules I can do a
lot as your chief executive but I'm not
running just for that I'm running to
wake up this the moral consciousness of
our country to have confront injustice
is and understand that the only way
we've ever solved mass and justice in
this country from the workers rights
movement taking people from sweatshops
and child labor to workers rights in
public education which both are being
eroded right now all the way to the
civil rights movement all of those
things had to be done by creating
broader coalition's of people Republican
and Democrat I I'm literally sitting
before you right now because a
Republican town in New Jersey when my
parents in 1969 I was just a baby were
denied housing because of the color of
our skin they were - kept being told by
real estate agents in our homes were
sold it was this coalition of folks
black folks white folks Christians Jews
Republicans and Democrats that didn't
think okay we can't solve though they
didn't surrender to the cynicism of
housing discrimination in America they
did some extraordinary stuff yeah they
literally did a sting operation a white
couple bid on the house after my
we're told it was sold they set up a
closing on the closing the white couple
didn't show up my dad did in a lawyer
who ends up getting literally my father
him walked in and and the real estate
agent gets up and punches my dad's
lawyer in the face SIG's a dog on my dad
and so you have to understand growing up
as I did to to civil rights activist
parents who were rough on me they're
like boy don't walk around this house
like you hit a triple you were born on
third base I I would you know I did what
my parents told me to i got all these
degrees from various schools and my
dad's like boy you got more degrees in
the month of july but you ain't hot life
ain't about the degrees you get is about
the service you give and you owe a debt
in this country and that's why I moved
to Newark New Jersey and the very first
thing I started doing was housing rights
housing organizing taking on slum Lords
that the cynics said you can't beat this
guy they had connections to City Hall
they were powerful guys well we organize
folks right and that's where strength
comes from and we've lost that in
America right now we're where people are
suffering and hurting and feeling like
they're isolated people whether they're
suffering with addiction or mental
health suffering because they're a mom
of a special-needs kid that is barely
holding on because they can't afford
childcare and they're working two jobs
and they can't afford housing but but
but we're not separated we're not
suffering alone there was mass suffering
going on in our society right now but
we're failing to see that we're in this
together and if this election is not
about waking us up to that common cause
i sat in a diner in Iowa with a guy with
a with a make America great again shirt
on and at first I got the same
bullheaded hitting yeah but I sat next
to him and talked for a little while
spoke to his pain and by the end he was
hugging me if we can't start breaking
through these lines that divide us and
affirm the common bond I think we're
gonna be stuck in a broken politics for
a long time I think the next five years
of our politics in America is going to
determine the next 50 years of our
politics and we've got to change course
so I there's part me that thinks there
is you know a difference between trying
to reach out to Republican voters
disaffected Republicans campaigning
everywhere talking to everyone which I
deeply believe in there's difference
between that and
sort of the official Republican Party in
Washington thank you for thank you for
adding that ya knows I think when we use
lazy labels and say Republicans well
you're roping in a whole bunch of Pinot
and I never yeah yeah they get defensive
on that but then they lock into their
trial right yes um so you proposed some
really bold ambitious policies yeah
Medicare for all green new deal baby
Bonds job guarantee really great have
you guys explain baby bonds cuz that's
I'm really proud of that
you you do it because you should we've
talked about it a little bit before but
you so we have persistent inequality in
this country and and my team has been
looking for levers that can do that and
we believe in expanding EITC I can go
you a lot of policies bright when I one
of the things that bothers me most about
this country is not the persistent
wealth gap which is a problem but the
persistent racial wealth gap right and
we have cities in America like Boston
where the average white family's wealth
is about two hundred eighty thousand
dollars the average black family's
wealth is eight dollars I mean we are we
are my father said this to me painfully
he died six days before I was elected to
the United States Senate
most most hopeful man I've ever met it
was born poor in the deep south
segregated community to a single mom who
could even take couldn't take care of
him and he comes so far and he said to
me I fear that I've gone to a point in
this country where a kid born like me
and seventy percent of my kids are born
like my dad poor to a single mom in a
segregated community New Jersey so I
think about the fifth most segregated
state in the nation because of our very
racist laws going into the 1970s I tried
to stop black families like me moving
into white communities and he bone said
a kid weren't born like me would be
better off being born in 1936 than today
now I'm a data guy so I when I was
married so I saying God We Trust but
everybody else bring me data show me the
numbers on a lot of indices my dad's
right and one of them is the fact that
the wealth gap was closing between
blacks and whites but now it's back to
where it was around from around the time
I was born a baby bonds basically says
that every child born in this country
should have a stake in this economy and
and wealth is important people who live
paycheck to paycheck know that that they
don't have any wealth to fall back on
for emergency or to invest in the kind
of things that deepen wealth
now black communities were denied
programs that people brag about as
pathways to the middle class from
i bill to to to social security was
written in a way to exclude professions
for blacks it's a lot of things to help
people sort of build wealth FHA loans
and the like were denied African
Americans one of the reasons why we have
persistent wealth inequalities today and
so this would help put a deposit in
every child who would get it where to
get it we're gonna an account a baby
bond and every year depending on your
wealth of your family like the EITC
measures you would get deposits youngest
kids would get up to the youngest kids
would get a deport look kids from the
lowest income families would get $50,000
by the time they're 18 to do things that
build generational wealth to start a
business to go to college to buy a home
and it's one of those levers archimedes
like I said something like give me the
right lever I can change the world this
is for those of us who want to see
persistent racial inequality addressed
in this country it's one of those things
that would do that plus for low-income
families in general it would give them a
shake and let and a leg up do you think
there are you see any Republican
senators who are in the Senate right now
who would give you a vote for baby buns
a vote for green New Deal vote for
Medicare for all vote for jobs guarantee
it so like say you're president you've
got a Democratic House you've got a
narrowly elected hopefully Democratic
Senate do you see any Republican
senators that would that would join on
the big priorities I know on some of the
small stuff they probably what John I
see you I know you're an evangelist and
let's just confront this yeah I may have
listened to my pocket your podcast of
the obstruction in the Democratic Party
I'm I am an Obama guy through through
you know that yeah and I am always
attracted to like positivity unifying
politicians I feel like the Republican
Party over the last decade has
radicalized me a little bit and I just I
I but it's not radical and you and I
both know the origins of our Senate were
not right the filibuster rules so right
right people should know their history
yeah and so this is what I say that
folks like even a lot of my friends who
have come to me and had good
conversations since I announced my
candidacy and got a surprise question
about the filibuster and my first
moments of being a candidate like okay
filibuster rule let me tell you
but I think look I understand that the
erosion of the Senate already has
allowed this this party to do awful
things Trump tax cut for example right
and if I was president I want people to
know very tactically let's talk tactics
I will use reconciliation to rollback
the Trump tax credits and do the kind of
things that I think to have a tax system
that reflects our values or morals and
frankly is better for our economy right
you know giving a hedge fund guy to be
able to pay lower percentage of his
salary in in taxes than a teacher it
doesn't reflect our values nor does it
reflect what's best for our economy and
and and so when you talk about changing
the filibuster rule I understand that we
are heading right now we are heading
that way to people on both sides
we are heading that way you hear Trump
calling for the end of the filibuster
rule the wrath and and and I understand
that if I am the commander in chief the
president estates fighting a tactical
battle that that is something that it is
is we are moving towards but understand
my perspective on this which comes from
decades of living in one of the most
vulnerable communities in the country
and if Mitch McConnell Paul Ryan Donald
Trump for the last two years had
complete sway they wouldn't have just
changed policy which is nice they would
have hurt people in my community right
literally doing policies that could
cause people's death when we had a
Republican governor in state of New
Jersey just something like attacking
Planned Parenthood for women in my
community who rely on that find parent
for their health care Planned
Parenthood's had to close and ours close
options I mean I know that these
policies that people debate I love when
people have privilege so it doesn't make
a difference if I vote or not
I said come to my neighborhood yeah and
see if the outcomes of Elections don't
make a difference and to give those
three men absolute power to do anything
they want having lived my life as a
minority I like minority rights and so I
will balance that against and I know cuz
I've had this conversation you fire a
lot of people up on your podcast who
come to me very no but make very very
read not in the angelical argue
very practical argument so I'm gonna
tell you that for me that door is not
closed okay but I am also going to tell
you that if we can't change the larger
civic spaces of our country hmm like
they did in the labor movement like they
did in the civil rights movement where
the consciousness of our country changed
if we don't see this as opportunity to
swing the pendulum from Twitter
trash-talking trolling hateful politics
where it's just about destroying the
other if we can't get back to a
understanding and by the way you're
talking about reaching out to
disaffected Republicans using that term
broadly
I've sat with labor leaders right half
of their base literally will say to me
half of my base voted for the party that
wants to destroy davis-bacon yeah that
wants to make every state a
right-to-work state that's not a big
leap to get a person who identifies a
Republican just the base of our party
the labor base we're losing them yeah
so I don't think that we are that far
away from in these next five years of
America to having a revival of civic
grace and having a more courageous
empathy that understands that the farmer
the factory worker the inner-city mom
working two jobs have common cause again
and in the same way that this brilliant
marketer I mean I mean he talked about
Italy put the best carnival barkers to
shame with what the way he has branded
and campaigned and spoken to folks if we
can't have a commander-in-chief that
understands like I had to as a mayor
that it's not just about my tactical
decisions with my City Council but I've
got to change the entire perception of
my city and urban issues and attract
institutional capital back to my city
that wouldn't even invest in Newark to
take companies when I started talking
about ending food deserts by bringing
supermarkets back into the neighborhood
I I'm not joking I went to a supermarket
convention and they laughed at me I had
to change the larger sentiments around
Newark in right now in America I will I
will join you John should I be president
of states come back to the White House
I'm not joking I'm serious come back to
the White House
me with the tactician helped me to
figure out what we have to change you
get things done but join me in the
larger cause of our country because you
and I before you know it are my days and
politics will be will be over yeah look
when I'm Trump's age it'll be a between
2040 2050 what will America look like by
2050 if we don't change our politics
sincerely with where we're going no
that's the look that's my whole as my
whole ish and so and so my whole issue
is not just changing the things that are
happening in the Senate right that have
allowed for these right-wing judges to
be done they got rid of the filibuster
rule in the Senate they got rid of the
blue slip process I know I'm talking
technically but as a judiciary community
remember the Senators no longer have a
say they literally are sitting as a
circuit court judge that Menendez and I
we're not even allowed to meet with
right from New Jersey yeah I get my
question is I think you would agree that
you know like sometimes the meet is like
oh if only you know Republicans and
Democrats would call out the media right
well that I mean no it's not and don't
call me enemy of the people right right
but I watch what they give oxygen to
right they're giving the van Jones once
told me this story that they had in
crossfire they had this idea the end
they're gonna do ceasefire and talk
about where they agree I'm sure that
didn't fly out they did not because the
people took over the show the end of
some a the people that took over the
show afterwards a producer do you know
you want to end on a high end audience
and they have that seamless transition
where one host talks in the next host so
that you don't lose audience yeah
they were ticked off because the
ceasefire segments went way down in
terms of ratings this is Pilar what I'm
talking about like I I don't think this
is an issue of personalities right like
if only Obama hadn't had more I don't
with Mitch McConnell things woulda been
there clearly incentive structures for
Republican politicians that we need to
change right now one of those is the
media right there's a conservative media
machine right but it didn't sense that
there's no false equivalency here at all
because it's far worse on their side
right but their incentive structures on
our on ours there are they feel vase Bay
right now Republican politicians feel
more afraid of a primary challenge than
they do a general election challenge no
that's because when primary became a
verb right the Republican Party changed
dramatic how we change the incentive
structure for the Republican
remember Obama always used to say to me
during the 2012 election if we win this
election the fever will break in
Washington finally the fever will break
the fever did not break and now I'm
gonna tell you again all I know is about
being a grassroots organizer yeah I beat
the machine in New York through
grassroots organizing Texas is a blue
state it's not voting that way yet
because we haven't built a 58 Party
right
I was shocked in in Iowa New Hampshire
I'm not the best fundraiser in the world
but that I led outside candidates
raising money in those two states and
they were incredibly appreciative
well dear God you don't think that the
issues we're talking about right now in
Iowa were they haven't just assaulted
davis-bacon they found a loophole they
literally were pushing a law that says
if you find a view file a workman's
compensation claim and you lose the
claim then you could be held criminally
liable I mean the stuff they're doing to
public education on that and I was
telling having honest talk to the folks
when I was in Iowa this last week that
we could get a president but if you
don't change your legislature if you
don't build right most of these issues
we're talking about I can do some things
is about public education when I'm when
I'm when I'm a president I can fully
fund a special needs education I can
create a tax relief for teachers who
reach in their own pockets and give
money as I say in Newark all the time
thousands of dollars hundreds of dollars
for their kids I can forgive loans for
people willing to teach in rural areas
urban areas I can do a lot of that but
fundamentally there's an assault going
on in public education in your state
that only can be stopped by electing
folks I believe fundamentally and maybe
I'm wrong but I'm willing to if I'm
president itíd States this is where I'm
starting there are all these people that
want to support the new president and
I'm gonna tell folks what we need to do
is create a 50-state organizing strategy
to start preparing for 2022 when people
like Mikey Cheryl and all these other
folks we're gonna have their back
against the wall that shouldn't if we
organize because I've seen this in the
response to this Trump yeah the response
to Trump has been hey let's organize
yeah I met with this amazing table of
women leaders in my state and there were
women I've known for a long time heads
of organizations like now and then there
was these young millennial women who had
thousands of people in New Jersey
organized on
Facebook page who openly admits some of
them to me as I meet him around the
country that I wasn't that engaged or
involved before Donald Trump and if we
don't persist Ain that kind of
organizing we could turn Texas heck I
think we could turn Texas in 2020 but
definitely in 2022 just by organizing
people you go to communities like Newark
or Wayne County where Detroit is or
Philly and really engage with
african-american community yeah I'm
talking in the way we do in Newark when
we were organizing elections talking to
their issues actually connecting them to
the policies that can help our
communities you are going to get
african-american turnout to go up in
midterm elections and so I understand a
lot of years what you're saying is
because we look at the way things have
gone in the past but one of the things I
hated most when I was mayor of the City
of Newark is people would tell me you
can't do something because we tried this
and it didn't work or this is the way
we've always done it it's never worked
it takes new approaches creative
thinking to create real transformations
and and forgive me for going on but I
just want to just give you this example
of we're the internet generation we have
tools our parents never had I was
sitting at home watching The Tonight
Show mm-hmm when Conan O'Brien was on it
and he did what ticks me off the most is
when people kick communities are already
down and he said I here in Newark New
Jersey has this new health care program
I was really proud I was able to drive
prescription drug cost down in my city
for in a community and get people into
into primary care which is really good
for health and driving down health care
costs and it got a little national
attention and here comes Conan O'Brien
his monologue and he says I hear Newark
New Jersey has this great new health
care program well I think the best new
health care program for the City of
Newark is a bus ticket out of town I'm
the mayor of the city sitting there
watching TV hanging out with my two best
friends Ben and Jerry and and and and
and just lost it yeah but you know what
I did because this is the reputation of
Newark it's a laugh line people were
cracking up I hear it about Cincinnati I
hear it about Detroit I heard about
places where dark and black black and
brown people live all the effing time
and and and and it pisses me off but you
know what I'm different a generation ago
or not even five years before that the
best angry mayor could have done and my
mayors did that my
the mayor's in Newark did write an angry
letter to the to the network and they
interns in turn would read it you know
or they can call a press conference and
only Channel 72 the Bulgarian Channel
would show up yeah but we live in a
different era I went to my office and I
sat there in front of might behind my
desk and I use some humor and I used
some straight I said look this is Newark
New Jersey you know we are great city
bragged about my city and Conan O'Brien
I'm banning you from Newark Airport I
said you are on the no-fly list
try JFK buddy and guess what happened
that video went viral before I know what
I'm getting earned media like I never
got before and he plays right into my
hands
he doesn't apologize he bans me from
Burbank Airport and here we are in LA
and you know that's I'm at LAX guy
that's no big that's no big deal but we
started this fight that I was getting
media like suddenly I'm calling
supermarket companies and they've heard
about this stuff and they're answering
my call I'm getting the big banks to
talk to me now about investing in a city
they ignored because capital in this
country is so damn lazy five
metropolitan areas get the overwhelming
majority of investment by the end of the
fight this kerfuffle that became a
national story is I'm going on you know
a Larry King and shows it never they're
never going on before he invites me on
his show he apologizes and gives
$100,000 to Newark Charities so I'm just
saying that as an example of we are a
different generation I sometimes imagine
if the civil rights generation had the
kind of organizing tools that we have
yeah we could with a I would be the that
we've had presidents now from you know
even even Barack is older than I am you
know we've had folks from different
generations our generation can't concede
that we were gonna be a nation with
people of common interests in common
pain or cut up and divided and so I will
I will I'm not joking about this if I'm
President John you're gonna be like that
Booker guy is calling me up to help me
with tactician but I'm but I know as
hell but my challenge to you is going to
be let's use podcasts like this to call
 out yeah look at House bill the
House bill they just passed that got
lost in all the things that media
wonderful HR 1 HR 1 yeah you know what
the poll says to say about that that
very popular amongst Republicans
but you know what what got me the
probably the worst moment of the Obama
years for me or the most frustrating
moment is a background check bill with
90% support in the public sponsored by
conservative Senator Pat Toomey
Pennsylvania and Joe Manchin no one's
idea of a liberal goes down a couple
months after a school shooting and I was
like if if we can't pass something
that's that popular among Democrats and
dependents and Republicans that has
bipartisan support yes
what has happened where do we go from
there how do we change but you
understand you're saying this in the
context of a guy who grew up with
stories about how many freakin times
they tried to get civil rights
legislation passed yeah did anybody say
we tried once and it failed right so
let's not try voting rights or civil
rights or housing or Fair Housing Act
they kept fighting and building
consensus right and even with the Senate
filibuster you worry that our generation
is more impatient I feel like technology
has made us a little more impatient in
patience like I know and it's like yeah
but impatience is good citizen is bad
anger is good okay hate is bad people
get people get disappointed when change
doesn't happen fast enough and then they
turn away and I'm always trying to say
to people like look you know Democrats
didn't do anything they failed me - yeah
but let me tell you my favorite cynical
moment my favorites in a moment I had
recently is and this is the politics of
our you know the professional politics
so I'm running I'm now running from a
urban City okay I most people don't know
this I'm the fourth popularly elected
black guy yeah black person in the
United States history number three was
Obama uh number two was carol
moseley-braun number one was edmond it
would Brooke and so it's like there has
been that many black people in the
Senate right and so you get these
professionals that come to you and say
well don't talk about these you're
talking about criminal justice reform
everywhere you go and almost like you're
trying to imply to you that this is an
issue that's only affecting black people
which which by the way if you are living
in a country that's watched your your
infrastructure crumble except for in one
area I had a I was in Poland and a
Polish peer of mine as the senator was
was telling me and this was one of those
moments I had to control my tight end
instincts
uh-uh and not create an international
incident who was bragging to me about
their mass transit or whatever he was
talking about in new Americans we built
out the best infrastructure in all of
humanity while our bridges tunnels no
broadband China's building 18,000 miles
of high-speed rail but the what we were
building out was was prisons in jails
prisons and jails we were building a new
prison or jail in America every 10 days
from the time I was in law school of the
time I was mayor of the city in Newark
and so here here they're telling me I
because I'm now running a no in a state
that's overwhelmingly white right blacks
are 12 13 % and and they're like don't
talk we polled the state don't talk
about criminal justice reform you know
it's not one of the top two or three
issues you need to talk about XY and Z
and I'm like leaders don't follow
consensus real leaders mold consensus so
everywhere I went from synagogues to
wealthy suburbs Republican communities
Democrat communities I wanted people to
know why this is breaking so I get to
Washington and then people want to give
me a reality check well you can't pass
comprehensive criminal justice reform
you can't do it and I said okay this is
a challenge to me and not to surrender
to cynicism I still remember and and and
maybe I'm telling you too much but I
knew chuck Grassley was key and I'm like
how can I find some common ground with a
guy that I can write a dissertation on
my disagreements with so one day they
you know how do this like you get to
preside over the Senate right it's the
most junior guys but I'm literally
sitting there at the Senate and by the
way it is like one of these things it
will blow your mind if you're a geek
because they have like the gavel that
was used from like the 1700 bill there
you could open it up and like I'm
putting my I'll try and get some DNA on
that thing and anyway and I'm watching
Chuck Grassley come to the floor and
I've watched him give speeches now that
just rankle me and he starts talking
about wind tax credits and I'm like wait
a minute
common ground and I go to him ago mr.
Grassley sir like the older of senators
often help me call me by my first name
and I'm like you are literally I was
watching you hit like in high school and
and and we started talking I go to his
office and I said help me understand why
you go to the Senate floor and talk
about longer sentences and not sure and
it took me years from from with the the
heroic leadership of dick Durbin and and
me trying to be as mini-me and running
around building consensus and
fighting to get things that were really
important to me like we do things we're
doing things right now is you and I are
sitting here there are children who
having been convicted of things that are
in solitary confinement right now which
which which psychological professionals
call torture right and and so I'm we get
this bill with with my priorities in
there and and we get it done we get it
passed yeah so what I'm telling you is
that that's too slow for me mm-hmm
because it's just as it as the acts
called as a first step but I tell you I
brought the guy to the to the State of
the Union a mr. Douglas who had a life
sentence for smoke port for crack
cocaine weighing less than baseball a
life sentence we liberated thousands of
people with that piece of legislation
during an era of Willie Horton right
where people are getting out of jail in
an era of really horton we got it done
and so don't don't tell me that we can't
collectively we've got the best on our
party the best branding experts are
using them for materialism and
corporatism and everything don't tell me
with the young people I'm meeting out
there who are not taking that vote that
you talked about that failed in the
Senate you talked to these folks coming
out of parkland and in communities like
mine who are determined to pass
common-sense gun-safety
I just believe we can get things done
especially if we can get more folk walk
that they are living in a nation that
that brags about being the wealthiest
country on the planet earth but has a
declining life expectancy that has used
to be have the best infrastructure on
the planet Earth and in the span of one
generation trashed that house they
inherited from their parents and handing
it over with no when you when I talk to
groups like this everybody agrees I'm
not joking I mean there may be that five
ten percent that we can't ever get to
and and so what is our politics gonna be
and that's why I don't I'll die on this
hill in this presidential campaign I
literally will maybe some people are
gonna want folks to fight fire with fire
I ran a fire department it's not a
really good strategy
okay I'm gonna die on this hill because
I want this to be more more than about
just one guy in one office because my
communities were suffering before this
guy got elected and and and so were
factory towns and so we're farm towns
and so we're people that were easily
easily angry and and then felt some
appeal with some guy that wanted to
blame it on Mexicans and Muslims and and
others and lie to people about trade
because he's not doing anything about it
lie to people about Medicare that he
just put a budget in the cuts we can
reach back out and get those people
together and awaken that that that that
worker and by the way I cannot stand how
working working working we're gonna get
off to working people is that that's not
people in my in my community in Newark
but we can get workers to see common
cause we can get people in different
areas of internation to see common cause
and that's what I want this election to
be about again and I by the way I'm
betting you and I hope to have the
chance to prove this to be the guy that
gets to run against Trump yeah the
person who gets to run against Trump I
bet you that not only is this a strategy
that this country needs I think it's
actually the best tactical strategy to
beat a bully watch street fight I'll
show you how that strategy the strategy
of dignity and grace can actually win in
the toughest of politics what um I
thought about this interview after in
the wake of New Zealand and that
shooting because you know you have this
very powerful message of radical love
like what do you do as president about
rising white nationalism and xenophobia
Islamophobia anti-semitism you know I'm
just how do you how do you fight that
because obviously you know that has been
fueled by Donald Trump but I know you
would agree that's been around far
before Donald Trump and it's been a
problem before then what can you
actually do as president about that so
first of all what let's again understand
that and this is why I think it's good
to go back and and read from the era of
which I sprang forth I'm the child of
the civil rights generation you know
there's some great books written about
King's radicalism we've created this hit
as Cornel West says to Santa Claus a
vacation of King right he was a really
radical guy who died with 60%
disapproval ratings and I love what he
used to say about love he used to say
you know I
you can't legislate someone to love me
yeah and that's why I need you to put
some things in place to protect me
that's why I was so proud that Tim Scott
Camille Harris and I were able to push
forward an aunt Eileen
bill through the Senate after hundreds
of times trying right and so the first
thing a president has got to do is
protect people in the LGBTQ community we
have about 30% of our children reporting
not going to school because of fear we
we have a Department of Education and
this is one of the reasons I fought so
hard against Betsy DeVos that I knew she
was going to trash the Civil Rights
Division of the partner literally doing
the things to protect she from their
policies turning their back on the
epidemic of sexual assault on college
campuses to turning her back on LGBTQ
rights and the rights of black and brown
vulnerable kids this is why as president
not only from the department education
Civil Rights Division to the Department
of Justice that should be investigating
these these white supremacist groups
that the president nine states can't
even admit that there's rising hate and
rising anti-semitism and rising
Islamophobia in this country
and so you have to be a present that
speaks to the problems we have had in
since 9/11 I think around 80 ish
terrorist attacks on our country the
majority of them have been homegrown
right a right wing extremist groups the
majority of those have been white
supremacists for all the billions and
billions of dollars were spending to
protect Americans from quote-unquote
terrorism we need to focus on domestic
terrorists do you would you make sure
that you appointed an attorney general
who would go after White House doesn't
that would you try to increase funding
to make sure that we are investigating
so you know Trump has cut funding ya
know to to to investigate white
nationalist groups at a time that the
violence coming out of these white
nationalist groups so yeah I would and
and have a lot as oh as a lawyer again
who came up because of the the
protections that were given by the DOJ
we need to have a Department of Justice
that is dealing with violence and crime
including police shootings which you
have big city police chiefs talking
about needing to create greater senses
of accountability for law enforcement
the Department of Justice can be doing
so much to create safety and Security's
and communities and to restore
confidence in the criminal justice
system that is that that we are fairly
pursuing in
justise wherever it exists we've we
spent a lot of the past month talking
about anti-semitism and one of the
issues raised and the many debates we've
had is really a foreign policy issue
should democrats be more willing to call
out the Israeli government when there is
a prime minister who's made it his
policy that there will not be a
Palestinian state as long as he is in
power um so the short answer is yes yeah
if you're if you I don't whatever the
country is we should we should have the
courage to speak with a moral voice I
often worry that Israel gets a treatment
that is not applied to other countries
that are this is why I will never
support the BDS movement because I think
it is Munir actions that when they're
doing things but dear God you're living
in a neighborhood where nobody's calling
for a China boycott movement for China
which is doing things to the Weger as I
can go through them right but the
erosion of the ability to for us to even
get to a two-state solution is the
erosion of a bipartisan consensus we've
had in this country for a long time for
a long time this idea that that we
should have self determinations of
people that both Palestinians and
Israelis should have their own of their
own country and be able to have
self-determination and so you know on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee I
have fought against Trump efforts
Trump's administration's efforts to pull
document humanitarian support from from
the Palestinian communities I'd gone to
the West Bank I've seen just access to
clean water to basic human rights we've
got to be there we've got to also make
sure that Israelis have a right to
defend themselves and to keep themselves
secure and we've got to be able to have
conversations about things like oh that
are kind of as complicated as Mideast
peace and something more than just
slogans and talk about the nuance of
these issues and always lead with what
our values are would you put any
additional diplomatic pressure on Israel
as president if they refused to engage
in a good-faith discussion about a
two-state solution
I think that we've had presidents from
both parties who have put them at lots
of diplomatic pressure on Israel and
again it's very hard to negotiate where
we don't where there's the leadership in
the velocity communities not necessarily
even leadership you can negotiate with
it doesn't necessarily speak for all the
various factions so absolutely but I
continually want to remind folks that
you know Hamas and Hezbollah who are
plotting every single day to kill
Israelis and now the Trump who says he's
strong on Iran has basically given an
Iran a highway through Syria with more
sophisticated weapons now going to
Lebanon these are existential everyday
threats to the Israelis as there are
everyday threats for Palestinians just
to get basic health care and clean water
on base right and so there's an urgency
for us to play a role in the Middle East
with our most critical ally the Israelis
so that we can affirm democratic ideals
and principles what do you see is our
greatest national security threat again
you know I'm gonna tick through things I
think are threats but I'm gonna answer
the question in a way that you may now
expect but maybe not so climate change
is a existential threat when you read
military reports about about what they
expect to happen when I'm Trump's age
right what will go on and the planet
Earth should we fail to deal with
climate change the instability the
famines the chaos on the planet Earth
it's going to happen and in the United
States too vulnerable communities like
mine this is an existential planetary
threat that would call you think refugee
problems or refugee problems now right
and we have not seen a hint of what
could happen if we don't deal with this
issue so that's a definitely a threat
yeah I get I can tick through more I
think we are going through a planetary
battle between authoritarian governments
and democratic governments and
democratic governments have had a very
tough five or so years from brexit to
what the Russians are doing aggressively
talk to people who live in Latvia or
Estonia
tell ask them if they don't feel like
they're in a gray war right now with
with with the Soviets with excuse me
flashback yeah with the Russians so I
can go through more threats I think that
that if for people not to see how do we
win the battle against authoritarianism
rising authoritarianism around the world
well let's win that battle at home let's
fight against authoritarian right here
where we have a president that sounds
like authoritarian a guide as
authoritarian the enemy of the people
even lock her up right
I mean chance like that we've heard them
in our history people are forgetting
that we are coming week and this is why
historical amnesia really bothers me
we've heard the same anti-immigrant
rhetoric from a viable national party
called the know-nothings yeah that that
came out against those the scourge of
the invasion of the immigrants this time
they were talking about Irish Catholics
it right okay yeah we every generation
is to history echoes we've seen
demagoguery father Conklin I could go
through the every generation has had
their demagogues right and we've beat
them back in the name of more democracy
not less democracy and and so first of
all I always say before you tell me
about your religion for show it to mean
how you treat other people we preach us
if it gospel it's in our songs it's in
our we all swear an oath think about
back in the in the days where one
military would beat the other ones to
swear an oath of loyalty also used to
have a lot of power we do it every day
not even thinking about the words were
uttering from our mouth we say I swear
this oath to liberty and justice for all
well we live in a country with rampant
injustice environmental economic
criminal and justices that that when
they're revealed make people squirm I'm
talking about even animal rights I'm
sorry an animal rights now they're
trying to pass laws so that people won't
even see what's going on to animals in
this country called ag-gag laws because
Americans aren't comfortable with
injustice when they see it but somehow
we've stopped seeing let's just focus
right here at home and this gets me to
the existential threat that I really
think is the existential threat um
because when a country can't do the
things
eighty and ninety percent of people
agree on and I know you might try to use
this as again to push me on and again
coming to my tactical circle should I be
president United States and you and I
will have real real conversations about
him through the Senate real talk about
what it's gonna take
and your first obstacles don't have to
do with Republican right now I believe
me okay but but but for us to be a
country right now that is allowed the
dangerous delusion of divisiveness it's
somehow the the the woman that works for
United Airlines latina woman in my city
and by the way she doesn't work for
United Airlines she cleans their planes
she delivers their food but she works
for an outsourced company that
suppresses her wages gives her no and
retirement security that she has a
different cause for her life then the
guy in the factory town that just saw
his job disappear to a country with no
labor protections or the farmer who has
got a careful as a literal farmer said
to be Republican farmer was telling you
about that the CAFO was down the street
from his poisoned as well that he used
to drink from and his Creek I think
that's pronouncing it right that's
correct that he used to fish that he
used to fish from that those three
people don't have aligned urgent common
causes that are that are affecting their
lives in the most pernicious
anti-democratic ways if we can't awake
in this country to that common cause
where that Latino that black factory
worker like my grandfather was UAW in
Detroit that that automobile worker now
or that steel worker or that coal miner
they don't have common cars with the
farmer if we can't in our politics in
our Civic spaces get people back to
understanding and that is going to be an
existential threat because the things
that we need to do I hear your podcast
I'm sorry use labels like progressive or
out there on the Left where I live by
myself was showing me a tweet I put out
when I was mayor calling for health care
for everybody yeah these aren't radical
ideas to me right there are efficiencies
there there are things that are not
at all but we've allowed our politics to
be distorted and shifted in a way where
we're doing things that are so stupid
let me give you an example because I had
to there is a big advantage I think for
the next president who have had to run
something I was a mayor I had to govern
a city right
roughly billion dollars the budget in
the capital budget I can go through it
through the worst recession of our
lifetimes I'll call it recession for the
country for inner cities it's a
depression I had to make decisions like
a I've heard you say that the President
Obama there's no good decisions yeah
there's no good to say me get to your
desk laughs at people who call
themselves fiscal conservatives I had to
cut my government there's nobody in
Senate there's county executive
governors there at mayor's there they
cut their governments as much as I cut
my government 25% and raise taxes to get
through an economic hell and had to
figure out a way to bring tens of
thousands of jobs to my city now we did
Newark is going through its biggest
economic Delmon special I thought
creative ways we a lot of folks helped
us thought of a way out of that
nightmare but we had to stay in the
saddle and make tough as hell decisions
but one of the things that came out of
that was me always saying if we can
create uncommon coalition's we were
going to create uncommon results and in
Newark I had these incredible moments
where you had unions and and and there
are some incredible guys from the
building trades that I worked with and
we had some tough arguments arguments
you know why because again I'm a black
guy living in Newark with a majority
black and brown city and the unions
didn't reflect my city heat right and
these really good people were receptive
to be saying that if they're gonna build
the first hotel in 40 years in Newark
which we built now we've got four of
them
god bless Roz Baraka that that
construction is gonna have to be done by
people when they drive by that worksite
they see folk they know from the
neighborhood yeah and so they I got
people around the table that were
willing to create apprenticeship
programs for me for my kids they were
willing to okay agree to 30 hours get
banks that that we malign okay and I
will malign the behavior that crashed
our economy it will go after them I
think some independent
looked at people and showed that my
record and in fighting against big banks
that times I voted with big banks was
zero they said but when I needed to get
institutional capital to build that
hotel that could employ hundreds of
people in my city can get my kids in
apprenticeship programs I brought them
to the table as well right
I brought community leaders to the table
because we all are afraid of
gentrification Roz Brock I just had a
big conference on it because New York is
now coming back our population is
growing when I left Newark to become
senator for the first time in 60 years
our population was growing so we want
community leaders there to know that
that they can help us organize they can
help us make sure that this isn't
gentrification that we pass first source
legislation in Newark to say when
anybody's hiring in our city they have
to look to local leaders they have to
agree to hire guys with criminal
convictions because hey lots of drugs
being used on Stanford's campus but
nobody's getting arrested for it yeah
but in my community you walk I've done
this with a reporter before walk the
street stopping fellows asking have they
ever been arrested what are they been
arrested for most Americans don't
realize in 2017 there were more
marijuana arrests for possession than
all the violent crime arrests and you
just announced yesterday that you want
their records expunged not only
marijuana legalized I get a little upset
when people want to talk about marijuana
legalization which I'm all for right the
III I'm all for but they don't talk in
the same breath about justice
restorative justice things like
expunging records giving people in
prison pathways out allowing people to
benefit from the business opportunity of
being created is expending the records
something you need is that legislative
or is that something that you'd have to
pass a bill for that I'd have to pass
bills yeah um last question what do you
think the biggest obstacle in the way of
fixing this system is what is the source
of all this division and what has
happened to our politics like what what
are you fighting against here the
opposite of justice is not simply
injustice its apathy its indifference in
its inaction I am blown away by young
people right now in this country and how
they want to work within jobs where the
companies have values and morals the
creativity the artistry but we still see
boeing rates at 20 30 %
and um young folk if you asked him about
college dad if you ask them about
climate change if they voted you would
see and you and I both know that there
are there might be some people in the
Republican Party that pander to or
politicians in general I don't wanna
point fingers yeah that suddenly if they
know that they're gonna face in the next
election fifty percent in the midterm of
young people voting right not at 20
percent do you think that that would
change people's politics are real quick
and have a changed incentives yeah that
would change incentives and so there is
nothing that is wrong with American
democracy that can't be solved with more
American democracy and what I mean by
that is that our democracy is not a
spectator sport to get more people in
the game and so I understand that there
are people in this country that look at
a person like me and and and it fills
them with hate and bigotry and I see
what the Republican Party's voice on Fox
News wants to try to make people believe
about many of us Democrats but I just
want folks to know that please please
don't make this a small election about
one office and one guy and it's bad as
bad as the things he's doing are this is
a moral moment in America again and and
if we can ignite something in this
election if we can have and if it's not
me if we can have a leader that can
ignite other leaders that could create
not a camp not a campaign not an
election but I keep a larger campaign
for this country if we can reconsider
and Mary McLeod Bethune and Martin
Luther King or let's go to the to the
folks like Frederick Douglas were
framers yeah because the original
framers didn't kind of include them
that's right that's right
so they were reframe errs yeah we now
have to frame this country again we have
to take full responsibility as well
there's a choice we have to make every
day in our lives it's to accept things
as they are
or take responsibility for changing them
that woman is Virginia Jones when I
asked her after her son was murdered why
do you still stay in this properties
projects I know where you living now
with the money you make and she looks at
me because why
almost indignant at the question she had
this defiant love that was always up in
your face why do you still stay here
Miss Jones she looks at me she goes
because I'm in charge of Homeland
Security I mean she didn't she knew she
couldn't secure the whole world but she
was gonna be in charge of homeland
security for that block yeah if more of
us say I'm in charge I'm not gonna you
know Alice Paul did not wait for
Washington she's the first person who's
ever arrested in front of the White
House force-fed force-fed when she was
in prison because she went on hunger
strikes if we take responsibility for
our democracy and make this election a
referendum on the direction of this
country a referendum of spirit a
referent a revival of grace if we can do
that in this election and I'm going to
call for this I'm a progressive on a
tactical guy I was a mayor I had to
figure out how to create safer streets
create better schools and we did in
Newark but but the thing that allowed
that to happen was to get everybody from
late-night talk show hosts to
foundations to unions to reimagine the
city with me well we need to reimagine
America right now because we all the
things we hope for and dream for is this
country are at stake right now the
planet is in peril
we've been told we have 12 years and
clicking the totalitarian answers on the
rise our country is being attacked right
now by the Russians who are finding all
kind of insidious ways I've read the
reports of what they want to do they
want to make us suspect the truth they
want to make us lose faith in our
institutions they want to make us be
pitted against each other they literally
are I've watched the bots
they're trying to foist us to make us
hate each other more if we can't now
revive that grace put more as I always
say on the on this stump put more
indivisible back into this one nation
under God if we miss this opportunity
yeah Democrats might win some elections
in the future but we are not going to
change the country in the broad scale
way we need to do that gives labor back
dignity that makes health care or right
and child poverty a raw
that makes up it's not public schools a
little better but transforms public
education and schools into cathedrals of
learning for for every child not having
their lives determined by the zip codes
they're born in we can do all these
things it's not a matter of can we its
do we have the collective will and so
I'm gonna talk to that spirit in this
country
it emits more and more cynicism emits
more and more people that just want to
blow folk up or or or or or tell me that
oh I hope you punch Donald Trump in the
face I've said that's a good look for a
former tight end damn for a young guy
punching out this are more elderly
president I want this to be an election
that is a referendum of spirit and and
in my opinion a revolution of spirit in
this country like I saw from my parents
generation around the Civil Rights
Movement like I saw from my grandparents
generation around the labor movement we
can we can do that again
well I very much share that hope and I'm
very glad to be a prisoner of like that
I will I'm there okay Cory Booker thank
you so much thank joining thank you so
much
you
