welcome to pod save America live Q&A
we're here with Priyanka Arab Indy Jon
love it
what's up team I got some news today
let's put some yum in this yom kippur
just as much as every other day except
more hmm
who's gonna roll right over when I send
you some of you I'm Kapoor thing let's
go I know I know you're very I know he's
a very religious very religious person
let's go okay uh so I think we got more
questions than we have ever gotten
whoa Auto livestream the people want to
talk a little for people some requests
for gay news but a lot of impeachment oh
sure um okay
hope you have a topic in mind forget it
I already did so as like basically
everyone said even if you had all the
time in the world to be really hard to
keep up with impeachment last time we
did this livestream two weeks ago Nancy
Pelosi announced an impeachment inquiry
there has been a ton of things that have
happened since all of which you can use
Google to find we're not going to every
point but the main question the main
thing that people have been asking about
is what kind of happened in the last day
or two as sticking point for people is
this refusal to comply that the White
House has basically said it's not going
to cooperate with the impeachment
inquiry that's sort of where we're at at
this point so our first question is what
actual power does Congress have to
arrest or punish people in contempt of
the executive and DOJ if they aren't
cooperating
is there a congressional police or jail
how do we enforce contempt citations
houses work all right
so is important because the Trump
administration is basically saying
they're going to flout congressional
subpoenas for incredibly dubious reasons
so there are no reasons no reasons
really
no well we don't want to is the reason
we don't want to they're announcing
their intent to obstruct justice
it's basically what they did yes yes so
congressional subpoenas
there are basically three mechanisms for
enforcing a congressional subpoena the
Supreme Court has ruled that Congress
has inherent authority to enforce those
subpoenas because in order to legislate
you need to be able to investigate and
concur
has also ruled that basically I'm sorry
that Court has also ruled that Congress
is not a court right it can't just
willy-nilly kind of do investigations
but if it has a legitimate legislative
purpose that is their inherent power
because the Constitution affords
Congress a great deal of power three
ways to enforce them one it was about a
hundred years ago yeah this pretty
please you start with pretty please
pretty please is very important it's
always nice to have manners
you know look we can all learn a little
lesson from George W Bush and Ellen
about manners but so so one's pretty
please has failed you have three
mechanisms in 1927 the Supreme Court
ruled that the that the Senate was
justified in dispatching a deputy
sergeant at arms to go and grab the
Attorney General who was failing to
honor and gretel subpoena all right now
that's the big one
that's the doozy right that's called
inherent contempt that's the power of
inherent contam yes and then what
we're just saying one of the one of the
challenges here is he said that they
deputized
I think the sergeant at arms to go do it
like who's gonna the Congress doesn't
have a police force in or does it have a
jail so they'd have to improve now that
it's in the law that they can do this
but they would have to improvise a bit
to figure out all right who's gonna go
find the witness throw some cuffs on
them I don't here's what I'm thinking
I'm we're in like Steny Hoyer office
going if you're telling me that there's
gonna be a buddy comedy where Nancy
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer go on the road
to hunt down Trump administration
officials ayothaya Mena's huh road trip
don't say that on the live stream we
could tell sir go develop so this is a
ixnay
this is I Pete my idea you all heard it
so okay now that is I think in our
current way of thinking pretty
far-fetched to imagine Congress
deputizing someone to go out and you
know Dog the Bounty Hunter some Trump
officials also far-fetched
Donald Trump is presidents right in
foreign interference in the twenty20
election but it but it would be with
that it doesn't gonna happen they're
within their right chickens
that option the two other I think more
likely and routes for enforcing a
subpoena
now one it is it is against the law to
flout a congressional subpoena
it is a criminal act right we all
everyone's like a lot of against the
rules you know but it's not a norm
that's really the law yeah news article
that's like hope Hicks doesn't want a
co-op not sure she's gonna honor a
subpoena a lot of people doing a lot of
real White House refuses to cooperate no
no technically they do for city
government they're breaking the law it's
it's it's not it's not a game it's not a
game of Settlers of Catan we're not
trading wood for sheep it's not
about cooperation it's about honoring or
not honoring the law breaking the law or
not so because it is a criminal
violation of the law you can go to the
Justice Department and say hi seems like
a problem hi
these people are breaking the law the
challenge is Trump's got a henchman
running the Justice Department
administration so that leaves you a
third route which is you can go to the
courts in sue you can sue in in federal
court and say can you please that's
that's the legal pretty police can you
pretty please get these people to do it
and this court can order the Trump
officials to honor the subpoena and then
if they fail to do that they are no
longer just in contempt of Congress
they're in contempt of court and that
can lead to jail time and fines so the
challenge there is that could take a
long time take a very we don't have much
time so now all of this is now it's
worth keeping in mind obstruction of
Congress the failure to cooperate or
really honor the law and participate in
a congressional investigation was one of
the impeachable offenses against third
article of impeachment against Nixon
Richard Nixon um you don't have to take
my word for it
alright a man by the name of Lindsey
Graham who was one of the Lindsey Graham
he's a current senator from South
Carolina
down the street he's one of the floor
managers for the Clinton impeachment and
actually spoke quite eloquently on the
floor of the US House explaining why it
was so important that violating other by
that refusing to honor congressional
be an impeachable offense he was quite
eloquent about it now the good news is
the Statesman Lindsey Graham the
American patriot surely will live up to
the standard he held Bill Clinton in his
conduct as the head of the Judiciary
Committee in the Senate correct mm-hmm I
will say one more point in this I think
the Republican strategy Trump strategy
here is to drag us into fights over
process inherent contempt and people are
blocking you know witnesses and
testimony and process and obstruction
and blah blah blah
they want to sort of grind us down into
the minutiae because they think that's a
win for them and you know what how the
way that Adam Schiff has replied to this
is basically all right well you decide
to obstruct Congress you can give all
your legal reasons that don't
make any sense but I'm just gonna mark
it down as obstruction of Congress as an
article for impeachment and I'm gonna
move on and I think it's important for
Democrats to do whatever they can to
make sure that we get these witnesses
and that people comply with subpoenas
and enforce them however we can but I
think we have to keep our eyes on the
prize here which is talking about the
president's original crime that he is
trying to cover up which is soliciting
foreign interference in the election and
ordering politically motivated
investigations of American citizens via
foreign governments you could imagine
you could imagine an impeachment inquiry
in which the resolution of these
subpoenas was make-or-break for
Democrats well for the country in making
an impeachment argument I think it's
incredibly important that we gather as
much information as possible but as
we've talked about many times Donald
Trump himself has now published a memo
that has plenty of evidence of crimes he
has confessed on the White House lawn
and encourage further law breaking so
we're not in a situation which in which
we are trying to desperately find the
one final bit of proof that finally
exposes Donald Trump his criminality it
out in the open I think there's an easy
argument for all this - which is
what is the president hiding what else
is he hiding this is what like you you
wonder how this is gonna play with
people because clearly the Republican
strategy here is we're gonna get
impeached rum probably gonna get impeach
anyway if they impeach him for
obstruction and process crimes it's
gonna be a lot easier for people to
swallow then impeaching him than finding
out the truth about all the crimes that
he's committed and all the abuses of
power that he's committed but that's a
it's a risky bet because I think for
most voters who are paying extremely
close attention to this who totally
understand the Ukraine story who get it
who think it's inappropriate including
25 percent of Republicans
reserved in a row so for all these like
hearing that
Darla's Trump confessed to a whole bunch
of crimes in public and and released a
transcript that shows that he committed
them whatever he's hiding has to be
really bad right right and so like just
letting you believe every Trump
administration official that every
Republican should just be asked what is
the president hiding why is he so afraid
to let people testify and to turn over
documents if he is innocent if he is
truly innocent then he should be able to
produce a whole bunch of witnesses that
will defend his innocence produce a
whole bunch of evidence that will make
him why is he so afraid to do this what
is he hiding
I read sogndal ins text and he makes
quite clear that there was no quid pro
quo
yeah no hear from him so let's hear from
him let's hear him say that under oath
let's hear from what's his name bill
Taylor who clearly was horrified by the
conduct that he was observing around him
let's hear from these people there's no
nothing nothing does that answer your
questions I enjoyed that I enjoyed that
um I enjoyed thinking about Nancy Pelosi
just you know Nancy Pelosi SVU you know
speaker by day speaker by day the
stand-in until the bachelors back it
would be great all right next question
actually before we get to the next
question we have our usual break where
we ask you to please like and subscribe
oh that is I thought it was gonna be
please summers on with our microphone is
it down where's the
down here is it over here is it down
here it's down here I'm gonna I want
look I see what these youtubers do its
debt there's a button these youtubers
these youtubers huh is these sumers you
know oh alright when you're talking
about the Republicans before a bunch
people are asking what is the
Republicans argument in this impeachment
process that's basically saying that it
hasn't been done correctly what is this
about I know that they say there was no
vote but is there any we're saying a
vote needs to take place know what vote
are they talking about let's break this
down and talk about why is absolutely
nowhere I got the pundits yappin over
there you know I know you want treats
all right there's absolutely nothing
there's no law there's nothing in the
Constitution about the house and needing
to take a vote first to officially
launch an impeachment inquiry
there's just nothing about that there
letter is insane it has been called so
by not just Democrats not just regular
old lawyers but none other than Marco
Rubio's general counsel called it crazy
thought it was completely absurd there
are no legal arguments in that letter
that are real what they've also started
confusing a whole bunch of things
they're trying to say like the president
should be afforded due process like
every American and therefore the
president should be able to confront his
witnesses and see the evidence against
him and blah blah blah blah blah so the
problem with this is the the trial the
president's trial will not be held in a
house trials in the Senate trials in the
center east what he's saying is I would
like to be tried for crimes in the
Senate they make a case in their
 letter for a trial in the
Senate it is an argument to quickly vote
for him to be impeached so that there
can be a proper twatt trial in which
gaeaf Justice John Roberts oversees the
the the reckoning
some claims and then they can negotiate
for all the due process they want though
again there's no rules for this
right like each body has its own rules
the house in the Senate but there's no
laws about this because all it says in
the Constitution is that the Congress
has the authority to impeach the
president for high crimes and
misdemeanors it does not lay out what
the process looks like it does not lay
out anything else just that the house
can impeach in the Senate then holds a
trial so if you want some kind of
analogous situation to actual criminal
trials the house and there was a couple
lawyers on Twitter last night that were
talking about this the house could be
thought of as the grand jury that brings
an indictment and then the Senate is the
actual jury trial with the Senators
being the jurors so when a grand jury
hears evidence the target of the grand
jury investigation doesn't get to see
the evidence doesn't get to have their
counsel there all the time does it get
to meet all the witnesses all the all
the stuff that you get that all the due
process stuff that happens in a criminal
trial
it doesn't really happy when a grand
jury happened when a grand jury is just
looking at all the evidence and deciding
whether to indict which is what the
house is doing right now they're
deciding whether to indict the president
otherwise known as impeaching him so
that there can be a trial in the Senate
John let me break it down for you all
right this is an episode of Law & Order
all right there's law and there's order
all right we're in we're in the Jerry
Orbach face all right this is the police
face all right this is the investigatory
face all right this is when he's when
Jerry Orbach is going into the into the
into the convenience store and he says
to the guy behind the counter hey man
pay attention okay this is about a
murder and the guy's like whoa whoa whoa
hey hey all right
the Senate that's when we got Sam
Waterston on the case all right that's
that's what we're talking about all
right
that's when a judge is like it's a bit
unusual but I'll allow it you know I get
to give you some latitude here but you
rein it in counselor yeah perfect okay
perfect that's perfect I have no idea
you're dodging you don't you don't know
about law and order the guys for you
yeah no I know that guy I don't know the
you're telling me you're not familiar
with the 90s law-and-order leads that
are you scratching around TNT during the
day when you were maybe six years old
sorry you're telling me you didn't come
home from school and build card houses
in front of the television while
watching Law & Order till dinner till
dinner that's a lot of thumbtacks
next question alright so you you've said
this vote is entirely unnecessary is
there any benefit to having it just to
officially do it if it kind of takes the
wind out of the sails of this argument
or like is it pointless and we should
not it's a great it's a great question I
do not think it will take the wind out
of their sails like ah
hoisted by our own petard continue yes a
reporter asks the White House the White
House officials did some background
briefing on this stupid letter
last night and one of the reporters
asked like so if they take the vote a
formal vote to initiate a formal
impeachment inquiry in the house will
you then cooperate only we will only
cooperate if they stop doing the
impeachment investigation they're
conditioned for cooperating with an
impeachment inquiry is that there will
there be no impeachment inquiry that's
what the White House has said so I don't
think it will take the wind out of their
sails that said like Nancy Pelosi has
just about every Democrat on board now
this come out I think we're probably
like ten or eleven Democrats shy of the
full caucus plus Justin a MASH being on
board for an impeachment inquiry so I
don't know why you couldn't have a vote
I'm guessing that what Pelosi is
thinking is all right I still have about
ten Democrats who are on the fence who
don't know if they wanna be for
impeachment and they've probably said to
her we'll be there but we want to go
through the process of seeing all the
evidence drafting articles of
impeachment before we have to take a
vote like this and so she's probably
thinking all right well I'll just wait
because we don't need to take this vote
because it's not required and this to
clarify is the vote to open officially
you should not like the vote to impeach
any of exactly right there's there's
we're talking about yeah there's there's
gonna be a vote that's the other thing
there's going to be a vote in the house
no matter what Donald Trump is not gonna
be put on trial
the Senate unless the house votes to
impeach him so the idea that like
Republicans think they got everyone by
like forcing a vote now when there's
probably gonna be a vote in a month or
two they all know they're voting for it
they're already that it's happened it's
a it's a talking point so that
reporters can say oh the Republicans
have a point on this one that's what it
is that's everything they're doing is
this and every day it's like you know
this letter this letter was uh Unleashed
you know was dropped from planes over DC
on the same day there were multiple
polls showing incredible movement on the
impeachment issue so every day I mean I
think part of the reason they're pushing
for this now it's every single day the
vote on impeachment gets easier for
Democrats and harder for Republicans so
you know they're running out of time to
have any kind of vote in the house where
where any Democrats feel any kind of
political pressure you know the the
story is moving very fast that's all
okay we've been talking like the story's
moving very fast it is it's really a
great it really is just a stat like it's
a it's a historic moment I mean it took
a long time for it for for for the
country to get behind Nixon impeachment
this is 20-point movement across every
group in a matter of days that the the
reason I think it's important to you is
I think there's been a lot of talk about
you know Pelosi waited why did she wait
was it a good idea what is it a bad idea
like you know why do these other stories
not matter as much I think people are
under counting just how much three years
of coverage of Donald Trump's corruption
and chaos and Canale rather broke the
camel's back
soften the ground and it's been really
heartening I think it's worth pausing to
just I think sometimes you watch the
news and you see the Republicans spin
and they see Kevin McCarthy on
television saying up is down and black
is white you see all you see Donald
Trump pretending all this is really see
even the sort of smart sophisticated
Republican operatives trying to spin
this in their favor and claiming that
what we see with our eyes is not real
and you wonder well what is that what
happens when that reaches people what
what happens and I think it's been it's
been grad I don't know what's going to
happen I don't know what's gone how this
will change it I don't know if
Republicans don't ultimately figure out
how to make a better argument here but
right now it has been heartening
to see that despite the propaganda
apparatus of the Republicans despite the
ability of Donald Trump and his minions
to kind of confuse an office gate the
function the eyes and ears of Americans
are really functioning and they see this
for what it is and that is important
it's really it's it's important that's
all okay so we've been talking about
like oh let pundit out all right so
we've been talking about kind of like
you working how impeachment works in the
house can we talk about it's more
broadly this question is basically
asking what the point of it is this
person saying it seems like impeachments
basically like pointing and saying bad
dog like what will physical it's a great
question I think it is the equivalent of
like pulling a fire alarm right we're
like yeah the house might still burn
down like things are not go well but it
is it is focusing being the attention of
the entire nation right on what company
Trampas enter so for example for example
if the Ukraine story came out and all
the reporting happened that has happened
and Nancy Pelosi did what she has done
in in the past
up until Ukraine and sort of said I
don't know if we want to impeach over
this we gotta focus on prescription
drugs and you know ever got mad and then
decided they weren't gonna peach him
over this the Ukraine story and what
Trump did would be a distant memory we'd
be on to the next thing right now no one
would be talking about Ukraine those
polls that show that 60% of people think
that it's inappropriate that he should
be impeached all said none of those
would be around we'd be on to the next
thing and that would be that
so like Lovett just said we don't know
where this is gonna go right like it's
it's very possible we've all been
expecting them from the beginning that
the Senate could exonerate him because
he has the votes from the Republicans
but we are again the jurors are not just
the Senators they are the American
people who are going to vote in 2020 and
this is information warfare that's what
this election is it is about who can
control the narrative and the
information flow and the arguments that
people are making from now until
November of 2020 and every minute we're
talking about Donald Trump's crimes and
abuse of power
and all the bad things he's done is
another minute where he's not making the
argument about the Democrats and you can
see that his poll numbers right now you
can see it in the poll numbers about
impeachment public opinion is moving
that to me has been the true purpose of
impeachment to actually try Donald Trump
in the court of public opinion so that
when November 20 20 rules around
everyone is fully aware of every single
thing that he has done it's good that's
right Artie I like the fire analogy
because it is funny because there was
for a period of time there was a lot of
people being like hey um should we put
it has the fire has spread from the park
from the sofa to the Barcalounger and
then a couple Democrats like I want to
see a coffee table burning the fire goes
out everyone's gonna be mad at the fire
alarm and like I don't know but while
they were like but if it goes out on its
own
we'll have just don't look so
embarrassing the fire department's
resources coming to our house and by the
way by the way by the way think about
the water damage you say we have to pull
the fire alarm we pull it
they soak our living room the fire is
gone it didn't spread and with
everything climbing up the curtains
destroying Windsor Castle so they
finally pulled the alarm they
pulled it they pulled up they pulled it
alright well you have the perfect segue
but then we went back to this Jerry
Nadler is running out of the house
holding his wedding album being like
please go on great great let's talk
about messaging um I don't know if you
guys listen to one of the podcasts
that's out there yeah we're good friends
of the daily oh yeah we love Mikey
Barb's any outfit and the picture okay
anyway back on track I listened to it
this morning I thought it was very
interesting to hear like Alyssa's
lock-ins
interactions with voters who like you
know
some of whom were really happy that she
was pursuing impeachment some of whom
obviously had been like listening to Fox
News and like really just had a totally
different view of what actually took
place so now I'm really interested in
messaging and so is Randy who asked this
next question who why isn't the DNC
countering all the ridiculous TV ads and
things that happen on Fox with like you
know programming of our own ads of our
own like how can we participate in this
information warfare as you say
effectively because it doesn't appear
that we are doing so now how do we break
through with a message of what's
actually happening
great question Randy way to go Randy
great question
nailed it you know I said this I'm a pod
Monday before I launch into my repeated
complaints about this that people have
heard before
Tom Stiers group is spending a few
million dollars to run ads against
vulnerable Senate Republicans thumbs up
bill crystals group build crystals group
that's who we're that's what we're
that's that's who's stepping up here the
never budget never Trump errs they are
running some ads about this I think you
know the Biden folks put out an ad that
you probably can find it somewhere it's
available that's one it's available you
can get on a em but they're not yet on
FM they're not totally sold on FM you
know I think they'll be getting some ads
out the door at some point it's at some
point before 2020 news from the Biden
campaign of the world boys and girls on
the front of them of the vitam campaign
report that be no um we are behind the
eight ball in this we have been very
slow democratic and progressive groups I
was watching as I do every night as
she's coming on the show tonight Rachel
Maddow Show last night
and during the commercial breaks on
MSNBC bunch of Trump ads all about
impeachment
Abidin they're running all over cable
Trump spent $700,000 last week alone on
Facebook ads about this $700,000 oh and
it's like 10 times the amount of the
next highest spender on Facebook one
once one small note Trump is running
incredibly dishonest ads on Facebook
that have reached millions and millions
of people and but as always as always
facebook responds that it doesn't
violate their policies that is always
their blanket response when they are
caught promoting this information and
that is expected that is supposed to tie
them over until their next
apology I also want to we do a lot of
Facebook bashing here but guess where
else that is Twitter and YouTube
and it's a little tiring that Twitter
and YouTube don't get pulled into all
the Facebook because Facebook
deserves every bit of it but so today
yeah that's YouTube yes the the amount
of that's if you're watching right now
click that like button people or
like button it might have been before
this we're not in charge of what the ads
are but what kind of thing I know you've
told us there's all of you who've
watched it told us there's random
 Trump ad banners on on crooked
media content too we can't do anything
we can't do any better but here's the
thought here's the thought kind of
wasted their money you know kind of okay
paid it's true some guys are being
persuaded by that are you come on come
on let's no come on
but anyway yes so Priyanka we are very
behind the eight ball in this and every
democratic donor with money
I'm Priorities USA is our biggest super
PAC out there
I imagine that they're working on this
and they're gonna run ads soon forgive
me if I missed an article saying that
they are going to do this but they
should be of him all over this right now
every democratic progressive liberal
group with money should be running
 ads right now and people who
have like you know ad makers whatever
just make a video pro bono and
start spreading it around on the
internet like we have to start sharing
more content from our side on
impeachment I'm gonna put you on the
spot what do you think that should look
like or those messages should be like
what do you think is effect
if I cut through so many so many good
ideas to the world on YouTube can make
it you know we've talked a lot of it I
think you know we've had a lot of
conversations just about it's actually
one of the challenges of Trump is he's
so bad in so many different directions
at once that it's hard to drill down on
a clean simple message about what he
tried to do but that's it do us a favor
though do us a favor that was good as I
said on the call I think it's crazy to
withhold assistance for a political
campaign I tried to write this write a
sentence about this recent years you
could throw up Mike Pence in 2016
talking about how foreign interference
is horrible in an election you should
never solicit at blah blah blah and then
Donald Trump saying do us a favor though
put up the quote from the transcript you
can put up Mitt Romney's tweets saying
that it was appalling and wrong and
politically motivated and you could run
mitt romney's quote in Susan Collins
estate in martha mcsalley state and all
the senators that are up in 2020 Donald
Trump tried to blackmail a foreign
government to hurt US national security
and so serve his own political interests
he traded arms for investigations that's
that's that's I mean there's there's a
million ways to say I mean we tested
this in our Arizona poll the core
comedian changed polls and we found that
a message that talked about interfering
with or Donald Trump's actions
preventing free and fair elections in
2020 and that you know our democracy is
at stake and we have to get to the
bottom of this even if it means
impeaching him and that was a very
popular message but I just think we've
been given so much material both in like
Trump appointed officials whether it's
the inspector general at the
intelligence of the intelligence
community whether it's some of these
American diplomats who are in Ukraine
whose text message just came out you
have Trump appointed officials saying
that this is bad that this reeks that
this is wrong right so like for
Republicans or independents or people
who aren't on board yet you've got a
whole bunch of Trump people saying it's
wrong you got Mitt Romney the party's
2012 nominee saying it's wrong you could
start collecting all the
Republicans who are saying this is wrong
put them in an ad and then you could
talk about you could have Trump's own
words confessing the crime and the call
transcript and the texts all there in a
mad yeah Democrats and Republicans agree
you know we can't have a president
abusing power
it's rangerous whoever the president is
you ever get nonpartisan it doesn't
matter it's looks so easy that guys it's
so easy make the ad okay I don't know
how many cats no I don't ad maker
I mean I'd record right home but I can't
make them I cannot crop a photo and it's
a really I can't even do an Instagram
second what do I do I take a screenshot
we should we should okay I also think
it'd take two seconds I think there are
bunch people who are watching this
stream who like no we're talking about
impeachment answer you're related
questions who might not be familiar with
everything that we're doing all across
the crooked universe
I would suggest like maybe taking a look
at Kirk accom there are a few like you
were mentioning Arizona Dan Pfeiffer
does really cool memos out of Arizona
Wisconsin with messaging that's most
effective that we've pulled to see
that's most effective yeah like how to
run against our messages these voters
respond to and I mean when you're like
in this this situation and you're like
how does this end
I don't really know looking at stuff
like that was hopeful for me so maybe if
you're new to the stream and watching
this for like you know impeachment
related news that's something you might
want to check out cricket calm and of
course vote save America calm of course
we're gonna be back cuz there are
debates next week though we're gonna do
our group spread again can't wait oh I
can't with twelve of them all at one
weld of them all at once
wow what a delight Wow okay Tom Steyer
we're jumping in Tommy yes we're jumping
ahead we have more to do it okay
messaging wise going back what can a
person watching this stream right now
aside from sharing the stream which they
should do what can they do to help if
they feel that Donald Trump should be
impeached
should they be calling their senators
should they be calling reps like what do
you do if you want this process to be
moving along good question what are the
most effective things that I've seen
over the last couple weeks is Joni Ernst
senator from Iowa her constituents
showing up at Town Hall to ask really
tough questions about this put her on
the spot in a very very tough couple
weeks for Joni Ernst who's now been you
know badgered by reporters reporter
asked her a very simple question forget
about the specifics of Donald Trump's
case which you say you don't want to
comment on do you think it's
inappropriate for any president to
solicit for an interference at election
and the question she said yes she did
she did not say the UH yeah it's yeah
the the one of the great strengths we've
had in these past few weeks has been
that this scandal has been unspinning
it's just unspent
mmm but we're talking about sorry so
we're in the middle of a congressional
recess right now even though some of the
folks in the House who are investigating
this or back in DC yeah there we're
going to lunch either we're going to
lunch but we're in the middle of
congressional recess that lasts until I
believe October 15th
it's October 9th now so you can check
out I think in peach now calm it's the
website it might be dot org you never
tell these days but it shows where
different members are having town halls
and events during the recess you should
go to those events and you should ask
incredibly tough questions of Dartmouth
org
it's an Oregon PTA or go there and you
can find out you can look put in your
zip code figure out where an event is
near you if it's a Democrat this this is
we don't say this enough if it is a
Democrat holding the event and the
Democrat is in favor of the impeachment
inquiry it's actually really important
to go to those events too and thank your
representative for doing that because
these Democrats I know that they
shouldn't need it but they do they need
positive reinforcement it's not a
reinforcement it should be all need we
all need a little we all need a slap in
the back huh you know we all sometimes
need a little bit less Priyanka and I
would also just add that you know
impeachment it's incredibly important
what's happening but ultimately you know
we're gonna have like this is it this is
we are we're looking at an impeachment
that revolves around whether or not we
are going to have a fair election in
2020 but there are a lot of other
obstacles to a fair election in 2020
and right now the election feels far
away but it's not far away for building
infrastructure to have people on the
ground who can protect the election so
you know we've already raised a bunch
we're gonna keep raising more go to vote
save america.com slash fair fight and
you can help Stacey Abrams put 20 teams
on the ground in 20 battleground states
and we need those teams there because
Donald Trump trying to get dirt on Joe
Biden is the tip of the spear but
there's an incredible effort all the way
down to the local level to try to to
interfere in the election to suppress
people's votes and Stacey's on the case
what I'm saying some crazy you're
kidding
both the Kurds they didn't help us in
the Second World War they didn't help us
with Normandy he said they're only
interested in fighting for their own
land he adds with all that being said we
like the Kurds unbelievable it's worth
pointing out that Donald Trump has also
in the midst of truly horrible horrible
impeachment polls for him at a moment
where Republicans in the Senate are
privately being quite critical of him
and a few are publicly being critical of
him too - on foreign policy create an
incredible wedge within his own party
it's saying it's it's really staggering
uh on top of the foreign policy
implications that I don't fully
understand myself anyway yeah Wow all
right we briefly mentioned vote save
America before but I think we should
talk about what we're doing right now
because of course there's an election
2020 but there is an election Day coming
up next month sure is we have a bunch of
things going on on both save America
calm and this person wants us to talk
about the Kentucky governors race please
please for canvassing the Kentucky
governors race is an important race we
could win the governorship Andy Beshear
great candidate Matt Bevin terrible
governor has been awful for Kentucky you
know it's been spending most of his
administration trying to cut Medicaid so
and we have a chance in Kentucky we do I
think there's the important thing to
know is there are on election day and a
couple weeks some month months come on
yeah there are very competitive races in
Virginia we could Democrats can
the Virginia State House which is
incredibly important and you can donate
to help that at Jerry our
Jerry fund
what is it vote save America calm /
Jerry I think that'll work anyway merica
calm the fund is there its we call it
 Jerry because if the Democrats
controlled the Virginia State House then
we can draw fair maps vote save America
calm / just Jerry just Jerry couldn't do
the just Jerry I bet it also
redirects though yeah and so that's very
important we only need to flip a couple
seats in Virginia to take over for
Democrats to take over there as you just
mentioned we could win the governorship
in Kentucky and there are also we can
make serious gains in the Mississippi
legislature which is not something you
hear every day
Democrats and there is a Democratic
governor in Louisiana who is up that we
need to help reelect as well so
Louisiana Mississippi Kentucky Virginia
four states were there some pretty
important elections go to bites of
America calm check it out and get a
whole bunch more info there and there's
also like a bunch of ways you can help
if you're like I don't live in any
states whatever I don't really know if I
can help like there are so many things
you can do what they're all on that site
so go check it out it's very cool ok we
made it to the fun section guys Elijah
told me I can only do a couple questions
because he's not fun but told joy over
there let's start with gay news let's
get an update love it what's going on
gay news but up up up up it up or gay
news I'm really enjoying the politician
on Netflix Samwise that gay news if I
have to tell you that's why it's gay
news you know what I mean I thought we
were all gonna like talk about how much
we liked it just for gay people well I
just I mean yeah I it's great I
you were a little skeptical I was kept I
was I hadn't seen it I'm a lot of yes
I'm with the TV bigwigs and our
development meeting you know we got a
bigwig us we got Sarah guy's tumor
development person that loved it name
and they're all you know we ended did
all the meeting like what is everyone
been watching and I said I love the
politician and it was if I just farted
or something it was the way people
looked at me but that was fun at the UH
what and I'm like it's really good so uh
yeah it's interesting
why is
the politician a part of gay news it is
because it has an inherent homosexual
vibe but I yeah I mean there's a that
sound story it's not even that it's a
gay storyline it's at it it is gay there
can be so big little lies is also gay in
a great way and and one of the great
things I think you know you know John
does not neatly only approve of
heteronormative non-gay television you
love a gay show you love is just colors
for clothing I thought yeah he only
wants yeah yeah you got a dress him in
his range his sartorial rainbow runs
from Cadbury to white but television
wise he's just freak anyway I
really like it and I watched it twice
because she watched it alone while we
were on the road and then I wanted to
watch it and she's like great I'm in
again I think Ben Platt
is such a great actor I love watching
him I loved him in dear Evan Hanson even
though I think your oven Hanson is a
great musical with really great songs
though when you dig underneath I do
believe it is a ultimately a musical
about rehabilitating a sociopath though
so I have some sort of I have some
political questions about that musical
but I still had a great time and I'll
cry pan of a musical I'm gonna apologize
as gain is this what it's for and he's
so good in the politician and there are
so many good people in the politician
yeah he's a crazy shows great Gwyneth
Paltrow is a delight the the show is
there just it's a it's a complete is
Ryan Murphy is unleashed he is free he
has chewed through his
restraints and he is roaming loose
through the countryside and I think it's
good bump up up about that's gay news
have you watch it yet yeah I finished it
I thought it was great I thought it was
so entertaining the camp I'm behind it's
just I'm not done I'm only I'm only I've
only watched four or five oh I wasn't
Miss Annie spoiler
great it's there I was I'm glad you said
that I've only watched four or five no I
was there are story lines that I enjoyed
way more than other story lines and I
think that like you know evened it out
for me Jessica Lange right yeah Jessica
Lange hilaryford I'm ready for season
two as well already I'm gonna wait for
that probably oh I don't know who I am
okay
let's talk about a thing that has come
up recently in our office I think now
here is the right forum to talk about it
okay exclamation points in the office
slack oh yeah
so John and Tommy recently decided they
were anti exclamation point partly
because of the context okay we were -
great meeting with Priyanka about sort
of the crooked media voice oh yeah kind
of thing you talked about at some point
in a company when you've grown to a
certain size and the voice in our social
media accounts and you had a good like
do's and don'ts and one of the don'ts
was like no unnecessary exclamation
points external that's right a person
could have made us think made us think
maybe yeah we use an exclamation but
today today so before this livestream I
sent you know the doc with all the
questions - John John and our Channel
the livestream Channel and I was like
here's the doctor with all the questions
and John goes sure excellent or like
thanks exclamation point and then goes
or like if I asked if I could send it in
a certain time and he was like sure
exclamation point and then types sure
with nothing right after college cuz I'm
trying to cut back trying to cut back
honestly he's going he's going ketone
punctuation the empty carbs of
punctuation mark but we said that there
are empty cars just a drawback of no
exclamations is when you've been using
them a lot and you don't use them
suddenly interoffice communication
people think that you're mad here's
here's here's the issue like Priyanka
today she thought when I just said sure
with no Aslam Asian point it was like
well no it was even more offensive cuz
you said first you said it with the
exclamation then you're like no I don't
i'm not actually excited but can I
ruminate in a philosophical way yes sure
I don't think we're gonna be able to
stop you so here's the thing though
someone cut to the feed written text is
an imitation of communication of oral
communication right it's like a way of
it's like a it's a it's a it's a
simulation of our conversations that we
would have face-to-face and it works
when there's a lot of context you cannot
understand people's tone but we do so
much communicating in text that has
replaced not just letters not books but
like really small exchanges and there's
not enough context and so the period
feels hostile the way the the the the
old the old game of I'm too busy for
punctuation right classic on Twitter
classic in texts like all right come on
the exclamation point feels like too
much there is a missing bit of
punctuation halfway between period and
exclamation that says this is a pleasant
but not exclaiming no mark like I'm good
this is a good sure sure you want you
out of like there's no that no like the
absence of punctuation is bad I'm just
saying we've we've flipped the switch so
quickly that it's a little jarring I'm
gonna say get over it but also Wow but
all use an exclamation on I take it over
it no that was a question the this is
why though this is why I don't care what
people say I don't care where the
culture has moved I call my friends and
they hate it but I still do it I call
Spencer he doesn't answer he doesn't
exist I call him again and then he's
like what I don't call John because
that's not our vibe and I find that I
there's enough ways in which I
antagonize III antagonize John and Tommy
across so many dimensions of human
existence that I have died have not
added to that the fact that I call them
but all my other friends I don't answer
the phone he also doesn't answer
I do call Emily and Emily I've watched
Emily change over the years as she and
John have been together for many years
long time that it the way she answers
the phone
has gotten more and more hostile over
time it used to be like hey and now it's
hey hey we don't talk on the phone now
well she you trained her too
you trained everybody not to call you
calling you it's like if I the good news
though if I I know that I call Jimmy I
call you am I my brain is in here all
day with you it but you find me in here
if you definitely you can definitely
find him in here try a meeting yeah I do
know though if I do ever call John he
will have to answer because he is I
assume he'll my house must be on fire
that's right that is Emily calls me like
oh it's a problem meanwhile me and a
certain investigative journalist there's
uh there's no reason not to call we're
always on the phone all right I love the
fun all right I also think that there's
something about texting I think it's
this is the most old fogey thing I'll
say which is so texting is an imitation
of a conversation but it adds a
dimension of you get to think about what
you're going to say before you say it
like it of course but I think it does a
little bit of damage that instead of
just talking to each other we spent so
much time thinking about how to talk to
each other which is a fundamentally new
phenomenon and maybe breaking our brains
in some fundamental way because it's a
grand experiment on a global scale
and if thought cool well this is a great
stream and we'll see you again in a
couple weeks
that's why she told me we had to wrap up
got a wrap-up during the Travis you guys
both texturing the streamer you're
guilty of us too you didn't do it this
time but you've done it when you're
boring times when you will pick up your
reel and scroll commentary okay you know
a young Andy Rooney I I swear to God I
swear to God I was going like I realize
I will rip that and I'd be checking to
see if had a new desk and I talked about
guys I think we have to for the good of
our company got the stream but this is
specifically keep sending your questions
we appreciate them thank you for tuning
into pods Native America live
I think that's thanks everyone thanks
Priyanka catch on
