welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod you'll
hear from Lucy Macbeth a Democratic
congressional candidate in Georgia who
got into politics after losing her son
to gun violence we're also launching
something very cool today a few months
ago crooked media's editor-in-chief
Brian boiler went to San Quentin State
Prison to talk to prisoners about voting
and felon disenfranchisement and many of
the prisoners wrote personal essays
about what it means to participate in an
election you can now read those essays
on votes of America com
slash restore the vote and you can
listen to Brian's conversations with
these prisoners on this week's crooked
conversation okay also check out votes
save America which now has a very cool
very useful voter guide that will help
you understand everything on your ballot
you can even fill out a copy of your
ballot and save it so you can have the
ballot with you when you go to the polls
and fill out your real ballot fill out
your mail-in ballot whatever it is just
so you know the what we have on the
website is a copy of the ballot that you
can use to help yourself figure out
what's on it it is not your real ballot
people ask is that really a problem okay
people thought that maybe it was the
real ballot that you could download from
our website which that would be
something just printing real ballots
here Cricut media that's gonna end up on
Fox okay finally we will be in Austin on
Friday for our second HBO special and
we'll be joined by our good friends
Brittany PAC net and Beto or Roarke you
will not want to miss that one it is
Friday night 11:00 p.m. Eastern on HBO
and then it'll be on HBO go and HBO now
sure so check it out
second show Austin okay Dan let's talk
about the news huh lot of sure why not
it's been a while since we talked about
the news let's do it has with 20 days
left until the 2018 midterm elections
Donald Trump has decided to finally come
out of his shell and say what's on his
mind he kicked off Tuesday morning by
calling stormy Daniels horse face on
Twitter
senator Elizabeth Warren continuing to
call her Pocahontas he criticized the
global condemnation of Saudi Arabia for
what appears to be the brutal murder of
a journalist who was an American
resident comparing the allegations that
the Saudis are guilty to the allegations
of sexual assault against Brett
Kavanaugh in interviews on Tuesday Trump
again questioned whether Russia meddled
in the 2016 election when asked about
his personal lawyer implicating Trump as
an unindicted co-conspirator in multiple
felonies the president accused Michael
Cohen of lying when asked whether he
believed in climate change the president
said there are scientists on both sides
that California has wildfires because
the state does a horrible job of
maintaining their forests that he hasn't
visited troops in a combat zone yet
because he doesn't think it's quote
overly necessary that he's done quote an
incredible job with the children he's
separated from their parents at the
border and that if Republicans lose the
house in November it won't be his fault
then where do you want to start I mean I
don't know first I'd like to just say
the amount of introspection and
self-reflection in that interview where
you look at what you've done what you've
done well and you think what hey give me
a better president is astounding it's
just it's really he's really grown what
he's really grown enough job he is what
a man who walked into the Oval Office
right off the set of the Celebrity
Apprentice who when he felt the burden
of being Prezi knighted States
leader of the free world a role model to
children just took that in and thought
about how can I fit the burdens of this
office no nothing has changed he has
grown not one iota after two years of
making life-and-death decisions
nothing amazing it's amazing
I guess like how does the media even
begin to cover all of this and like how
do people process it I mean in that
quick list of things that I just read
through any one of those comments from
Donald Trump would be like a multi-day
possibly multi week story for any other
president most other politicians and any
other time are we
we supposed to think about this I
realize we say this all the time but it
is 20 days until election and the
president has decided to go on a media
tour where he is just saying all kinds
of just dishonest grossly inappropriate
offensive which is the norm with
him I we have been known to be media
critics on this podcast yeah but I
really don't I don't know how the media
can cover this oh I don't need it that
was a that was my genuine question I
don't understand I mean it's preparing
for this podcast I didn't know how we'd
all what we cover it all yeah it's like
I was watching this sort of happened in
real time when Zeke Miller who's a White
House reporter for the AP was just
tweeting out the leads of the stories
that they were writing off of this and
it's like Trump says he takes no well if
they had Republicans lose the house it
will not be his fault Trump says blaming
the Saudis for the Khashoggi killing is
you know they should be innocent till
proven guilty Trump says you know
defense calling stormy Daniels for some
it's just all the things even any one of
those would be a five day story in a
different media environment and so the
only way I think we can interpret it is
to take a step back and look at the full
array of everything he said and as a
indictment of the kind of president he
is we've been talking a long time about
how an important argument for Democrats
in this election is about being a check
against the chaos and corruption of
Trump and here you have just to use a
term of art a ton of chaos and some
ends and potential corruption oh yeah
always I mean oh like just then that is
a given there is there is more
corruption before breakfast in this
administration that in any presidencies
since Watergate I mean you know the
stormy Daniels news reminded us of
course that's the president's own lawyer
has implicated him in multiple campaign
finance crimes nothing has been done
about that so far this so dnews reminds
us that the president's and his hotels
and his private companies have
financially benefited from the Saudis
it now seems he is helping cover up the
murder of a journalist who is an
American resident seems fairly
astounding and it's just sort of just
sort of on the back burner just uh it's
it's unbelievable
it's unbelievable I mean we're we are 24
hours after let's just start with the
stormy Daniels news we're 24 hours after
the President had States called a woman
a horse face is any Republican candidate
in any close race gonna condemn that
anything gonna happen about that with
that no I mean maybe somewhere down the
line Jeff Flake will condemn this in a
sad tweet so then if and then if there
was some bill to make a horse face
monument Jeff Flake would vote for that
like that it that's exactly how this
would happen I look I think we have to
understand that this trumps being the
right way to say this but Trump being so
horrible is a classic feature not bug
argument for the Republicans this for a
portion of his base you know this is why
they like him this willingness to say
things that others won't say and the
problem is I don't think most Republican
elected officials believe that the
president's eight should be calling
anyone a horse face right but they have
come to believe and this is the
long-term danger of trumpism becoming
conservativism in America is they have
come to believe that even if it is
morally wrong it's good politics and
therefore they can't say anything or
shouldn't say anything because that will
upset the Trump base and therefore they
will lose election so we have silence on
things that you I just I think many of
these Republicans are bad in a lot of
ways but I do think that I do believe
that they probably even Paul Ryan thinks
it is wrong that Trump says this but the
they can't they feel like they can't say
it because they believe it's they
believe what Trump does is now good
politics and so they will he's buying
their silence in exchange for what they
believed
be votes from his base well and you know
the only thing that's gonna change that
is an election right because like you
said the Republicans may or may not
believe that this is morally wrong but
that doesn't matter they think it's
politically smart and they think that it
will rev up their base and they think
that their base is all they need to win
a lot of these elections and we can get
into why that may or may not be true but
if Republicans do well in the midterms
Trump will say all of this stuff and
worse and do worse over the next two
years because their strategy will have
been validated right and he will charge
on if you that the last two years were
bad you ain't seen nothing yet for the
next two years if Republicans do well
and this strategy of Trump saying
whatever the he wants and riling up
the base and doing whatever he wants
drive up the base if that is validated
on Election Day all bets are off for the
next two years the Trump is gonna be
Trump like if they lost 200 seats Trump
would find a way to believe that this
was voter fraud the Chinese interfering
in elections Paul Ryan a Mitch McConnell
being terrible and not supported he
would find a way to justify it because
he is chemically incapable of accepting
responsibility for anything right and
but what could change is Republicans
feeling a need to provide to say
something to be a check of some kind and
on the matters of policy and oversight
and corruption if we take the house I
don't really give a what Paul Ryan
or Ben Sasse say because Democrats will
be able to will be able to actually stop
the trumpet Genda they'll be able to
hold oversight hearings subpoena
witnesses and that's what will really
matter but we can't judge success and
fair what happens my will comes out at
Trump's mouth because that is that is
unchangeable what is the strategy behind
making this the Trump show for the last
few weeks is it even a strategy I
realize we use the term loosely when
talking about Trump and the White House
but it does I guess we know at least
from The Daily Beast had a story about
this yesterday or couple days ago that
Trump told his the White House staff in
the mid
September I'm not getting my message out
in enough places I need to do more
interviews I want to do even more non
Fox non right-wing interviews because
you know I'm the good messenger and if I
just get my message out well win the
election what do you think the strategy
is there do you think there's something
more to it yeah I think I mean it as you
point out I'm always hesitant to use the
word strategy to describe Trump because
that he doesn't have strategic thinking
but there is something underlying this
it is it I mean it's I always subscribe
to him it's more instinctual than
intellectual and I think this is an he
has an instinct that the more he talks
the better off Republicans will be and
the better off he will be and that he
has very little faith in anyone else
speaking for him whether it's Republican
congressional candidate Sarah Huckabee
Sanders Mitch McConnell anyone else did
the person who should be speaking is
Trump he also enjoys attention and this
is attention and he would just be he was
just melt into the ground if if the rule
was that he had to stop talking for
Republicans to do well he would never
believe polling or anything else that
would say the less Trump the better and
I do like they have a theory of trying
to get Republican enthusiasm up and the
belief is is that Trump the more Trump
the more Republican enthusiasm I don't
know that that's gonna work or not
there's some evidence it works in some
places and not others but I think that
is what is it what is happening here
that's what I was gonna say I mean when
you look back at you know polling and
special election results since Trump has
become president you know we've said
this before it does seem like when we
are debating large scale economic policy
health care tax cuts off like that polls
have that's when the Democrats have been
at their best
I think another time that Democrats have
done better is when Trump is out there
all the time saying truly crazy but
again that could be in some places and
not others and then it seems as though
when the polls have been tightest was
during the Cavanaugh hearings
and partly during during that time for
most of it until the end
Trump sort of receded into the
background and it was sort of a
traditional Republican versus Democrat
culture war so you know I don't know
I don't know if they'd be better off
with Trump out there saying all this
kind of crazy more or not I guess
like talk more about when you said that
it might help in some places and not
others
sure I think this is an important point
that most political analysis unless it's
done by you know people who really dig
into data and understand the voter
makeup in various districts and states
most political analysis is
one-dimensional and it's based in this
old idea that the Democratic base is
going to do it it's gonna do the
Republican base is gonna do what its
gonna do they are equivalently the same
size and the elections are cited by 20%
of people in the middle and whether a
strategy worked or didn't work whether a
statement was affectionate out of fact
it was based on its impact on that 20%
of swing voters did it move 12% one way
I didn't move to a percent the other way
and that I don't know the politic who's
ever that simple but it was much closer
to that 15 to 20 years ago and now
politics is much more three and four
dimensional in the sense that you have
States or very different districts are
very different the bases aren't the same
size the Democratic base is larger in
the Republican base the Republican base
ISM is more reliable voters and midterms
and presidentials frankly and the number
of voters in the middle are smaller and
so things can like Trump doing something
can work be effective in a red state
where the Trump base which largely means
not necessarily Republicans but
non-college educated Republicans is a
greater percentage of the electorate and
in a more suburban district or a state
where that Trump base is a smaller
percentage of the electorate will be
have the opposite effect so Trump can be
simultaneously helping democrats win in
the crooked seven and helping
republicans win some of these Senate
races
and whether it's like North Dakota or
Montana or something else and you have
to really understand and get pretty deep
in the data to see what what is the
voter makeup they can get either a
Democrat or Republican to their win
number and and so that like in this case
it could be yes it's working
and yes it's killing Republicans at the
same time just every different just in
different places yeah I think the
geographic point is important here and
Nate Cohn who does polling and analyze
his data for the New York Times wrote
about this this week I want to quote
from this story since it was fairly
disturbing but Nate's very smart
he wrote that polarization from stories
like the fight over Brett Kavanaugh s
confirmation seems to be helping
Republican candidates in the final weeks
of the election he said that trend might
fade but if it holds it will be an
abrupt change from earlier polls and
last year's special election results
which indicated the Democrats were
highly competitive in red areas instead
the district and state polling raises
the possibility of an election more like
last year's virginia elections or the
2010 midterm elections both were strong
results for the party out of power but
the big numbers came mainly on home turf
Cohen also wrote the geographic
disadvantages Democrats are facing are
so severe that it gives the Republicans
a chance to survive a so-called way of
election so that doesn't sound very
great now you just heard me talk about
Virginia and you might be thinking well
what do you mean like Ralph Northam won
Virginia by nine points the polls said
he you know it was a close race what
happened in Virginia was Northam and
Democrats in general did incredibly well
blew out all sorts of turnout models in
the blue parts of Virginia that Clinton
had won in 2016 in the red parts of
Virginia the Trump had won Gillespie did
almost as well as Trump did in some
cases as well as Trump did so the
concern is for this election that in the
blue areas of the country
you know Democrats have incredibly high
turnout and a ton of votes and you know
like you said all those suburban
Strix in California could be you know
flippable but in these red areas and
unfortunately the Senate map is
incredibly read probably the toughest
map we've ever faced probably the
toughest map either party has ever faced
we're facing and in those areas whereas
we might have been competitive earlier
this year
now we might not be I don't know what do
you think about all this look I think it
is a very important point to understand
what's happening is that the blue wave
if it hope ins knock on wood fingers
crossed everything it's not gonna hit
everywhere the same way because there's
just less blue and less places now there
are some complicating factors to that
analysis so let me say one more thing
it's very important to understand we did
very very well in Virginia the Trump
base is Virginia has one of the smallest
per capita amount of the Trump base of
any of the swing states it's one of the
reasons why it's one of the few states
that moved that Hillary Clinton did
better in than Barack Obama you know and
Colorado's in other state and so in that
sense Virginia is not a Virginia can
tell you a lot about the districts at
Hillary Clinton won in 2016 they
currently have Republican members
California Pennsylvania you know all
across the country in places like that
so that's New Jersey so that is very
true now the thing that I would say we
are no longer into don't wet the bed wet
the bed that's not a thing we do anymore
for people who people who were fans have
a different podcast we once had in a
much different political time but there
are some signs that in the Midwest in
particular that exact formula states
that Trump won in 2016 to that exact
formula it's a it's a more complicated
fiction than that just we're gonna do
well in blue they're gonna do well in
red and that in purple areas purple
states states that Obama won by a little
bit Trump won by a decent amount
Democrats are doing quite well
Ohio Pennsylvania Wisconsin are three
that are interesting with Michigan is
another one Trump's numbers and Iowa
suggests some opportunities for
Democrats there and so the just the
regions of the country are very
different deep deep red seems like it is
getting potentially more deeper a which
is problem a few Democrats
the Senate blue is getting bluer which
is good for Democrats in the house and
purple maybe getting bluer which is good
for Democrats in the house holding on to
some Senate seats were defending and
picking up governorships which we'll
talk about a little bit later in this
podcast yeah I mean it is I think in all
political analysis because because this
aspect of it is somewhat boring and a
little more static people always
underestimate geography and all of this
you know and so you can see a scenario
where if the Democrats are in the house
and if the Republicans win the Senate
the meta-analysis is oh we are a divided
country as divided as ever and blah blah
blah and the truth is look at the
fundamentals of the election we've known
from the beginning that Democrats are
defending many in the Senate Democrats
are defending many seats in deep red
states not just and like you said the
Midwestern states that aren't deep red
but just States the Trump won in 2016
but Democrats have won before that
we're actually defending those seats
quite well at least as for right now but
in some of these real red states like
North Dakota Heidi Heitkamp Joe Donnelly
in Indiana Claire McCaskill in Missouri
and even you know even a purple state
like Nevada
Jackie Rosen's having a really tight
race there too these are sort of these
are harder places for Democrats to
really have this sort of blowout turnout
at least they have been in the past
again we don't know what might happen
that Nevada is a really interesting one
because we think of it as this blue
state because Democrats have won it in
the last several presidential elections
Obama wanted by a lot in ou812 Senator
Harry Reid defended his Senate seat in
2010 and but it is a very interesting
state where the has a very large
percentage of Trump base much more than
most blue states but it has this huge
Hispanic population as well and the way
in which we have been able to overcome
the you know high turnout levels of the
quote-unquote Trump base is very high
levels of Hispanic turnout because to
swamp that yeah there's an open question
as to whether that is going to happen
time in the midterm both because we've
seen polling that suggests perhaps lower
turnout or lower enthusiasm among
particularly younger Hispanics and
Senator Harry Reid's political machine
is not the same as it was because
Senator Harry Reid has been retired for
a couple years now right yeah no that's
a worry and and the Latino turnout issue
as we've talked about before that's
going to be critical in not just Nevada
but in Arizona in Texas and in Florida a
lot of these Sun Belt states and so you
know we have to keep an eye on that
anyway this is all to say the Senate is
a very steep climb it has been a steep
climb from the beginning and if you are
looking to do some extra work extra
volunteering extra door-knocking extra
phone banking in these last couple weeks
as you should be giving some more money
if you have friends in those states like
look at all of the states the Democrats
are defending plus Arizona Nevada Texas
and Tennessee where we have a chance to
flip and do a lot of work in those
states reach out to people in that you
know in those states ask if the register
to votes we you know it's gonna be
really tough to take the Senate back but
you know anything can happen in a couple
weeks
can I say one more thing about this
which is that you know you said the
verdict may be Democratic the House
Republicans keep the Senate that it'll
be a quote-unquote split decision the
country's divided yeah
I would note and you would remember this
as someone who was working in the White
House on the day after the midterm
election of 2010 where Republicans took
the house and democrats kept the senate
yeah
no one judged it as a split decision it
was seen as a quote shellacking for
Obama that we got crushed we had to
change everything people need to get
fired everything was a mistake and if
the decision is one one well the you
know tie tie game rubber match in 2020
the sound you hear on the first podcast
we do after the election will be me
spontaneously combusting I mean you know
what's funny until you said that I
figured forget from the analysis of the
2010 elections that we kept the Senate I
forgot about that you wouldn't know that
because it was so bad for us in the
that's very interesting so another
question about something we can do right
now how do Democrats get back on message
or at least how do we respond to this
Trump circus Trump flooding the zone in
these last couple weeks and saying a
whole bunch of crazy you know
obviously we don't want to respond to
everything he says we don't necessarily
want to be responding to him and playing
on his turf in general but we also don't
have a single party leader that can
dominate the airwaves like Trump can how
do democrats sort of get back on on
message here I think we should not worry
so much about how the party writ large
gets back on message because you're
right we don't have any single voice
there is no person within the party who
could go out and dominate the airwaves
and sort of send a signal to everyone
about this is what we say the advantage
we have here is that in at this point in
every single competitive race Democrats
are advertising either digital or on TV
or radio and there on the stump every
day so you actually can control both
through paid and earned what your voters
here and so the key is they stay focused
on the issues that matter which is
health care taxes the economy and the
general cut off under the framework of
we need a check on the chaos and
corruption of Trump and you know we
talked about a little bit on the HBO
show and we were boom owning the
civility debate and I said then and I
think this similar pivot works for
everything Trump says whether it's the
horseface comments or something else
is to say do you know what's uncivil
taking healthcare away from people 360
conditions and using it to pay for a tax
cut for billionaires yeah you know it
like that it like that is later you got
to get right back to the thing that
matters because that's what Trump wants
he wants a civility debate he wants us
to debate the appropriateness of use the
term horseface he wants us to get
wrapped around an axle about Elizabeth
Warren in her DNA test and everything
else when we know what works with voters
we have the capacity to communicate
because Democrats have done such a great
job raising money so we just have to do
that we have to stick to our knitting to
use an old person phrase wow varial
really reaching those youth voters it
said there was a good
good tweet from champion Senate tweeter
Brian Schatz yesterday about this he
said they say stormy Daniels you say
Medicaid and Medicare they say ms-13 you
say economic fairness they say mob you
say that the corruption has to stop
they say 2020 you say 2018 sums that are
pretty well pretty Ranchettes
great messenger great messenger okay
let's talk about one way the Democrats
can get back on message in an interview
with Bloomberg News this week Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said
that entitlement programs are to blame
for the rising deficits not the
Republican tax cuts and the changes to
programs like Medicare and Medicaid and
Social Security would be required to
reduce the deficit though he also said
there's quote little chance of a major
deficit reduction deal while Republicans
control Congress and the White House he
said it would probably need to be
bipartisan McConnell's comments follow
the Treasury Department announcement
that the budget deficit increased by 17
percent in 2018 driven in large part by
a sharp decline in corporate tax
revenues after the Trump tax cuts took
effect
the one point nine trillion dollar tax
cut that wasn't paid for Dan weren't we
told by your good friend and mentor Paul
Ryan that these tax cuts would pay for
themselves that that the deficit would
actually shrink wasn't that wasn't that
the sales pitch during the tax cut
debate look noted policy-wonk budget
expert guy who just got deep in the
Excel spreadsheets Paul Ryan looked at
this and said yes this will be fine he
was wrong like he always is I mean are
they are they lying
are they not super bright when it comes
to
you
for the last couple months that they
were coming at
and they would like to go after Medicare
spending Medicaid spending and Social
Security first of all do you think
there's any constituency for entitlement
cuts outside of you know Paul Ryan and
his merry band of wonks I mean there are
a lot of Koch brothers funded mmm think
tanks which is all of the Republican
think tanks didn't want this this is
what The Wall Street Journal editorial
page wants it like the last remaining
shreds of quote-unquote conservative
election ISM and I use the quotes for
all of the obvious reasons right care
about this and I do like Republicans are
basically in the Trump era ideological
nihilists they don't care about anything
other than the accumulation and
maintenance of power except they do care
about cutting taxes for the rich and
cutting meta Indian and cutting Medicare
and Social Security that is something
that they sincerely care about now at
least one wing priority certainly care
but yeah yeah yeah this is like the Paul
Ryan Mitch McConnell wing of the party
elected elected Republican officials not
Republican voters who by and large you
know what this and it is worth noting
that Donald Trump ran saying he would
not cut Medicaid Social Security or
Medicare now he has already cut Medicaid
sorry he's already attempted to cut
Medicaid significantly and he seems very
open to Medicare and Social Security
suggesting that maybe he's completely
full of but it is the tax cuts are
both a ideological belief that they have
and a way to maintain power because it
is a way to take cash give it back to
their donors like the Koch brothers
Sheldon Adelson etc and then have those
donors then spend a portion of their tax
cut to keep Republicans in power which
is and this is disturbing to say but a
completely legal money laundering scheme
because of citizens united but Medicare
Social Security they are being on it
they are telling us what their
intentions are and we would be foolish
not to make sure that every voter knows
that that's exactly what they are going
to do yeah well is gonna say how should
Democrats talk about this and message
this you know the good news was
yesterday when
I said this on Bloomberg he said this on
Tuesday there were released press
releases that went out in like you know
every competitive district in every
state in the country from Democratic
campaigns just blasting McConnell over
this so I do think that even though the
news on Tuesday was a complete mess full
of crazy Trump in the state's on
the ground
Democrats drove this Republicans are
coming after Medicare Medicaid and
Social Security message pretty hard in
this week's episode of Dan Pfeiffer
imaginary but incredibly well-funded
super PAC what I would be doing if I had
billions of dollars at my disposal would
be targeting Trump voters core Trump
voters with Facebook ads saying
congressional Republicans want to cut
Medicare yeah and because what you
really like they do not agree with that
they are skeptical of people like Mitch
McConnell and Paul Ryan and if you want
they need to know this and that made for
some of those voters are available to
Democrats if they were Obama Trump
voters if they were sort of reluctant
Trump voters like that there's this
Delta between Trump's win number in 2016
in his current approval rating so that
depending on polls there's four to six
to eight percent of voters who voted for
Trump but currently do not approve of
him so those voters are theoretically
people who Democrats could win over or
could stay home and so there's a certain
group of people we need to know this and
it is this is a shot to the main engine
of Trump's base and we can't get it it
will not be covered on Fox it will not
be on Breitbart it will not actually
probably be on most news cast I don't
know what percentage of Trump voters
listen to more podcast so they may not
get it from us so you're gonna have to
show them we're gonna have to give them
the information where they get their
news which is unfortunately for
democracy Facebook hey liberal
billionaires listen up fund this fund
these Facebook ads here's the thing on
this like I can already hear some people
the nothing matters crowd say Oh Trump
voters don't
here you know they're just gonna vote
for Trump anyway we're not talking about
like you said this is not the the mag
abase these aren't the people that show
up at the rallies like we're fully aware
that this is not gonna change their mind
but like you said it's the Obama Trump
voters it's also by the way the the non
voters the people who don't vote a lot
and might be looking around at all this
and think I don't know if I'm even gonna
vote if there's enough at stake in this
election and talking to those people
about how Republicans if they now if
Republicans win both houses of Congress
the Affordable Care Act is gone right
let's just put that mean that's we don't
even have to guess about that like we do
about Medicare Social Security and
Medicaid well of course the Affordable
Care Act includes Medicaid but the
Affordable Care Act is gone if
Republicans take the house keep the
house and keep the Senate we don't have
John McCain's vote or anymore whatever
anything else it's over that's 20
million people without health insurance
that's no protections for pre-existing
conditions everyone needs to know that
and now if they are emboldened by
winning Bose has both houses it is very
likely because they keep telling us they
want to do it that they will try their
hardest to cut Medicare to cut Medicaid
and to cut Social Security so that's a
message for Obama Trump voters for
people who voted for Obama in 2012 and
then didn't vote in 2016 for people who
just haven't voted in a long time your
health care is on the line it's why the
number one issue the Democrats are
talking about is health care it's why
when you look at polls the number one
issue that people say they're concerned
about is health care it is a very big
issue and Democratic candidates are
doing everything they can to drive at
home in these last couple weeks and
everyone else connected to the party
should be doing the same there's one
other group of voters that I think I
would be targeting with my imaginary ads
there were voters who did not vote in
2012 who voted for Trump in 2016 and
those are voters who are most likely you
know every voter is different but most
likely skeptical of the Republican Party
but very Pro Trump any drop-off in that
number is what hurts Republicans and so
for Democrats we had this huge election
in 2008 and we had two problems in 2010
which caused Republicans to have this
split decision if you will have taken a
house and not taking the Senate
we're both independents who supported
Obama vote if
Republicans in Congress and you see
evidence of that is happening in at
least a lot of states and districts for
Democrats then you also had people who
came out for Obama who would not
traditionally come out for Democrats and
felt more affinity to Obama than to the
party did not turn out in 2010 and so
that there's a group of people like that
on the Republican side who were also
will help decide this election and
should be open to having concerns raised
about Republicans cutting Medicare yeah
yeah that's a good point
all right let's talk about a set of
campaigns that haven't gotten quite
enough attention and that's the
governor's races Democrats have a number
of opportunities to flip seats currently
held by Republican governors we could
flip governorships in the following
States this is more than until I started
doing research for this segment I didn't
even know we had this many opportunities
Ohio Illinois Wisconsin Michigan Nevada
Maine Florida New Mexico Georgia maybe
even Kansas or Oklahoma or even South
Dakota dan why do you think Democrats
don't pay enough attention to these
races including us yeah I mean I feel
when we talked about this segment the
other day I just I felt terribly guilty
cuz like oftentimes when we're out
talking to people we yell about
governors races and it's like we should
focus on governor's races redistricting
all of that and then we sit down they do
the podcast and we focus on the house on
the Senate and that yeah that is a
dereliction of duty on our part because
they're supposed to be quasi smarter
than that but it's it's really it's two
things I think one just and I say this
as someone who was actually work for the
Democratic Governors Association 100
years ago no one cares like there is the
there is victory of do you have 218
members of the house do you have 51
senators like crossing some threshold as
a gigantic transformational difference
in how power is allocated in Washington
and having you know 26 governors or 18
governors or 35 governors has no global
effect it has a huge effect on people in
that state but it's sort of like if you
are in California and you
not someone who's focused on
redistricting like why should you care
about who the governor of Ohio is we're
gonna tell you the answer that question
but just generally it's not intuitively
obvious to people for the same reason
that if you are in California you care
passionately whether Heidi Heitkamp wins
a race or better work wins that race
because you have a stake in the
Democrats taking the center the
Democrats take in the house you don't
really have any state you don't feel
like you have an intuitive stake in
whether Democrats have more
governorships or not right but you do
huge stake people why so why would we
running these races be so important what
what a Democrats get out of got a win
winning a bunch of governor's races I
think you can divide it along three
lines line one is redistricting these
are the governorships who will be in
place that will draw the lines in the
house races after the 2020 census losing
all the governorships in 2010 has
crushed us for a decade and so it's
incredibly important that we have
Democratic members who will ensure that
there is not ridiculous partisan
meddling in the elections so that's one
- is it is incredibly important to have
governorships
when it comes to the presidential
election now you and I know this from
being on the 2008 2012 campaign in 2008
we had a pretty decent number of
Democratic governors and we had
significant early voting in Ohio Iowa
states like that by 2012 Republicans and
taken those seats and dramatically cut
back on access to the polls for all
voters but with a particular target
against Democratic voters voters of
color and so if we were able to get the
Ohio governorship the Wisconsin
governorship the Iowa governorship that
Florida all of them that will have a
dramatic difference if you will at least
Libby able to level the playing fields
and fight back against Republican voter
suppression efforts you think about the
difference between 2008 and 2016 in
Wisconsin to state that Obama won by
double digits and then Hillary Clinton
lost a huge factor in that among many
other factors is the tremendous level of
voter suppression including a very
onerous voter ID law that Scott Walker
put in place and so a Democratic
governor would have the potential to
undo that before the 2020 election yeah
imagine not having to worry about these
purges and as voting this voting
suppression that we're hearing about in
all these states that have a huge effect
and and just a Democratic governor has
the power to and a Democratic Secretary
of State by the way which is why
secretary of state races statewide or
important even though people don't talk
about that a lot are incredibly
important because they then have the
power to make sure that doesn't happen
and I think look I think the third big
reason why Democrats when and
governorships is so important is because
it and it's this is the reason it's
probably the most real to ordinary
people is the chance for Democrats to
pass progressive policy in states with a
Democratic governor and a Democratic
legislature and in some cases a
Democratic governor and a you know a
Republican legislature that they can
work with but usually its unified
government and I mean when we have been
talking about the 2018 election and we
talk about Congress we aren't even in
the best case scenario when if Democrats
were in the House and Democrats won the
Senate we still wouldn't be able to pass
anything we would just be able to stop
all of trumps bad which is huge by
the way stopping the Trump agenda but
it's not gonna be very satisfying to a
lot of people who say okay well what are
Democrats actually gonna pass that's
gonna change my life well we're not
gonna be able to do that until 2020 but
we win governorships and wheat and
democrats take control of certain state
governments you're gonna actually see
real progressive policy coming out of it
we have a couple of examples in New
Jersey where Phil Murphy Democrat Phil
Murphy won the governorship there in
Washington state we have unified
government some of the policies that
have come out of these states in the
last couple years $15 minimum wage
automatic voter registration Medicaid
expansion gun control laws like banning
bump stocks and background checks equal
pay laws as an equal pay law in New
Jersey millionaire tax hikes to fund
education and health care programs these
are policies that are in effect the
lives of millions and millions of people
if Democratic governors and Democratic
legislators can pass them in these
states and we saw this in Virginia too
and you know the House of Delegates was
decided by literally picking a vote out
of a hat and because there were so many
Democrats in the legislature and because
we're Alf Northam one he was able to
force the Republicans in legislature to
accept a Medicaid expansion and that
meant hundreds of thousands of people in
Virginia have health insurance for the
first time so this really matters
imagine that winning an election and
then being able to help people to do
something right it's a not just bloc bad
 I'd also like to thank you for
finishing my list of three which I
stopped it to which is something that's
happened to me as I'm getting older
because it's always my habit because we
was very linear sort of three things
about this let me make two points about
this so I would always be like mr.
president three things and then
oftentimes I would only have two things
and I have to spend midway through the
second thing trying to call I knew my
three things but I just decided well I'm
always get most excited about the last
one too just because I think a lot of
people who a lot of voters who don't pay
super close attention to politics in
this country what they see in politics
is you know Trump acting like an
but also a lot of yelling and screaming
in Washington and not not a lot getting
done and I think as progressives as as
as the party that believes that
government has a role to play in making
a difference in people's lives we have
to eventually pass policy that makes a
difference in people's lives and let
them know and draw the dots you know
connect the dots for people and say the
reason you have healthcare the reason
there's a higher minimum wage right now
the reason you're automatically
registered to vote is because you
elected Democrats and they made that
happen and it's gonna be very hard to do
that in Congress between now and 2020
but it's not gonna be hard in the States
if we flip these governorships so it
could end up I think being the most
hopeful story if we work really hard it
couldn't have been the most hopeful
story of election day
just how many governorships we win and
look they're not all easy all the ones I
listed are certainly not cake walks but
you know Illinois seems like it's it's a
good bet and you know Democrats are
doing well in Michigan Gretchen Whitmer
is doing great there Andrew Gilliam in
Florida Stacey Abrams in Georgia were
hoping for Tony ever
in Wisconsin richard cordray in ohio so
there are there are really strong
candidates in a lot of these races and
again as you're thinking about what to
do in these last couple weeks think
about giving time and money to some of
these governor's races can I throw one
more plugin just as we're thinking about
the idea of Elections giving people
health care is that our friend said the
fairness project have worked with people
on the ground in states in the brown and
have been able to put on the ballot in
Nebraska Utah Idaho and Montana for
deeply red states an initiative to
expand Medicaid so if those are to pass
then tens of thousands people in each
state will have access to health care
and so there we do sometimes forget when
we sort of think about elections is
moving pieces around a chessboard well
Nancy Pelosi have the gavel well so and
so be the chairs of X committee but
elections are ultimately about putting
in place policies that help people and
both in these governor's races and then
in ballot issues all across the country
which you can read about in votes save
America calm but for that aren't very
interesting to me are these four
initiatives in four states to expand
Medicaid where it's just so simple it is
like one of the best investments in time
and money you'll make which is you can
make a contribution I can make phone
calls I can knock doors and my neighbors
will who don't have health care will get
it it's that simple that simple all
right when we come back we'll have our
interview with Georgia congressional
candidate Lucy Macbeth
you
