I didn't really understand the
phenomenon it was or would become and I
was just like 19 just working doing a
shooting and moving how to alpha dog on
the weekends and I was like going back
and forth between these sets and then it
came out my role was kind of revealed to
the world and it was the sensational
storyline of like queer love between two
teenage girls on this like American soap
and at the time I was like I mean this
should be normal why is this such a big
deal but people really either got riled
up in a good way or riled up in a bad
way and I was like well this is an
important conversation and then over the
years the significance of it became
clear to me when people would come up to
me on the street like still happens all
the time and say you your role on that
show helped me come out to my family
help me feel comfortable with my friends
and help me understand that I could be
this like I could I could kind of own my
sexuality in a comfortable way I was
like wow that's an honor
[Music]
