in studio today we are very lucky to
have the co-captain of the World Cup
champion United States national women's
soccer team Megan Rapinoe oh my god of
course this is like the highlight all
the other stuff like you know they make
you do but like this one I want to do
that's awesome that means so much it's
literally the most excited our team has
ever been
most people don't show up every day and
there's like 60 people out there to
greet you and cheer so this is most
people just don't even come into the
office you would be surprised yeah we
took a photo with Hickenlooper did not
get the same response
can we get got about soccer for a minute
yeah any fans can we talk about the pose
yes this is great radio I'm doing yeah
it was the post France you all know what
we're doing yeah you've done it a couple
times I think in my research mm-hmm
where did that come from because it
looks like a statue I'm looking I don't
know where it came from I did it before
the World Cup once against Australia in
Denver yeah that was the first and I
think the only non World Cup pose I
think it was just like a big moment in
the game it was kind of a big game for
us in the lead-up they were obviously
one of the contenders you know to win
the whole thing and we took the lead and
I was just like one of the most iconic
sports photos of all time I know it's
really taking on life of its own it's
cool to find a new arm movement you'd
think they'd all be taken but you found
a new one yeah to make your own yeah
it's out like there's no liquor and it's
just kind of like yeah it's cool how do
you deal with the pressure and
expectations that are on you walking
into that final game not just as a
player but as an advocate as someone who
just got attacked by the prison United
States like how do you get everything
out of your head and just sort of focus
on the game you know what's funny I
don't think I try to get everything out
I don't yeah I don't think that's ever
really been my approach even just
on the field like sometimes things are
going through my head or have a song
stuck in my head or I'm like I can hear
the crowd I can hear specific people in
the crowd I don't think it's ever worked
for me to just like be in the zone I
think I don't want to be alone in there
that's that's terrifying
so I think I just like always have kind
of a lot going on in there and we always
have pressure on us and there's always a
million things going on I call ourselves
the Traveling Circus at all times
whether it's in a world cup or not so I
think even though it is elevated I kind
of just try to roll with it like we live
this ridiculously good fun amazing life
so a little more pressure I guess is not
too bad okay
why are the male players also hot I know
they all have cute tattoos and good
haircuts and they're slammed like as a
sport it's such a good-looking sport is
there something about the physicality of
soccer that leads the guys to all be so
smoking hot I know I'm not speaking yes
or no I'm just not addressing the women
I'm speaking to the men the men who I
feel comfortable evaluating they are all
hot I know it's weird
it is weird I don't know what it is it's
the the metrosexuality of soccer maybe
yeah they are the over they all put
themselves together more pairs in there
no none no they're very they're very
they're very live yeah I take this off
the rails no that's a good question
honestly I've been wondering so you're
something to think about
yeah so I'm gonna dive into later mm-hmm
he did a lot of research on this sounds
like you'd open all right you guys when
you came back you did this awesome event
yesterday in New York you shut down the
 City as you said but the
speech itself was this really cool call
to arms for citizenship I felt like like
you said you're more than someone who
tunes in every four years and you called
on the fans to make their communities
better step outside yourself be bigger
be better like what made you turn that
moment into something so big that was
about more than just that game I think
honestly there's been a like a little
bit of a shift in my mess
just since we got back and once I think
there's been as you guys know so much
fighting and contention and we're just
fighting all of the time fighting
against you know our Federation and
fighting in society and all of us and
like I'm just sick of the fighting like
it's exhausting I don't want to do that
anymore I don't think anyone really
wants to do that I don't think we're
getting anywhere quickly doing it like
that so it's kind of just I guess a the
next step of it I think that that the
fight is important but then it's like
you can't just sort of swing in the air
forever so this feels like the next step
what can everyone do I think sometimes
people feel totally overwhelmed
especially in the last few years of this
you know current political climate and
cultural climate you just it's like it's
exhausting all the time but maybe if you
just do one small thing each day that
can sort of help change and then just
try to get it down to a little bit more
granular than then trying to change the
world all at one time
so you were one of the first white
athletes to join Colin Kaepernick and
kneeling during the national anthem
obviously that's a decision that comes
with no small amount of risk yeah how
did you sort of weigh those risks and
and ultimately make the decision to do
that well if you know I mean all you
know I don't wait risks think ahead
before I do that's too much anything
good yeah it all came about very quickly
I obviously have you know pay attention
to sports in the news so I knew what was
happening had seen a number of
interviews by him and I'd it just
resonated very deeply and very strongly
with me and it was sort of one of those
things that was like what do you do
about police brutality in this country
like what am I gonna do about something
so ingrained it's just me who doesn't
have time to like you know get in there
and make policy and be you know whatever
so that just in that moment I just felt
like we had a game coming up and it was
kind of I think maybe the night before I
just was kind of thinking about it and
I'm like this is like something that you
should do and it just kind of just did
it have you have you always been
politically
active politically interested like your
whole life or is this something that
happened over the last couple years
since Trump was elected or was it no I
think I mean especially since college I
think much more I was raised in writing
California which is pretty you know
rural small town very conservative and
then went to Portland Oregon for college
and I feel like my world just got that's
differently blown apart yeah I was like
first realized I was gay awesome did you
not realize you were gay til you got to
Portland yes it was actually
embarrassing and looking back like
stereotyped pictures but straight bull
cuts cut the sleeves off everything
didn't wear a shirt till I was 12 I was
like you know just such a little like
baby butch back then and I like looked
back as soon as I found out I was like
no one told me this is a boy this is the
biggest betrayal
yeah and I was like you're damn right
tomboy so yeah so going to part I feel
like my whole world just got opened up
then so I kind of started to pay
attention more but definitely as I've
gotten older and then I think being on
the team the team has always kind of
been political I think we have to I
think female athletes just in general
especially gay female athletes were just
political just for being who we are so
it kind of made sense is it weird that I
mean I feel like in America we think
that freedom of speech doesn't always
extend to athletes for some reason like
LeBron James is told to shut up and
dribble right Abbi I'm sorry Brandi
Chastain was told not to celebrate how
she wanted to write like why do you
think that is and is that another
impediment to speaking out as an athlete
I don't know why that is because it's
like some of the the biggest like
cultural shifts and change makers in our
history have have been athletes and as a
culture that's obsessed with celebrity
in particular athletes celebrity it's
it's amazing that we don't sort of lean
on those people more to kind of help
shape and shift culture as it is and I
think a lot of athletes don't feel
comfortable doing that they feel like
there's so much on the line and this is
their one chance to live their dream and
I mean rightfully so I mean think you
Colin Kaepernick obviously the
example of that right now you know they
took everything away from him on on
purpose just to silence his message so I
think athletes feel a fear of doing it
but it's actually very liberating to do
you so part of this is you know what it
means you know there's a the criticism I
think you've gotten a lot of that that
people that Colin Kaepernick have gotten
a lot of is can't you just leave
politics off the field right but do you
have you ever felt like you wanted to do
that just literally just play the game
and leave politics out of the field or
does that is it possible for you to
participate in sports without commenting
on the ways in which being an athlete as
a gay woman changes what it means to
play in sports it's impossible it's
totally impossible for me to do that and
I think really for any athlete it's such
a cross section of society so often so
in that sense I think it doesn't feel
exhausting I think a lot of people asked
like how do you sort of manage both ends
like this is just normal normal life and
it doesn't feel exhaust it would be
exhausting to not talk about it because
then you constantly have this thing
that's there that you're sort of pushing
to the side and not talking about but I
don't think it's it's possible for me as
a as a gay female athlete to leave
politics to the side when you said to
8x8 I'm not gonna the White
House did you have any idea what that
would lead to no no it's sort of it was
like the jersey unveil and it was kind
of it was like a you know behind the
scenes sort of moment and I think I
wasn't expecting it to blow it because I
think it's I've may have said it before
I would never go to the White House in
this administration or it was just
pretty obvious that I would never go so
I didn't think it would be a thing I
mean I guess you throw the f-word in
there and everyone freaks out a little
bit I do use it a lot on you tone it
down a little we do a few times just in
my normal flow there they go
you know screaming in the
middle of New York City I'm like cable
television and black like you talking to
me yeah the culture the culture the mess
is not the problem Lisa but no I did not
think that it would blow up into the
president tweeting me how did you find
out like oh the president just tweeted
about me from our press officer with the
team I don't actually go on Twitter all
that much and I don't have any like
notifications or anything like that on
it that would just like totally drive me
nuts so I found it I said I had to
actually go look because he had sort of
referenced something and I was like oh
no and there's we have a good
relationship we've obviously had a lot
of media incidents to handle between all
of us so I was like oh dear she did it
again what happened like no one could be
able to predict that our president is
such a petty child that he views every
issue through the prism of if you're
mean or not mean to him really you guys
are world-class athletes representing
the United States of America you'd think
you could take a little insults but no
no this guy there wasn't even an insult
is that an insult I mean I guess yeah
well yeah White House while this
jokers in there I would take that
personally you said Oh party a party I
love his house over my dead body
I'd say that hurt my feelings so he also
did tweet that he was gonna invite you
anyway turning what used to be an honor
into quite a threat yeah how's that
played out yeah you've been threatened
to go to the seat of American power
force-feed you Big Macs yeah yeah the
one downside of winning yeah exactly
well it's been oddly silent and this is
the the preferred mode of communication
for the President of the United States
with all things in the world so it's not
like there was like a you know another
medium that is using them just like
meeting kim jeong-hoon at the DMZ
inviting you to the White House oh but
there's been no official invite yet
not publicly I think that there has been
some reaching out from the White House
and from Congress and Paul ends
everybody to the Federation but there's
nothing public out there yet from the
White House yeah there's been like
universal I think outraged at the fact
that you and your teammates are
underpaid considering that you are the
greatest in the world at doing something
should we as allies in this cause be
less focused on the disparity between
you and the men's team when we talk
about it and just talk about the fact
that you make the Federation a ton of
money and you deserve like a
proportional share of that what's the
best way for people to fight for you
yeah I do think the compensation piece
is talked about too much
it isn't it it's an it's a complex
argument arts our pay structure is
different we play different games we're
different rankings in the world like
it's just apples to oranges but I think
what isn't different its investment in
the teams the care which with the teams
are you know thought about whether
that's branding marketing you know how
much money is putting the coaching staff
how much money is put into the whole
program making it better into the youth
teams and to the way we travel and the
way we stay all of that I think should
just be across the board the same into
it until we have all of that the same
and have those conversations the
compensation piece is kind of like the
very last part of it so like why is it
acceptable for all of these years that
you know they're just spending less an
investment to grow the game on the
women's side than they are them inside
especially since the Federation is a
non-profit yeah what are your next steps
on the fight for equal pay what's uh
what's coming up mediation has been
agreed upon so that will be set I think
once all of the dust settles a little
bit from the World Cup or at least
people get back to get back to their
inboxes and start doing emails again
well we'll sit down with them I guess
start to try to hash this out yeah
should be interesting sure should be so
much fun
like a love mediation yeah it should be
interesting I think like a lot of our
listeners love you love the national
team like they want to support all of
you guys and everything you do but they
don't know the best way to do it you
know in an off-year not an Olympic year
will come you're like what can they do
if you're listening right now to support
the women's national team to support
women's soccer in the US well we have a
league that we play in four five or six
months out of the year so buy season
tickets give them to your friends tell
your friends and family support that way
and that really helps support you know a
much larger pool of female athletes
there's only 23 players that were on the
national team and we have nine teams in
the league and there's hundreds of
players that play for who I mean I think
the minimum salary this year is $15,000
for six months
Oh so who are basically paying a team
play so you can go and watch watch those
games watch on TV go to national team
games tell tell everyone that you know
about it by jerseys wear jerseys to work
we're all wearing jerseys I own this I
had this for such a long time I always
wear this jersey and I wear soccer
jerseys constantly this is definitely
not the second time I've worn a soccer
jersey since I was five years old and
cried because I wanted to go home and do
math so are we there so and then he
became a math major so a lot of
commentators noted that fourth of July
weekend there's this split-screen right
so like Trump's idea of patriotism is
his celebration on the mall with a bunch
of today I didn't actually get this like
yeah yeah I've been like reading and
kind of in the lead-up of it all and I
was like oh God how's this it was a
bunch of tanks and Republican donors
that's Washington and then there's you
and the team and what patriotism means
to all of you and a lot of people were
saying look that's real patriotism have
you has this given you opportunity to
think about patriotism what it means how
you think about it how you define it
yeah I think I first started thinking
about patriotism after I know
because I actually did not think that
the reaction was going to be anywhere
near as bad as it was I feel like I
thought that me being an ally in that
way would would sort of help move the
conversation maybe forward and and sort
of bring people together more right if
they see someone like me doing it
someone looks like me my color skin may
a woman a gay when it's like okay I get
it it all sort of makes sense that
didn't happen but I felt like I was
being super patriotic I feel like I'm
super patriotic you know if we want to
you know be this big bad country and
have you know be the superpower and be
leading the way and everything and then
we're just not doing that at home I
don't think that that's patriotism
that's not cool yeah well it's like
loving your country is being confident
enough to know that it needs to change
right little self-reflection will self
help it's always good look inwards yeah
I don't think criticizing your country
you know is bad I don't understand why
people make think that makes us look
weak in any way I think being vulnerable
in that way makes us look strong and
then we can actually get rid of that
problem and then move on to the next one
and then we're even stronger so I don't
get it so you have become a household
name you've become someone incredibly
famous very quickly and someone who
people put a lot on to write you
represent women's sports you represent
gay people you represent liberals in the
culture now do you feel any pressure now
different from what you felt before just
to win on the field to be this
ambassador for a whole bunch of
different groups of people I felt that
this world cup we had a lot of pressure
for a lot of different reasons I felt
like if we didn't win we would still be
celebrated and it would be good but not
you know the sort of monumental change
that I think is happening at the moment
yeah I think I'm still digesting you
know I almost have two million Instagram
followers
Wow from that's good 500,000 I was
waiting the wrong I mean because you
thing the World Cup doesn't like you
when you put a photo up nope it just
says see you later so see in four years
yeah
these are likes that are gonna happen
have for you is Instagram influences
yeah so brands if you're listening yeah
did you feel like you were adding
pressure I mean you did like this
incredibly baller thing as to say if we
win the World Cup we're gonna say
you to Donald Trump and there are a lot
of people that speaking of patriotism
decided to root against you for that you
kind of and then you went out and you
did it anyway calls your shot that was
cool like that
Babe Ruth pointed son that's what you
did you you were the Babe Ruth of
telling Donald Trump to go help
we got a title did you did you know in
that moment that you were also gonna be
creating more pressure in an already
highly pressurized way you're already
high pressurized this situation that now
you've added this added thing of if we
win we'll have like made a point to the
President of the United States I think
because it happened mid tournament and
we were sort of already in the mode and
we have so much pressure already and
like the first game we already had
controversy controversy over the
celebrating and that was so Don dances
yeah yeah about it they don't wanna
marry get a score the most goals and be
super pumped about it
they shouldn't let us in the sport you
know any man thing don't worry you play
you know very uh very stiff uh sure
stiff upper lip you know name oh no
we're gonna always swear the goals we
need no yeah no or not we're definitely
not so I think because it happened like
it did and we were already in the moment
it was already just wild as it could be
and there's there's no more pressure
that you could put on it's like you have
to win the World Cup in spectacular
fashion
what else is more
Trump is more pressure than that but I
think it was a little it actually
happened at a good time within like the
cycle of our games as well because we
had a few days in between before the
game so we were able to like digest it
and address it I dressed it like kind of
head-on in the press conference and then
it was just sort of put away and then
yeah we played in the craziest craziest
game that game against France was
amazing the atmosphere was like nothing
I've ever experienced I'd say yeah so
cool so you are you might have noticed
there's a primary happening on the
Democratic side it's like 35 people
running I know you are going to be the
most wanted surrogate in the history is
anyone interesting anybody making a
couple phone calls and mayor PETA on
line one Elizabeth Moore on line two I
think that there has been interest a
little bit I have not heard directly but
I think maybe once the dust settles I
want to pick the winner right you know
yeah you don't want to be stuck with
some yeah that's gonna be really
embarrassing are you worried at all that
dancing with Bill DeBlasio is bad for
your brain yes yes definitely he was on
my float four years ago and he was on it
again this year man yeah I hope he
doesn't drag us down the even funnier
things better think about your speech
yesterday was when you like Governor
Cuomo is that it it's cool Olmo um oh
yeah they all need to hear it whatever
that was
honestly you not knowing Cuomo's name in
front of Bill DeBlasio was the happiest
moment of that it all goes down here
downhill from here we have to get you to
to Jimmy Kimmel so we will leave you
thank you so much for for joining us
today I'm for coming here this is this
is the highlight of most people who most
people who work here this is the
highlight right here yeah this is pretty
good I have to say because we're vital
in my preparation and readiness for the
World Cup
music has no longer can no longer be a
motivation for me in my workout so I'm
just like I hate it I hate it I hate it
I hate it I already know this song I
can't listen to music I need something
like to take me totally away from my
workout so like literally 80% of my
workouts I listen to you guys in the
podcast it's long too so I can't get
through the whole thing rest of the news
and keep myself well can keep myself
educated and is a Dan Pfeiffer Paul Ryan
I love it you guys deliver the news and
such an easy way to digest and learn
you're so smart you're so entertaining
so thank you for that otherwise it's
like I probably wouldn't have been
prepared and then like don't hope you
like see I told her she trying to want
do we get that in close-up the best
thing that's ever happened we got a we
won the world yeah you did thank you for
being here
congratulations again the best thank you
so thank you so much
[Music]
you
