we have the bodega boys themselves boys
[Laughter]
on the west coast jet LAG's how do you
feel about our way like we've been here
enough now that well so we don't know
anything about a later
so wherever they send us we just we just
go we have gone to some very unsafe
neighborhoods not knowing and just go
wherever we ask the driver like is this
safe any buy definitely people were like
yardies is Amer oh wow because we came
from New York it's freezing I walk into
the club in the North Face jacket I'm
like yo y'all got a you guys found the
one bar in LA with the metal detector on
to it like the guy do you want to use it
was I yo go ahead go code dude he was
like if you actually go to the places in
LA that people like recommend tourists
that makes you hate LA so you have to
actually discover the rad things
yourself you actually sound like you're
doing that so nobody walks in LA anyway
oh no like if you walk people like look
at you look like black mirror like we
hop from AC to AC meanwhile we're like
on Google Maps they're like oh it's 20
minutes our car that's 15 minutes New
York walk-ins are desolate blocks people
peeking out through their windows before
the cops are used there's a man walking
do you think maybe now they recognize
you guys though like is that you know
what that weird cuz they might just be
like it's not just people walking it's
this is America walking well maybe if
it's both of us because if it's just me
they can't tell I'm Jesus and if it's
narrow oh it's you guys
funny silly confuses I'm like yo I'm
watched every episode one who was a
different shape well you know more white
people will recognize you now because
you have the Showtime show they watch
Showtime
shameless the network of the United
States of Tara where you belong we don't
know the lineup yeah yeah Regina Hall
John cheetah being on like premium cable
you went from like yeah anyway so is the
new show going to like is it gonna be a
super big departure from the old show is
it still just you two talking for
like an hour
not at all it's the heart and soul that
shows us chemistry lab answer so that is
the head of the show you know I mean
like we come in with that and then we
have a budget yeah I mean and like
producers aren't scared to be like yeah
let's go do this field piece over here
let's go it's basically the same so just
more Magna friendly
so how do we take a successful podcast
universe to premium cable just do it
let's keep back just keep banging we
just show up any any kind of black or
brown podcasters go to a premium network
hit up stars right now I should probably
- what's up it was just a matter like
the right people have to your podcast
it's I mean we worked hard on it we
worked hard to build the brand but at
the end of the day it's like there's
like three people that heard our
podcasts that basically started this
whole thing so it's kind of hit a you
know like you could have the greatest
podcast ever and if the right people
don't hear it you're not gonna get the
opportunities you want with it but I
mean as long as you keep making and put
it out there well we know these pods say
boys you know they keep flexing because
they've been on HBO arrogant they were
on our show - how were they
how were they I have your best guess
easily I thought they were a rap group
ever because when I think of you - I
remember like maybe five years ago just
like Twitter whatever which is like a
Twitter person like tweeting too much
and like you never knew who actually had
a job like or you knew if someone had
like a real day job you didn't know like
I used to have to hide my identity all
the time yeah I cuz if anyone found out
where I worked like I would have been
fired at the spot because I was actually
you ever have a job so bad you like give
him that because I ever like I think if
you look back for like maybe two solid
three months I was actively trying to
get fired and I was live tweeting it and
no matter what I did they would not fire
me I know that's why I used to work at
BuzzFeed also I would apply
how come you hey why'd photos every I've
applied for BuzzFeed I applied for route
I applied I applied for a social media
position Damon - seeking new
opportunities for you guys did like be
rad and out there when in fact all you
need is just your don't dynamic you
don't need to with it it doesn't
need to turn into anything else there's
some like anxiety about messing with it
at all
really it's first of all I mean we did
the show with no writers at all right
right and now we have like a super dream
team of writers Charlotte Z me they
with us I didn't know what direction to
take the sketch in or likes I'm like
that added element to the show there's
still gonna be all our acting is
basically like it's just Jesus a Meryl
thing or role I want ruin a day if
anyone you're gonna love our remake of
green boy our world is from the bronze
movie use the green book joke but one of
these sketches is gonna like blow up and
you're gonna have to make it into a real
movie oh we can't wait it's gonna be the
whoa oh yeah we have ideas for sketches
all the time we've never we never had
like the production yeah we're gonna
have a lot of stuff that could be calm
[Laughter]
it's like actual famous actors because I
think the song is shallow right all this
time was deeper I'm off the deeper of
the deep end and Dave Chappelle and now
is it as I go
Bradley Cooper to be fair that's the
name of a three-year-old it's not and
because I found out who he was I went
and watched silver linings playbook I
don't get it thank you there's so many
screen is that I have sorry Julia
Roberts gonna invite random yeah white
actor like you just pick a name out of a
hat because you don't know what are you
doing crazy now to be in a position
where you can just be like like these
people will say yes to you like just
random like I want go get Andrew
Garfield and like he'll actually be
there two days later no is weird like
having other famous people know you and
like
you'll meet them in oh my god who's
someone who like it blew your mind Misha
it's a time we altar in the well it's
gonna say he's in the building but it's
not like we go to dinners and like we'll
meet people like Anthony Anderson sat
down with us all tonight at the end it's
like when the bill comes you're like oh
my god you just signed a 40 million
dollar extension actually hitched her
out with CeCe home from he's from I was
like oh you're rich rich you live in
like the rich reporter like Jersey and
I'm just I'm just like seeing Matt Farah
Sandman Manchester I was like wait
a minute we bit past my house my house
is like closer to like like a gate to
get to a gate and he just goes and
drives castle we now know more back last
time we were in LA we just got the worst
 is when you're trying to go
somewhere and like somebody who's using
like a pickup truck yeah we weren't
Atlanta some do picked us up in like a
Pontiac Deville with like twenty threes
and sort of
like what this is not an uber this is
like a master flex show car that
was that was one of the most jarring
things about moving to Jersey for me was
like ubers are like literally just what
the commercials like I just do this on
the side like it's like some goodies dad
picking you up in like a minivan yeah
kind of creepy and you are Mints are
open didn't I had a dude once pick me up
in a G wagon which mate but it was a
regular uber right and the G wagon pulls
up and I was like I'm probably going to
die there's no way this goes well and
I'm talking the dude he's like I'm a
lawyer and I was like oh I'm for sure
gonna die like there's there's no way
and he just was like you know I don't
even remember his explanation but he was
like yeah I'm just like just I'm gonna
do yeah I was like what just you have a
dream a ganene you're a lawyer and you
were just like I'm just gonna like that
say that too and they're driving you
home at like 3:00 a.m. that's what it
was obviously was like 3:00 in the
morning I was like and I was like just
do it all he just come every time we
were at a red light he like let out a
heavy sigh like uber know you so take
some way that's funny because people and
people forget everyone in New York taste
of Subway celebrities and all that stuff
but you'll be on a subway and then
people are just like what are you doing
on a subway I'm like the same thing as
you like we're going trying to get
somewhere in five minutes is that at or
38 minutes there are many options and
there was like it was rush hour and I'm
you know like you're face to face like
this and this girl's like right here
she's like doing the wall cheese I'm
like hi we swap it's like five minutes
have that conversation with her a very
intimate conversation all these
questions that you can ask on Twitter
I can't beat a wild jerk like leave me
alone
you play my boyfriend's tracks on the
show actually on the train all black
people think like they got the hook it's
like an expansion of don't bring those
aged pure white boys on the show they
got the ASPR money literally we're
trying to get between Tommy cakes I was
trying to get fired not letting Favreau
on the show hasn't been on and then you
had no idea you didn't matter anyway you
know we had that show I you can ask him
I would never check with a guess where I
loo just come in and they'd be like you
want all the guesses like know when
would you find out like when they walked
on stop it
cuz I'm like really it was my whole
thing was like I don't know them so
guess what America now we're gonna meet
this person
I live on air and sometimes that works
sometimes sometimes you'll never tricked
him once like doing I'm like this is
your life but sometimes our producers we
get facts completely wrong so you were
born in Zimbabwe and they're like I'm
from Newark you really have no idea who
it was like you like to have a saying on
set it was called Google the guest
because they have the name look this
person comes tomorrow I'm like okay
and they'd be like this first Jesus he
was like in I don't know the princess
bridles okay
first week it's like we're just calling
people you know like no Vashti can you
come you know me and then our agent also
read John Turturro so I was like yeah we
could get to turn on the show he's like
I don't know where that is and I was
like you know judging ourselves like
yeah you know I was like a big fight we
stabbed because they were like no one
would have been your guest true
I really miss our guest segment was the
hardest father show yeah cuz everything
else we controlled and you bring this
third person in it's just like either
day vibe where they don't vibe yeah and
then we had guests that were coming with
a attitude and you'll be like I don't
know what you're going through
but you need to check that a speaking of
your guests though I think one indelible
pop-culture moment that no one will be
able to take away from you is the cardi
B election yeah I mean literally I mean
to her the combination of her and that
moment I mean is so seismic how do you
own that I mean are you planning on
telling your grandkids now that speech
was weird cuz we were drunk at high as
 imagine not be yeah and we like the
rest of America we automatically zooms
and so then the numbers computers live
so we got the little IVF he's like
winning this state and winning that
state like you know traditionally blue
stay just like and like we keep going
back to this like vice like you know
typical vice my kid like he's like yeah
he was like a map
looks like the show I need some all
right before you go there's security
than the bar you were in box okay they
all show the same where can we where can
we find you again February 21st
Thursday 11 p.m. on Showtime we also
have the bodega boys podcast and we just
started from the milk studios jam room
we talk to celebrities for about our
like this what y'all rocks
again we always be talking about like
airport where her she cuz he
travels a lot she she will claim an
airport that might hit Apple that might
be a segment on our so just have rocks
and we're back keep it
you
