oh cool cool oh yeah you should say it's
your it's your day you say he'll use you
go second if you can pull up the rear
hey I'm here alright welcome to pod save
America I'm John Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer I'm John love it here
on the Thursday pod it's just mixing it
up a little bit Jetsons Jensen let me
hold on oh my what the it's Jetsons
Flintstones that's right it's Jetson
stones layering the current pop culture
young hip vibe here at Wikipedia all
right later in the pod you'll hear Dan's
interview with one of our very favorite
people in all of politics Stacey Abrams
but first we're gonna talk about Donald
Trump going full Nixon by obstructing
Congress his obstruction investigation
the New York Times story about how the
president scanned the tax system while
his business has lost more than a
billion dollars and all the latest 20/20
news new episode of POD save the world
dropped on wednesday Tommy and Ben
talked about our challenges with Iran
escalations in Gaza and Venezuela the
new royal baby and why Ben will be
living down a very particular
interaction he once had with the Queen
of England for the rest of his life that
episode-description took a real twist
when I got to the reaction to the Royal
baby I'm abandoned the queen of England
I feel like I feel like I know all of
his Queen of England story so I'm
interested to hear this one finally we
are on the road next week in New York
and Washington DC we have a show
Thursday night in Brooklyn Sunday night
in DC the keepit crew will be in Los
Angeles at the Regent Theatre on May
14th pods save the people just announced
shows in May Chicago and Minneapolis in
June for more details and tickets for
all of our shows head to cricut.com
slash events all right let's get to the
news Donald Trump's attempt to cover up
his various crimes and abuses of power
have plunged the country into what House
Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler and now
Speaker Nancy Pelosi have called a
constitutional crisis after promising
that his administration will defy all
congressional subpoenas for testimony
and documents related to any scandal or
investigation Trump asserted executive
privilege for the first time in his
presidency on Wednesday to block the
full release of the same mullah report
that he's claimed totally exonerates him
hours later the Judiciary Committee
voted to
hold Attorney General William bar in
contempt of Congress Dan let's start
with the claim of executive privilege
what is executive privilege and what is
Trump's explanation for asserting it
well executive privilege is
traditionally a right of a president to
protect certain set of documents from
Congress and that can include it often
includes presidential correspondence
their own letters it includes
deliberations with their aides and the
idea of being the president which is a
good one actually the president should
be able to have confidence that their
discussions with their aides as they
make they work through decisions are
confidential
so anything that involves the
decision-making process is usually
subject to executive privilege and
therefore Congress does not have a right
to that that is not what Trump is doing
here this is something very different he
is asking for a blanket set of executive
privilege over a wide array of things
that do not fall anywhere within a
hundred miles of the traditional set of
documents that the courts have upheld as
as worthy of executive privilege Lovett
is it odd for Trump to claim executive
privilege on a report that he claims
exonerated him well it's obviously right
he's hiding something that he's
supposedly good for him obviously that's
not true it's also hard to justify
claiming executive privilege which is
you know inherently about the
president's own deliberations about a
report that investigated him right it's
about something that that was happening
to the president it's not something he
did so it doesn't really make sense I
also I will say though I am a little I'm
a little frustrated by like I so Nancy
Pelosi just agreed that Gerald with with
Jerry Nadler x' claim that this is a
constitutional crisis yeah
and I find it a little it's a like
things are very bad but how we describe
them does matter and it is to me a
little bit premature to call this a
constitutional crisis as if there's no
constitutional remedy when we know some
of the remedies that could come in forms
you know there is contempt there
contempt then go can play out in the
courts you can play out in the
Department of Justice it can play out
through the sergeant-at-arms
what-have-you but I find it a bit
strange to as you are taking the first
step toward discovering as to whether or
not the Trump administration is gonna
comply with the law and comply with
maybe future judicial requirements to
call it a constitutional crisis like
right out the bat Dan what do you think
about this because I took constitutional
crisis to mean if it can I'm sorry I
took concentrate that I took
constitutional crisis to mean that
there's quite literally a crisis in like
the executive branch is basically
telling the legislative branch we're not
going to comply with any oversight even
though the Constitution says that the
Congress has power of oversight and so
when the executive branch and their
congressional and the legislative branch
are just not in agreement and not
willing to abide by you know if the
executive branch isn't willing to abide
by the Constitution then what do we do I
think that's right I mean it is this is
different than any other situation in
the sense that Trump has said explicitly
that he will not cooperate with any
oversight he is basically saying I do
not feel an obligation to be checked or
balanced and even on basic things
involving the testimony of a
senate-confirmed cabinet officer in
William Bar is up for is something that
he will not allow the idea that he might
prevent Bob Waller from testifying so
that you know whether you want to use
the term that we are currently in the
crisis that we're barreling towards the
crisis we are in a very precarious
position right now because how this
plays itself out both in terms of how
Trump reacts all Congress reacts and how
the courts which are now stacked with
political hacks reacts will define the
congressional presidential relationship
for decades going forward and so
whatever terminology you want to use I
think there is cause for significant
concern and I think no president in
history has ever sort of defied all
oversight completely like that that's
unprecedented as well I know people are
using the word unprecedented quite a
over the last couple days and throughout
this presidency but it does seem like I
mean we should add that one of the
articles of impeachment against Richard
Nixon was Nixon obstructing Congress
much like Trump is doing but it seems
like even Nixon didn't have sort of a
blanket refusal to cooperate with any
congressional oversight whatsoever right
you know he provided that there are
witnesses and documents in the initial
the the huge court battle around
executive privilege was with Nixon's
attempts to keep the tapes from the
taken system of the White House from
Congress and once the Supreme Court
ruled was executive privilege cannot be
used to prevent Congress from having
access to potentially criminal conduct
you can't you can't hide evidence
through executive privilege and there is
some evidence if you will that that is
what is happening here yeah it's
interesting it really is you know Nancy
Pelosi said this this thing about Donald
Trump's self impeaching which is
hilarious but uh it really does I don't
get I don't get it still I think it
means that here in a couple different I
know I I was thinking about it and I
really think it what she means is he is
he is he is making he is putting himself
in a position he is taking steps to make
it impossible not to impeach him that
he's basically go to teaching himself I
saw her earlier says he's goading us
into impeaching yeah I think that I
write I think it's Boatwright he's
goading he's good he I whatever whatever
that means whether he's doing it because
he thinks impeachments good for him or
because he simply enjoys flouting the
law he is pushing Congress to impeach
him in one way or another but it is
interesting how impeachment would play
into this because it does seem as though
one of the that that being in the midst
of an impeachment proceeding will make
Congress's hands stronger and trying to
get these documents because it's no
longer just about proving that Congress
has the right to do oversight or some
legislative purpose but actually needs
to investigate the conduct of the
president which is unassailably
Congress's say like solemn
responsibility yeah because we should
say that you know one Avenue here for
the Democrats is to throw it to the
third branch of government the judiciary
and say okay you settle who's right the
executive or the legislative branch here
the problem with that
and what the Trump administration knows
full well is that some of these cases
individually because there's so many
different investigations and so many
different administration officials
defining subpoenas that this could just
wind up in the courts and it could take
quite a while in fact it could take
beyond 2020 or even beyond Trump's you
know beyond Trump's term in office right
for the for the courts to settle this
and I think what you just said love it
is in the case of impeachment if they
start an impeachment proceeding and they
try to defy subpoenas I guess it would
get decided much quicker because they're
opening an impeachment proceeding this
is into you know this is a proceeding
that's investigating the president's
corrupt behavior and I guess that gives
them a stronger hand is that wait is
that what you took from this student
yeah I think there is an element of
running out the clock here that is very
critical to the Trump strategy for
example just yesterday the courts
finally settled a case involving a
dispute over access to documents between
the Obama administration and Republicans
in Congress that began in 2012 there was
a seven-year process to work that way
through the courts so we can be well
into Don juniors first term before we
even resolve some of these issues so let
me ask is it protracted fight over the
mauler investigation is that
advantageous to Trump like what if he
just said you know let's just give them
the unredacted report let's move on
focus on you know other that Trump
wants to focus on you know immigrants at
the border all his favorite hits so then
he doesn't have to focus on this at all
like what why is he engaging in this
protracted fight over oversight and
accountability dan you know it's I think
I mean what some things are just
interesting she walk for Trump in
Trump's instinct is to fight he always
wants to be fighting he needs enemies he
needs a grievance that Ali gets out of
bed in the morning
it's boobless I think that's most like a
personal psychological thing but also a
political strategy that he just he like
I like with all things with Trump I
think history
even though they're effective sometimes
our instinctual not intellectual and he
he just wants to be fighting Democrats
are also that he has a fear about the
deeper people dig the more crimes they
will find but it's I think it's a little
more on the surface then then there's
this very specific thing he's trying to
hide yeah it's um it's also just this is
why the the calling it a constitutional
crisis sort of bugged me and I I'm like
having trouble articulating it but there
is this feeling that what we're in is
this very complicated process argument
in which you have the White House you
know Sarah Huckabee Sanders goes out
there and says Jerry Jerry Nadler is
ridiculous he's trying to issue a
subpoena and hold the Attorney General
in contempt for not breaking the law
right because they claimed it that it
would be breaking the law to turn over
the grand jury testimony then then the
Democrats go out there and say this is
unprecedented the Republicans go out
there and say this is unprecedented as
strong as we believe our argument is and
as unprecedented as Donald Trump's
behavior is we end up in a situation
which in which we are arguing in these
stark and grand terms about fundamental
questions about the Constitution well
nothing's actually happening and it just
feels like a lot of noise where and I I
guess I just wish that I understood
better the strategy of Democrats to get
something out of this argument yeah I
mean look I think that's I think the one
of the problems is this is why Democrats
should have taken it up to an eleven
when the Moller report was released yeah
because the problem with not saying yes
these are impeachable offenses and now
we're gonna hold investigations but
impeachments absolutely on the table at
the end of these investigations and and
that could have been an easy message
even though that's not what they did a
lot of them said well impeachments too
good for him and blah blah you know all
this other the problem is if
you start with that message and then you
find yourself moving towards impeachment
because the administration is basically
saying off to every single subpoena
that they get then you look like then
then it starts looking like you said
which is this protracted battle over
process I mean and I think the reason
that you use the term constitutional
crisis is they have to now can
the urgency of the situation because it
is an urgent situation because like why
shouldn't an average person care about
what's happening in Congress right now
well if you have a president and an
administration that's saying we can do
whatever the we want
we can abuse power in any way we want
have any kind of scandal we want and no
one's gonna do anything to us because
we're not gonna comply with
congressional oversight and we don't
think you're gonna wimp each us anyway
because we have Senate Republicans who
aren't gonna break from us and by the
way we feel pretty good about our
chances on the Supreme Court because we
have a bunch of Republicans on there so
we can do whatever the we want and
one of them's a goon who literally
threatened Democrats during the hearings
right yeah it feels a little bit like
there was a fire and it was burning and
Democrats collectively made a decision
to let it burn out and now they're
trying to start the fire again yeah and
it's just you know it's frustrating I I
think that's right but I do believe we
are a constitutional crisis because I
think this is different like previous
presidents have had with the possible
exception of Nixon but this is worse
than Nixon in some ways but previous
presidents have tried to push the
envelopes within the confines of the
constitutional system Trump is saying
the constitutional system does not apply
to him because he doesn't want it to and
like whether Democrats are handling that
correctly or not or describing it
correctly or having the appropriate
proportionate actions to it is it you
know is an open question and will be a
discussion but where we are right now is
basically trumpets like I said Rahm has
decided that Congress has no role in
providing accountability to him and he
will not agree to the strictures put
forward by the Constitution and now this
will eventually go to a court that we
know is stacked with Republican
political operatives and that that sort
of means the guardrails of government
are odd I think the question for
Democrats is we go to the you know
Johnny original question which is this
fight do it for Trump is it the fight is
only good for Trump at Democrats let it
be right so we have to use this you like
this is what's happening we have to use
it in an argument
it's not about process it's not about
subpoenas may not even be about the
Constitution but it is about people's
lives and I think that goes to that
trunk is the Kaos agent but that chaos
has consequences for all the things we
are not doing that are affecting your
lives yeah I think that's right
how does the contempt vote on sorry how
does the contempt vote against bar get
Democrats closer to what they want and
what comes next there they've held this
gut so the Judiciary Committee has voted
to hold him in contempt of Congress
obviously it's got to go to a full house
for a vote but let's say Democrats
prevail and he's held in contempt of
Congress what happens next I mean I
don't know that it gets us any closer
than we want it just we're basically
you're gonna make bill bar we're
starlett see is he ghosting dinner at
Cafe Milano
I don't like we have to set like you had
there has to be some sort of
consequences and he will go down in
history as someone who is held in
contempt presumably Democrats go forward
with this and presumably they have
presumably we have history documents it
doesn't change the dynamics of power
I mean I'm for doing it but we should be
realistic about the effects of it so but
Dan to me this is look I already to
impeachment people this is the problem
you can hold them in contempt you can
then sue you can go to court you can do
this every avenue has there's something
blocking it at the end with the courts
it's time they can run out the clock
with contempt votes it's like no one's
throwing bill bar in jail it's like the
only it seems like the only way either
the Democrats have two choices one
forget about everything don't conduct
oversight move on with their business
and just decide that this is a lawless
president who can do whatever the
that he wants or conduct impeachment
proceedings because it doesn't seem like
the middle-of-the-road investigation
strategy where they subpoena people and
hold investigations on a whole bunch of
different issues is going to work for
them right but this is this is why Dan
like you know I agree with you right
Donald Trump is refusing to comply with
the basic tenets of oversight he is
refusing to participate in the kind of
basic rules of how our government's
supposed to function but in some sense
that is predicted right the assumption
is that at some point there'll be a
president who refuses to particular
fuses to obey the Constitution and to me
right now we're in this nether space
where Donald Trump is refusing to comply
Democrats are kind of I don't know in
some sense is going to the going to
where they need to go for subpoenas
holding people in contempt and other in
others being a bit
feckless saying oh you know impeachments
do good for him we're not sure what to
do to me the threshold we haven't hit in
part because Democrats haven't pushed it
there is what happens when Donald Trump
is either refusing to obey court orders
refusing to you know if we get to the
point where the sergeant-at-arms is
involved what-have-you but we're not at
the point right now we're gonna smudge
what
well when the impeachment eagle has been
let loose by the by the partial by the
supreme court martial but you know look
these are we're talking about like
fundamental notions of power and where
it flows from and right at a certain
point it is gonna come down to whether
not Donald Trump refuses to obey the
courts because he says how can you
enforce it or it comes it becomes
Congress's responsibility to start using
some of those inherent powers of
Congress to enforce its subpoenas to me
that is the kind of nightmare endgame
that we're not at at which point we
truly would be in a genuine crisis in
which the Constitution does not afford
us the remedies we need to protect
ourselves from Donald Trump
I guess the open question will be
whether those remedies still exist right
yeah what do we think that the Senate
wants with Don jr. done so as your news
been called in a bipartisan way by
partisan partisan people are Republicans
are not very happy with Senator Richard
burr right now who is the who was the
chairman of the Intel committee in the
Senate because he has signed on to the
subpoena along with Mark Warner for Don
jr. and you know Don juniors attacking
bur like Cornyn basically was saying I
don't know why this isn't case closed I
don't know why we're still doing this so
now he's not even getting support from
his Republican colleagues John and corn
 Twitter troll yeah what do we
think that the Senate wants it done jr.
Dan I mean I presume it is about whether
he lied to the Senate about the Trump
Tower the deal which has been you know
something Adam Schiff has hinted about
in the context of Trump juniors
testimony to the house Intel committee
and I if that is the case that but it
doesn't think he explained why burr
wouldn't do this because you know it
gets buried down deep somewhere there
are still some you know institutional
prerogatives within the Senate that they
frown on being
why to even by the president's son now
the challenge of this is if they find
that the person who will decide whether
Donald Trump jr. should be so the way
this would play out is if the Senate
were to believe that they would make a
referral to Department of Justice about
Trump lying and the person who would
make the decision as to whether that was
a turdball offense would be none other
than Bill Bar telling you all roads
there's got to be a road that goes
somewhere else somewhere I mean I guess
impeachment or beating him in 2020 seem
like the to the two boroughs and and
maybe both that roads got a lot of
there's a still talked about there's
some predators on that road too I should
say that we also still don't know where
the Democrats are gonna be able to
successfully compel testimony from
robert muller himself Nadler said this
week in an interview that trumps use of
executive privilege could delay Muller's
appearance for weeks because he's still
technically an employee of the justice
department and of course you know trump
no longer once muller to testify he
flip-flopped on that one originally he
said he didn't care now he doesn't want
it to happen they're trying to get
Muller to testify on May 15th can Trump
and the Republicans stop Muller from
testifying Dan and and what should we
expect from a Muller hearing any
bombshells or should we keep our
expectations in check never allow
yourself to have hope for Barack Obama
staffer 2007 the yes weekend days the I
think I want to make one point about
Trump's executive privilege claim I
think is important as a relates to
Muller himself mhm
which is trumped the claim that Trump
filed is what is called a protective
claim not a conclusive claim which means
what these saying is he may claim
executive privilege on either all or
portions of the Moller report but they
haven't gone through it to do that yet
so this is actually a very clever
delaying tactic which means now I think
there's something like a million pieces
of paper that make up all the underlying
evidence and pendants of that report
so what normally what happens is when
you file an executive privilege claim
you're very specific about the documents
you are not providing and why right and
you say that's this is deliberative
content involving discussion in the
president their advisors or whatever the
traditional acceptable legal standards
of executive privilege are and so what
you're potentially doing here is say is
delaying Moeller for a very long time as
you know one person in the White House
counsel's office goes page by page
through all 1 million documents and
there's a world in which the courts give
them some leeway to come back and argue
about a specific document as opposed to
you know all of them you know just sort
of the core saying you can you must
release it right now now can they stop
Moeller only Bob Muller will decide that
it's like if he decides he wants to
testify
are they is he gonna be arrested on his
way to the Senate right like there's
there's no real way to stop if he really
wants to do it the problem is Bowler is
a institutionalist through and through
and it's but unwilling to date to do
anything other than right sternly warded
mostly secret letters about his concerns
about how things are going so we put
that on him yeah booth tonight Dan can I
ask you something I have this sort of I
think my frustration on this calling of
a constitutional crisis this is a visit
trumpian thing maybe but there's this
feeling to me right now that Democrats
are there's you know they're screaming -
the bloody rafters but nothing's
happening do you see there it almost
feels is that what we need is something
to get the ball rolling something to get
an avalanche started that's not just
begging Trump officials to be decent do
you see any way through hearings through
some through through congressional
action to use congressional power in a
way that doesn't require Trump
administration compliance to start
getting attention on these hearings and
on these issues in a way that would
build a kind of drumbeat to create
pressure on Trump officials to
participate I think Trump officials are
immune to political pressure and
trumpism you know political pressure
because he they everyone takes her cue
from Trump and that's everyone from
Mitch McConnell to Kevin McCarthy and
the it's just the the most important
factor in a Republicans mind is a thing
about their politics and you try to is
the Trump base right well so you have to
look at this in terms of what their
incentive structures long as the Trump
base is behind Trump there's no
incentive for Republicans and do
anything because they're much more
afraid of being primary or Trump
endorsing their opponent like looking
you know mark Sanford and the
congressman from South Carolina who
Trump endorsed his opponent he lost
although we did eventually win that seat
you know all the candidates in
establishment candidates who bought
Trump and then key endorsed her opponent
law so they like I don't think there's
anything that will come of a hearing
that will either move Trump officials to
act different way or frankly
dramatically move public opinion on this
matter and I think that is one of the
things that the factors that underlie
Nancy policies reticence to aggressively
go down this path I do think if Muller
testifies I don't think that Muller is
going to say anything all that different
than what he put in the four hundred
page report he worked on for quite some
time but I do think that from a
political perspective and a moving
public opinion perspective having Muller
talk about what is already in the report
but saying it out loud and maybe
answering questions about it I think it
would at least put the spotlight on
Trump's wrongdoing and the fact that
Muller clearly believes there's evidence
that he committed obstruction of justice
and seeing that on your TV I do think is
a little different than reading it a
report and we know that something like
ninety seven percent of Americans
haven't looked at the Muller report at
all of course so you know what do I
think that's gonna move public opinion a
lot probably not but that could be a
little bit of the drumbeat that you're
talking about but Muller is the only one
I can see doing that because like Dan
said I think all the rest of the
officials are gonna say off I'm
defying a subpoena and their tactic the
reason we're not going to get to the
constitutional crisis that you talked
about love
which is you know what happens when
Trump ignores our ruling from the courts
is because delay is the tactic here
they're thinking low you heard what Jen
just said about the Eric Holder case
that started in 2012 and here we are in
2019 and it's just wrapping up so the
trauma the Trump administration is
thinking of selves we're not gonna have
to get to a point where Trump says no I
defy a court order because we can tie
this up in the courts for years yeah
these court cases are like Avatar movies
[Music]
alright let's move on to the stuff that
the president might be working really
hard to cover up the New York Times
published a story on Tuesday about how
Donald Trump's business has lost more
than a billion dollars between 1985 in
the mid 90s more money than nearly any
other individual American taxpayer this
helped him pay no federal income taxes
in eight of the ten years the reporters
studied the president defended himself
on Twitter on Wednesday saying quote you
always wanted to show losses for tax
purposes almost all real estate
developers did and often renegotiate
with banks it was sport guys any
surprises in this story yeah I'm
surprised at the Chinese intelligence
agencies watch Maddow what a dream from
Hillary Clinton's lips to the Chinese
ears usually does not a private speeches
I don't think anyone is surprised to
find out that Trump is a fraud the
degree if that's fraud where he's you
know Luva did you always say we elect
America elected its worst person it's
that we also elected our worst business
person since he lost more money than any
other taxpayer and most years that were
in the information provided to the times
yeah I mean how how if it all should
Democrats talk about Trump and his taxes
and what's in this story I mean is it is
it possible to undermine the image of
Trump as a successful businessman with
the fact that he was actually America's
least successful business we did we have
gotten a taste of how conservatives are
gonna respond to this
from our pals at Fox & Friends and I
think I think we do have a clip of that
that we can play anything you read this
you're like wow
it's pretty impressive all the things
that he's done in his life I don't know
that there's any suggestion that he
broke the law yeah I think the
suggestion is simply that he used the
tax laws to its benefit as if if you buy
something and it doesn't pan out right
away or ever your loser no you take
shots you have an opportunity to do
things that's the way he lived the
reason why we all knew Donald Trump's
name is for 30 years that's what he did
he bought Towers hotels golf courses he
did it in other countries when what do
people do not understand about these a
little bit different than most people
know
you know what in full agreement that he
is a little bit different than most
people yeah you're definitely different
it's uh you know again like this this
reminds me of the Muller letter saying
how mad he is at bar it does feel like a
deleted scene from an old episode like
okay great
I do believe a lot of people decided to
just sort of say it and vote Donald
Trump because they believe this
reputation that he was a businessman I
think now he's been president for three
years we had to judge him on his actual
conduct in the actual job which matters
so much more than what his reputation
was so I'm not really interested in
hashtags like billion-dollar loser
I'm genuinely generally not interested
in hashtags at all but I do think sin
love it your best hashtag it does to me
matter insofar as it's part of a larger
case it gets the way Donald Trump
conducted himself as president in that
for all his talk about being so wealthy
he didn't nothing you know he couldn't
be bought he has spent most of the time
in office seeking out personal gain in
part because he's clearly been in so
much debt and had so many entangling
foreign financial interests that he has
beholden to all kinds of private
companies and foreign governments in
ways we don't fully understand and you
know something that John said all the
time which is true in this case is that
he is not looking out for the American
people he's not looking out for anyone
but himself in his own bottom line yeah
I mean Dan let's say that I love it is
right that people don't really
care about or they care less about how
he got rich or didn't get rich and care
more about his conduct as president how
is it possible to still use these
stories about you know taken advantage
of tax loopholes at best at worst
possibly committing tax fraud is it
possible to use these stories in a
message about Trump as we move towards
2020 yes Donald Trump was an incredibly
rich person who paid zero in taxes for a
decade Donald Trump then won the
presidency and passed the law to make it
so that more rich people and more
corporations pay zero in taxes the
people who clean the rooms at Trump's at
the Trump Hotel paid more in taxes than
Donald Trump a multimillionaire did you
pay more for your Amazon Prime
subscription an Amazon a nine hundred
billion dollar company pays in federal
taxes Donald Trump thinks that is right
we think it's wrong elect Democrats and
we'll change it put that in a ad
yeah it's just right it just seems like
it needs to be part of like an argument
against the Republican policies that had
someone like Donald Trump rich yeah I
think you've got to tie him to very
unpopular Republican policies which by
the way I mean we've talked about this a
lot is different than saying maybe it's
not in conflict but it's different than
saying Trump is some unique emergency
he's so much different than the
Republicans he's worse than Republicans
let's remember that the most unpopular
policies don't necessarily just come
from Donald Trump but they came from
Paul Ryan and a lot of the Republicans
in Washington which are tax cuts for the
rich and then paid for by gutting
Medicare gutting Medicaid and trying to
take away your health care I mean that
that's a core message that you could
have used in 2012 2016 it's been true
for a long time it worked and it we
still have to at the end we have oh
sorry sorry
yeah and look it worked it worked in
2012
especially when Barack Obama talked
about Mitt Romney is one of these rich
guys who wanted to pass a bunch of tax
cuts for rich people because he himself
was rich and took advantage all hype I
loathe it you had to ask if I was still
my wine because you said Paul Ryan's
name I didn't immediately start
screaming
[Laughter]
testing 1 2 Paul Ryan Paul Ryan is back
yeah it's funny too it's like at least
you know look Bain Capital was mercenary
and vicious and sociopathic and
undermining you know the ability of
working people to kind of have a living
wage but at least they made a profit
also also a good line so let's talk
about trying to get the rest of Trump's
tax returns Treasury Secretary Steve
knew can continued his effort this week
to block Congress from obtaining access
to the tax returns he said on Monday
that a request from House Ways and Means
lacks a legitimate legislative purpose
Richard Neal who's the chairman of ways
and means said on Thursday he would
think about sorry he said that he would
let us know what steps he's gonna take
next some of which could involve going
to court what's going on here like what
other options do Democrats have to get
these tax returns is this just the same
position we were just talking about with
oversight writ large which is you know
the Trump administration's bettin it
gets tied up in courts and then they
just never have to comply I mean I hate
doing the thing where we hammer
Democrats and we sort of like
disillusioning but what this is like I
legitimately mystified and frustrated by
what Richard Neal is doing here like
what did he think was going to happen
here and why was there not a decision
made about the next step before he got
the letter from the new kid that is the
craziest thing is it a surprise
be ready it's like it's so crazy Dan it
is so like everything the Trump
administration not complying with the
order for Donald Trump's tax returns the
most predicted want to think it the most
predictable thing since October of 2016
like and and seems this seems taken
aback without a clear immediate next
step it it almost like the next step
should be in the requests letter like
what what is going on everything's very
careful and cautious and the problem
with it is is it's very it's undermining
of Nancy Pelosi strategy whatever you
think about it Nancy Pelosi is view
starting impeachment proceedings right
now is a mistake so we are going to
aggressively look at all of this stuff
and then come to conclusion on a piece
of it but that strategy the political
merits of that strategy and the
substantive ones frankly fall apart if
they are not incredibly aggressive on
everything that it's happening short of
impeachment and so if Richard Neal is
dawdling around thinking about what he
could possibly do and in his qualities
like while we should subpoena but they
don't seem to be really replying the
subpoenas these days so I don't know it
like it feeds into the caricature that a
lot of people a lot of democratic
Democrats have about how the Democrats
are going about this right it's just
it's it's just a terrible legislative
political mistake Dan what do you think
about states like California that are
requiring candidates to release their
taxes in order to be on the ballot I
remember you talking about this before I
thought this was a good idea for a
really long time and I've advocated for
and I argued for it and then I had a
massive amount of concern about it a few
days ago and so what I would like to
know from like some of our political
polling data experts is what do we
believe the impact on turnout in
California would be if Donald Trump is
not all about it interesting so think
about this right so California if you
presume turnout drops at a rate
proportional to party registration that
means that more Democrats will stay home
and how does that affect our capacity to
hold the crooked seven and you know go
back to someone like that anew yes right
like are those voters who are you know
they like the voters who did not turn
out 18 but you can potentially get a
presidential election year are they
going to turnout in the state like
California if they can't vote against
Trump yeah it also seems like like so
our Democratic nominees on the ballot
obviously if a Trump is not like what is
the impact that I'd like to sort of know
that because the political discussion
before proceeding forward yeah good for
you for going right to the political
I think I think there should be a
federal law
yeah just like to run for president you
have to file financial disclosure forms
that law should be updated to include
the release of tax which I believe was
in HR 1 the first bill the Democrats in
the house passed but absent that if we
set up this piecemeal system we could
live in a world where we're
disadvantaging ourselves because the
only states who would pass such a law
are ones that are demmer are controlled
by Democrats therefore probably state
states in the presidential election and
but we need higher Democratic turnout
among less likely voters to win things
up and down the ballot and the more
Republican parts of these blue states
interesting it's also worth I think
worrying about what happens when
Republicans in states that are in reach
of Democrats start using this as an
opportunity to create other standards to
keep Democrats off the ballot yeah I'm
sure they'll do that so yeah I mean
there were efforts to make Democrats to
make presidential candidates release
their birth certificate yeah I think
maybe Arizona or something like that
then didn't get all the way to the end
but this is a big thing in the early
parts of Obama body years all right
let's talk about 2020 question of the
day is how much of the Democratic
candidates need to make their campaigns
about Trump in order to stand out in a
crowded field and unify the party so
there was a long New York Times story by
acid Herndon in Jonathan Martin this
week about how Kamala Harris and her
advisors are trying to reset and
recalibrate her campaign by having her
spend more time taking on Trump in
Detroit over the weekend she added a new
section to her stump that ended with the
lying quote this president isn't trying
to make America great he's trying to
make America hate okay and the reason
for this is that there's a so the reason
that she wants to do this is that
there's a disagreement within her
campaign over whether Kamala should run
to the left or to the center quote other
Harris advisors and allies have winced
at some of the Senators overtures to
liberals they believe her pool of
attainable voters sits squarely between
the center and left and that she need
not always offer the answer liberal
activists may want from her dan what do
you make of this piece maybe my head
explode you know we
claim all the time about how reporters
and pundits presume political
calculation behind every utterance a
candidate makes and that is unfair
because political candidates like humans
had sincere beliefs and they will say
things they believe in regardless of the
politics of it but when a candidate's
advisors call up the New York Times or
anyone else and then explain in gory
detail the political calculation between
that and that candidates next utterance
you're giving that candidate a massive
disservice
come on her says really smart loyal
staff on her campaign but some people in
and around her campaign I think did her
a tremendous disservice by reading the
New York Times into their playbook you
know we always yell about Democrats in
the house building an inner monologue
instead of calling at Politico this is
also true of campaign advisers like I
think if this would happen on the Obama
campaign I think cost will don't burn
the building down I mean I'll tell you
we're not on campaigns right now but we
still get emails from political
reporters asking us to talk about you
know some like inter-party fighting and
what's going on what do you think Abidin
because you were in the White House and
I'm like no no you do it obviously yeah
but it's like I mean they don't respond
I never participate in those stories
even though I'm not a campaign cuz I'm
like it's just there's nothing that
comes from my participation in that
story that's going to be helpful to the
candidate so never mind if you're on the
campaign or advising the campaign doing
that like Jonathan Martin calls you up
no I love Jonathan Martin who's a great
reporter but I'm not talking to him
about that if I'm on a campaign I have a
simple rule I only talked to reporters
if they're writing a glowing profile
about me personally I also want to say
one other thing because I'm sorry make
America great again make America hate
again I have expected Camilla to remove
her face like come like I have expected
Camilla to remove her face like Arya
Stark and reveal Hillary Clinton and I'm
like I I I worked for Hillary Clinton
for years I believe Hillary Clinton she
be president right now I agree
with every criticism of those who
constantly blame Hillary Clinton alone
for the reason she's not president
but that sentence to me gets at some of
the mistakes we made in 2016 that we
should not be making in 2020 I mean it's
also a line that is a very I mean it's a
piece about consultants and advisors
talking to the New York Times and that's
what that line sounds like I mean I talk
to Carla Harris for almost an hour here
and and she never said stuff like that
right she never was she's warm
brilliant engaging she's like she is a
very authentic person I know often
specific it's the runner up but like
Carla Harris is and you know she was at
our office and just was talking to
people and engaging people and she is
you like want to talk to her she's
incredibly charming incredibly
charismatic she has all these incredible
skills and gifts as a politician that
this kind of consultant box will you
know be something that she's stuck in I
mean it's
so the piece says her advisers have
quote extensively polled and run focus
groups on the democratic primary
electorate and quote do not believe she
should bow to liberal activists setting
aside the wisdom of people telling
reporters this are they right in know I
just like it I have like I am speechless
at the absurdity that someone told that
makes me so mad I get it and it makes me
actually really I'll get your intern I
just one event alone that makes me mad
on Carla Harris's behalf young Jeff had
her best moment on the campaign since
the announcement right she just
demonstrated to the whole world in the
bill bar hearing about like what like
what she is so good at it how talented
and smart she is and the response to
that is to lay out your political
strategy that Isis crazy it's I think
it's the wrong way of thinking about a
business you're putting yourselves in
this Twitter blue checkmark pundit box
that is just not how voters think about
it right there making a holistic
judgment on a candidate on who they are
what they stand for what their policy
beliefs are and what kind what kind of
opponent they would make the Trump and
to try to choose between like we have to
be liberal or moderate is the look like
you don't campaign in a silo right you
are a human being and voters will
support Pete
that they agree with on something to
disagree with they on other things
because they're making an overall
judgment so we think if members of her
campaign are thinking about this in
terms of one path or the other path I
think it's just a very faulty way of
thinking about presidential politics
maybe sometimes that is the way you
think about a Democratic primary for
Senate or governor which is there's a
Liberal candidate or the moderate
candidate you count out the liberal
voters come up the moderate voters and
figure out which one's better shop it's
the president a presidential campaign is
something incredibly different than that
and the judgments of voters makes
incredibly different that it's much more
complex and this is a incredibly in
painfully simplistic way of looking at
politics I also think there's something
more important than ideology and
deciding that you're going to tack to
the left tack to the center apologize
for a past position whatever I mean we
have candidates in here all the time and
we have pushed them on their support for
the filibuster when Carla Harris was
here I asked her about her record as a
prosecutor and the truancy program she
started and she said you know she
regretted her support for this law that
caused some parents to be arrested and
my view want my view on this is if you
believe in your past record even if it's
not necessarily popular right now then
say you still believe it if you're truly
regretful of it say you're truly
regretful if you're for the filibuster
don't tell me that now you're against
the filibuster just because you're here
and you know that we feel that way you
know like I will respect it a lot more
if you come here and say I know you guys
hate the filibuster I know you guys
think here's why I think we should keep
the filibuster because I really believe
that like just be who you are and stand
by your beliefs and I think you will get
a lot more credit from people than
having a bunch of advisers say oh well
when you go on this program you should
attack to the left a little bit when you
talk to this crowd you should talk to
the center a little bit all that kind of
because that just gets you twisted and
knots all the time right well cuz what's
not mentioned in the article is what
does Kamala Harris actually believe
about the kind of policies we should
have when she's president I mean one of
the things what what one reason this
story is going to be so damaging is now
if she bucks the left wing of the party
it's not because she believes it or
doesn't believe it it's beak
that's the strategy if she decides to
accede to demand at the left wing of the
party it's not because she believes it
or doesn't believe it it's not because
she believes it it's because she has
made a strategic decision and so
reducing every position to a strategic
choice just makes it harder to take any
position whatsoever because it's no
longer about who you are and what you
stand for
it's about messaging and strategy yeah I
mean how let's get to the you know the
the crux of the pieces so because
there's this disagreement about whether
she should talk to the left protect to
the center the easy out here is whacking
Trump because hitting Trump is the way
that you can both unify the party
because people on the center of the
party in the left of the party all hate
Trump yeah this trebuchet is all along
the right the flank there and it's the
easier way to stand out in this crowded
field because candidates who take on
Trump directly whether it's Joe Biden
whether it was comel hair is taking on
bill bar in that hearing whether it's
you know other candidates have done this
as well those candidates tend to get
more coverage than the primary
candidates who are running around just
talking about policy what Dan what do
you think about that I this is once we
get a very simplistic way of thinking
about it it's also it's just incredibly
a false choice like which candidate is
not taking on Trump right away well
Elizabeth Warren policy world out we've
done entirely in the context of fixing
the problems that in the many times
existed before Trump but if it
exacerbated by Trump right like make
that like Trump is a conversation there
is no dearth of candidates talking about
Trump I don't like it's just like what
was what was the precedent about I'm on
Harris's performance in the Bill Maher
hearing was not that she took on Trump
and no one else did it was that he
showed herself to be smart and
thoughtful and to take no from
dilbar and like that it's just it's a
her general demeanor she came off as an
incredibly impressive person who you
could see sitting behind the desk in the
Oval Office in that moment it was
nothing all of a sudden she discovered
the Bennet
some Trump criticism right right in fact
she's even really talking about Trump in
those she's really talked about dilbar
and dole bars conduct and how the report
was done and it highlights an important
part of her background wishes as she as
a prosecutor isn't so one way of
thinking about that exchange is people
value her role as a prosecutor much in
the way that we believe in 2008 campaign
that people valued Barack Obama's role
as a community organizer because it
spoke to the kind of president he wanted
to be as someone who would try to bring
change from the from the bottom up so
you could take from that we should talk
more about her being a prosecutor I
don't know that you can look at what
happened there and the success they had
I presume raising money and generating
attention after that and say the reason
for that is we answer that as we need
more Trump criticism some criticism is
fine there certainly one who's important
T of all of it and more but I don't know
how that's gonna make you stand out in
this field yeah again I mean there's in
some instances Trump represents a unique
emergency in other instances Trump is
merely a continuation of a Republican
Party that's become radicalized over the
last decade and probably you should just
respond to each instance when it happens
you know like if if if it requires you
to take on Trump directly because you're
talking about a specific issue where
Trump is some unique emergency then talk
about Trump otherwise you don't have to
like I think it's just it's it's
situation dependent here I don't think
it's a strategy to necessarily stand out
in a field I don't think it's also this
is I the the third story in as many
weeks about a candidate deciding to use
Trump to make themselves distinct right
I mean Bernie did that I think in his
announcement he spoke more about Trump
than others Joe Biden made but made
Trump and the way in which Trump is an
aberration central to his announcement
so I find it all a bit strange and you
know to Dan Dan to your point the reason
that moment stood out was not because it
was about Trump it was because it was
about her yeah it was a moment about
that that she stood out she said it
because she did something in that moment
that probably no other candidate in the
field could do that's my advice the
candidate is always like think about the
things that make you unique and stand
out in this field that are unique to you
the skills that you have a background
that you have issues that you've cared
about for a long time because
you do that then people are like oh
that's only something that Kamala Harris
could say or do that's only something
Elizabeth Warren could say or do and
when you and the more you're focusing on
that the more people say okay now I know
why this particular candidate stands out
in the field because none of these other
candidates could do that say that
propose that policy etc I'm not saying
this is what is underlying Toma Harris's
campaigns approach to this but I did
talk to someone who was advising another
presidential candidate who is seeking
attention and a big way in which they
are thinking about this is how can you
get Trump to react to you right and it's
in a trump attacks you that like the
candidates who have had Trump engage
with them have seen jumps in fundraising
online right so it's like temple tweet
about you or pick a fight with you or
whatever else that that is helpful and I
can see why candidates are trying to
look for a way to get him to react to
you because that is attention but it's
important to know that that is a tactic
not a strategy and that is a way to
generate money it's not a way to so to
win the primary yeah the second point I
want to make is just generally as we
think about our nominee and we run
through our mind about what attributes
do we want the nominee to have to make
them best suited to take on Trump and
that I don't mean like what they look
like or who they are or where they're
from but like what are their what are
they good at is candidate because I am
much more concerned that our nominee I'm
much more concerned than our nominee be
able to tell their own story about why
they're running for president what they
would do as president who they would
fight for then I am in their ability to
say bad things about Trump I think we
like the what happened in the lesson of
2016 is not that we need to do a better
job of making the case against Trump
although there's fair criticism of how
the Clinton campaign did that is that we
need to not chase Trump down every
rabbit hole we like we can't allow him
to define the four corners of the
conversation we want a nominee who can
talk about themselves and talk about
their vision and inspire people on their
own not to try to scare them about Trump
and so I just think that the we can wrap
ourselves around the Trump axle in a
pretty dangerous way pretty quickly yeah
I think it's very important for
candidates to look at that
first debate and realize that it is not
a contest of sick burns it is not you
know it's not like so-and-so had the
best Trump hit we are T if you agree you
know like that's not that the people
should walk away from those debates and
where they're gonna look eight
ten people on stage two nights in a row
and think okay
which candidate really stood out not
because they had the best line on Trump
but because I said oh that person is
bringing something bringing something to
the table that none of these other
candidates bring yeah it's also I think
is the point that mayor Pete has made a
few times which I actually think is
really smart in that when either you
look for a way to insult Trump
effectively or when you seek to get
Trump's attacks yes you are picking a
fight with Donald Trump but in some
sense not only are you playing on his
turf you're in some sense seeking his
approval seeking his recognition that
you're on his level and it really does
once again to find everything around
Trump and by Trump so I do think you
know Dan to your point it's the tactic
not a strategy not only is it not a
strategy I think in the long term every
time we engage in a debate that is about
seeking Trump's criticism you are giving
him power in our in our part of the
process yeah and I mean like in like you
said to him like I get why people do it
because in the short term you get a
burst of online fundraising and you get
a lot of people cheering you on Twitter
and you obliterate every other candidate
it's just you and Trump right and so
that's very tempting and I think there's
like there's definitely a time and a
place to do that once in a while but
you're right it's not a it's not an
overall strategy okay when we come back
we'll have Dan's interview with Stacey
Abrams
you
