welcome to pod save the world I'm Tommy
Vietor I'm Ben Rhodes Ben I think I have
the longest list of items I've ever sent
you for a show today yes there's so much
going on in the world so we're gonna
cruise through a ton of stuff I guess
you try to go a little faster yeah yeah
like a lot of really important issues
out there um the quick rundown of what
we got so Boris Johnson is the Prime
Minister of United Kingdom we're gonna
talk about that at the top and then with
our guest Labour Party MP David Lammy
friend of the paw larious guy um we'll
talk about Trump and the prime will talk
about why Trump in the Prime Minister of
Pakistan had one of the weirdest oval
office pool sprays I've ever seen we'll
do an Iran update there's some
interesting reports on Trump's bizarre
relationship with John Bolton China's
making some moves militarily Steve
Bannon is spooked and he's drumming up a
new Red Scare Trump has a new Secretary
of Defense and maybe a new Director of
National Intelligence so there's some
personnel news we got some Russian
Stooges in the news and maybe making
face apps and then maybe we'll touch on
ASAP rocky and area 51 I don't know
yeah might weird at the end so one thing
I always forget to do on the show the
the download growth of positive the
world is growing and growing and growing
and one way you guys can help us is by
rating the show reviewing it in the
iTunes Store tell your friends about it
if you know a kid studying international
relations this is a go world√µs okay so
spread the good news as they say let me
state of it spread the good news and
that's the last time I'm gonna shame
lessly promote us let's do it it was
this week yeah okay let's talk about
United Kingdom so former London Mayor
Boris Johnson is then out the prime
minister of the UK take that in Theresa
May is gone Jeremy Hunt his closest
opponent was vanquished Ben this isn't a
surprise per se and that he was like the
likely it's a likely political outcome
but it's still hard to believe that a
guy like Boris Johnson is now running
the show Johnson can be funny and
charming and entertaining here's a quick
example of why from his perch first
speech as Tory party leader some wagon
was already pointed out that deliver
your night and defeat was not the
perfect acronym for
action campaign since our portion aliy
it spells dud but they forgot the final
E my friends efore energized and I say I
say to all the doctors dude dude great
editing there yeah so this dude has also
been all over the map politically he's
gotten in trouble for fabricating
stories in the journalists he's been
criticized for using racist and
homophobic language again we dig in this
in more detail with friend of the pod
David Lammy but any initial reaction
from you about Boris Johnson's
ascendance well I mean you know as in
the u.s. it just kind of shows that
there's not a bottom in British politics
right I mean this guy let's be clear
he's just like a professional liar you
know yeah I mean he started his a
journalist literally just making up
about the European Union from Brussels
the the brexit campaign which he led was
founded on lies that there be more money
for the health service that they
wouldn't have to pay that you a fee in
order to leave which they will have to
do all these promises that were proved
to be wrong and Teresa may had to be the
one holding the bag for that and yet
this is the guy that the Conservative
Party turns to when Theresa May is
unable to deliver brexit precisely
because she can't square the promises
that Portia Johnson made with the
reality of what brexit would entail so
you know as in the u.s. it's funny how
US politics and UK politics seem to
always go in the same way right you I
got a rhyming right now no well we had
Blair and Clinton right and you know
Obama what Cameron was a different party
but they got along but but now we've got
essentially these two complete liars who
were basically arsonists inside of the
political culture of their countries and
Boris Johnson is soon going to discover
with the fall deadline for brexit that
you know he can't make good on the
promises he made and either he's gonna
have to crash the UK out of the European
Union without a deal which would be
catastrophic or he may have to confront
the reality that this is not a good idea
yeah it's not good the only good news
for us is there's some other political
leadership in another country the people
will laugh at ya we had the eyes maybe
office okay let's talk about Hong Kong
so we've been talking about this protest
movement in Hong Kong a few times on the
show so to quickly get you guys up to
speed
huge numbers of people have taken to the
streets to protest a bill that would
allow Hong Kong residents to be
extradited to mainland China for trial
those protests turned violent on Monday
when a mob of men in white shirts with
sticks and metal bars and bats started
attacking anti-government protesters
some journalists there's even a lawmaker
who got the hell beat out of them the
police who have been using harsh tactics
like tear gas and rubber bullets against
the protesters did nothing to stop these
thugs we're basically in uniforms these
white shirts there's speculation that
they may have been paid thugs sent out
there by someone in retaliation for
protesters vandalizing a Chinese
government liaison office in the city
it's also worth noting that chinese
state media has really started to pick
up and run stories about the damage to
that liaison office so they're clearly
trying to push a narrative that the
protesters themselves are violent um I
don't know exactly what happened I don't
know who paid these guys but it does
feel like we're in the middle of a
classic authoritarian playbook and
crackdown on a peaceful protest movement
yeah I mean we've seen this playbook
before so you know a couple things are
notable here I mean one is one of the
things that the Chinese government or
the Hong Kong government would want to
do is to discredit this protest movement
which has been overwhelming you know as
we've mentioned you had up to a quarter
of the population of Hong Kong on the
streets at times protesting this
extradition bill that would make people
in Hong Kong susceptible to being sent
into mainland China and the way you
discredit a protest movement is by
making you a peaceful nonviolent mass
mobilization look like a bunch of
violent thugs who need to be dealt with
with law and order and so we've seen in
other instances cases where the
government essentially has thugs go in
and pick fights with protesters yeah try
to invite a violent response so one
scenario and I we don't know the truth
here is that the Chinese government or
perhaps people associate with the
Chinese government they may be wanting
to discredit this protest movement they
may perhaps want to be provoking now
to commit acts of violence and to look
like they're not the mass mobilization
peaceful protest movement that seemed to
enjoy the support of the vast majority
of people of Hong Kong that's one
scenario I think another an interesting
thing is that the protesters decided to
go after the liaison office of the
People's Republic of China yeah they've
been directing their ire at the Carrie
lamb who is the chief executive of Hong
Kong obviously she's backed by Beijing
but she is the Hong Kong authority for
them to go after in a peaceful way or
perhaps even with these acts of
vandalism the Beijing liaison office
shows you that they're really targeting
the fundamental nature of Hong Kong's
association with China and that is going
to invite a response from the Chinese
government that's a big swing it's a big
swing and year they may just you're
embolden then they may want to push this
all the way and register their
complaints and I should say like yes the
Chinese strategy is gonna be wait this
out so division among the protesters
maybe provoke them in acts of violence
discredit them through their media
organs but there's some risk for the
Chinese to already we've seen statistics
that there's going to be a pretty
dramatic potentially drop-off and
tourism to hong kong because who wants
to go someplace where there's mobs of
people in the street you've got a lot of
international businesses in hong kong
that you know may be a little wary of
having their employees in a potentially
unstable situation so this despair is
watching and again i continue to just
have admiration people of hong kong or
under much greater threats from an
authoritarian government in beijing then
you know we are here with that quasi
authoritarian government in washington
and yet they keep turning on the street
yeah i mean the new york times did a
great piece on some of the underlying
economic conditions that might be
fueling protesters in Hong Kong there's
just horrible Whig wage stagnation the
living conditions are unbearable I mean
people are living in subdivided
apartment where they have 48 square feet
to live in some apartments that are full
apartments are 160 square feet so
meanwhile economic and
he's getting terrible you know wages
aren't going up so there's that piece of
this there's also the US government
response I noted yesterday where Trump
was asked about these protesters hidden
he offered no support no solidarity no
condemnation on the the thugs who
attacked them actually he credited Xi
Jinping by saying he had acted
responsibly and I think showed restraint
might have been the word he used so yeah
yeah we're just totally missed a
democratic values yeah I mean geez
Jinping is is not exactly showing
restraint look the America should be on
the side of people who want to preserve
their freedoms and civil liberties which
is what these protests are all about
because if the Chinese gonna essentially
apprehend you and bring you into the
mainland China you know that is the
beginning of the end if not the end of
political freedoms in Hong Kong right
and so we should be on the side of the
people protesting and you know they the
authoritarians have their leadership in
G Jinping the Democratic world needs to
look for leadership somewhere and it's a
tragedy that they're not getting it from
Donald Trump yeah agreed
well maybe it's a tragedy not getting
from the presidency ya know Trump is the
guy that they were looking for alright
let's uh let's go to the Oval Office so
on Tuesday President Trump welcomed
Imran Khan the prime minister of
Pakistan to the Oval for a meeting Khan
is an interesting guy like Trump he's a
celebrity turned head of state though he
was a world-class cricket player not
like a shitty reality TV producer but so
let's start with the the state visit
itself in the us-pakistan relationship
normally when a head of state like Khan
visits Washington a team of senior US
officials is sent to greet him or her at
the airport
apparently the State Department just
forgot because there are all these
videos of Khan riding on those like sad
People Mover things at Dulles Airport
with his staff and no escorts so maybe
they were trying to send him a message
insulting who knows so previously Trump
has tweeted a bunch of criticism of
Pakistan he suspended the 1.3 billion
dollars in annual security aid that
they've gotten for a while
Khan is a nationalist he is more than
happy to fire back at the West when it
suits him politically and so you know
there have been some Twitter fighting in
2018 of course in the Oval Office it was
all smiles from
Trump because he never gives people
tough news in person so I guess my
question Ben is you know Paxton is an
important partner / frenemy in our fight
against the Taliban and al Qaeda the
meeting today or I'm sorry the meeting
on Tuesday was supposed to clear the air
and reset the relationship how do you
think it went how important is our
relationship with Pakistan these days as
we're trying to wind down the war in
Afghanistan well look I mean it's no
secret that Pakistan has maintained
relations with the Taliban some of the
senior leadership of the Taliban has
lived in Pakistan there's been this
constant push and pull from the Obama
administration the Bush administration
before to try to get them to crack down
those safe havens they usually take half
measures it should be noted that Imran
Khan as the Prime Minister is not really
in charge of all that you know the
Pakistani military operates somewhat
independent of the civilian government
right and the so the Pakistani military
and intelligence services have something
of a free hand and so you always have
kind of a dual relationship with
Pakistan you know you talk to the
civilians but you also have your own
lines of communication to the military
and the intelligence services now why is
this important at this moment if the
administration is trying to negotiate an
end to the Afghan war as Khalil Zadar
envoy to Afghanistan is doing with the
Taliban you really want the Pakistanis
to be constructive in that process right
if the Pakistanis
are supportive of a peaceful resolution
to the conflict if they're using some of
their sway with the Taliban to push them
in a certain direction and we're dealing
with the Afghan government that would
make a peace settlement in Afghanistan
much easier to achieve so that's what we
would want from the the Pakistanis at
this time frankly we also want to make
sure that that their relationship with
India doesn't go off the rails because
you don't want to nuclear-powered
nations got too close for ya and you
know Trump made some weird comments
about that that we did but it so it
seems like you know Trump Pakistan the
us-pakistan relationship is one that is
filled with complexity and nuance those
are not exactly the president's strong
snow
which gets us to this weird 40 minute
press availability of the Trump did with
Khan in the Oval Office so just a little
context like often when you have a
foreign leader in the Oval Office you'll
take a couple questions from the pool in
the Oval or you'll set up podium
somewhere and you do what's called a 2 &
2 or you take 2 questions from each side
and both people get to clear the air and
the reporters asked 7 part questions of
journalists and it turns into a little
mini news conference Trump loves to just
wing it and take a bunch of questions so
what I first the first thing I notice
about this little pool spray was Trump
talked like the whole time Trump Khan
got no questions for 30 minutes and yeah
it looked rip pissed then at one
point Trump brag that he could win the
war in Afghanistan in ten days but he
won't do it because he doesn't want to
kill 10 million people so that's good
that he doesn't want to commit a
genocide in a week but a little
disconcerting and not surprisingly the
Afghanistan's issued a statement asking
for a quote clarification of the
comments yes I imagine you would want
that later in the availab claimed that
the Indian Prime Minister asked him to
mediate one of the most sensitive issues
in the world a seventy-year-old dispute
between India and Pakistan over the
Kashmir region in the almost immediately
shot that claimed down they don't want
someone mediating the dispute the much
stronger party they want to just decide
it themselves later during an answer
about Iran Trump joked that Pakistan
would never release propaganda or lies
the way the Iranians do which of course
is a total lie the Pakistanis do this
all the time they play stories in their
media Ben what do you make of this very
special pool spray and would you pick
Donald Trump to mediate a dispute as
sensitive as Kashmir yeah I don't quite
know where to begin there's a lot there
very quicker than the last one the
Pakistanis were among the most
aggressive governments at disinformation
it's certainly the beginning of my
administration remember this putting out
all kinds of crazy about the United
States funded by their government but
put that aside where to begin
let's see suggesting that you could kill
10 million Afghans in a few days let's
put another note Ovilus right now first
of all he said we
plans to do this and he refuses to do it
right so it's kind of like his imaginary
meeting with the general yes a bomb in
Iran I chose not to kill people when I
could have that is a lie there I I mean
look I was in government for eight years
in Afghan meetings almost every week
there is no plan to nuke
Afghanistan right like what lunatic
would dream dream that up right now I'm
in football it's either a lie or if
they've drawn up the plan to nuke
Afghanistan in the Trump administration
that's even more worrying and insane but
knowing the US military which is some
semblance of ethics and morals they're
not doing that so Trump is making this
up
why you know was weird remember like
early on in the Trump administration
they dropped a huge bomb called the mop
the mother of all bomb I was thinking
the massive ordnance penetrator my fault
mistake happens all the time yeah
there's like a twenty five thousand
pound bomb they dropped on like a bunch
of tunnels and yeah it with no Trump
went out and boasted about it yeah you
boast about it then he boast about it
again in this pool spray so maybe that
was on his mind maybe that was on his
mind but look this is completely
unacceptable I mean yes the the Afghans
just heard the president states you know
casually talking about killing ten
million of them and literally saying he
could wipe them off the face of the
earth
you think that's gonna help us in
Afghanistan no Stalin like their
government had to call in our envoy
today and read him the ride Act
these are not people who are gonna be
inclined to think that America values
them in their lives just because the
president I state says he's not inclined
today to kill ten million people so
tomorrow yeah this is disgusting and
offensive number one number two Kashmir
okay this is the world's number one
nuclear flash point right Pakistan India
have fought multiple wars over Kashmir
they both have nuclear weapons the
worst-case scenario is this thing
spirals out of control and you have a
potential nuclear war now India as the
bigger stronger party has always
resisted any third party mediation of
this dispute they want to negotiate it
directly with Pakistan so the wait for
the u.s. to be involved and we were we
try to be involved is is quietly you
know to try to broker things behind the
scenes by injecting himself
out there and let me just be clear the
Pakistanis would like to us immediate
because they'd like us to kind of come
in and pressure the unions to do things
so it could be that Imran Khan raised
this prospect with Trump and he's like
oh sure I'll do it I'll say I'm gonna be
the mediator well what happened after
that the Indian Foreign Ministry had to
put a statement saying that what Trump
said was a lie wasn't true that Modi
hadn't asked Trump to mediate this
dispute what did he just do he just set
back our capacity to play any role here
right because now the Indians are gonna
give us a stiff arm then the Pakistanis
have to respond to the Indians and he
just made one of the world's most
dangerous situations more dangerous but
what he did so in the course of him just
having fun hamming it up with the press
in the 30 minutes spray like he insulted
the entire country of Afghanistan he
insulted the Prime Minister of India he
set back the likelihood that we can play
a constructive role on Kashmir and and
meanwhile he's got the Pakistani Prime
Minister that he left dangling on the
 people-mover
like sitting there like a potted plant I
mean you know there's so many things
that bother us like you know the racist
tweets but like where are the
Republicans you know who love to put
forward their commitment to the war in
Afghanistan and to American leadership
this guy is embarrassing on the world
stage and making the world a dangerous
place every single time he opens his
mouth right and we will not hear word
one know from noted you know national
security expert Lindsey Graham and all
these people they're just sitting here
watching this guy turn us into an
embarrassment yeah and all the and all
the things that are actually disputed
and although certain in the relationship
just get glossed over with happy talk
you know he talks about how Great Khan
is and how great Pakistan is he doesn't
deliver any tough messages including
well yeah you know he'll do it after he
leaves via tweet because the guy doesn't
have the guts to actually do it to
anybody's face right or you know or his
travel bans right he's praising
Pakistanis right yeah I mean so so you
know this this is a pretty good
distillation of everything that is wrong
with how he approaches the job of
commander-in-chief
well you don't threaten nuclear war on
the one end and you don't risk it making
less likely did you convert a nuclear
war on the other hand yeah just wing it
wing it in Kashmir
Trump mentioned Iran in in that pulse
priceless a little Ron update so the
Iranians announced that they have
arrested 17 Iranian citizens who they
claimed had been trained as part of a
CIA spy network Trump denied this in
that same pool spray with Imran Khan
Pompeyo did in a statement I think you
and I don't know the truth but certainly
it would not be the first time that Iran
claimed success in some CIA mole hunt
that never happened last week Iran's
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps seized
a British tanker in the Strait of Hormuz
presumably this was done as some sort of
retaliation for the UK detaining one of
their tankers a couple weeks earlier I
also noticed that iran's Foreign
Minister Javad Zarif is on a PR
offensive here in the US so if anyone
knows Arif
please let him know that he's always
welcome on POD save the world he may be
a world of ruin you know let's hope so
rate and review us
lastly notable the Europeans still want
to stay in the Iran deal and they've
rejected a proposal for a us-led force
to protect commercial ships in the
region so there's still a pretty big
split between us and the Europeans so
Ben that was more of an update than a
question I'm just kind of curious what
you make of this last week events and
how your anxiety level is about all
things are on well it's kind of like a
permanent high anxiety I mean you're
right like they make all kinds of claims
about detaining CIA assets or agents and
like Jason rezaian from or they could
just be rolling up Iranians right these
are gonna say Westerners and saying that
they're tied to the u.s. somehow that
said you know it's part of a series of
provocative actions they're trying to
get a raise attention they're trying to
to suggest that they don't like this
status quo and they want some something
they want concessions or they want
potentially to impose their own costs on
the west by raising the price of oil or
by making it more dangerous for tankers
to pass through this area what's notable
to me is you have a British tanker
detained one the Brits reaffirm their
support for the Iran deal for the jcpoa
and to saying no instead of working with
the US we're going to do our own kind of
European maritime support for our
tankers so they're basically telling
United States in as many words you
created this problem
worst they put let's be very clear if
the Iran deal still in place this is not
happening of course if the Iran deal is
still in place there are not tankers
being disrupted there are not American
drones being shot down there are not
crazy claims of 17 spies being arrested
this is happening because it's their
response to us pulling out of the jcpoa
and the Europeans are saying to us
thanks but no thanks no we don't want to
be a part of potentially John Bolton's
war plan here
so we don't want some u.s. maritime
escort because we don't want to be part
of the potential you know trigger point
for Bolden to finally get the word that
he almost got Trump to get us into a few
weeks ago yeah so it shows I think in
stark relief the division between the
United States and Europe on this issue
the kind of isolation of the US and
again the strategic incoherence of the
Trump administration because what is
their policy or do they want to fight
the war well no Trump doesn't want to
but Bolton does well then what are they
gonna do they don't have a united front
with our allies because Raleigh's want
to go back to the Iran deal so then
you've got you know Rand Paul doing you
know his own diplomacy in Oman I mean
this is an insane way it all of course
diplomacy yeah it's an insane way to
manage one of the most sensitive issues
in the world my again my hope is it's
somehow the temperatures fall down and
and the Trump administration does enter
into some diplomacy even though all that
could render is something but like what
used to be the status quo under the Iran
deal yeah also I learned today that Bob
Ross is apparently a huge in Iran that
you remember the painter yeah oh yeah
happy little happy little drone I love
him a happy little centrifuge or
whatever Jason rezaian said he used to
watch him all the time while in prison
so that's that Ledger prizing lot led to
one of our better text exchanges with
Jason John because I I you know I was a
fan of Bob Ross I mean you know I watch
it all the time happy little trees down
here and but who knew Bob Ross is big in
Iran I mean it just shows you there's a
common cultural language here you know
maybe yeah maybe we have Zarif on and we
you know talk a little Bob Ross I'm good
I mean look it does show you the power
of these cultural campaigns it does you
know and it's you the people are people
everywhere and everybody likes a happy
little cloud down next to a mountain
lake goddamn right except for John
Bolton know he wants the bomb
happy little cloud you know down by the
lake right we're all sitting here
watching Bob Ross and feeling really
good about life and and there's a
there's a there's a mountain in this
Vista and then Bolden wants to come in
and drop the mother of all bombs
on poor little Bob Ross so listen you
listening at home might think that that
is a harsh description of mr. Bolton but
you know who it is
Donald Trump totally agrees with you
Axios published a big story about
Trump's relationship with his warmonger
walrus national security advisor and the
piece makes clear that Trump actually
does believe that Bolton wants to invade
every country but he's cool with it
because he thinks Bolton allows him to
do like a good cop bad cop routine and
give some psychological advantage in
negotiations so I read this piece and
like in all seriousness can the
president have a good cop bad cop
routine when one of the other cops works
for him and also do you think he
understands how much authority the
National Security Adviser has to just do
stuff on his own I mean wouldn't that
freak you out knowingly hiring someone
like John Bolton yeah I mean there are
two problems well there's more than two
problems but two I'd highlight one is
what this ignores is that the national
security adviser literally has his or
her hands on all the levers of power in
the government right so they're the one
coordinating the different agencies of
the government they're the one giving
direction so John Bolton while Trump
hasn't been paying attention right
because Trump is not exactly a details
man the right has been pulling out of
arms control treaties you know has been
pulling out of all kinds of
international agreements has been
engaged in this kind of belligerent
escalation of sanctions against
everybody he doesn't like and and so you
know Trump is not at all savvy enough to
execute a good cop bad cop relationship
because he has no idea what Bolton's
doing god knows what like covert action
programs he is authorized signed off on
push forward this is a really important
point like we are gonna find out yours
from now all the crazy half wild
 because there's a lot of power for
the now sugar adviser to authorize
covert action that nobody has to report
to the public obviously in fact it's
deniable you can deny it we
well then take didn't let's take the
case of Iran we could see for months and
talked about on the spot Wow Bolton's
really laying the conditions for war you
know like he's doing this for sanctions
he's moving aircraft Kurtis the region
he's making these threats he's closing
Canio consulate in Iraq and Trump didn't
figure this out until like months after
the rest of the world did until 10
minutes yeah so sort of like he does it
so he's not in control of this situation
as much as boldness and and so you get
this kind of complete incoherence it's
not good cop bad cop to have john bolton
drive the car all the way to the brink
of the war with iran and then donald
trump be like wait a second we're about
to go to war with iran i don't wanna do
that
that's not smart that's stupid right
well and then the second thing is this
is you know you know how I heard you
guys on you know pod say America I'm a
listener talk about essentially you know
that Trump fires off racist tweets and
then after the fact they try to come up
with a strategy cobbled together they've
been doing this in foreign policy for
three years but they say no actually
it's a madman theory of diplomacy right
so Trump will insult a lie or he'll lash
out or I'll do or say something really
stupid and then after the fact they're
like no no this is actually all plan
he's the madman negotiator
well like let's look at the results like
John Bolton's hobbyhorses and Trump's
hobbyhorses Maduro still in power the
North Koreans are building new nuclear
weapons the rains are accelerating their
stockpile of nuclear material and
detaining tankers so if there is some
madman theory it's not working time to
revisit it the the funniest thing in
this whole story to accept that any of
it is funny is that there's one anecdote
about Trump sometimes slips a script and
he plays bad cop
and apparently he did it in the meeting
with like the Dutch prime minister and
he started bad-mouthing NATO and he was
like oh well I know john loves NATO
don't you John it's like Trump can only
figure out a way to be a dick to our
closest allies oh yeah he'll be the bad
cop at the Allies
ridiculous um two more personnel things
so last week we talked about Trump was
considering or playing dan coats his
Director of National Intelligence would
they like right wing conspiracy theorist
named Fred flights so that is still the
Horrell horror scenario that is still
the worst case scenario but apparently
Trump met with infamous Devin
Nunez too
disgust replacement ideas for coats
which in turn has fueled speculation
that Devin Yunus himself might be in the
running
and so while I actually truly do believe
that Nunez is less bad than Fred
flight's who thinks the US government
has been infiltrated by secret Muslim
army trying to implement Sharia law it's
a close call took close call Devin is
best known for manipulating intelligence
for political purposes which is the
worst kind of person possible for this
job yeah lying lying about intelligence
I mean it would might not take it into
the realm of the complete crackpot
conspiracy theory stuff and Fred
Fletcher would but let's be clear this
would be a massive politicization and it
would undercut again the credibility of
the US and tell this community what
would anybody necessarily believe that
Devin Nunez is gonna reflect
dispassionately and analytically abused
didn't tells me I'll tell you something
from personal experience right I was a
bit player in one of Devin noonas his
conspiracy theories right so remember he
come came out and said that he
discovered the real scandal this is
before you know they found the FBI agent
station having affairs or whatever and
it was at me and Susan Rice were guilty
of quote/unquote unmasking right Trump
officials to create the Russia scandal
right and unmasking is a practice where
essentially you can request the identity
of a u.s. person an American who might
be an intelligence report and so he's
out there blowing his horn about
you know how this was real scandal and
it confirmed that the Obama people were
behind all this knowing right cuz he's
on the intelligence community you know
how many unmasking requests I made
related to the Trump people come away
zero so he just made it up he just made
it up like I'm sitting and thinking like
well this sucks cuz I don't have to go
you know get my name Brad with the fox
news channel to call our friend of the
pod Mike got leave my learned yeah and
like so this guy knows it's
right and this is the caliber of person
that we're dealing with right long stuff
you unmask somebody there's a pretty
significant piece of paper trail they
can check they can check
he would no one call and oh and then my
favorite Tommy is I have to go testify
in front of the House Intelligence
Committee for like a few hours fine I do
that Senate Intelligence p.m. Russia is
happy to serve my country in my own way
but the the precipitating factor of this
was all the noonas stuff right guess
who's not there who Devon Nunez oh my he
wasn't even the earring remember
when he released a memo and he hadn't
even read it happy to go out and go on
Fox News and rant and rave with the
Obama administration and doesn't even
show you know I had I had I had the
pleasure of Trey Gowdy's company instead
Bruno so the this guy so I mean to just
to have somebody who basically views
intelligence as a political weapon as
the head of the intelligence community
is a very bad idea yeah agreed
okay one other quick personal update
last week I talked to the senator Tammy
Duckworth about Mark Esper's nomination
to be Secretary of Defense so on Tuesday
today the Senate confirmed him by a vote
of 92 eight overwhelming bipartisan vote
but it has been 204 days since we had a
Senate confirmed secretary markable
which is just like insane given that DoD
is by far the biggest budget biggest
work force biggest moral responsibility
in terms of what your department does
and we almost started a couple of wars
now yeah and you need stability so I
don't have a lot else to say about
espers I don't know if you do but I mean
that it's just it's notable the only
long I I'd say is like this guy does not
have a background in kind of foreign
policy and and can we find someone who's
not have a background like the defense
and he's a lobbyist there's a lobbyist
right so it's of a piece of the rest of
administration now you get you get the
coal lobbyists at the EPA you know you
got you get the defense guy at DoD that
is not the kind of I mean by all counts
he's not like a bad guy no I'm sure but
I mean like look we should have people
who have some expertise in whether or
not we go to war not just expertise on
how you sell weapons to fight wars yeah
all right a quick for depressing update
out of Jerusalem on Monday Israeli
workers started knocking down dozens of
palestinian homes in East Jerusalem this
happened after a court battle where the
Israelis had maintained that these homes
were built too close
to their West Bank separation barrier
and thus pose a security threat the
homeowner said that they had permits to
build in that area from the Palestinian
Authority and that they were on West
Bank soil but ultimately they lost so
this move has been criticized by UN
officials and it was immediately
incorporated into Hamas is messaging
about Israel and the occupation I just
thought it was worth mentioning because
these demolitions and flame tensions in
the region and it's also a reminder that
the status quo is really a de facto
erosion of Palestinian territory and
rights which maybe that's Netanyahu's
plan but it's it's well I think I think
it's a reminder that they're human
beings here you know you hear about
settlements and settlements it's a kind
of friendly word you know they're people
who live in these houses families you
know who are gonna have their houses
destroyed right because they're
Palestinian and okay the Israeli
government says it's too close the
separation barrier that well there's no
sovereignty for these people there's no
self-determination for these people so
Israel just gets to make a decision no
we don't like where you live so we're
gonna destroy your house right no I
don't accept that and people shouldn't
accept that and it's outrageous and it
foreshadows where this is going because
ultimately like the more and more
settlements you build and the more you
want to push back the land that the
Palestinians control you're gonna be
demolishing homes they've done it before
they're doing it now they'll do it again
and I would just take it as an
opportunity for everybody to remember
that these are people these are these
are people just like us yeah like with
children probably live in these homes
and and they're gonna be bulldozed yeah
because these Raley's decide that no you
can't live there because you're
Palestinian that that's I'm sorry that's
outrageous people should call it out
agreed one other really interesting
story that caught my eye was the Wall
Street Journal reported that China has
signed a secret agreement with Cambodia
to gain access to this Cambodian naval
base yeah the Chinese will be able to
store weapons dock their ships have some
personnel stationed there it's part of a
concerted effort by the Chinese to
project their military forces further
and further from China into the South
China Sea and other places they have an
outpost in Djibouti in Africa they've
literally created islands for new
military installations and runways and
ships
balus curious how big a deal you think
this is in terms of one our relationship
to Cambodia I was not you know a partner
we think of all the time but it's
certainly significant regionally and
then China is growing naval power well
so they're two things I'm Cambodia they
had this kind of thuggish increasingly
autocratic leader Hun Sen and you know
he as he's become more autocratic has
turned more and more to China right and
so I think this is a pattern we will see
where leaders who move away from
democracy kind of tuck themselves under
the protective you know wing of China
and I think that is a disturbing trend
that bears watching I remember we went
to a summit in Cambodia one year it was
in a building called the the peace
palace or something oh I was there fewer
there I read that was dark built
entirely by the Chinese yeah so the
Chinese built that entire building with
Chinese labor right so don't think that
they weren't picking up your
conversation stop well also I know the
world has changed but we went from from
Burma from uncensored cheese house and
yard to this Cambodian hotel slash
casino with the press corps that was
really dark it was dark yeah and then I
had to walk through a casino like
smoke-filled casino to announce that
Hillary Clinton was going to Israel's
right since fire across the street there
was something called the Khmer Rouge
Food Mart yeah yeah that which was I
don't do my shopping so anyway that's
one point then the second is world√µs can
take out a map here right a lot of
strategies have seen is the Chinese are
trying to create a ring from essentially
their coastline you know the South China
Sea all the way down through the Indian
Ocean and down to East Africa and so if
you look at you know Cambodia and then
the Chinese are building a big port in
southern Myanmar in Rakhine State right
where where the Ringo have been
dislodged well we'll talk about that yes
soon then they have a lot of interest in
Sri Lanka right island country off the
coast of India then they had this base
in Djibouti it's not hard to see the
kind of dotted line that connects a lot
of this
they're building that goes again all the
way from the coast of Africa all the way
up to the coast of China to protect
their interest and allow them to project
power including naval power through the
South China Sea Indian Ocean and then
down to the coast of Africa and some of
these are outright military facilities
like in Djibouti some of these begin as
infrastructure projects and ports that
then become used for military purposes
so we report ok maybe then the Chinese
military can use that port and so again
just check out a map and look at the
dotted line that can extend from that
Chinese coast around Cambodia down
around the bottom of Myanmar past Sri
Lanka all the way to Djibouti and it's
pretty clear what they're doing yeah I
also notice that Steve Danon is part of
the revived movement in Washington to
drum up fear about the threat from
communism generally it's called the
Committee on the present danger it's
basically part of this view that the US
and China are just incompatible systems
and war is inevitable so that's fun and
then glad that guy was getting the PDB
for six months but then you know clearly
the Chinese are making some serious
moves regionally and I'm not sure what
we're doing about it well yeah I mean
there is a you know something we should
be worried about China but the flip side
of that is like they're a big country
they're gonna throw their weight around
the way to deal with it I think is not
through kind of alarmist committees know
what ever a chair by see been and you
would be solidifying your alliances you
know like I was just in Europe and the
Europeans are worried about China and
Chinese tech the way in which you deal
with that is you band together and the
democracies band together so America
Europe Japan South Korea this is why we
have alliances Australia and New Zealand
Niue Canada that's how you deal with it
and and you try to strengthen
essentially international rules that you
hold China to account to this the thing
I'd see Banias interesting is I won't
name the country but when we were in
transition one a foreign country was
telling me that you know they had met
with Steve ban and Mike Flynn right and
all see ban was talking about as China
and like is the inevitable conflict with
the Chinese and and they're kind of like
well first of all why has he been and
talking about foreign policy at all
this seems to be this kind of hobbyhorse
he has to make China the boogeyman the
organizing principle for like American
politics and in a way you can see the
diabolical way that makes sense for him
because it blends his weird mix of
nationalism and kind of anti trade but
also it's the Nexus to the socialism
stuff at home right and so if it's the
danger of communism well suddenly like
aoc being called a communist right it's
like she's the enemy within or
something's like new Red Scare and I
would watch this I would watch the
convergence potentially of their you
know fear-mongering about China with
their fear-mongering about socialism at
home that's a good point let's do a
little actual Red Scare conversation a
little Russia stuff when this episode
post Bob Muller will be testifying
before Congress about Russian
interference in our elections and our
favorite president's efforts to stifle
his investigation instruct justice yada
yada interestingly The Daily Beast
reported this week that Trump's new
favorite news outlet this right-wing
garbage dump called one American news
network or oen literally employs a
Kremlin paid stooge that is not a joke
one of Owens political reporters is
employed by Sputnik which is one of
those Kremlin owned news / trolling
operations that played a huge role in
2016 yeah so that doesn't stop Trump
from constantly promoting them but
apparently nothing has changed no and it
shows you - you know first of all
there's always been this symbiosis
between Russian media and right-wing
media right so a lot of the content that
the Russians were creating inventing
firing into the algorithm of American
social media feeds was meant to mirror
what was in Breitbart or free beacon or
you know pajama whatever you
guys and and so this is kind of like the
formal merger yeah but there was an
informal merger before that because they
were saying they were basically
inventing the same stories or ginning up
the same theories this just kind of
takes it another level and it does show
you that the Muller thing is
forward-looking not just backward
looking right again if you can get away
with inviting the assistance of the
foreign power meeting with that farm
power sharing polling information with
that farm power sending your son to go
to
whose expressed purpose was to dig up
dirt on your opponents if you can do all
that and get away with it why would you
not do it again right yeah so this is
not just it works just like a bit Dems
and disarray or impeachment the question
is do we as a country think that there
should be any cost to people doing that
because if there's not a cost they will
do it again the fact that he's like
essentially endorsing Sputnik is it's a
pretty good indication of whether or not
he would do it again what a name Sputnik
alright let's close with some later
things so first the face app app our
social media feeds were deluge with
pictures of our friends looking old
because that's cool apparently these
were photos created by the face app app
which uses AI to aid your photo if you
upload it people started freaking out
about the fact that this app was created
by this Russian based company the DNC
actually warned presidential campaign
staffer to delete the app or not to use
it in the first place
Chuck Schumer of course held a press
conference about it because no one is
better at jumping on the new cycle than
he is so I mean then I guess it's
probably wise for all of us to think
like long and hard about what
information we give up to technology
companies including an especially
Russian based ones but and I guess our
photos as facial recognition software
and faked images become more of a
problem are sensitive as well but this
whole thing seemed to touch overblown to
me I mean Facebook has exponentially
more information about us than this pace
app company ever will
what did you make of this blow back to
the popularity of the face at that well
first of all this may be an unpopular
opinion I know how people feel about
this in the room here but like I didn't
was it that cool like what like I didn't
I think it worked well it was like
better than just like a filter I know I
saw all the pictures in my Instagram I
was kind of like well I love it didn't
open e ID I didn't I know I did I didn't
think it was like something that I mean
yeah maybe I'm just too vain you know I
don't want to be gauged in a photo
either I don't look I wouldn't be
worried that the Russians are like
hacking you I think what might be
happening right is facial recognition
technology is one of the next big waves
around data collection artificial
intelligence the Chinese have a lot of
data right one of the reasons why the
Chinese are so good facial recognition
technology is they have a good over
billion people right
some cameras in the way in which you get
better at facial recognition technology
is the accumulation of more and more
data and so yes there is a possibility
that this company has some ties to the
government and the Russian government
would like to have lots and lots of data
to refine their facial recognition
technology not to like heck you right
this is a different point this is the
more data you have the better your
technology can get right and so this
could be the Russians in a fairly
ingenious cheap way acquiring a lot of
facial recognition data that they can
use to work on their stuff you made the
key point here which is whenever any of
these controversies come up including by
the way like about the NSA and stuff I'm
like you've got anybody who has a
Facebook account like that is so much
more intrusive into your personal life
your data like your you know your your
habits that and frankly we know a
facebook has been hacked right and
certainly look at the Russians want to
hack you
they probably you know hacked us seven
times by now right yeah so the face app
even if you think it's cool that's fine
that's your preference it is I think
people should be worried that you know
facial recognition technology is the way
things are going and can be done for
some fairly creepy things yeah look let
me just say if you're at all worried
about this stuff just if you go to
Russia if you go to China don't bring
your personal phone don't bring your
personal laptop get a burner wipe it
when you're done yeah that's a
precaution I might actually take I
wouldn't sweat taking selfies yeah if
you take a selfie I I don't think the
Russians are Nestle going to be creating
like fake videos of you tomorrow like
saying crazy they're just maybe
using your face to have a bigger data
set to get better artificial
intelligence to suppress their own
people yeah cool yeah do more fun things
so in late June this college student
named Maddie Roberts created a Facebook
event called storm area 51 they can't
stop all of us
the goal here was to get as many people
as possible to show up bum-rush area 51
and just like see what's inside
hopefully some sweet aliens the event is
on September 20th if you still want to
go so this guy meant it as a joke
but pretty soon like nearly 2 million
people signed up saying they would go
and a bunch couple million more we're
like pending like I'm considering it
a bunch of brands jumped on the story
Bud Light offered free beer to any alien
that makes it out of area 51
there's copycat events at Loch Ness it's
all pretty funny but I read this story
and I thought to myself if we were still
in the NSC we would literally have had
to attend
situation-room meetings about no stupid
 there would be security
discussions a communications plan a
congressional outreach and it would be
so annoying unless it meant we got a
deep dive on Intel about aliens they
they never told us the truth about area
51 which always got pissed me off
and then did you ask I mean I used to
kind of jokingly asked my my Intel
briefer in the morning like thinking
maybe they and they just kind of laugh
and look at me I'm like you know I'm
about for real men yeah for reals man
like there's got to be like ten things
you know about area 51 or something
right but there'd also be some guy at
the NSC that you and I had never seen
before who would likely be leading those
meetings yes I was like the guy
responsible for like domestic
contingency blah blah blah or like there
was like a classified space guy look
what do you do yeah he thinks about
space I've never seen you in a meeting
that I'm allowed to go running this
space force now the only thing I mean I
would well I'll give you example like
there there are these budgets right
because Harry Reid is funded it and to
make contact with aliens and stuff oh
yeah yeah I never guys I wish I had the
eight years back mainly to dig deeper
just demands information to man the
information on the aliens because do
some more do some unmasking you parently
didn't yeah well yeah I mean I really
blew it on that one I mean you know the
deep state is was husbanding all the
information it's a uh last last
thing apparently Trump called the
Swedish Prime Minister to help get a
rapper named ASAP rocky out of jail he
had been lobbied by Kanye West's Kim
Kardashian I just wanted to use our one
a day imagine if Barack Obama did this
see what Fox News would say do you
remember like Obama and like your one or
two have like a barbecue with some MBA
players barbecue he's a pop argue and
like literally foxnews sent itself into
like a frenzy you know four days
about this hip-hop barbecue you know
just because there were some black
athletes on the South Lawn of the White
House It was as if like you know America
had gone a business and the you know the
Tea Party had to be mobilized in action
because they cared so much about
deficits we didn't have black athletes
on the South bed this is a real headline
August 5th 2011 Fox Nation Obama's
hip-hop barbecue didn't create jobs like
this actually happened I mean like like
you guys think we're crazy like Fox
Nation is all over it they were all over
it for days but right and so if Obama is
calling a foreign leader right for a SAP
and to those you know again not
connoisseurs that is an S as a dollar
sign just right is not an S it's a SAP
if he's calling the foreign country and
demanding that a rapper be released on
behalf of Kanye West yes what would
would vote for what would Fox Nation
have said about day they would have been
yes apparently Trump may have been
actually hurt his cause by trying to get
politicians interfere in the system over
they don't appreciate it your Swedish
Prime Minister you know you're dealing
with this kind of civilized social
democratic Nordic country you get the
word that in the president I'd stage
would like to talk to you you're like oh
 I gotta take some scar like what on
earth could this be about right I'm
Swedish what is it is it about what's he
mad about what is he mad a though you
know with some Nexus to NATO or there's
a lot of foreign assistance and you get
on the phone and Donald Trump is talking
to you about ASAP rocky and you're just
furiously googling like yeah what do you
do like what do you look at your staff
like what is the what did the follow-up
meetings that happen in the Swedish
government after that like again like
what is going on here yeah I I heard the
PM's more of an ASAP ferg guy okay after
the break our conversation with the
right and honorable David Lammy he's
very right and very honorable
you
