hello hey what up hey Tommy want to do
some Q's and ties yeah let's one of my
favorite jokes from a little program
called 16-under pen which was cancelled
after one season was the president's son
saying is there a Q&A cuz boy have I got
a Q for you Ray it's a good joke this is
the pod save America live stream if
you're just joining us we got a Lisa on
the ones and twos Elijah as always
control on the feed kiss let's say let's
go let's go let's go okay seems like
there should be something to prevent a
president from holding the country
hostage by shutting it down when
Democrats are back in power is there
anything they can do to prevent a
situation like this from happening in
the future great question great question
you know there was a an episode of a
podcast I listed you from time to time
called the weeds huh in which they were
discussing the fact that what makes this
shutdown in some ways unique is the fact
that this is a president directed
shutdown it's usually been Congress
that's been refusing some priority and
that's what and for infighting inside of
Congress that's caused shutdowns but
this is one directed by the president
don't take my word for it you can listen
to him you know I think one of the
things we'll grapple with after Trump is
gone is what do we do about the
weaknesses he exposed because so much of
what we were so many so much sort of
smoothness in Washington depended on
presidents who felt shame or some kind
of you know regard for their fellow
human beings and figuring out how to
rein in presidents after this is over is
a really important thing as will be I
think figuring out how to detoxify the
Republican Party but if feeding them in
elections so that we can get back to
kind of regular governing where there's
actual hearings about important budget
issues and we're not governing I mean
even if even if the government reopens
it will be reopened because we are
passed a CR which is called a continuing
resolution which is basically saying we
couldn't hammer out debates over
government funding and spending and we
couldn't figure out how to actually
think about our priorities in a
long-term way so whatever the budget was
six months ago
that
the budget for the next six months and
it's uh it actually covers up a lot of
problems inside of government agencies
that are never covered on television not
discussed barely mentioned in the
congressional debate but even when
things are working the way they're
supposed to be working they're not
working yeah I said I think that back
pre Jimmy Carter it was sort of assumed
that appropriations would just carry
over so these shutdowns wouldn't occur
and then Carter's counsel I was googling
this while you're talking to make sure I
remember it right basically said that
when there's a lapsed appropriation no
money can be spent to do the agencies
functions so that's just a long way of
saying we created this problem
relatively recently like Jimmy Carter's
legal team created this problem with
government shutdowns and like we
couldn't fix it these have to bring some
common sense and be reasonable for a
minute hopefully no one watching this
 disaster thinks that this is a
good idea or solving any problem or
something to emulate in the future
I mean basically you know the ability to
shut the government down as well as the
debt limit which is when government
needs to borrow more money because we're
always in debt and can't because you
need to there's an artificially set cap
on how much money the US government can
borrow and if we ever hit that cap it
means we can't borrow more money to pay
our bills both of those things are like
a gun on the mantel and you know when
there's a you know the check off that oh
yeah when there's a gun on the mantel on
the first stack someone's getting shot
in the third act so we need to get the
guns off the mantel agreed how
do you guys think guys like Ryan and
Rubio will talk about all of this in ten
years they'll say sure we know it was
bad but we needed him and he did good
stuff or will they still be defending
him how will they write their books
defend themselves
those people will write their little
tell-all books about all the times they
tried to talk President Trump about out
of doing something way worse that you
never knew about how they were heroes
who saved the day Paul Ryan has already
started as revisionist history
and all those interviews with Marco
Lubavitch at the New York Times about
all the things he did to prevent chaos
yada yada yada
they are the worst they will probably
still be in Washington Rubio may be a
senator I'm sure Ryan will be a lobbyist
or running AEI or some
think-tank
and that city will still treat them with
respect and deference and give them
money because we never learn the lessons
of disastrous failures look at all the
people that instigated the Iraq war
they're sitting in the White House
financial base yeah it's infuriating
yeah I would say I think they're gonna
diverge I think they're gonna have to
tell two different stories I think Rubio
is gonna have an easier time of it I
mean I don't like it but I think we
should just be honest about it I think
Ryan is is going to be unable to
successfully tell a story that doesn't
paint him in a terrible light I think
he's gonna try I think he's already
trying but it's very hard to look at his
tenure and not come away on a pot in a
bipartisan way with disgust I mean even
Kevin McCarthy in rebuking Steve King
yeah did not mind taking a shot at Paul
Ryan and I think Paul Ryan is gonna be
vilified and have a very dark place in
history and he will have some dead ender
defenders but he's gonna have a rough
time that here's my prediction on Rubio
I think Rubio is trying to set himself
up to say ima I am a ship a steady ship
in stormy seas I'm been Marco Rubio this
whole time and I was myself when I was
on stage with Donald Trump trying to
defeat him I picked my fights with him
but supported him when he got behind
conservative causes in the Senate and
I'm be here to reveal rebuild the
Republican Party when he's gone and and
what I and what he will also do is sort
of skip over the places in which he
capitulated or stepped out of fights
because what he'll do is point to a set
of fights he did have while while being
able to successfully not talk
about the fact if he win if he is
successful in not talking about all the
important battles he sat out of and I
think it's our job to be very clear
after Trump is gone that it's not about
the little tiny fights you pick it's all
the fights you let go by mm-hmm the
fights he made along the way and Marco
will if Trump loses reelection I bet
Marco runs next cycle
I don't know that Ryan will maybe maybe
who knows they're all delusional but
Marco anyway do you think Dems caving
earlier during the shutdown last year as
part of the reason why this shutdown is
happening that they're counting on Dems
empathy to make them cave again mm-hmm I
do not think that these two things are
related no I think that Donald Trump
caused this shutdown it's entirely his
decision he could end it anytime you
wanted he could fight for a while
funding I mean I think I think that this
shutdown occurred because Ann Coulter
was mean to Trump and a bunch of
conservatives were mean to him and I
think that he's basically told us as
much yeah the you know the last shutdown
where Democrats walked away over daca is
I think instructive I think that there
wasn't a full kind of sense of like well
alright if we do this what is a
realistic plan to get out of it while
getting something that we want and it's
an interesting thing I think the one
lesson there is that's what Trump is now
done right he's and in a much more in a
with with many fewer paths to success
and a much longer shutdown and much less
support and a much worse hand the one
lesson I think for Democrats right now
is they cannot give in they just can't
there's now too much on the line and I
think the good news is you see some sort
of criticism around the margins and
calls for Pelosi to promise votes and
whatnot which again I think is actually
not so bad but in the core idea that
Democrats should not allow Donald Trump
to shut the government down over a
Picayune and pretty stupid and evil
policy priority I think there's been
unity and that's very important question
on 2020 are you worried so many
lesser-known Dems ie Budaj and Castro
running for president instead of
important state or Senate races which
they could be great candidates for and
be major pickups for the
is that bad for overall everything I
mean it's it would be naive to say that
taking great candidates away from state
races isn't harmful yeah right so you
know I'm not ready to point any fingers
at anybody beats it so early
like I think if you wanna run for
president you have something interesting
to say go for it there will be a process
to winnow out that list
hopefully that winnowing process doesn't
take too too long and doesn't get super
ugly you know I think if like there's
lower tier candidates damaging the
eventual nominee like that's something
that you might worry about but that's
very much a down the road problem in the
meantime like I'm just if you're gonna
run for president we need to know why
you specifically are running because you
and I were we were literally just
talking with us in our office
John and John and me this is what we do
it is like one of the single most
arrogant acts in the world to say I am
the person who is best prepared to lead
the country and so you need to explain
us that thinking yeah and it's an
extraordinary and arrogant decision in
any time but right now the the stakes
are total these are total stakes even
when Hillary Clinton was facing off
against Bernie Sanders when we didn't
know that Donald Trump was gonna be the
nominee these stakes were just genuinely
not as high they were not and now the
future of the United States depends on
the day on the Democratic Party
successfully choosing the right nominee
I don't know who that is I don't know
how we're gonna do that it's a hard
problem it's a hard process we're all
doing it with imperfect information all
with a lot of I mean what's let's be
honest a lot of anxiety and uncertainty
because of how wrong we got it last time
in terms of believing we would win and
then waking up to find out we hadn't so
I just I think to tommy's point it's not
just a it's not just getting in because
you believe you'd be the best president
but really it's important that every
person who decides they're gonna run for
president for the Democratic nominee
nomination approach it with the
seriousness and consequence that it
holds it is among the
most if this is about to be the most
important decision we make as a party
maybe in the history United States and I
don't even think we all don't think
that's fully coming through yet I don't
think we're all really cognizant of just
how hard this is gonna be and how much
pain there's gonna be and how much
anxiety and anger and emotion that will
go into this decision it's just what's
coming and anyone who's getting into
this race should be thinking very hard
about that that's all will you be
redoing the vote save America page for
the primaries and general it was
extremely helpful in finding places to
volunteer in canvas we're working on
both save America 2.0 yeah don't know
what it's gonna look like yet but
honestly was a it was the best thing
we've ever done as a company yeah we
think I think one I would say like vote
save America it it could tell you where
your polling place was it can make sure
you register to tell you how to register
it gave you information about your
ballot and it gave you information about
where you can volunteer I think we'd all
be open to what other things you think
would be helpful for vote save America
to have if there are things that you
thought were missing or when you were
sharing it with your friends that would
give them that one more piece of
information to get them to vote tell us
because I think sky's the limit in terms
of what we're open to for figuring out
what votes save America can do and make
it this kind of one-stop shop to help
people get involved what norms that have
been violated by this administration
should be protected by laws that can be
passed to ensure these violations don't
happen again in the future release your
taxes that beaneasy law yeah gotta
release your tax earns when you're
running for president what are the norms
I would say so DOJ yes we need to think
about how to strike strengthen the
Special Counsel I think there was a
legitimate there was a legitimate this
there was a legitimate fear of the power
of the Independent Counsel after the
Clinton investigations and that was
allowed to expire and was replaced by
set of guidelines that I that you know
I'm not a lawyer I got a great LSAT
score but I'm not a lawyer but the that
have now become the Special Counsel and
I think there'll be a lot of questions
as you write you know there was a great
Mike Barbaro interview with one of the
people responsible for those guidelines
for the special counsel and
Donald Trump is the worst-case scenario
for those guidelines and what's
fascinating is here we are there's still
a special counsel there hold they're
still holding up we don't know we're
gonna see the report we don't know
what's going on inside the Justice
Department but think about how to
strengthen those I think is really
important the other thing I would say is
Donald Trump has has done it or has
threatened to use his national security
powers that is you know from from
article 2 of the Constitution and then
also that are now enshrined in a lot of
laws that say you know Congress can stop
the president from doing XYZ unless the
president deems international security
emergency I think we should think very
hard about about reining in presidential
presidential prerogatives on laws like
that I think I think one of the lessons
Republicans point to Barack Obama's daca
decision as being extra legal and doing
and replacing the job of Congress there
are a lot of people that haven't tried
to use that example to say that's why I
Donald Trump can then build a wall and
they're full of but we need to
think really hard about when we have
allowed by the fact that Congress is so
poorly run and so partisan to allow more
and more of congressional
responsibilities to devolve to the
president and we need to take them back
take them back yeah I think generally
like interactions with DOJ they're
supposed to be a pretty bright line
about who can interact with DOJ and what
the president can do in terms of
investigations and a lot of that flows
in the fact that like Nixon would get
drunk and calls Attorney General and
complain about Watergate maybe we need
to do more to codify that yeah and there
there's an ongoing problem that we've
talked about many times about this whole
abdication of its responsibility by
Congress in terms of matters of war and
peace it would be good to see them
right-size that yeah oh one more thing
to like over the years the White House
itself has gotten very big the National
Security Council has become kind of a
mirror of a lot of what goes on at the
State Department you know I think that
there's good reasons to look at the way
our government is currently structured
and say would things be better if more
power was taken from the president and
put in the hands of cabinet secretaries
of agencies of Congress of states and I
think that's actually of all the places
there is there is possibility for like
some kind of bipartisan movement on
something like that although I can
imagine conservatives trying to sneak in
and then Medicare is a block grant okay
exactly okay you know pet issue or
policy to be addressed in primary
Medicare for all Green Deal job training
etc I want someone foreign policy will
not be what wins this election or will
be the focus I'd love to hear just like
a new interesting well articulated
vision for how the United States should
view the world and maybe that will be
very simple like restoring alliances
blah blah blah you know respect for
institutions fine but it would be great
to hear someone go out and make that
case because Trump is not gonna get a
single thing through Nancy Pelosi's
Congress in the next two years but he
can do a lot of damaging on foreign
policy so making that argument now about
how you'd be different will be
interesting and important to me I'll add
to that I don't I don't think we can
call like climate change a pet issue so
like that's like being like my hobby is
staying alive but I would say so I would
say here is a classic pet issue yes
daylight savings time is a good
one and it's time for it to go and I say
that I say that as someone now there's
two things people say but it's so dark
in the morning I say that as someone who
has since he's given up the craft of
writing because it's the old economy
become a morning person you are I'm a
morning person now I see I see this
person at the gym in the morning there
have been several times I've been
walking to the gym and love it is just
scooter by me yeah
scooter right by him let's go right by
Tommy on my way to the gym so I get up
in it's dark but it's worth it
it's worth it for those nice evening
lights so when I say get rid of daylight
savings time I'm saying we go into
daylight savings one last time and then
that is just called time that is time on
earth when it's done yet five it's so
depressing to be dark at five and then
now now parents will say but the kids
have to go to school in the dark guess
what
all right section two of my bill no
child goes to school before eight in the
 morning what kind of what kind
of rules are these I got a high school
by my house I got kids in that Starbucks
at 7:15 in the morning get out
of Starbucks flashlights for oh by the
way that you're selling milkshakes
anyway
Starbucks is just a milkshake delivery
thing for children going
school in the dark and I'm glad
those teachers got a raise me too
Congrats to the teachers yeah six
percent pay increase smaller class size
like big seems like they got some more
than one and a nurse in every school
that's great
because these actors sometimes kids need
to pretend they have a stomachache
because they don't anyone sit with kids
and their PR management i bolded this
one I made us do this do you want to so
I was off Wednesday Thursday Friday
Monday which meant I had a lot of free
time I was trying to read books and try
to be off Twitter but then I would log
on didn't seem very off Twitter to me
yeah I didn't do a great job sometimes
you get bored with your book sometimes
you sometimes you read it was a close
one
no not bored my wife my wife we had a
blast
but uh no sometimes you look sometimes
you steal the offices free copy of
presidents at war by Michael Beschloss
and it's genuinely good and I didn't
know anything about the war of 1812 and
now I know a lot oh good
bye 300 pages later you realize you know
what's happening in my you know my short
which fiber muscle brain yeah where
exactly
so I log in and it was just it was a
classic Twitter issue where I don't want
to weigh in on what happened because I
don't know but it seems like nobody knew
that wasn't there and but people were
offering very strong opinions and you're
seeing like random Hollywood producers
weighing in destroying the kids you're
seeing all the like worst Charlie Kirk
like the Mogga awful people blasting the
other side and it was just one of those
controversies where it felt like
everyone needed to have a take and I
just wondered why a lot of people were
diving so strongly into it I respect
anyone who was offended or hurt by what
happened everyone's allowed to have a
point of view but it was just an
incident to me that said a lot more
about Twitter in the way people interact
with each other online than anything
else yeah I think that's right well I
think it's hard because you see
something like that happening and you
say to yourself I don't really want to
understand it I there's a compulsion on
Twitter and
make you feel like you should understand
it you also want to say I'm cool with
everyone else's opinions I don't want to
have one but then even saying that like
everyone doesn't need to have an opinion
people tweet that that is an opinion
that is a form of having an opinion and
and so it's this strange thing of
Twitter as a party that everyone's
invited to and everyone's expect you to
attend and no one's had a good time on
it in quite some time but if you miss it
you feel bad the other piece of it too
is what I was thinking about when I saw
the video is so this is gonna be a
little let's call it pedantic but by
definition the Internet is a place where
you argue about symbols because the
internet isn't the real world it's a
representation of the real world and so
on Twitter we spend all day arguing
about representations how does this
tweet represent someone else's argument
how does this how does this online
imitation of interaction approximate
real interaction in the world but then
it goes another step which is how does
this thing that I got a video of from
the real world represent the real world
how does this clip of this boy in front
of this man represent the world and
everyone on Twitter has an interest in
saying this video represents my
understanding of the world and captures
something essential about the people I
deem as being wrong as being racists as
being outside of the norms that I
believe we should uphold and that's fine
like that's can be true it can be false
but when you spend all day arguing about
representations of the real world I
think it's a dangerous it's it's okay
and in in in small amounts but it
becomes really dangerous when all day
everyone spends argue everyone spends
arguing about symbols symbols symbols
symbols what does this mean it's not
it's not that what that kid did to that
no one who says I am upset because what
that kid did to that man made that man
feel uncomfortable and I am mad because
of one specific incidence of harm it is
that boy represents a movement and that
man
that's another movement and that voice
speaks for a movement and I have a
problem with that movement we're talking
about the hold in all these other things
and sometimes the folding in is right in
this case there was an argument as to
whether was right and then it was a
backlash then a backlash the backlash
who cares but the point is everyone's
spending all day saying see this is who
they really are
this symbol tells you who these people
really are this representation is the
accurate one and that's not the world so
when you see a reporter say maybe want
to answer to this is everyone should
volunteer the kids should have to go do
a volunteer service project people are
like no those kids should be taught
something different it's not about
service it's not about the world it's
about this moment and what it represents
so that's all I don't know the answer is
but I think one of the answers is to
remember that Twitter is a party that
you can leave whenever you want you can
go home and get a good night's sleep and
nothing on Twitter nothing good at a
party and nothing good on Twitter has
ever happened after midnight or yeah
unlikely I logged in I watched the video
I was like oh man those kids looked like
they were being just and then I
read a little more about mr. Phillips
and I was like oh that what a
interesting story via done better right
I guess the thing that was in the back
of my mind though is that every time
there's a major incident like that 24
hours there's a different understanding
forward like there's like without fail
the first snapshot of the accounting of
a complicated news event like that turns
out to have a lot of things wrong and
it's the lesson we don't learn over and
over and over again whether it's like a
shooting or an act of violence it's
infuriating and it's it's a lot of
journalists hoots like their job to know
better than to dive on these things
now the other argument right is that
like if let's say let's say forget
forget this one in say Melissa we're
talking about you know a circumstance
where a group of teens who have imbibed
a culture that has from Trump on down
that I said it's okay to be hateful it's
okay to give in to that little vice
inside of you that says pick on somebody
don't sympathize with somebody don't
empathize with people that are different
from you they even vibe that they've
gone to DC and they're taking it out for
a spin like that is a serious problem
that is something we're talking about
and so there is like this that's what
makes I think this case so hard because
it's like well this isn't really a
distraction like kids are learning from
their from their adults kids are
learning from Donald
Trump Donald Trump is teaching adults
and kids alike how to behave and that's
really dangerous it's just I think it's
when I think the problem is when people
try to take an individual and let them
stand in for a movement it can never by
definition succeed so you've never met
skits a 16 year old kid who just looks
like he's being a jerk on television
right it's like kids
we probably exhaust I know I know it's
just was frustrates like high school
boys have been forever maybe
these ones were even worse because they
were inspired by Trump they would you
know they were there because of this
rally there's videos of them being jerks
to other young women who were there I
don't know that I don't know the answer
and I think maybe that's just the point
well I think I think that I think one
thing that is clearly not the answer is
then taking what is ultimately a small
single moment and raising the stakes of
it totally so that this boy is now on
the Today Show and I don't begrudge
someone's rate rusev Ana for
interviewing someone who's clearly in
the news it's all of us together
deciding what's in the news like we
decide to take these two it's like it's
a self-fulfilling prophecy it's like we
see a clip it seems to represent
something and then by the conversation
that follows it becomes true and now
they do stand in for that really
important end of debate that we're
having and but the one thing it doesn't
do is help us fix it because mm-hmm you
know what's not gonna convince a teenage
boy that he was wrong turning into into
a global enemy you know it's like we're
celebrity or a celebrity on the right
who's now gonna be celebrated and Trump
sees this and it's just it's it's candy
to him because anything like this that
can make America a place where brown
people are arguing with white people or
conservatives are pitched against
activists and Muslims and Native
Americans is a conversation that he
wants but it's not the one that we want
I don't know what a show ELISA
ELISA has she has marched out of the
office she has come back and now she is
demanding I don't what she's demanding
she's demanding fealty to another
question or what
seems to be consensus around a few big
domestic policy proposals among 20 20
Democrats but what do you want to hear
from them regarding foreign policy I
mean a bigger vision like I sort of
mentioned I assume all of them will say
we should get completely out of
Afghanistan and they'll be important
there all you need to figure out what
they're gonna do in Iraq and Syria I'd
like to see more complicated nuanced
views of the Middle East peace process
I'd like to see them talking about the
need to end a completely
self-destructive stupid trade war with
China and actually think of a policy
process that manages the next couple
decades the challenges we have with them
so those are a few things can someone
explain what's going on in Venezuela and
if Trump is doing the right thing or not
sure I got it see ya also the this like
been rolling all day so president Maduro
just said that all US diplomats have 72
hours to get the out that came in
response to Mike Pence putting out a
video where he recognized an opposition
leader what's guys name one why doe it
was like 35 year old young leader in the
National Assembly they recognized him as
the president he had asked international
organizations in foreign countries to do
so why doe
so Pence put out this video recognizing
him Trump put out a statement a bunch of
the OAS has followed the Mexico Brazil
bunch other countries are following so
there seems to be a coup happening in
Venezuela which is not stopping back and
just observing it like would be a good
thing Maduro has been a disaster since
he took over in 2013 people have no
medicine no food they're starving to
death it's like the most dire situation
ever it was disconcerting to me to see
the u.s. jump into this and start
announcing who we believe the president
is without any sort of democratic
process and then saying all options are
on the table including the military like
there's not a military solution I don't
think - the problem in Venezuela that we
should put forward so
it's dicey and it's ongoing I mean they
do need new leadership the people are
suffering horribly but it's happening
today love it where did the Connecticut
pizza you approved of come from oh yeah
where did you get that where did I go
it was Pepe's it was Pepe's I went to a
Pepe is in Danbury Connecticut and it
was very good I had a white clam pie and
I had a you know more whatever tomato
sauce red you know normal pizza with
some toppings was fantastic I went there
with a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist
to document it and he was there to
demonstrate that it did take place and
that the pizza was excellent as we got
closer to next Sunday will Tommy and
John become more unbearable as a result
of the Patriots competing in the Super
Bowl I don't when something is at a
hundred percent you can't necessarily
get more unbearable so we will be the
same amout of unbearable maximum
unbearable because we are the best
football team in the history of the NFL
I went to a barbecue restaurant with the
very same Pulitzer Prize winning
journalist and we were sitting at a
table so we walked in and it was it was
early but it was crowded and the TV's
were on and they were loud and I look up
and I realized there said there was four
minutes left and I gathered that it was
an important football game because in my
mind I was like oh the Super Bowl is
coming up I know that because I tried to
plan a game day board game day on Super
Bowl and I know when that was and I was
like oh must be one of those games that
leads up to the Super Bowl and it said
four minutes left and Ronan was like it
is so loud in here and I what don't
worry there's only four minutes left and
so we sit down to the table it's
incredibly loud he's like he's he's got
questions I don't have answers but you
know I quickly deduced that it was the
New England Patriots and the Kansas City
Chiefs enough enough in a fight for a
slot in the Super Bowl I don't know if
they are the AFC or the NFC
which is it Patriots it was the AFC
championship and there were four minutes
left and that four minutes dragged for
what 40 minutes yo yeah forty minutes of
the last room now I knew it would be
more than four minutes but holy and
then we're watching this thing unfold
and it's the blind leading the blind and
Ronan's asking me questions and I don't
know what the rules are but all of a
sudden I look up and I see that there's
like whatever 30 seconds left and that
the Patriots are down 28 to 31 I believe
or 24 to 27 whatever it was and I
realized that they're in range of a
field goal I had to tell Ronan I said I
said Ronan I have some really bad news
like I know I said this game was about
to be over
but if the Patriots make this kick the
game isn't over they're gonna have to
keep playing and Ronan just said so what
does that mean I said well it means that
there's overtime he goes like so do they
go home and pick it up another day and
then I said no they finished it tonight
they finished the game tonight end of
story
maybe end of life go Rams dare you go
Rams the LA Rams I know it is go Rams
rootin for those Patriots they're known
it was so funny at the finals and it's
like well they're great and they cheat
great combination they're really good at
the game and they also cheat they do not
cheat anymore they've been no fool us
how many more strikes do they get in
football what I don't know what we're
doing I don't know what this is for I
hope it's not a racist symbol end of
livestream
