if America I'm John Favreau I'm dan
Piper later in the pod you'll hear
Tommy's interview with senator Elizabeth
Warren who stopped by our office on
Tuesday to meet Leo and pundit we'll
also talk about reports that Robert
Muller might be wrapping up his
investigation Trump's latest attacks on
the media and a frightening report that
Clarence Thomas might retire so that
Trump can pick his replacement a move
that one Democratic presidential
candidate might have a solution for yeah
bad news all around a lot not good I got
some questions where was Luca more like
you know Lugo's like more of a Bernie
guy or what
Lucas sat in our office and she didn't
she didn't come out and play I don't
know why it's or it was sort of you know
what it's like it's Tommy's Iowa caucus
Ritz she was gonna she's all ready to
commit yet she looks good let's see all
the candidates come through that is
correct yes Luca wants to yeah Lucas
much more cheesy also check out this
week's keep it that features an
interview with Jesus and Miro check out
this week's pod save the world that
features an interview with Tommy and his
former boss former National Security
Advisor Tom Donilon that will sound very
different than the DCs and Mero
interview and check out crooked comm
slash events to get tickets to our
upcoming shows in Boston and New
Hampshire in April all right let's start
with the big news that broke on
Wednesday CNN NBC and the Washington
Post are all reporting that newly
confirmed degenerate mm-hmm reporting
that sorry let me try that again
CNN NBC and The Washington Post are all
reporting that newly confirmed Attorney
General William bar and Justice
Department officials are preparing for
the end of special counsel Robert
Muller's investigation and are expecting
to receive a confidential report as
early as next week during his
confirmation hearing bar did not make
any commitments that Muller's work will
be made public Dan want to hear what you
make of these reports it struck some
Moeller watchers as odd because there's
still a lot of loose ends out there
there's open investigations into Roger
stone Muller's in a legal fight with
some mystery foreign company there's
jerome corsi 'he's aborted please
deal he could be indicted still we don't
know what's going on with Jorge nadir
and his cooperation about Middle East
influence on the elections
there's the Seychelles meeting with Eric
Prince and the Russians Adam Schiff just
turned over a bunch of transcripts for
witnesses they interviewed during the
house investigation to see if there was
perhaps perjury committed because many
people think there might be a lot of
loose ends on the other hand you know
molars office has already started
handing off some investigations to other
parts of the Justice Department some
Muller prosecutors have gone back to
their old jobs people were spotted
moving files out of Muller's office last
week which really could mean anything
dan what do you what do you make of all
this I have no idea I just I've
obviously have obsessed with this I read
everything Marcy wheeler had to say I
read what Garrett grass from wired had
to say is another very close mower
watcher and in it we just don't know
right we don't know if this is a good
sign a bad sign a sign for panic a
report that's you know a media report
that's off it's not and it's so I just
honestly just don't know what to think
but we probably have to emotionally and
politically start preparing for the end
game Adam in the near future how does
one emotionally prepare for the end game
what were your expectations John what
were your expectation what if what about
the argument in your head when Muller
has a report that comes out that is does
not draw specific conclusions that lays
out a pretty compelling case and all the
nagas had people don't immediately on
Twitter don't immediately just change
their avatar to William weld don't be
disappointed right like the you know
Mitch McConnell doesn't schedule a
Senate trial would we just have to be
prepared that whatever Muller finds as
it relates to Trump right is interesting
is very important for the historical
record but is unlikely highly unlikely
to result in his removal from office
from
any reason other than the verdict of the
voters in the fall of 2020 did we spend
too much money on red string well look
so we don't know what's in the report
but you know some people like our
feelers Fearless editor-in-chief Brian
boiler you know suspect that it's
possible that maybe Trump may be
involved in shutting this investigation
down early
since these reports came right after
William Barnes confirmation I know
Brian's not sure of this but he was at
least floating with this possibility
yesterday and I think actually now he he
probably doesn't think that's the case
but you know what do you think of that
that this idea that we're hearing these
reports that there may be the end of the
the investigation coming next week
because somehow Trump is involved bar
has just been confirmed you know known
idiot match slap whose wife is strategic
communications director in the White
House tweeted after bar was confirmed oh
good now we have but you know a real
attorney general and Muller will be gone
soon which was sort of crazy what do you
what do you make of all that
I first I would note that I'm pretty
sure the use of the word strategic
inverse ad slaps title is ironic he look
it's like we have been saying this for a
long time
we have been living in a slow-motion
Saturday massacre you know in reference
to when Dixon fired everyone the Justice
Department in order to end the
investigation in the Watergate that has
been happening you know it's we've been
purging the top ranks for the FBI Trump
fired Jim Comey we have been engaged
we've been terminan tampering with
witnesses out in the open reports our
pardons are being floated to people like
Paul manna for Paul metaphors
cooperating with Bob Muller and
communicating with Trump's attorneys at
the same time like the trumpets on
everything he possibly can to throw
roadblocks and stuff that's obstruction
short a firing bomb Muller which is then
the we've the the third political third
rail here for him and so I mean anything
is possible but what he's basically done
is removed the
people slowly who are supporting the
investigation and replace them with
loyalists to oppose the investigation
that includes far and includes they were
getting robbed Rosenstein out of the
Department of Justice you know at
nothing he's not firing hot rod but how
about his being replaced and therefore
someone else will be in charge of the
investigation and so you don't have to
be some crazy spooky Mulder conspiracy
theorist to believe that ultimately
Trump is pulling the strings here
whether he's like actually sent a
message to end it right now and Barr is
doing that or he's just forcing
everyone's hand through his actions to
date like Trump's fingerprints are all
over this for sure I know that you and
me and Tommy refer to him as hot rod
sometimes I think that's the first time
it's it's actually come out on the pot I
mean if your name is rod right like that
like that I don't think anyone in the
history who's gone by rod has not been
referred to as hot rod either literally
figuratively ironically so I don't think
anyone should be shocked by that um so
yeah you're right that Trump has been
openly attempting to obstruct this
investigation from the start he tells us
this he famously told Lester Holt he did
you know Marcy wheeler said yesterday
that she does think that this is Muller
making the decision to end this
investigation on his own timeline and
she thinks part of the reason it is
Muller's decision is because he you know
these reports are coming out yes
Barr has been confirmed but he hasn't
started yet which means that Rosenstein
still is in charge of the investigation
and Rosenstein has been allowing the
investigation to continue uninterrupted
for some time now and also because
there's many reports that bar knows
Muller his family friends with Muller in
would and would not try to do this to
him now that's that's Marcy's view of
this but look I do think that's it does
seem to make sense right
that you know if if bar was it would be
hard for bar to have shut down the
investigation already because bar hasn't
even gone through his ethics briefing he
hasn't really taken the job yet he's
just been confirmed Rosen Stein's still
there and also Muller can think to
himself well I didn't want to end it
while Whittaker was the acting Attorney
General because he's such a
goober and not really legitimate so now
at least I can say Rosenstein was
overseeing the investigation but Barr
was in place newly confirmed by the
Senate now I feel good about the
legitimacy of how to end this thing so
that's another theory I mean very very
compelling yeah so if the report does
come out soon the next fight is over
whether we'll know what's in it
Barr said during his confirmation that
he wants to be as quote transparent as
possible with Congress and has made
clear that the Justice Department
generally guards against publicizing
quote derogatory information about
uncharged individuals so that person is
Hillary Clinton what's that then unless
that person is Hillary Clinton yeah
thanks thanks for coming appreciate that
no so so what if anything can Democrats
do about this because you could see the
situation where and I think in the
Washington Post they said you know
people in the White House are not
expecting any additional criminal
indictments to touch anyone in the White
House or Trump's allies or anything like
that but they are expecting things in
the report to be politically damaging to
Donald Trump now what the do they
know because they're a bunch of White
House gurus who don't really know much
but you know there it would be it does
seem like it would be very bad if there
was a report that had a lot of damning
information about Trump and his close
associates and yet because they weren't
technically indictments we never know
about it well I think I mean they're I
mean there's a very real question about
the ability to subpoena that report and
there's and you know when I when Marci
was on the pod last Thursday
she explained why she's not worried
about the report but yeah this is this
is going to be a real question if if
we're this is the end if there's right
if there's no more indictment to the end
we have Michael Flint aligning Paul
metaphor for tax evasion in lying we
have Roger stone for lying we don't have
actual hugs which is reminiscent how the
Patrick Fitzgerald investigation into
whether the Bush administration
publicize maliciously publicized leaked
classified information to smear Valerie
Plame and Joe Wilson and which simply
scooter would be going to jail for lying
to the FBI or like mine too
investigators wrote the actual charge
Louis but it was a lying instruction
charge not a charge of actually
committing the crime and that I mean
that is a real possibility it's very
hard to prove something like a
conspiracy here even though the like
there's the legal facts and then there's
the political facts yeah the political
facts are everyone in Trump's campaign
with meeting with Russians to talk about
how to win the election including
sharing polling information receiving
opposition research and then lying about
it on multiple occasions either to the
FBI to Congress or on they're legally
required national security clearance
forms at the same time the Trump was
doing business with Russia to strike a
deal that would be his richest building
deal yet to build a tower in Moscow with
a reported penthouse for Vladimir Putin
and a we like lying about all of it and
lying about all of it the entire time
lying about it through the campaign
lying about it through the transition
lying about it in the early
administration and we know what
continued during the transition with
Mike Flynn calling the Russians talking
about sanctions relief after Obama place
sanctions on Russia for interfering in
our elections I mean it's like it is I
mean it is important to realize like you
said if there are no more indictments
right and Magga media goes crazy and and
it will absolutely spill into the
mainstream media as well we will get
stories after stories that just say you
know Democrats in disarray now had they
all been counting on these indictments
what if Trump was right does this mean
he's going to win
reelection now house I mean it is good
you know my advice if it comes to pass
just go take a walk
shut off your Twitter and your news for
a long time because it's gonna be
unbearable and one of the reasons it's
gonna be unbearable is because what we
know not just from news reports but from
federal prosecutors is the Donald Trump
and his team were willing to cheat to
win the election in the case of the hush
money payments with Michael Cohen we
know that they did cheat to win the
election and federal prosecutors not
only put Michael Cohen in jail for this
but they have implicated Donald Trump
the president knighted States in a
felony in a campaign felony so that's
one case of cheating to win the election
this other case of trying to cheat to
win the election is Donald Trump's son
his son-in-law his campaign chairman
who's also going to jail meeting with
Russians saying please give us dirt on
Hillary Clinton so we can win the
election
we know that's all true we know that he
was lying about business deals we know
that Vladimir Putin knew that Donald
Trump was lying about his business deals
with Russia which means that the
president was allowed himself to be
compromised by a foreign leader of a
government that tried to interfere in
our elections that's not great we know
that Donald Trump also was disloyal to
the United States and would rather
believe Vladimir Putin over his own
intelligence agencies and we know that
because he stood up in front of the
world in Helsinki and said that like
there is plenty of wrongdoing around
Russia that should tell us Donald Trump
is unfit for this job it's sort of all
we need but even beyond that if we lived
in a world with a normal Republican
Party that wasn't essentially a
political protection racket for Donald
Trump
you could indict I'm sorry
you can impeach Trump right now on multe
for multiple reasons without ever
mentioning the word Russia yeah you
can't do it on his business dealings you
could do it on the allegations we have
we just do it on him being a terrible
president who has made choices evident
so much okay you can do it simply on
corruption alone from the fact that
foreign
our spending and government in
corporations thing absurd amounts of
money in his schlocky hotel in order to
influence the president and - pocket
which is a violation of the Constitution
mind you you can do it on this stormy
Daniels cave you can do it on multiple
things and you would need to mentorship
and that's also a good point because
Trump is not being impeached right right
this is not an argument that is going to
be made to a jury of senators not in
Argentina to a jury of Trump's peers it
is an arguably made to the voters in
from now until November of 2020 and that
we get to make that argument regardless
of what Bob Muller reports and I've said
this before but and this is important
you think about Russia is that absence
of evidence is not evidence of absence
right just we we know for a fact as you
pointed out that that Russia helped
Trump win this election
we know that Trump's Trump's family and
camp ASF saw and benefited from that
help we just can't prove maybe we can't
prove they all actively work together
and be a prove beyond a reasonable doubt
of that fact but we know what happened
and it is what it is I don't like
everyone's going to freak out put your
phone in a drawer put something good on
television and go for a walk walk your
dog if you have them play with your
children don't freak out when the New
York Times blares across its front page
Muller Trump innocent of all charges
will do as part of some sort of guilt
eradication exercise over located
Manhattan's gonna be so bad okay or by
the way there's another alternative here
there's actually many alternatives but
one is you are listening to this maybe
Thursday afternoon when it comes out
tomorrow is Friday there could be more
indictments on Friday this could sound
very quaint Trump it the other thing we
know that's coming out tomorrow Friday
is Muller will be submitting a
sentencing memo for Paul Manafort which
is likely to have quite a bit of detail
about how he conspired with the
suspected Russian intelligence asset ask
sorry with the suspected with a
suspected Russian intelligence asset
constant Constantine : ik something he
has already pled guilty to
and we're gonna find out more details
about just what that was what that
conspiracy looked like what it was when
he shared the polling information all
kinds of information about that we're
about to find that out on Friday and
then you know there could be other
indictments or the report by the way we
there's sort of this assumption that
maybe the reports going to be fine just
because you know William bar and the
Justice Department know about it but
like the report could also say that the
president obstructed justice the report
could name him as an unindicted
co-conspirator we have no idea we have
no idea what might happen next week and
it may not even happen next week you
know it could be in the weeks to come so
there is a lot we don't know and we
should all hold off on making judgments
until Bob Muller speaks or his report
speak I mean my advice to everyone as
you can tell from the tone of our
conversation day is prepare for the
worst hope from the best so that is what
I'm doing
oh and Michael Cohen is testifying next
Friday February 28th well the day at the
North Korea Sun that great job Adam joke
well you know Brian boiler brought this
up to me late last night when we were
sort of connecting all of our red string
on this together
you know Schiff
tweeted last week or the week before we
are postponing Michael Cohen's testimony
until Friday February 28th because of
the investigation because of the Russian
investigation we have been because
they've asked us to basically so that's
pretty interesting but why why would
Michael come and not be allowed to
testify until fat Friday February 28th
what's happening between now and then
and if it is the report what does that
mean for why he couldn't or why he could
only testify on Friday who knows who
knows more one more thing to think over
okay let's talk about two news stories
from yesterday the first is from the New
York Times and here's the lead even by
his standards president Trump's biting
attacks on the press this week stand out
he has praised a libel lawsuit against
the Washington Post called for
retribution quote quote sorry called for
quote retribution against NBC for
satirizing him on Saturday Night Live
and on Wednesday issued his sharpest
words yet against the New York Times
calling the newspaper
quote a true enemy of the people that's
first story now the second story from
yesterday is about how according to the
FBI a Coast Guard officer who was
arrested with 15 guns and a thousand
rounds of ammunition was actually a
white nationalist who was plotting to
murder Democrats and media personalities
on a quote scale rarely seen in this
country the government has labeled him a
domestic terrorist so there's absolutely
no evidence that Trump's hateful
rhetoric about Democrats in the media
led directly to this person's actions
but as Tommy noted on Twitter yesterday
there was a hundred percent chance the
Trump was briefed on this domestic
terrorist before he tweeted that the New
York Times is the enemy of the people so
that seems beyond up no yes John
it does seem beyond but not surprising I
mean you know I have to say like after
the Saturday Night Live tweets when
everyone was sort of freaking out and I
know Alec Baldwin was freaking out and
they're like Trump's targeting us and
all that kind of stuff there was part of
me that is like you know is this a
little overdone the president's
complaining about a sketch you know that
he doesn't like and that's just typical
Trump he's a whiny baby about and
maybe we shouldn't get you know and then
something like this happens and it
reminds you of how dangerous this is and
you know we're only a couple months out
from in October when some Magga
sent pipe bombs to Barack Obama and
Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton and a
whole bunch of our leaders Democratic
leaders and and journalists in
journalists at CNN so you know this
stuff is is is very very scary and all
Donald Trump would have to do is not say
crazy like this he can complain
about the media all he wants he can
complain about his coverage all he wants
words matter when you're the President
of the United States and you tweet
like depresses the enemy the people
people are going to listen to you
and people who are unstable or unwell or
white nationalists strolling around in
the internet they're going to eventually
take cues from you they're gonna think
it's okay because the president says
that the president says what they think
yeah that's that's exactly right
therefore all of the policy atrocities
of the nationally just international
embarrassment is to have this
clown as our president they're like
there is a world dimension to this which
is even if a lot of us six years in the
country knows that Trump is a joke there
are people who the president is
president is sitting in the Oval Office
like all the normal presidents who came
to before him and his words matter he
sets a tone on issues for at least some
portion of the population and there is
dangerous I've had the same reaction you
you've had a lot of times because even
though only a small percentage of the
country is on Twitter every reporters on
Twitter whenever Trump attacked the
press it dominated everything I do think
some of the few strategic things he does
which is he knows how to distract them
there's no better way to distract the
press than to talk about the press right
and sometimes is just like can can the
press have the same reaction when Trump
targets immigrants or African Americans
or you know people other people of color
and country living right like why did
why is the greatest outrage set for
empty threats about ending the White
House briefing or libel laws or which
we'll talk about or things like that
but we have reached a point where what
the president's doing is deeply
irresponsible and dangerous and it is we
are incredibly fortunate that no one got
hurt back last fall and something very
dangerous is going to happen and this is
what happens you have a malicious a
narcissistic raving lunatic in the White
House and I mean it's it's a huge
problem it is also interesting that what
there is a world in which where Trump's
words now have more power with people
like this individual who was arrested or
the particular person who sent the pipe
bomb but less influence on the
discussion like no one
take like be institutionally we don't
take Trump seriously when he threatened
legal action against SNL or NBC or you
know says he's gonna you know stop doing
the xpress thing or do press heavily we
he's like the he's like the boy who
cried authoritarian on this issues right
look you didn't people don't take him
seriously anymore that that it that's
that says ohm I kind of wonder what is
more dangerous but he constantly tries
to abridge the assassins gonna break the
professor no one takes him seriously and
bridges the freedom of press but but
beyond that aspect of it that the danger
of his words was very evident yesterday
yeah and look he's got a whole it's not
just him he's got a whole course of
conservative media and you know some of
the crazier parts of the conservative
media like the Alex Jones's of the world
and people like that who are who've been
parroting the stuff and saying this
stuff for years and now they have
someone who's the most powerful person
on the planet parroting that stuff which
is very very scary
a quick note because we had a bunch of
talk about and we Lisbeth Warren's
interviews long I cut the libel thing
okay great so we just go I now regret
reading the Orca pedia page on my TV
Sullivan so you just cut that from um
alright one last story to scare the
out of all of you first the good news
Ruth Bader Ginsburg returned to work at
the Supreme Court this week very happy
to see Ginsburg back
we love Ruth Bader Ginsburg everyone
send her vitamins so she's back she's
back at work now the bad news Jeffrey
Toobin
wrote a piece in The New Yorker this
week but the possibility that Clarence
Thomas might resign from the court soon
leaving Donald Trump the opening to
appoint a younger conservative justice
to replace him Toobin writes will Thomas
retire over the years he has made little
secret of the fact that he doesn't enjoy
the job very much with a conservative
future of the court secure why wouldn't
he call it a day after 28 years now two
men goes
to say that Thomas's friends don't think
he'll do that but of course we don't
know Dan how possible is this and how
absolutely Fox would we be as you know
I'm someone who tends to reside on the
darker side of things periodically and I
often do it is like I was I'm on the
motor for like a whole bushel minute
where I like to imagine the worst case
scenario and then be pleasantly
surprised Minh doesn't occur and nothing
knocked me for a loop then when a
worst-case scenario emerges that I have
not imagined yet never even
occurred to me that Thomas could resign
between now and a Democrat hopefully
defeating Trump next year it's so now
it's like obviously that's gonna
happen of course it is like why wouldn't
it it is perfectly in line with how the
Republicans think about the Supreme
Court and using power and everything and
Thomas is a conservative activist not a
judicial activist in actual conservative
activist his wife runs a very conspiracy
Laden fringe right wing her if she was
meeting with Trump just recently and the
and so of course like eat for someone
who cares about conservative politics
right not considered legal neighbor
tiller politics why wouldn't you resign
while Trump in Mitch McConnell can
jamber Truman you have no idea what's
gonna happen with the Senate or the
White House in 2008 is a you know Trump
is probably a slight favorite to be
present just cuz incumbents tend to win
sorry people and just because of the map
will publicans are a slight favor to
keep the Senate but it is little not
much better than a coin flip and so why
wouldn't you do this it'd be very inline
without Thomas nish McConnell and the
rest of the conservative world thinks
about he have the rolls record yeah I
feel like a for not thinking about
this because me the naive optimist
was thinking if Ginsburg can hang on
till we have a Democratic president then
we have a Democratic president who could
potentially replace Ginsburg if she
retires and then the next person in line
to retire would be Clarence Thomas and
then if somehow a Democratic president
could replace Clarence Thomas suddenly
now we have a 5-4
libero majority on the court again and
things are good and so I was thinking
like that's a scenario that could come
to pass let's hope for that you know if
we get its another bonus of having a
Democratic president in in 2020 but then
of course you know the alternative is
Clarence Thomas also understands that
the scenario and thinks it I'm
lettin Trump or point my replacement
so how would Mitch McConnell handle this
given the garland precedent which is you
know you don't appoint a Supreme Court
justice during a presidential election
so funny why does mr. McConnell do
anything because he can if Clarence
Thomas decided to retreat to retarget
the Clarence Thomas decided to retire
six days before the election Mitch
McConnell would Jam that through before
and democratic over and of course he
would you think he he honestly believes
in the norm of allowing the American
people to decide who this um group war
justice be no Mitch McConnell has
the political power equivalent of
you money if we just do it and he would
not give a what anyone said about
it so that's gonna be bad but the good
news is at least one Democratic
presidential candidate may have a
solution here earlier this week South
Bend mayor Pete Buddha judge said in a
town hall that quote I don't think we
should be laughing at the idea of adding
more seats to the Supreme Court saying
quote it's no more a departure from
norms than what the Republicans did to
get the judiciary to the place it is
today this idea has gotten more airtime
in the last half year or so since
Gorsuch since you know corset took a
seat that should have been Merrick
Garland's now so people know you know
nothing in the Constitution requires
nine justices on the court the court
originally had six seats and then
various presidents and congresses added
and took away seats throughout the first
half of the 19th century including in
1863 during the Civil War when Lincoln
in the Congress added a seat to protect
the Union from legal challenges you know
to add a Supreme Court seat you would
need
majorities in both houses and then the
president to sign the law dan we have
talked about this once before on the
Monday pod but what do you think of this
idea I think you and I talked about it
one as well and I came in a pose and
then I think you if I remember correctly
made a very compelling argument you
switch my position but I can't remember
what your argument was I actually well
you're gonna hear it again so let me
sort of lay out the way I think about it
one people in addition is exactly right
and why he's right then this which is
Republicans give zero about what
is good for democracy I'm like you're
always good Road Republicans and if we
try to hang on to our two governments
life rafts in the oceans we're gonna get
swamped like we constantly if I have a
lot of note we'll have a lot of norms
but not a lot of America yeah right
and so like Republicans will like they
will destroy a norm get exactly what
they want and then we feel like it's our
job to restore the norm but they've
already always already burned the bridge
behind them and so like we have to
expand we have to widen the aperture of
how we think about political power as
Democrats Republicans think about
political power for political powers
sake the point of having is to have more
Democrats think of political power as
something that you get and then it is
your job to immediately spend it without
any concern about achieving more
political power in order to pass policy
now Democrats are that is the right way
of thinking in the sense that it is good
like if you win elections you get this
huge House and Senate majority you get
this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to
pass the Affordable Care Act even though
it's going to cost you dearly at the
polls you do it Republicans don't think
that way they think about how do we use
our 60 Senate seats to get 65 seventies
or 35 seat House Majority get 52 House
Majority and we do have to find a
balance between the way we thought about
power and they Republicans thought about
power something between naive optimism
and McConnell like nihilism right
there's finally something in the meadow
where we regret and so
I really applied to put Ajit's for
thinking about this in a right way cuz I
think for too long
Democrats have essentially brought a
spark to a gunfight like we're just
getting clobbered and we think in it
like even if you hear indirectly even
Bernie Sanders the most aggressively
progressive leader in the Democratic
Party by many measures wants to keep the
Senate filibuster I know I which means
like this nation will pass with the
possible exception have one thing about
your reconciliation yeah and when you
talk to senators most of them think that
all Republicans are operating in good
faith in it Harry Reid had used the
nuclear option we'd still be living the
world where Tip O'Neill and Ronald
Reagan hung out and drank whiskey and we
just had more bipartisan lunches
together than we would pass
infrastructure and I just stupid
and you've got to wake up and realize
the nature of the opponent here and that
is right now
I also the only reason I'm concerned
about this is I don't know how it plays
itself out in the long run but I
certainly am NOT
I'm airing but I don't buy is that it
would be smirch the independent
reputation Supreme Court that is absurd
one Brett Kavanaugh experienced court
he's a partisan hack what the use of
very serious things to I was in Florida
when the a conservative 5-4 majority
decided to hand the election and
over the planet for George W Bush in
2000 so this is not about the courts how
the court would actually operate I'm
sorry said again it's not about some
sort of you know destroying this
independent unvarnished American
institution the Supreme Court is as
partisan as the other branches of
government yeah I just don't know like
how's it going to work well we gonna add
one and they're gonna add one we're
gonna add one and then you actually it's
going to be like Supreme Court decisions
will be like
63 27 like I don't know how it works
well no so that that is the the good
argument against doing this is that we
add seats then they add seats next time
they're in power and then the Supreme
Court even though it has been you know a
partisan political institution for some
time has been growing sorry I should say
it has been growing more partisan and
political over time especially with the
addition of the most recent conservative
justices who you rightly point out are
not just conservative justices they are
conservative activists Thomas is like
that he wasn't even so recent an
appointment Gorsuch is clearly like that
Kavanagh is clearly like that we've seen
that in the decision so far maybe the
only one who's been who's a conservative
justice who hasn't shown that he is
purely a partisan hack is John Roberts
so far in some instances but so the idea
would be if we had justices than the
Republicans a justices and suddenly the
court is basically just a political tool
of whichever party is in control of the
White House and it is not a third
independent branch of government when we
have actually seen this happen in
various Eastern European countries
places like hungry where they just keep
adding justices to the court and the
court is nothing but a political tool so
it is a concern on the other hand you
can say we just named some of the times
in the early 19th century where they
changed the number of seats between six
and nine there was another time where
some one person basically changed the
makeup of the Supreme Court and that was
between February of 2016 until April of
2017 there were only eight justices on
the Supreme Court for a full year and
two months and you know who was
responsible for that not a la pass by
Congress and signed by a president one
person was responsible for that and his
name is Mitch McConnell Mitch McConnell
changed the makeup of the court from
nine justices to eight justices for a
year so he could wait for a Republican
president and install a conservative
activist on the Supreme Court
that's what Mitch McConnell did and so I
think as Democrats have to figure out
how do we rectify that extreme violation
of a norm and one way to do it is to say
you know there's there's different plans
out there to do this someone I saw in
the Washington Post this has been
floating around a plan where Democrats
add two justices to the court to make up
for the garland seat to rebalance the
court and you name those two justices
for 18 year terms and then after 18
years those two justices
serve for life on the federal bench on a
lower federal bench so then the court
goes back to 9 and basically you would
add the justices and say we are only
doing this not because we just want to
make the court a partisan political tool
but because we are rectifying a serious
violation of the Korres independence
when Mitch McConnell decided that he
would change the whole make about the
court on his own in order to install a
conservative activist and then you know
you basically do it in the name of
institutionalism so that's that's one
way to do it that's a the the lifetime
affords it is in the Constitution right
yeah they said there was these are legal
these are just to Yale professors who
came up with this and they said it's
technically in the came the Constitution
that the justices have to serve in the
judiciary for life which is why you
could do term limits but then send them
back to the federal judiciary that's
what that's at least that's what some
law professors think and and various
legal scholars as well huh I wonder if
you can you retroactively they do it
that I don't know that I don't know
that's missing idea because it is
actually there should be term limits for
federal judges yeah I mean that's we
can't live in a world where where we
have a half-century a
conservative rule because 80,000 people
in three states decided to tip the
Electoral College against the popular
vote like that's a crazy way to
run a country well that's a I mean yeah
it really is like I was reading think of
it it was some one of the many articles
I read about the chair talking about how
basically the argument for court hacking
is this just stupid that supreme courts
supreme court herbs are basically like
lottery tickets for president train you
they happen when you you they they're
happen when you're president or not and
if they happen to happen when you're
president you get to shape the in shape
the ideological rush in the country for
a half century it's a crazy way to run a
government so and look I mean you know
there are plenty of reasons to worry
about this kind of proposal but here are
the facts if Donald Trump does replace
Clarence Thomas with a justice who is a
similar age to Neil Gorsuch and
Brett Kavanaugh who are Gorsuch I think
is 51 Cavanaugh is he like 49 50 and
he's around the same age and then John
Roberts is 65 and I think Alito is like
68 that is the 5-4 majority on the court
five conservative justices all in their
50s and 60s that is a couple decades of
us of a very conservative very
right-wing Court overturning all kinds
of legislation from even the most
Democratic Congress and Democratic
president and if you're a liberal in
this country even if you're an
independent even if you're moderate you
have to look at that and think is that
what I want for the next couple decades
knowing how right-wing those justices
are and if it's not what I want for the
next couple decades when we are facing
climate change when we are facing
massive inequality when we are facing
people with high health care costs who
can't get by if that's not what you want
what are we going to do about it and
there are there are remedies that are
entirely legal here that are in the
Constitution
you can add justices you can pass the
law it is not unconstitutional and so I
think it is I'm glad that mayor Pete
brought that up and look and to go back
to your point about the filibuster like
have you been surprised how the
different candidates have split on all
these questions of court reform
congressional reform basically ways to
you know instill more democracy into our
democratic system as I would call it
basically you just have mayor Pete and
Elizabeth Warren who told Tommy in in
the interview that all options are on
the table with the filibusters you might
get rid of the filibuster you have both
of them talking about potentially
getting rid of the filibuster
and so far not many of the other
candidates
Gillibrand was sort of said she'd think
about it when I interviewed her by Biden
clearly loves it Bernie said he likes it
Kamala Harris his campaign said she is
not for getting rid of it at this time
and so I'm wondering why I guess it's
because they're all senators although
good for Elizabeth Warren for breaking
out of the pack there
cory booker has said he likes the
filibuster would actively defend it
what's going on with these folks I don't
have a clue the filibuster is stupid and
it is a problem in the short term for
Democrats it is a gigantic problem in
the long term as long as we can continue
to exist in a world where California and
Wyoming have the same power in New York
and Idaho have the same power and young
people who tend to be Democrats are
moving to places like California in New
York in these other blue states and
they're in populations are decreasing
and the other states the power that
progressives haves in this country is
going to diminish dramatically over time
if demographic and population trends
continue so we are not going to pass
progressive voices you're going it one
shot for presidency you're gonna get to
do your Affordable Care actually do
something on the yeah I'm sorry it's
something on Budget Reconciliation which
takes 50 votes as long and that is it
we're gonna take one thing you get one
Democratic president 2021 we're gonna do
Medicare for all then we're gonna be
shut out until we get another new
Democratic president I get one shot
they're going to pass some part of the
green new deal and that is it and you
limit yourself if your way of doing this
is going to reconciliation because
they're really complicated rules about
the kind of things you can do it has to
be budget related it's harder to do a
lot of things that we care about and so
we are tying both hands behind our back
I I think it's great I think senator
spent too much time with each other you
know the most generous possible view of
this is that all the Senators had a
meeting and was with Warren can make it
and they decided their plan was we're
not going to say bring her in the
filibuster until we get elected and then
we're going to get rid of that
thing and we are going to pass
everything yeah I guess the only thing I
get they got that is that is make sense
other than deeply naive institutionalism
very broken institution look I've also
seen you know plenty of good liberals
say the problem with getting where the
filibuster is can you imagine what
Donald Trump would have done and Mitch
McConnell would have done by now if
there were no filibuster because there
is still a filibuster right now and my
response to that is they tried to rip up
the Affordable Care Act through
reconciliation
they passed an absurd tax cut that was
geared towards the wealthy through
reconciliation they've eliminated the
filibuster for the Supreme Court so like
I guess they could have done more damage
but also all the stuff we just said
remains true about progressive
priorities and I like I said I really
have a concern about Democratic
candidates going out there and talking
to voters about how when they become
president they're gonna pass Medicare
for all they're gonna pass a green new
deal if they're not willing to think
through how they're actually going to
get those plans passed because if a
filibuster is in place if they want to
pass the green New Deal and Medicare for
all but they also want to keep the
filibuster in place they're not being
honest with the voters that they're just
that that it's not going to happen and
then what's gonna happen is we're gonna
elect a Democratic president Trump's
gonna be gone
everyone's gonna be cheering and then
you know President Carmel Harris or Cory
Booker or whoever is in or Joe Biden or
whoever's in there I was gonna say oh
yeah I remember on the campaign trail
when I talked about Medicare for all in
the green New Deal actually I can't get
that done because you know we we need 60
votes and we don't have 60 votes so
sorry everyone and that's gonna make
people more cynical for next time
they're gonna make more cynical about
government and participating that's
what's gonna happen so it really does
bother me and again I don't I would
rather you say I'm not for Medicare for
all I'm for you know exploring the age
where you can participate in Medicare to
55 and I actually think I can get some
Republican senators for that I think
that's probably a stretch also but at
least like it be realistic about both
your plans and your plan to get them
done that's right and the other part
that bothers me about it is in the
Democratic Party right now all the good
things are happening at the grassroots
level right it is you know new groups
like swing left or run for something and
it's the people running for office you
know from school born to state
legislature etc that is really exciting
like really it's the new members of
Congress who got elected who aren't from
the political establishment right it's
been it's an a new party that's more
diverse in gender and ethnicity and
background and ideology that is all
right at the top of the party I really
worried that we just have our blinders
on about what we're facing and if you
don't understand the ways in which the
deck is Republicans invent strategically
stacking the deck against a growing
progressive majority in this country
then you're going to be unable to
succeed if they are going to throw
everything at you the Republicans while
the economy was in going off a cliff
decided they would rather over
Barack Obama then save the economy so
the these are this this is the cynical
hackish group we are dealing with we
don't approach that we don't rethink how
we approach Republicans and how we think
about political power we are not going
to achieve our fractionation to do and
this isn't just like this is an
opportunity cost this is life and death
so things like Medicare for all and it
is the planet it is a melting
underneath us and we're worrying about
norms and institutions and filibusters
and having rose-colored glasses for some
interior the Senate and didn't exist
when the filibuster couldn't do such
important things like I don't know stop
the Voting Rights Act for a while like
what but this doesn't it doesn't even
really it alarms me about what's
happened I really want like this is not
you know like I don't want everyone
putting on the war paint trying to do
McConnell white but we have to think
seriously and aggressively about how we
handle this and I really think there is
Washington DC bubble naivete going on
look I mean we the point you just made
you know we don't have to be like Mitch
McCullen
the point you just made how you know we
shouldn't be Mitch McConnell light like
we Democrats do not have to frame this
as we have to play dirty like bait play
dirty this is about anti sorry this is
about minority rule Republicans are
trying to rule and have power with only
a minority of voters electing them we
might have a situation where a vast
majority of the American people I'd like
to president and elect to Congress who
has promised them to expand health care
access who has promised them to combat
climate change who's promised all these
things and the reason that those that
that progressive majority made up of
Democrats
dependence non-voters maybe some
disaffected Republicans the reason that
that majority won't get those policies
is because Republicans have tried to put
in all these rules in place to govern by
minority rule and all we are saying is
that the voices of the majority of
people in this country should carry the
day it is a Democrat a set of democratic
reforms it is not playing in the mud
like Mitch McConnell is playing in the
mud it is merely saying we want more
democracy in our democracy I think
that's the way to frame it and like we
want everyone to vote and we want to
write a voice heard in Congress we want
people's voices not turned out by
billionaires and if that leads the more
progressive policies great right if once
that once that once those obstacles are
taken out it is incumbent upon both
parties to make an argument for their
vision for the country wholly you're
willing to do that Republicans know they
will loose if they will do that so
they're rigging the game yep if you
believe if you believe you can assemble
a majority in this country for your
policies go for it and if you get that
majority you get to put those policies
in place you won the argument but if we
win the argument we get to put those
policies in place that's a
democracy and I know that we have a
republic and a representative democracy
and I'll say the things but Republicans
have put far too many rules in place and
abuse the system in far too many ways
and violated far too many norms so that
now we have rule by minority we do not
have rule by majority in this country
and I think that's what Democratic
candidates need to start talking about
okay Republicans win tails Democrats
lose right okay when we return one
Democrat who has certainly figured this
out Tommy we'll be talking to senator
Elizabeth Warren
you
but not the 28th okay how did I say it
this is
[Music]
thirty I was back on the phone
it's right after that
Gary I think I said it one more time
when I talked about the shift wheat -
yeah okay okay oh and Michael Cohen is
testifying Wednesday February 27th great
you
